<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20090227_10-K_edgar_data_318154_0001193125-09-041091_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>3450987</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>1295093</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>283144</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1573192</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>212</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>8</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-09-041091.hdr.sgml : 20090227
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20090227164653
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-09-041091
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		11
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20081231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20090227
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20090227

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			AMGEN INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000318154
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS (NO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES) [2836]
		IRS NUMBER:				953540776
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-12477
		FILM NUMBER:		09643751

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE AMGEN CENTER DRIVE
		CITY:			THOUSAND OAKS
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			91320-1799
		BUSINESS PHONE:		805-447-1000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE AMGEN CENTER DRIVE
		STREET 2:		MAIL STOP 27-3-C
		CITY:			THOUSAND OAKS
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			91320-1799

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	AMGEN
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19870305

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 O5d6zVGBQhnWjKarOAZMIweeFbU1n8SLe8EieJPbCv8lqfC3EK4OBWiL+tN7ru3e
 VM83eadfCxuD2uYhfGs5dw==

 0001193125-09-041091.txt : 20090227

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

            UNITED STATES        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        Washington D.C. 20549        Form 10-K        (Mark One)    
     For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008        OR    
     Commission file number 000-12477        Amgen Inc.       (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)       

Delaware   
     
   95-3540776    
 
  (State or other jurisdiction of  
     
  (I.R.S. Employer   
 
  incorporation or organization)  
     
  Identification No.)   

One Amgen Center Drive,   
     
   91320-1799    
 
   Thousand Oaks, California   
     
  (Zip Code)   
 
  (Address of principal executive offices)  

(805) 447-1000       (Registrant s telephone number, including area code)       Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(g) of the Act:        Common stock, $0.0001 par value; preferred share purchase rights       (Title of class)      Indicate by check mark if
the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.    Yes      No          Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act.    Yes      No          Indicate by
check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes      No       
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.    
          Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated
filer, or a smaller reporting company. See definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):      Large accelerated filer        Accelerated filer        Non-accelerated filer        Smaller reporting company          (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)              Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act)    Yes      No          The approximate aggregate market value of voting and
non-voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant was $49,808,027,303 as of June 30, 2008(A)       

(A)  
  Excludes 1,077,968 shares of common stock held by directors and officers, and any stockholders whose ownership exceeds five percent of the shares outstanding, at June 30, 2008.
Exclusion of shares held by any person should not be construed to indicate that such person possesses the power, directly or indirectly, to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of the registrant, or that such person is
controlled by or under common control with the registrant.         1,033,964,089       (Number of shares of common stock outstanding as of February 13, 2009)       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE       Specified portions of the registrant s Proxy Statement with
respect to the 2009 Annual Meeting of stockholders to be held May 6, 2009 are incorporated by reference into Part III of this annual report.               

Table of Contents  

      INDEX        

Page No.    

PART I    
     
   1    
 
  Item 1.  
     
     Business    
     
  1   

Overview    
     
  1   

Key Developments    
     
  2   

Marketed Products and Selected Product Candidates    
     
  8   

Postmarketing Safety Activities    
     
  16   

Marketing and Distribution    
     
  17   

Reimbursement    
     
  18   

Research and Development and Selected Product Candidates    
     
  22   

Manufacturing, Distribution and Raw Materials    
     
  28   

Joint Ventures and Business Relationships    
     
  30   

Government Regulation    
     
  32   

Human Resources    
     
  36   

Executive Officers of the Registrant    
     
  37   

Geographic Area Financial Information    
     
  38   

Investor Information    
     
  38   
 
  Item 1A.  
     
     Risk Factors    
     
  38   
 
  Item 1B.  
     
     Unresolved Staff Comments    
     
  63   
 
  Item 2.  
     
     Properties    
     
  63   
 
  Item 3.  
     
     Legal Proceedings    
     
  64   
 
  Item 4.  
     
     Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders    
     
  64   

PART II    
     
   65    
 
  Item 5.  
     
     Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 

65   
 
  Item 6.  
     
     Selected Financial Data    
     
  68   
 
  Item 7.  
     
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    
     
  70   
 
  Item 7A.  
     
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk    
     
  93   
 
  Item 8.  
     
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data    
     
  95   
 
  Item 9.  
     
     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosures    
     
  95   
 
  Item 9A.  
     
     Controls and Procedures    
     
  95   
 
  Item 9B.  
     
     Other Information    
     
  98   

PART III    
     
   98    
 
  Item 10.  
     
     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance of the Registrant    
     
  98   
 
  Item 11.  
     
     Executive Compensation    
     
  99   
 
  Item 12.  
     
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters    
     
  100   
 
  Item 13.  
     
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence    
     
  105   
 
  Item 14.  
     
     Principal Accounting Fees and Services    
     
  105   

PART IV    
     
   106    
 
  Item 15.  
     
     Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules    
     
  106   
 
   Signatures   
     
  115   
       
   i   

Table of Contents  

      PART I        

Item 1.   
   BUSINESS            Overview       Amgen Inc. (including its subsidiaries, referred to as  Amgen,   the Company,   we,   our  and  us ) was
incorporated in 1980 and is a global biotechnology company organized as a Delaware corporation that discovers, develops, manufactures and markets human therapeutics based on advances in cellular and molecular biology. We operate in one business
segment   human therapeutics.      We market human therapeutic products primarily in
the areas of supportive cancer care, nephrology and inflammation. Our principal products include Aranesp      (darbepoetin alfa), EPOGEN    
  (Epoetin alfa), Neulasta      (pegfilgrastim), NEUPOGEN      (Filgrastim) and Enbrel      (etanercept). Aranesp      and EPOGEN      stimulate the production of red blood cells to treat anemia
and belong to a class of drugs referred to as erythropoiesis-stimulating agents ( ESAs ). Aranesp      is used for the treatment of anemia both in supportive cancer care and in
nephrology. EPOGEN      is used to treat anemia associated with chronic renal failure ( CRF ). Neulasta      and NEUPOGEN      selectively stimulate the production of neutrophils, one type of white blood cell that helps the body fight infections. ENBREL blocks the biologic activity of tumor necrosis factor
( TNF ) by inhibiting its binding to TNF receptors, a substance induced in response to inflammatory and immunological responses, such as rheumatoid arthritis ( RA ) and psoriasis. For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007
and 2006, our principal products represented 94%, 95% and 97% of total product sales, respectively.      We operate in a highly regulated
industry and various U.S. and foreign regulatory bodies have substantial authority over how we conduct our business in those countries. Government authorities in the United States and in other countries regulate the manufacturing and marketing of
our products and our ongoing research and development ( R D ) activities. (See   Government Regulation.  ) For example, prior to obtaining regulatory approval to market a product, we must conduct extensive clinical
studies designed to establish the safety and effectiveness of the product candidate for use in humans in the indications sought. Furthermore, in order to maintain regulatory approval to market a product, we may be required to conduct further
clinical trials and to provide additional information on safety and effectiveness. The regulatory environment is evolving and there is increased scrutiny on drug safety and increased authority being granted to regulatory bodies, in particular the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ), to assist in ensuring the safety of therapeutic products, which may lead to fewer products being approved by the FDA or other regulatory bodies or additional safety-related requirements. Safety
signals, trends, adverse events or results from clinical trials, studies or meta-analyses (a meta-analysis is the review of studies using various statistical methods to combine results from previous separate, but related, studies) performed by us or
by others (including our licensees or independent investigators) or from the marketed use of our products may expand safety labeling, restrict the use of our approved products or may result in additional regulatory requirements, such as requiring
risk management activities, including a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy ( REMS ), and/or additional or more extensive clinical trials as part of postmarketing commitments ( PMCs ) or a pharmacovigilance program. (See
  Postmarketing Safety Activities.  )      Most patients receiving our products are covered by either government and/or private
payor healthcare programs. The reimbursement environment is evolving with greater emphasis on cost containment and in demonstrating the economic value of products. Therefore, sales of our products are and will continue to be affected by the
availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payors, including government and private insurance plans and administration of those programs. Governments may regulate access to, prices or reimbursement levels of our products to control
costs or to affect levels of use of our products and private insurers may be influenced by government reimbursement methodologies. Worldwide use of our products may be affected by these cost containment pressures and cost shifting from governments
and private insurers to healthcare providers or patients in response to ongoing initiatives to reduce or reallocate healthcare expenditures. Further, safety signals, trends, adverse events or results from clinical trials, studies or meta-analyses or
from the marketed use of our products may negatively impact worldwide reimbursement for our products. (See   Reimbursement.  )         
   1   

Table of Contents  

   We maintain sales and marketing forces primarily in the United States, Europe and Canada. We market our
products to healthcare providers, including physicians or their clinics, dialysis centers, hospitals and pharmacies. We market ENBREL under a co-promotion agreement with Wyeth in the United States and Canada (see   Joint Ventures and Business
Relationships   Wyeth  ). In addition, we have entered into licensing agreements, which we deem to be necessary or desirable for the use or sale of our products, and/or co-promotion agreements to market our products in certain
geographic areas. These agreements generally require us to pay royalties or share profits on product sales. In the United States, we sell primarily to wholesale distributors of pharmaceutical products. Outside the United States, we sell principally
to hospitals and/or wholesalers depending upon the distribution practice in each country.      We focus our R D efforts on novel
therapeutics for the treatment of grievous illness in the areas of oncology, inflammation, bone, metabolic disorders and neuroscience. Our research takes a  modality-independent  approach to drug discovery in which we choose the best
possible approach to block a specific disease process before considering the type of drug (modality) that may be required to pursue that approach. We study molecules across a range of modalities in the areas of proteins (sometimes referred to as
 large molecules ), including monoclonal antibodies and peptibodies, as well as small molecules. We have major R D centers in several locations throughout the United States and in the United Kingdom, as well as smaller R D centers
in certain other countries throughout the world. To augment our internal R D efforts, we acquire companies, acquire and license certain product and technology rights and establish R D collaborations with third parties. These licenses and
collaboration agreements generally provide for non-refundable, upfront license fees, R D and commercial performance milestone payments, cost sharing, royalty payments and/or profit sharing.      Our manufacturing operations consist of bulk manufacturing, formulation, fill and finish activities
which produce Aranesp     , Epoetin alfa, Neulasta     , NEUPOGEN     , ENBREL
and other marketed products and product candidates for both commercial and clinical purposes. We operate commercial and clinical manufacturing facilities in several locations throughout the United States and in Puerto Rico as well as perform certain
finishing activities in the Netherlands. Third-party contractors manufacture some or all of certain of our marketed products and/or product candidates.      The competitive environment among biotechnology, pharmaceutical and other companies that research, develop, manufacture or market biologics and pharmaceuticals is intense and increasing. We compete with these entities
in all areas of our business. In addition, certain of these companies may have greater expertise and/or financial resources, which may provide them certain advantages in the discovery, development and commercialization of new or existing products.
(See   Item 1A. Risk Factors   Our marketed products face substantial competition and other companies may discover, develop, acquire or commercialize products before or more successfully than we do.  )         Key Developments       The
following is a summary of selected key developments affecting our business that occurred during 2008 and early 2009, including regulatory and reimbursement developments associated with our ESA products and other developments regarding certain of our
other marketed products and product candidates.       ESA Regulatory and Reimbursement Developments       The ESA regulatory and reimbursement developments in 2008 reflect a continuation of events that
began in late 2006 that affected the class of ESA products, including Aranesp      and EPOGEN     . Certain of the developments discussed
below have had a material adverse impact on sales of our ESA products, in particular Aranesp      sales in the U.S. supportive cancer care setting.      Beginning in late 2006, adverse safety results involving ESA products were observed in various studies that were performed by us and by others (including
our licensees or independent investigators) that explored the use of ESAs in settings different from those outlined in the FDA approved label, including targeting higher hemoglobin ( Hb ) levels and/or use in non-approved patient
populations. The results of these studies culminated in significant regulatory and reimbursement developments affecting the class of ESA products, including  
       
   2   

Table of Contents  

Aranesp      and EPOGEN     . For example, in
February 2007, following the reported results from our Anemia of Cancer phase 3 study (the  AoC 103 study ), the United States Pharmacopoeia Dispensing Information ( USP DI ) Drug Reference Guides removed Aranesp      in the treatment of anemia of cancer ( AoC ). Thereafter, Aranesp      use in AoC essentially ceased. In addition, during 2007,
we had discussions with the FDA and other regulatory authorities and meetings with certain of the FDA s advisory panels, which led to further developments. For example, in March 2007, the product labeling information for the class of ESAs was
updated, including a boxed warning in the prescribing information ( PI ). In addition, in November 2007, following our meeting with the Oncologic Drugs Advisory Committee ( ODAC ) in May 2007, various additional safety-related
revisions were again made to the ESA label. Further, in July 2007, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services ( CMS ) issued its National Coverage Decision Memorandum for Use of Erythropoiesis Stimulating Agents in Cancer and Related
Neoplastic Conditions (the  Decision Memorandum ). The Decision Memorandum established the ESA reimbursement policy for Medicare and other government beneficiaries who are treated for chemotherapy-induced anemia ( CIA ) with
ESAs. We believe that the restrictions in the Decision Memorandum changed the way ESAs are used in clinical practice by decreasing the number of treated patients, the average dose and duration of ESA therapy.      Discussions with regulatory authorities, including the FDA, regarding safety concerns with respect to the administration of ESA products in various
settings continued throughout 2008, resulting in further regulatory developments. The following is a summary of selected key regulatory and related developments that occurred in 2008.      During 2008, the ESA labeling information was further revised to reflect various safety concerns,
beginning in March 2008, with an updated boxed warning in the labeling information in the United States. This updated box warning states that ESAs shorten overall survival and/or time-to-tumor progression in clinical studies in patients with breast,
non-small cell lung, head and neck, lymphoid and cervical cancers when dosed to a target Hb level of greater than or equal to 12 grams per deciliter ( g/dL ). Additionally, on August 6, 2008, we revised the ESA product labeling, as
the FDA directed, based on a complete response letter, received on July 30, 2008, from the FDA to the revisions to the ESA labeling we proposed following the March 13, 2008 ODAC meeting. The revised labeling included, among other things,
(i) the addition to the boxed warning of a statement that ESAs are not indicated for patients receiving myelosuppressive therapy when the anticipated outcome of such therapy is cure, (ii) the addition of a statement in the DOSAGE and
ADMINISTRATION section of the label that ESA therapy should not be initiated at Hb levels     10 g/dL and that dose should be adjusted to maintain the lowest Hb level sufficient to avoid red blood cell transfusions and
(iii) the removal of reference to the upper safety limit of 12 g/dL. Further, following the closed meeting by the Scientific Advisory Group on Oncology ( SAG-O ) in May 2008, we received notification in October 2008 that the European
Commission had approved updates to the Aranesp      product information. The product information for all ESAs was updated to advise that in some clinical situations blood transfusions should be
the preferred treatment for the management of anemia in patients with cancer and that the decision to administer ESAs should be based on a benefit-risk assessment with the participation of the individual patient. This assessment should take into
account the specific clinical context, including the type of tumor and its stage, the degree of anemia, life-expectancy, the environment in which the patient is being treated and patient preference.      In addition, on January 1, 2008, the CMS  revisions to its Erythropoietin Monitoring
Policy ( EMP ) became effective, which require a 50% reduction in Medicare reimbursement if a patient s Hb level is above 13 g/dL for three or more consecutive months. In addition, the EMP reduces the monthly dosing limits to
400,000 international units ( IUs ) of EPOGEN     , from 500,000 IUs, and to 1,200 micrograms ( mcgs ) of Aranesp     , from 1,500 mcgs. We believe that the EMP implementation in January 2008 has significantly affected physician behavior resulting in declines in dosing trends as particularly noted in the quarter of implementation.
However, this dose decline subsequently stabilized in 2008 but may further fluctuate in the future.      Further, on September 30, 2008, we
announced that we had received a summary of preliminary results from the Cochrane Collaboration s independent meta-analysis of patient-level data from previously conducted, randomized, controlled, clinical studies evaluating ESAs in cancer
patients which we submitted to the FDA and  
       
   3   

Table of Contents  

the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Products ( EMEA ). These results were also presented by the Cochrane Haematological Malignancies
Group in December at the 2008 American Society of Hematology ( ASH ) Congress.      This Cochrane meta-analysis of patient level data
from previous studies corroborates prior analyses indicating that the use of ESAs may increase the risk of death in cancer patients. The studies in the analysis all predate the current label, which advises using the least amount of ESA necessary to
avoid transfusion.      The analyses on all cancer patients were based on 53 previously conducted studies involving 13,933 patients. None of
these studies utilized ESAs according to current label guidance. The overall survival results corroborate an earlier review by the Cochrane Collaboration, published in 2006, which is included in the WARNINGS section of the current U.S. PI (Hazard
Ratio ( HR ): 1.08 [95% Confidence Interval ( CI ) 0.99 - 1.18]). The ESA treatment arm had increased on-study deaths (HR: 1.17 [95% CI 1.06 - 1.30]) and decreased overall survival (HR: 1.06 [95% CI
1.00 - 1.12]) compared to controls. The analyses on patients undergoing chemotherapy, the cancer indication for which ESAs are approved, were based on 38 studies with 10,441 patients. None of these studies utilized ESAs according to
current label guidance. The ESA treatment arm had increased on-study deaths (HR: 1.10 [95% CI 0.98 - 1.24]) and decreased overall survival (HR: 1.04 [95% CI 0.97 - 1.11]) compared to controls. While neither of these results
is statistically significant, they do not exclude the potential for adverse outcomes when ESAs are prescribed according to the current label. The final report on these endpoints is expected in 2009.      Our ESA products will continue to face future challenges. For example, we continue to work with the
FDA to finalize a new protocol for a clinical trial to determine the effects of ESAs on survival and tumor outcomes in anemic patients with metastatic cancer receiving concomitant myelosuppressive chemotherapy. We have submitted an Aranesp      study protocol to the FDA and plan to initiate the study in 2009. In addition, in response to the FDA s request under authority prescribed by the Food and Drug Administration Amendments
Act of 2007 (the  FDAAA ), we continue to work closely with the FDA to develop a REMS program for the class of ESA products. We have submitted a proposed REMS in response to the FDA s requests. The components of the REMS approved by
the FDA could be different for the use of ESAs in the oncology and nephrology indications. We believe that a REMS program for our ESA products could have a material adverse impact on the future sales of Aranesp     , especially in the U.S. supportive cancer care setting. Additionally, future Aranesp      sales could also be materially adversely impacted by further changes
in reimbursement, including as a result of future regulatory developments.       Other Regulatory Developments        ENBREL       On March 17, 2008, we and
Wyeth Pharmaceuticals, a division of Wyeth, announced updates to the FDA approved labeling for ENBREL, in which the U.S. PI now contains a boxed warning relating to the risk of infections, including tuberculosis. This information in the boxed
warning includes additional language regarding screening and monitoring patients for tuberculosis, including patients who tested negative for latent tuberculosis infection. As part of this labeling update, the FDA also required the implementation of
a REMS for ENBREL in the form of a medication guide. Additionally, following the FDA web-alert on September 4, 2008 regarding their review of histoplasmosis and other opportunistic fungal infections in patients treated with TNF-blockers, the
FDA requested that the boxed warning and WARNINGS sections of the U.S. PI and the medication guide for ENBREL (and other TNF-blockers) be strengthened to include the risk of unrecognized histoplasmosis and other invasive fungal infections with the
goal of increasing timely diagnosis and treatment. The FDA also requested that the approved REMS for ENBREL be modified with a communication plan to healthcare providers regarding the risk of unrecognized fungal infections. In December 2008, we
agreed with the FDA on the required revisions to the U.S. PI, and we continue to work with the FDA to finalize the requested updates to the ENBREL REMS.      In addition, there are several other outstanding regulatory matters that may also negatively impact future ENBREL product sales. For example, on June 4, 2008, the FDA issued an Early Communication regarding an
ongoing safety review of TNF-blockers and the possible association between the use of these medicines and the  
       
   4   

Table of Contents  

development of lymphoma and other cancers in children and young adults and stated that it had decided to conduct further analyses to evaluate the risk and
benefits of TNF-blockers in pediatric patients. Furthermore, following the June 18, 2008 Dermatologic and Ophthalmic Drugs Advisory Committee ( DODAC ) meeting, on July 24, 2008, we received notification from the FDA through a
complete response letter that they would like additional information from us regarding the use of ENBREL in pediatric patients with chronic moderate to severe plaque psoriasis. We continue to work with the FDA to provide it with the above-noted
requested information.       Nplate      (romiplostim)       On August 22, 2008, the FDA
approved Nplate     , the first platelet producer for the treatment of thrombocytopenia in splenectomized (spleen removed) and non-splenectomized adults with chronic immune thrombocytopenic
purpura ( ITP ). Nplate     , the first FDA approved peptibody protein, works by raising and sustaining platelet counts. As part of the approval for Nplate     , a REMS was developed with the FDA to assure the safe use of Nplate      while minimizing risk. The Nplate    
  REMS involves, among other things, healthcare provider and patient enrollment registries, tracking of patient medical history and data and follow-up safety questionnaires to healthcare providers, all of which require extensive discussion
with and education of healthcare providers. In addition, on February 6, 2009, we announced that the European Commission granted marketing authorization for Nplate      for the treatment of
splenectomized adult chronic ITP patients who are refractory to other treatments (e.g. corticosteroids, immunoglobulins). In the European Union ( EU ), Nplate      may also be
considered as second line treatment for adult non-splenectomized ITP patients where surgery is contra-indicated.       Vectibix      (panitumumab)       At the ODAC meeting on December 16, 2008, we discussed the clinical utility of the KRAS gene
as a predictive biomarker in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer ( mCRC ) treated with anti-Epidermal Growth Factor Receptors ( EGFr ) antibody, Vectibix     . We
believe that data shared with the ODAC supports the suggestion that KRAS is a predictive biomarker for the anti-EGFr class of drugs in the monotherapy setting. In March 2008, the  Journal of Clinical Oncology  published results from an analysis
of the first randomized, controlled clinical trial ( Study 408 ), which showed that mCRC patients with mutated KRAS tumors do not respond to Vectibix      monotherapy. Conversely,
patients with wild-type KRAS tumors treated with Vectibix      have a better response rate and prolonged progression-free survival ( PFS ).       Clinical Developments        Denosumab
      Denosumab is the first fully human monoclonal antibody in late stage clinical development that specifically targets a ligand known as
RANKL (that binds to a receptor known as RANK), an essential regulator of osteoclasts (the cells that break down bone). Denosumab is being investigated for its potential to inhibit all stages of osteoclast activity through a targeted mechanism. In
December 2008, we submitted a biologics license application ( BLA ) to the FDA for denosumab for the treatment and prevention of postmenopausal osteoporosis ( PMO ) in women and bone loss in patients undergoing hormone ablation
for either prostate or breast cancer. On February 18, 2009, the FDA accepted our BLA and informed us that it will target an FDA action within ten months of the BLA s submission date, resulting in a Prescription Drug User Fee Act
( PDUFA ) action date of October 19, 2009. The FDA indicated that it intends to simultaneously review the data we submitted for both the PMO and bone loss in patients undergoing hormone ablation for prostate or breast cancer
indications due to the interdependency of the data across the indications from more than 11,000 patients included in support of the BLA. Additionally, in January 2009, we submitted an application to the EMEA for the approval of denosumab for
treatment of PMO in women and treatment of bone loss associated with hormone ablation therapy in patients with breast and prostate cancer. In addition, during 2008, we announced results of the following key trials involving denosumab.       Osteoporosis       On September 16,
2008 at the American Society of Bone and Mineral Research ( ASBMR ) annual meeting, we presented detailed results from the pivotal fracture trial ( Study 216 ) evaluating denosumab in the  
       
   5   

Table of Contents  

treatment of PMO. In this pivotal, three-year, international, phase 3 study of approximately 7,800 women with osteoporosis, patients were randomized to
receive either denosumab, given by subcutaneous injection once every six months, or placebo injections. For the primary endpoint, treatment with denosumab resulted in a statistically significant reduction (68%) in the incidence of new vertebral
fractures compared with placebo treatment (2.3% for denosumab versus 7.2% for placebo, p=0.0001). In addition, women receiving denosumab experienced a statistically significant reduction (20%) in the incidence of new non-vertebral fractures
compared with placebo treatment (6.5% for denosumab versus 8.0% for placebo, p=0.011) and a statistically significant reduction (40%) in the incidence of hip fractures compared with placebo treatment (0.7% for denosumab versus 1.2% for placebo,
p=0.036), each a secondary endpoint. The incidence and types of both adverse and serious adverse events observed in this study, including serious infections and neoplasms, were similar between the denosumab and placebo groups. The most common
adverse events across both treatment arms were arthralgia, back pain, hypertension and nasopharyngitis.      In addition to the detailed results
of Study 216, we presented the results of two non-pivotal phase 3 studies of denosumab in osteoporosis at the ASBMR meeting. The first was a phase 3 head-to-head, double-blind trial known as the Study of Transitioning from AleNdronate to Denosumab
trial ( STAND ) ( Study 234 ). The results of this study demonstrated that subcutaneous injections of denosumab every six months achieved significantly greater increases in bone mineral density ( BMD ) versus those
achieved with alendronate ( ALN ) at all sites measured. For the primary endpoint, denosumab resulted in significant increases in BMD at the total hip compared with ALN (1.9% for denosumab versus 1.05% for ALN, p 0.0001). Treatment with
denosumab also resulted in significant increases in BMD compared with continued ALN treatment at all secondary endpoints, including the lumbar spine, femoral neck, hip trochanter and 1/3 radius. The incidence and types of adverse events observed in
the study, including neoplasms and infection, were similar between the denosumab and ALN treatment groups. The most common adverse events across both treatment arms were back pain, arthralgia and nasal pharyngitis. The second non-pivotal study was a
head-to-head trial comparing denosumab to weekly oral ALN, also known as the Determining Efficacy: Comparison of Initiating Denosumab versus Alendronate trial ( DECIDE ) ( Study 141 ). As a part of this study, patients were given
a questionnaire after 12 months of treatment to gauge preference on mode of administration as well as satisfaction with frequency of dosing of twice-yearly subcutaneous injections versus weekly oral tablet. More than three-quarters of patients in
both study arms preferred subcutaneous injection over oral pills (77% versus 23%, p  0.0001). In addition, significantly more patients were more satisfied with twice-yearly dosing compared to weekly dosing (80% placebo injection versus 20% weekly
oral ALN, and 79% for denosumab versus 21% weekly placebo tablet, p  0.0001 for both study groups).       Oncology       On July 14, 2008, we announced findings from a three-year pivotal phase 3 placebo-controlled trial evaluating denosumab in the treatment of bone loss
in men undergoing androgen deprivation therapy ( ADT ) for non-metastatic prostate cancer ( Study 138 ). In this study of more than 1,400 men, denosumab treatment produced statistically significantly greater increases in BMD at
the lumbar spine (primary endpoint) and non-vertebral sites compared with placebo at multiple time points. These improvements in BMD were consistent with those seen in other denosumab studies evaluating BMD in women with breast cancer receiving
aromatase inhibitor ( AI ) therapy, and in postmenopausal women with low bone mass. During the 36-month evaluation period, men receiving denosumab experienced less than half the incidence of new vertebral fractures (a secondary endpoint)
compared with those receiving placebo, a statistically significant finding. Furthermore, in the denosumab arm there were fewer non-vertebral fractures over the 36-month period. The incidence and types of adverse events observed in this study were
generally similar between the denosumab and placebo groups. The most common adverse events across both treatment arms were arthralgia, back pain, constipation and pain in extremity. Serious adverse infectious events occurred in approximately 5% of
men receiving placebo treatment as compared with approximately 6% of those receiving denosumab.         
   6   

Table of Contents  

    Competitive Developments       Certain of our marketed products are under increased competitive pressures, including from
biosimilar and other products in Europe, which compete or are expected to compete with Aranesp     , Neulasta      and NEUPOGEN     , as well as our marketed products in the United States, including ENBREL. For example, as a result of final regulatory guidelines issued by the EMEA in 2006 related to the development and
approval of biosimilar products, we have experienced and expect to continue to experience increased competition throughout Europe, including from a number of biosimilar erythropoietin products, which compete with Aranesp     . In addition, a number of granulocyte colony-stimulating factor ( G-CSF ) biosimilar products have received marketing authorization from the European Commission in 2008 and early 2009 and have been or are
expected to be launched and compete with Neulasta      and NEUPOGEN     . Further in the United States, ENBREL will continue to face
increased competition primarily due to the expected launch of new products.       Litigation Developments       On October 17, 2008, the Massachusetts District Court entered judgment that the patents in suit are valid and enforceable, and that the patents,
identified below as the subject of the permanent injunction, would be infringed by the import, use and sale of F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd. ( Roche ) pegylated erythropoietin product in the United States. The Massachusetts District Court
permanently enjoined Roche from infringing the  422 Patent, the  933 Patent, the  868 Patent and the  698 Patent for the remaining life of these patents. See Note 10,   Contingencies   Roche Matters   Amgen Inc.
v. F. Hoffman-La Roche Ltd. et al.   for further discussion of this legal proceeding.      On July 11, 2008, we announced that we had reached an agreement to settle our antitrust litigation with Ortho Biotech Products L.P., a subsidiary of Johnson   Johnson (hereafter referred to as  Ortho Biotech  or
 J J ), which had alleged that discounts offered to oncology clinics on our NEUPOGEN      and Neulasta      and
Aranesp      products violated antitrust laws. Under terms of the agreement, we paid Ortho Biotech $200 million and the pending litigation in New Jersey District Court was dismissed with
prejudice.       Economic and Political Developments       Capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption, particularly during the latter part of 2008 and the beginning of 2009. We are working to manage our business effectively despite the
unprecedented conditions in the financial markets both in the United States and around the world. To date, these macro economic challenges have not affected us to a large degree. The extent and/or the duration of any potential adverse economic
impact that such financial disruption may have on our third-party payors, including governments and private insurance plans, wholesale distributors, customers, service providers and suppliers is unclear. However, it may result in reduced demand for
our products. (See   Item 1A. Risk Factors   The volatility of the current financial markets and the general economic slowdown may magnify certain risks that affect our business.  )      Further, beginning in late 2008 and continuing into 2009, foreign currency rates have also been experiencing extreme volatility. Changes in foreign
currency rates result in increases or decreases in our reported international product sales. However, the benefit or detriment of any resulting increases or decreases that movements in foreign currency exchange rates have on our international
product sales are largely offset by corresponding increases or decreases in our international operating expenses and as a result of our related foreign currency hedging activities. Our hedging activities seek to offset the impact, both positive and
negative, that foreign currency exchange rate changes may have on our net income by hedging our net foreign currency exposure, primarily with respect to the Euro.      In addition, we believe the new U.S. presidential administration, together with Congress, will shape U.S. healthcare policy in the coming months and years, and we expect that healthcare reform efforts could include
long-term changes to coverage and reimbursement that may have a significant impact on our business. Furthermore, due to the increasing expectations and demands of healthcare payors, we believe that we and others in our industry will be under
increased pressure to further demonstrate the efficacy and economic value of our products.         
   7   

Table of Contents  

    Other Developments       In February 2008, we entered into a license agreement with Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited
( Takeda ), which provided them the exclusive rights to develop and commercialize for the Japanese market up to 12 clinical stage molecules from our pipeline across a range of therapeutic areas, including oncology and inflammation. The
molecules covered by the license agreement primarily include: AMG 108, AMG 317, AMG 386, AMG 479, AMG 655 and Vectibix     . We have the right to participate in the promotion of these products
in Japan. In addition, we entered into a collaboration agreement with Takeda for the worldwide development and commercialization of motesanib (AMG 706). Each party has the right to participate in the commercialization of motesanib in the other
party s territory. In connection with these agreements, Takeda acquired our subsidiary in Japan, Amgen K.K.      As a result of the
challenges facing certain of our products and, in particular, the regulatory and reimbursement developments involving our marketed ESA products that began in 2007, as discussed above, and their resulting impact on our operations, on August 15,
2007, we announced a plan to restructure our worldwide operations in order to improve our cost structure while continuing to make significant R D investments and build the framework for our future growth. Through December 31, 2008, we have
completed substantially all of the actions initially included in our restructuring plan, including the divestiture of certain less significant marketed products discussed below. During 2008, we identified certain additional initiatives designed to
further assist in improving our cost structure, including outsourcing certain non-core business functions, most notably certain of our information systems  infrastructure services, as well as abandoning leases for certain additional facilities
that will no longer be used in our operations. The estimated cost of these additional initiatives is $95 million to $135 million. The total charges currently estimated to be incurred in connection with our restructuring plan, including related
implementation costs, is $950 million to $985 million. Through December 31, 2008, we have incurred $887 million of these costs and currently estimate that all remaining costs will be substantially incurred in 2009.      In September 2008, we entered into an agreement with Biovitrum AB ( Biovitrum ) whereby
they acquired from us the marketed biologic therapeutic products Kepivance      (palifermin) and Stemgen      (ancestim), and also
obtained from us a worldwide exclusive license to Kineret      (anakinra) for its current approved indication. In connection with the disposal of these less significant marketed products, we
incurred a $10 million loss. For the year ended December 31, 2008, the worldwide product sales for these marketed products were approximately $70 million.         Marketed Products and Selected Product Candidates       We market our principal products in the areas of supportive cancer care, nephrology and inflammation. Our principal products include Aranesp     , EPOGEN     , Neulasta     , NEUPOGEN      and ENBREL. Our products  competitive position among other biologic
and pharmaceutical products may be based on, among other things, patent position, product efficacy, safety, reliability, availability, patient convenience/delivery devices, price and reimbursement. Certain of our products face substantial
competition from products marketed by large pharmaceutical corporations, which may have greater clinical, research, regulatory, manufacturing, marketing, financial and human resources than we do. In addition, the introduction of new products or the
development of new processes by competitors or new information about existing products may result in increased competition for our marketed products, even for those protected by patents, or reduction in the price we receive from selling our
products. Further, the development of new treatment options or standards of care may require less use of our products, particularly in supportive cancer care. For example, the development of new treatments for cancer, such as targeted therapies,
including monoclonal antibodies, or chemotherapy regimens that are less myelosuppressive, may require less Aranesp      or Neulasta     /NEUPOGEN     . In addition, we expect to continue to face increasingly intense competition, including from new and existing product technologies and competitive
pressures associated with biosimilar and other products. In 2006, the EMEA developed and issued final regulatory guidelines related to the development and approval of biosimilar products and, as a result, we have begun to experience and expect to
continue to experience increased competition from biosimilar products throughout the EU. Further, although there is currently no legal pathway for abbreviated approval of BLA s for biosimilars in the United States, given the continuing interest
by Congress on this issue and on healthcare reform in general, it  
       
   8   

Table of Contents  

is likely that legislation on biosimilars will be introduced in 2009 and possibly passed into law. The new U.S. presidential administration has also
expressed an interest in passing legislation regarding biosimilars.      We operate in a highly regulated industry and various U.S. and foreign
regulatory bodies have substantial authority over how we conduct our business in those countries. The regulatory environment is evolving and there is increased scrutiny on drug safety and increased authority being granted to regulatory bodies to
assist in ensuring the safety of therapeutic products. Certain regulatory developments discussed above in the   Key Developments   section, have and will continue to impact future sales of certain of our products.       Aranesp      (darbepoetin alfa)  
     Aranesp      is our
registered trademark for one of our ESAs, a protein that stimulates red blood cell production. Red blood cells transport oxygen to all cells of the body. Without adequate amounts of erythropoietin, the red blood cell count is reduced. A deficient
red blood cell count can result in anemia, a condition where insufficient oxygen is delivered to the body s organs and tissues. Anemia can be associated with CRF, both in patients on dialysis and not on dialysis. Anemia can also result from
chemotherapy treatments for patients with non-myeloid malignancies.      We were granted an exclusive license by Kirin-Amgen, Inc.
( KA ), a joint venture between Kirin Holdings Company, Limited ( Kirin ) and Amgen (see   Joint Ventures and Business Relationships   Kirin Holdings Company, Limited  ), to manufacture and market darbepoetin
alfa in the United States, all European countries, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Mexico, all Central and South American countries and certain countries in Central Asia, North Africa and the Middle East.      We market Aranesp      primarily in the
United States and Europe. Aranesp      was initially launched in 2001 in the United States and Europe for the treatment of anemia associated with CRF (both in patients on dialysis and patients
not on dialysis) and is also indicated for the treatment of CIA in patients with non-myeloid malignancies.      Worldwide Aranesp      sales for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were $3.1 billion, $3.6 billion and $4.1 billion, respectively. As a
result of certain of the regulatory and reimbursement developments discussed above in the   Key Developments   section, worldwide Aranesp      sales and, in particular, sales in
the U.S. supportive cancer care setting, have and will continue to be materially adversely affected.      Our outstanding material patents for
darbepoetin alfa are described in the table below.       

(1)      
    In some cases, these European patents may also be entitled to supplemental protection in one or more countries in Europe
and the length of any such extension will vary by country.         Our
principal European patent relating to Epoetin alfa expired on December 12, 2004. Although we do not market EPOGEN      in Europe, upon expiration of this patent, some companies have and
other companies may receive approval for and market biosimilar or other products to compete with Aranesp      in Europe, presenting additional competition, as further discussed below.
     Any products or technologies that are directly or indirectly successful in
addressing anemia associated with chemotherapy and nephrology could negatively impact product sales of Aranesp     . The following table reflects companies and their currently marketed products
that primarily compete with Aranesp      in the United States and Europe in the supportive cancer care and nephrology segments, unless otherwise indicated.         
   9   

Table of Contents  

Territory    
      
     Competitor Marketed Product    
      
     Competitor     
 
  U.S.  
      
  PROCRIT        (1)     
      
  J J   
 
  Europe  
      
  EPREX     /ERYPO       
      
  Janssen-Cilag   (2)      
 
  Europe  
      
  NeoRecormon       
      
  Roche   
 
  Europe  
      
  Retacrit    (3)   /Silapo        (3)     
      
    Hospira Enterprises B.V. ( Hospira )/Stada Arzneimittel AG ( Stada )    
 
  Europe  
      
    Binocrit        (3)   /Epoetin alfa Hexal        (3)   /Abseamed        (3)      
      
    Sandoz GmbH ( Sandoz )/Hexal Biotech Forschungs GmbH ( Hexal )/Medice Arzneimittel P tter GmbH   Company KG
( Medice )    
 
  Europe  
      
  MIRCERA        (4)      
      
  Roche   
 
  Europe  
      
    Dynepo        (5)       
      
  Shire Pharmaceutical Group Plc ( Shire )   

(1)      
    In the United States, Aranesp      competes with PROCRIT      in the supportive cancer care and pre-dialysis settings.      

(2)    
        A subsidiary of J J.      

(3)    
        Biosimilar product approved and launched in certain EU
countries.      

(4)    
        Competes with Aranesp      in the nephrology segment only.      

(5)    
        Shire announced in the second quarter of 2008 that it had
decided to stop the commercialization of Dynepo     .         In the United States, Aranesp      also
competes with EPOGEN     , primarily in the U.S. hospital dialysis clinic setting. In addition to competition from the above-noted marketed products, the following product candidates could
compete with Aranesp      in the future. Affymax Inc. ( Affymax ) and Takeda are co-developing Hematide , an ESA for the treatment of anemia in renal patients. FibroGen is
developing FG-2216 and FG-4592, orally active ESAs, for the treatment of anemia and is also studying FG-4592 for the treatment in anemia of chronic kidney disease ( CKD ). Ratiopharm is developing a biosimilar ESA, EpoTheta, expected to
launch in the EU in 2009. Additionally, in December 2008, Merck   Company, Inc. ( Merck ) announced the formation of a new biotech division, Merck Bioventures, which is developing a late-stage pegylated ESA (MK-2578), which they
have announced they expect to launch in 2012.       EPOGEN      (Epoetin alfa)       EPOGEN      is our registered trademark for our recombinant human erythropoietin product, a protein that stimulates red blood cell production. A reduced red blood cell count can result in anemia (see
    Aranesp      (darbepoetin alfa)  ). People with CRF suffer from anemia because they do not produce sufficient amounts of erythropoietin, which is normally produced in
healthy kidneys.      We were granted an exclusive license to manufacture and market
recombinant human erythropoietin in the United States under a licensing agreement with KA. We have retained exclusive rights to market EPOGEN      in the United States for dialysis patients. We
granted Ortho Pharmaceutical Corporation (which has assigned its rights under the Product License Agreement to Ortho Biotech) a license to commercialize recombinant human erythropoietin as a human therapeutic in the United States in all markets
other than dialysis (see   Joint Ventures and Business Relationships   Johnson   Johnson  ).      We launched EPOGEN      in the United
States in 1989 for the treatment of anemia associated with CRF for patients who are on dialysis. We market EPOGEN      for the treatment of anemic adult and pediatric patients with CRF who are
on dialysis. EPOGEN      is indicated for elevating or maintaining the red blood cell level (as determined by hematocrit or Hb measurements) and decreasing the need for blood transfusions in
these patients.      EPOGEN     
sales in the United States were $2.5 billion for each of the three years ended December 31, 2008.         
   10   

Table of Contents  

   Our outstanding material patents for Epoetin alfa are described in the table below.       
    Any products or technologies that are
directly or indirectly successful in addressing anemia associated with CRF could negatively impact product sales of EPOGEN     . In the United States, EPOGEN      and Aranesp      compete with each other, primarily in the U.S. hospital dialysis clinic setting, and there was a conversion from EPOGEN      to Aranesp      in this setting, however we believe that the conversion has stabilized. In addition, Affymax and Takeda are co-developing
Hematide , an ESA for the treatment of anemia in renal patients. FibroGen is developing FG-2216 and FG-4592, orally active ESAs for the treatment of anemia. Additionally, in December 2008, Merck announced the formation of a new biotech
division, Merck Bioventures, which is developing a late stage pegylated ESA (MK-2578), which they have announced they expect to launch in 2012.       Neulasta     
(pegfilgrastim)/NEUPOGEN      (Filgrastim)       Neulasta      is our registered trademark for a pegylated protein that selectively stimulates production of certain white blood cells known as neutrophils and is
based on the Filgrastim molecule. Neutrophils defend against infection. NEUPOGEN      is our registered trademark for our recombinant-methionyl human G-CSF, a protein that also selectively
stimulates production of neutrophils. Treatments for various diseases and diseases themselves can result in extremely low numbers of neutrophils, a condition called neutropenia. Myelosuppressive chemotherapy, one treatment option for individuals
with certain types of cancers, targets cell types that grow rapidly, such as tumor cells. Normal cells that divide rapidly, such as those in the bone marrow that become neutrophils, are also vulnerable to the effects of cytotoxic chemotherapy,
resulting in neutropenia with an increased risk of severe infection. Very often, neutropenia is the dose limiting side effect of chemotherapy and can thus be responsible for a reduction in the amount of chemotherapy that can be administered safely.
Such reductions in chemotherapy dose can compromise the effectiveness of chemotherapy on the cancer it is being used to treat, with the result of a higher treatment failure rate. As mentioned above, the pegfilgrastim molecule is based on the
Filgrastim molecule. A polyethylene glycol molecule ( PEG ) is added to enlarge the Filgrastim molecule, thereby extending its half-life and causing it to be removed more slowly from the body. Because pegfilgrastim is eliminated through
binding to its receptor on neutrophils and their precursors, pegfilgrastim remains in the circulation until neutrophil recovery has occurred. This neutrophil-mediated clearance allows for administration as a single dose per chemotherapy cycle,
compared with NEUPOGEN     , which requires more frequent dosing. Neulasta      and NEUPOGEN      are prescribed more frequently in the curative setting, in which myelosuppressive chemotherapy is administered with the intent to cure cancer, rather than in the palliative setting, in which myelosuppressive
chemotherapy is administered to treat other complications of cancer by managing tumor growth.      We were granted an exclusive license to
manufacture and market pegfilgrastim and G-CSF in the United States, Europe, Canada, Australia and New Zealand under a licensing agreement with KA (see   Joint Ventures and Business Relationships   Kirin Holdings Company,
Limited  ).      We market Neulasta      and NEUPOGEN      primarily in the United States and Europe. Filgrastim is also marketed under the brand name GRANULOKINE      in Italy. Neulasta      was initially launched in the United States and Europe in 2002 and is indicated for reducing the incidence of infection associated with
chemotherapy-induced neutropenia in cancer patients with non-myeloid malignancies. Administration of Neulasta      in all cycles of chemotherapy is approved for patients receiving
myelosuppressive chemotherapy associated with at least a 17% risk of febrile neutropenia. NEUPOGEN      was initially launched in the United States and Europe in 1991. NEUPOGEN      is indicated for reducing the incidence of infection as manifested by febrile neutropenia for patients with non-myeloid malignancies undergoing myelosuppressive chemotherapy; reducing the
duration of neutropenia and neutropenia-related consequences for patients with non-myeloid malignancies undergoing myeloablative chemotherapy followed by bone marrow transplantation; reducing the incidence and duration of neutropenia-related
consequences in symptomatic patients with congenital neutropenia, cyclic neutropenia or  
       
   11   

Table of Contents  

idiopathic neutropenia (collectively, severe chronic neutropenia); mobilizing peripheral blood progenitor cells ( PBPC ) in cancer patients who
have undergone myeloablative chemotherapy for stem cell transplantation; and reducing the recovery time of neutrophils and the duration of fever following induction or consolidation chemotherapy treatment in adult patients with acute myeloid
leukemia ( AML ).      Worldwide Neulasta      sales for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were $3.3 billion, $3.0 billion and $2.7 billion, respectively. Worldwide NEUPOGEN      sales
for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were $1.3 billion, $1.3 billion and $1.2 billion, respectively.      Our outstanding
material patents for pegfilgrastim are described in the table below.       

(1)      
    In some cases, this European patent may also be entitled to supplemental protection in one or more countries in Europe
and the length of any such extension will vary by country.         Our outstanding material patents for Filgrastim are described
in the table below.       
    Our principal European patent relating to
G-CSF expired on August 22, 2006. Upon expiration of this patent, some companies have and other companies may receive approval for and market biosimilar products and other products to compete with Neulasta      and NEUPOGEN      in Europe, presenting additional competition, as further discussed below.      Neulasta      and NEUPOGEN      could face competition in some circumstances from companies marketing or developing treatments for neutropenia associated with chemotherapy, for bone marrow and PBPC transplant patients, and
AML. NEUPOGEN      competes with Neulasta      in the United States and Europe. U.S. and international NEUPOGEN      sales have been adversely impacted by conversion to Neulasta     . However, we believe that the conversion in the United States is
substantially complete and that a significant amount of the conversion in Europe had already occurred.      The following table reflects companies and their currently marketed products that primarily compete with Neulasta      and NEUPOGEN      in the United States and Europe in the supportive cancer care segment.       

Territory    
      
     Competitor Marketed Product    
      
     Competitor     
 
  U.S.  
      
  Leukine       
      
  Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals   
 
  Europe  
      
  Granocyte       
      
    Chugai Pharmaceuticals Co., Ltd./Sanofi-Aventis    
 
  Europe  
      
    Ratiograstim        (1)   /Filgrastim Ratiopharm        (1)      
      
  Ratiopharm   
 
  Europe  
      
  Biograstim        (1)     
      
  CT Arzneimittel   
 
  Europe  
      
  Tevagrastim        (2)     
      
  Teva   
 
  Europe  
      
  Zarzio        (3)   /Filgrastim Hexal        (3)     
      
  Sandoz/Hexal   

(1)      
    Biosimilar products that received marketing authorization by the European Commission in September 2008 and launched in
certain EU countries thereafter.      

(2)      
    Biosimilar product that received marketing authorization by the European Commission in September 2008 for which Teva has
stated that it would begin marketing throughout Europe in 2009.      

(3)      
    Biosimilar products that received marketing authorization by the European Commission in February 2009.
         Enbrel    
  (etanercept)       ENBREL is our registered trademark for our TNF receptor fusion protein that inhibits its binding to TNF receptors,
which can result in a significant reduction in inflammatory activity. TNF is one of the chemical  
       
   12   

Table of Contents  

messengers that help regulate the inflammatory process. When the body produces too much TNF, it overwhelms the immune system s ability to control
inflammation of the joints or of psoriasis-affected skin areas. ENBREL is similar to a protein that the body produces naturally, and like this protein, it binds and deactivates certain TNF molecules before they can trigger inflammation.   
  We acquired the rights to ENBREL in July 2002 as part of our acquisition of Immunex Corporation ( Immunex ).      We market ENBREL under a co-promotion agreement with Wyeth in the United States and Canada (see   Joint Ventures and Business Relationships  
Wyeth  ). The rights to market ENBREL outside of the United States and Canada are reserved to Wyeth. ENBREL was initially launched in November 1998 by Immunex for the treatment of RA. In addition, ENBREL is now indicated for the treatment of
adult patients with the following conditions: moderately to severely active RA; chronic moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in adult patients who are candidates for systemic therapy or phototherapy; active psoriatic arthritis and active ankylosing
spondylitis. ENBREL is also approved for the treatment of moderately to severely active polyarticular-course juvenile RA in patients who have had an inadequate response to one or more disease-modifying medicines.      ENBREL sales for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were $3.6 billion, $3.2 billion and $2.9 billion, respectively.      Our outstanding material patents for etanercept are described in the table below.       

Territory    
      
     General Subject Matter    
      
   Expiration    
 
  U.S.  
      
  Methods of treating TNF   dependent inflammatory response  
      
  9/5/2009   
 
  U.S.  
      
  TNFR proteins and pharmaceutical compositions  
      
  9/5/2009   
 
  U.S.  
      
  TNFR DNA vectors, cells and processes for making proteins  
      
  10/23/2012   
    Any products or technologies that are directly or indirectly successful in treating rheumatology,
which includes moderate to severe RA, moderate to severe juvenile RA and psoriatic arthritis; and dermatology, which includes ankylosing spondylitis and moderate to severe plaque psoriasis, could negatively impact product sales of ENBREL. Current
treatments for these indications include generic methotrexate and other products, as further discussed below.      The following table reflects
companies and their currently marketed products that primarily compete with ENBREL in the United States and Canada in the inflammatory disease setting.       

Territory    
      
     Therapeutic Area    
      
     Competitor Marketed Product    
      
     Competitor     
 
  U.S.   Canada  
      
  Rheumatology   Dermatology  
      
  REMICADE       
      
    Centocor, Inc.   (1)   /Schering Plough
Corporation    
 
  U.S.   Canada  
      
  Rheumatology   Dermatology  
      
  HUMIRA       
      
    Abbott Laboratories ( Abbott )    
 
  U.S.   Canada  
      
  Rheumatology   Dermatology  
      
  Trexall   
      
    Duramed Pharmaceuticals, Inc.   (2)       
 
  U.S.   Canada  
      
  Rheumatology  
      
  Orencia       
      
    Bristol-Myers Squibb Corporation ( BMS )    
 
  U.S.   Canada  
      
  Rheumatology  
      
  Arava       
      
    Sanofi-Aventis    
 
  U.S.   Canada  
      
  Rheumatology  
      
  Rheumatrex       
      
    DAVA Pharmaceuticals, Inc.    
 
  U.S.   Canada  
      
  Rheumatology  
      
  Rituxan       
      
    Genentech, Inc. ( Genentech )    
 
  U.S.   Canada  
      
  Dermatology  
      
  Raptiva       
      
    Genentech    
 
  U.S.   Canada  
      
  Dermatology  
      
  Amevive       
      
    Biogen IDEC Inc. ( Biogen )    
 
  U.S.   Canada  
      
  Dermatology  
      
  Neoral       
      
    Novartis AG ( Novartis )    
 
  U.S.   Canada  
      
  Dermatology  
      
  Soriatane       
      
    Connetics Corporation   (3)       

(1)      
    A subsidiary of J J.      

(2)      
    A subsidiary of Barr Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ( Barr )      

(3)      
    A subsidiary of Stiefel Laboratories, Inc.            
   13   

Table of Contents  

   In addition to competition from the above-noted
marketed products, various companies are developing products which may compete with ENBREL in the future, including the following. In December 2007, J J filed a BLA with the FDA and a market authorization application ( MAA ) with the
EMEA for CNTO 1275 (ustekinumab) to treat adults with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis. Although the DODAC unanimously recommended CNTO 1275 for approval, in December 2008, the FDA declined approval and requested additional information from
J J. J J is also developing CNTO 148 (golimumab) for the treatment of RA. Additionally, a number of companies have cytokine inhibitors in development, including GlaxoSmithKline plc ( GlaxoSmithKline ), Pfizer Inc.
( Pfizer ), Repligen Corporation and Taisho Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Roche filed a BLA for its RA candidate Actemra (tocilizumab) in November 2007 and received a complete response letter from the FDA in September 2008, requesting
additional data on the labeling and manufacture of the drug. Abbott is developing ABT-874, which is a psoriasis drug, and is in phase 3 trials. UCB has partnered with Nektar Therapeutics to develop Cimzia      (PEGylated anti-TNF) for the treatment of RA. On January 5, 2009, the FDA issued a complete response letter relating to the BLA of Cimzia      for
treatment of RA requesting additional information.       Other       Our other marketed products are principally comprised of Sensipar      (cinacalcet), Vectibix      (panitumumab) and Nplate        (romiplostim).       Sensipar      (cinacalcet)
      Sensipar      is our
registered trademark in the United States and Mimpara      is our registered trademark in Europe, for our first small molecule medicine used in treating CKD patients on dialysis who produce too
much parathyroid hormone, a condition known as secondary hyperparathyroidism. In 2004, Sensipar     /Mimpara      was approved in the
United States and Europe for the treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism in CKD patients on dialysis and for the treatment of hypercalcemia in patients with parathyroid carcinoma. We market Sensipar     /Mimpara      primarily in the United States and Europe.      Sensipar      sales for the years ended
December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were $597 million, $463 million and $321 million, respectively.      Our outstanding material patents for
cinacalcet are described in the table below.       

(1)      
    An application for patent term extension has been submitted and is currently pending in the United States.

(2)      
    In some cases, this European patent may also be entitled to supplemental protection in one or more countries in Europe
and the length of any such extension will vary by country.         Any
products or technologies that are directly or indirectly successful in treating secondary hyperparathyroidism in patients with CKD on dialysis and/or hypercalcemia in patients with parathyroid carcinoma could negatively impact product sales of
Sensipar     /Mimpara     .      The following table reflects companies and their currently marked products that primarily compete
with Sensipar      in the United States and Mimpara      in Europe in the nephrology segment.       

Territory    
      
     Competitor Marketed Product    
      
     Competitor     
 
    U.S.   
      
  Zemplar       
      
  Abbott   
 
    U.S.   
      
  Hectorol       
      
  Genzyme Corporation ( Genzyme )   
 
    U.S.   
      
  Rocaltrol       
      
  Roche   
 
    Europe   
      
  Zemplar       
      
  Abbott   
 
    Europe   
      
  Renegel       
      
  Genzyme   
 
    Europe   
      
  Fosrenol       
      
  Shire   
 
    Europe   
      
  OsvaRen       
      
  Fresenius Medical Care   
       
   14   

Table of Contents  

   On July 25, 2008, we filed a lawsuit against
Teva and Barr for infringement of four Sensipar      patents. The lawsuit is based on the Abbreviated New Drug Application ( ANDA ) filed by Teva and Barr which seeks approval to
market generic versions of Sensipar     . (See Note 10,   Contingencies   to the Consolidated Financial Statements.) These generic versions could compete with Sensipar      in the future.       Vectibix      (panitumumab)       Vectibix      is our trademark for our first entirely human monoclonal antibody for the treatment of patients with EGFr expressing mCRC after disease progression
on, or following fluoropyrimidine-, oxaliplatin- and irinotecan- containing chemotherapy regimens. EGFr is a protein that plays an important role in cancer cell signaling and is over-expressed in many human cancers. Vectibix      is an entirely human monoclonal antibody that binds with high affinity to EGFrs and interferes with signals that might otherwise stimulate growth and survival of the cancer cell. The goal of
developing entirely human monoclonal antibodies is to offer effective targeted therapies with lessened risk of immune response against these agents. Vectibix      received FDA approval in
September 2006. On December 5, 2007, the European Commission granted a conditional marketing authorization for Vectibix     , which was renewed in December 2008, as a monotherapy for the
treatment of patients with EGFr expressing mCRC with non-mutated (wild-type) KRAS genes after failure of standard chemotherapy regimens. We acquired full ownership of Vectibix      as part of
our acquisition of Abgenix, Inc. ( Abgenix ) in April 2006.       Nplate      (romiplostim)       On August 22, 2008, the FDA approved Nplate     , the first platelet producer for the treatment of thrombocytopenia in splenectomized (spleen removed) and
non-splenectomized adults with chronic ITP. Nplate     , the first FDA approved peptibody protein, works by raising and sustaining platelet counts. On February 6, 2009, we announced that
the European Commission granted marketing authorization for Nplate      for the treatment of splenectomized adult chronic ITP patients who are refractory to other treatments (e.g.
corticosteroids, immunoglobulins). In the EU, Nplate      may also be considered as second line treatment for adult non-splenectomized ITP patients where surgery is contra-indicated.
      Product candidates       We
are currently studying new product candidates, including denosumab, and currently marketed products for new indications, which, if approved, we expect will enter into highly competitive markets. If successful, these product candidates will face
substantial competition from products currently marketed as well as those under development by other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. For example, the bone loss setting, in which denosumab would compete, is currently comprised of three
therapeutic classes: bisphosphonates, selective estrogen receptor modulators and anabolic agents. Competitive intensity will increase in the bone loss setting with the expected approval of new agents. If denosumab is approved, we would need to
significantly expand our sales and marketing capabilities to support its successful launch.      The following table reflects other companies
and their currently marketed products that will compete with denosumab, if approved:       

Amgen Product Candidate    
      
     Therapeutic Area    
      
     Competitor Marketed Product    
      
     Potential Competitor     
 
    Denosumab   
      
  PMO  
      
  FOSAMAX       
      
  Merck   
 
    Denosumab   
      
  PMO  
      
  Actonel       
      
  Procter   Gamble/Aventis   
 
    Denosumab   
      
  PMO  
      
  Boniva     /Bonviva       
      
  Roche/GlaxoSmithKline   
 
    Denosumab   
      
  PMO  
      
  Evista       
      
    Eli Lilly and Company ( Eli Lilly )    
 
    Denosumab   
      
  PMO  
      
  Forteo     /Forsteo   
      
  Eli Lilly   
 
    Denosumab   
      
  PMO  
      
  Miacalcin       
      
  Novartis   
 
    Denosumab   
      
  PMO  
      
  Aclasta     /Reclast       
      
  Novartis   
 
    Denosumab   
      
  PMO  
      
  generic ALN  
      
  Teva   
 
    Denosumab   
      
  Oncology  
      
  Zometa       
      
  Novartis   
 
    Denosumab   
      
  Oncology  
      
  Aredia       
      
  Novartis   
       
   15   

Table of Contents  

   Merck s patent covering the use of
FOSAMAX      to treat bone loss expired in the United States in February 2008. Following the patent expiry, generic ALN became available from Teva, as noted in the table above, and has also
become available from other companies.         Postmarketing Safety Activities       We must conduct extensive clinical trials designed to establish the safety and efficacy of our product candidates in order to file for regulatory approval
to market a product. After we have obtained approval to market our products, we monitor adverse events from the use of our products and report these events to regulatory agencies, along with information from postmarketing surveillance or studies. We
may utilize other research approaches to learn or confirm information about our marketed products, including observational studies and patient registries, and may engage in risk minimization activities such as physician education initiatives and
patient and patient advocacy group initiatives. We may also conduct, or be required by regulatory agencies to conduct, further clinical trials to provide additional information on our marketed products  safety and efficacy. These additional
trials may include, among other things, studying different doses or schedules of administration that were used in previous studies, use in other patient populations or other stages of the disease or use over a longer period of time. Additional
trials of this nature are sometimes required by regulatory agencies as a condition of their approval to market our products; such trials are sometimes referred to as PMCs. Regulatory agencies may also request or require that we conduct specific
studies in order to identify or assess possible safety risks of our marketed products that are observed or suggested by available scientific data.       Certain ESA Postmarketing Commitments       Following the ODAC meeting in
May 2004, we proposed a pharmacovigilance program comprised of five ongoing studies for Aranesp     , which sought to explore the use of ESAs in settings different from those outlined in the
FDA approved label. These studies were subsequently designated by the FDA as PMCs. One of the five studies, the 20010145 ( 145 ) study, was an Amgen sponsored study, with the other four studies being investigator-sponsored studies. The
following table summarizes the five studies:       

Sponsor    
      
   Study   
     
     Tumor Type    
      
   Target Hb (g/dL)   
      
     Study Results     

Amgen   
      
  20010145  
     
  Small cell lung  
      
  13  
      
    At median follow-up of 2   1   /  2   years, ESA and placebo group had similar PFS and overall survival; PFS based on blinded central review similar between ESA and placebo   (1)   

DAHANCA   
      
  DAHANCA-10   (2)     
     
  Head and neck  
      
  14-15.5  
      
    5-year locoregional control poorer in ESA group; No significant difference in overall survival   (1)       

AGO   
      
  PREPARE  
     
  Neoadjuvant breast  
      
  12.5-13  
      
    Decreased 3-year relapse-free and overall survival in the ESA group   (1)       

GELA   (3)   

LNH-03-6B  
     
  NHL   (4)     
      
  13-15 initially, amended to 13-14  
      
    At 1 year, ESA and control groups had similar overall survival and event-free survival   (5)       

WSG   (6)      
      
  ARA-03/ARA Plus  
     
  Adjuvant breast  
      
  13-14  
      
    Interim safety results published   (7)   

(2)      
    Danish Head and Neck Cancer ( DAHANCA )      

(3)      
    Groupe d Etudes de Lymphomes de L Adulte ( GELA )      

(4)      
    Non-Hodgkin s Lymphoma ( NHL )            
   16   

Table of Contents  

(5)      
    The final study report is expected in 2010. Late in 2007, an independent Data Safety Monitoring Committee recommended
continuation of the study unchanged.      

(6)      
    West German Study Group ( WSG )      

(7)      
    Interim safety results presented at the 31st annual San Antonio Breast Cancer Symposium, December 13, 2008, San
Antonio, TX. The final study report is expected in 2011.         In addition, Johnson and Johnson Pharmaceutical
Research   Development ( J JPRD ), a subsidiary of J J, and/or its investigators have conducted numerous studies proposed at the 2004 ODAC meeting including: the EPO-GBR-7 and RTOG-9903 studies in head and neck cancer
( HNC ), the EPO-GER-22 and EPO-CAN-20 studies in non-small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ), the EPO-CAN-17 and EPO-GER-7 studies in breast cancer and the EPO-GER-8/AGO-NOGGO study in cervical cancer. All of the above studies are
closed to enrollment and summary results were submitted to the FDA. In addition, J JPRD s EPO-ANE-3010 study in breast cancer is ongoing and is designated as an FDA PMC.      Based on our ongoing discussions with the FDA in response to the May 2007 ODAC meeting, we and
J JPRD have carefully considered potential new study designs to determine the effects of ESAs on survival and tumor outcomes in anemic patients with metastatic cancer receiving concomitant myelosuppressive chemotherapy. We have submitted an
Aranesp      study protocol to the FDA and plan to initiate the study in 2009.       Other Postmarketing Commitments       In addition to our ESA products, we have ongoing PMC studies for all of our marketed
products. In particular, we have several large, ongoing studies involving ENBREL, which include trials to evaluate the safety and efficacy of its long-term use.       Other Safety Activities       The FDAAA gave the
FDA authority to require us and other companies to develop and implement a REMS for a product to ensure that the benefits of the drug outweigh the risks. The FDA may require the submission of a REMS before a product is approved, or after approval
based on new safety information, including new analyses of existing safety information. A REMS may include a medication guide, patient package insert, a plan for communication with healthcare providers or other elements the FDA deems are necessary
to assure safe use of the product, which could include imposing certain restrictions on distribution or use of a product. A REMS must include a timetable for submission of assessments of the strategy at specified time intervals. Failure to comply
with a REMS, including the submission of a required assessment or any modification to a REMS, may result in substantial civil or criminal penalties. We currently have approved REMS for ENBREL and Nplate     . Additionally, in response to the FDA s request under authority prescribed by the FDAAA, we have submitted a proposed REMS program for the class of ESAs and an update to the existing REMS for ENBREL.   
     Marketing and Distribution       We maintain sales and marketing forces primarily in the United States, Europe and Canada to support our currently marketed products. We market our products to healthcare providers, including physicians or their clinics, dialysis centers,
hospitals and pharmacies. We also market certain products directly to consumers through direct-to-consumer print and television advertising. In addition, for certain of our products, we promote programs to increase public awareness of the health
risks associated with the diseases these products treat, as well as providing support to various patient education and support programs in the related therapeutic areas.      In the United States, we sell primarily to wholesale distributors of pharmaceutical products. We
utilize these wholesale distributors as the principal means of distributing our products to healthcare providers, such as physicians or their clinics, dialysis centers, hospitals and pharmacies. In early 2008, ENBREL s distribution model was
converted from primarily being shipped directly to pharmacies to a wholesale distribution model similar to our other products. Outside the United States, Aranesp     , Neulasta      and NEUPOGEN      are principally distributed to hospitals and/or wholesalers depending upon the distribution practice in each country
for which the product has been launched. We monitor the financial condition of our larger customers and limit our credit exposure by setting credit limits, requiring letters of credit, and obtaining credit insurance, as we deem appropriate.
        
   17   

Table of Contents  

   We had product sales to three large wholesaler customers each accounting for more than 10% of total
revenues for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. On a combined basis, these distributors accounted for 71% and 87% of worldwide gross revenues and U.S. gross product sales, respectively, for 2008, as noted in the following table
(dollar amounts in millions):       
    We have granted J J a license to
commercialize recombinant human erythropoietin as a human therapeutic in the United States in all markets other than dialysis (see   Joint Ventures and Business Relationships   Johnson   Johnson  ). Under a co-promotion
agreement with Wyeth, we and Wyeth market ENBREL in the United States and Canada for all approved indications. Additionally, we have entered into agreements with third-parties to market certain of our products including Aranesp     , Neulasta      and NEUPOGEN      in certain geographic areas outside of the
United States.         Reimbursement       Sales of all of our principal products are dependent, in part, on the availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payors, including governments and private insurance plans. Most patients receiving our
products are covered by government and/or private payor healthcare programs. Governments may regulate access to, prices or reimbursement levels of our products to control costs or to affect levels of use of our products, and private insurers may be
influenced by government reimbursement methodologies. Worldwide use of our products may be affected by these cost containment pressures and cost shifting from governments and private insurers to healthcare providers or patients in response to
ongoing initiatives to reduce or reallocate healthcare expenditures. An increasing focus on patient access controls and cost containment by public and private insurers has resulted, and may continue to result, in reduced reimbursement rates for our
products. In addition, we believe the new U.S. presidential administration, together with Congress, will shape U.S. healthcare policy in the coming months and years, and we expect that healthcare reform efforts could include long-term changes to
coverage and reimbursement that may have a significant impact on our business.       U.S. Reimbursement System       In the United States, healthcare providers, including doctors, hospitals and other healthcare professionals and facilities, are reimbursed for their
services by the government through Medicare and other forms of public health insurance and private insurers, which are funded primarily through the payment of premiums from individuals, businesses and the government and taxes from individuals and
businesses. The public and private components of this multi-payor system are described below.       Medicare and Other Forms of Public Health
Insurance       Medicare is a federal program administered and reimbursed by the federal government that covers individuals age 65 and over
as well as those with certain disabilities and chronic illnesses. The CMS administer  
       
   18   

Table of Contents  

Medicare (as well as Medicaid, described below) and are responsible for issuing Medicare National Coverage Determinations Manual instructions as well as
manual policy updates, codes for drugs and local coverage decisions. Generally, a national coverage determination ( NCD ) is a national policy statement granting, limiting or excluding Medicare coverage for a specific medical item or
service. The primary Medicare programs that affect reimbursement for our products are Medicare Part B, which covers physician services and outpatient care, and Medicare Part D, which offers an outpatient prescription drug benefit.       Medicare Part B.  Medicare Part B provides limited benefits for fee-for-service outpatient
drugs that are furnished  incident to  a physician s services. Generally,  incident to  drugs and biologicals are covered only if they satisfy certain criteria, including that they are of the type that is not usually
self-administered by the patient and they are reasonable and necessary for medically accepted diagnosis or treatment. Medicare Part B also covers some drugs pursuant to a specific statutory directive, such as blood-clotting factors and certain
immunosuppressive drugs, erythropoietin, and certain oral cancer drugs, if they fall under a specific statutory benefit category and they are  safe and effective  as established by an FDA approval. Many of our primary products, including
EPOGEN     , Aranesp     , Neulasta      and NEUPOGEN     , are currently covered under Medicare Part B (as well as other government programs). In addition, most patients with end stage renal disease ( ESRD ), regardless of age, are eligible for coverage of their
dialysis treatment through the ESRD Program under Medicare Part B, the primary payor for dialysis treatment. Because Medicare Part B is the primary payor for dialysis treatment, reimbursement for products, such as EPOGEN     , that are typically administered in dialysis centers is particularly sensitive to changes in Medicare reimbursement policy.       Medicare Part D.  Medicare Part D provides a voluntary prescription drug benefit for elderly
and disabled people who are eligible for Medicare. This coverage is available through various plans that provide insurance coverage for prescription drugs for a monthly premium. The list of prescription drugs covered by Medicare Part D plans varies
by plan, but drug lists maintained by individual plans must cover a required range of prescription drugs and biologicals needed by Medicare beneficiaries. To encourage competition, the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act
( MMA ) stipulates that Part D plans have at least two drugs in each unique therapeutic category, subject to certain exceptions. Medicare patients who access ENBREL and Sensipar     
under retail coverage where they are primarily accessed are covered by Medicare Part D.       Medicaid.  Medicaid is a state-administered
program designed for the low-income and disabled. Under federal law, states must cover low-income children, pregnant women, parents, disabled and seniors, and states have the option of expanding eligibility beyond these groups of patients. Medicaid
is financed jointly by the states and federal government through taxes. Medicaid offers a broad set of benefits, including prescription drugs. Certain drug rebates for our products may be available to state governments under Medicaid. (See
  Item 1A. Risk Factors   Our sales depend on coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors, and to the extent that access to and reimbursement for products is reduced, this could negatively impact the utilization of our
products . )       Private Health Insurance        Employer-sponsored insurance.  Employer-sponsored insurance represents the main avenue by which Americans receive private health insurance. Many employers provide health insurance as part of the benefits package
for employees. Insurance plans are administered by private companies, both for-profit and not-for-profit, and some companies are  self-insured  (i.e., they pay for all healthcare costs incurred by employees directly through a plan
administered by a third party). Generally, employer-sponsored insurance premiums are paid primarily by employers and secondarily by employees.       Individual market.  The individual market covers part of the population that is self-employed or retired. In addition, it covers some people who are unable to obtain insurance through their employer. In contrast to the
employer-sponsored insurance, the individual market allows health insurance companies to deny people coverage based on pre-existing conditions. The plans are administered by private insurance companies. Individuals pay an insurance premium
out-of-pocket for coverage, and benefits vary widely according to plan specifications.         
   19   

Table of Contents  

    Reimbursement of Our Principal Products        Aranesp     , Neulasta      and NEUPOGEN     .  Medicare and Medicaid payment policies for drugs and biologicals are subject to various laws and regulations. The
Medicare program covers Aranesp     , Neulasta      and NEUPOGEN     , when
administered in the physician clinic setting and the hospital outpatient and dialysis settings, under Part B, and reimburses providers using a payment methodology developed under the MMA based on a fixed percentage of each product s average
sales price ( ASP ). ASP is calculated by the manufacturer based on a statutorily defined formula and submitted to CMS. A product s ASP is calculated and reported to CMS on a quarterly basis and therefore may change each quarter. The
ASP in effect for a given quarter (the  Current Period ) is based upon certain historical sales and sales incentive data covering a statutorily defined period of time preceding the Current Period. CMS publishes the ASPs for products in
advance of the quarter in which they go into effect. In the calculation of ASP, CMS currently allows manufacturers to make reasonable assumptions consistent with the general requirements and the intent of the Medicare statute and regulations and
their customary business practices and in the future CMS may provide more specific guidance. (See   Items 1A. Risk Factors   Our sales depend on coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors, and to the extent that access to and
reimbursement for products is reduced, this could negatively impact the utilization of our products . )      As of January 1, 2008,
Medicare payment in the hospital outpatient setting reimbursed each product at 105% of its ASP (sometimes referred to as  ASP+5% ). For 2009, and effective January 1, 2009, CMS established the payment rate in the hospital outpatient
setting at ASP+4% and CMS has the regulatory authority to further reduce the outpatient hospital payment formula in future years. The extent to which commercial payors adopt the use of ASP as a payment methodology is still evolving and is often
based on the relationship between the provider and the insurer.       Dialysis
Reimbursement.  Dialysis providers in the United States are primarily reimbursed for EPOGEN      by the federal government through the ESRD Program. The ESRD Program reimburses approved
providers for 80% of allowed dialysis costs; the remainder is paid by other sources, including patients, state Medicaid programs, private insurance, and to a lesser extent, state kidney patient programs. The ESRD Program reimbursement methodology is
established by federal law and is monitored and implemented by CMS. Medicare reimburses for separately billable dialysis drugs administered in both free-standing and hospital-based dialysis centers, including EPOGEN      and Aranesp     , at ASP+6%, using the same payment amount methodology used in the physician clinic setting. Any changes to the ASP calculations directly affect
the Medicare reimbursement for our products administered in the physician clinic setting, dialysis facility and hospital outpatient setting. These calculations are reviewed quarterly for completeness and based on such review, we have on occasion
restated our reported ASPs to reflect calculation changes both prospectively and retroactively. For example, partially as a result of our methodology changes, our ASP reimbursement rate for EPOGEN      was reduced for the third quarter of 2007.         ENBREL Reimbursement.    The majority of
prescription claims for ENBREL are paid through private insurance companies. Under Medicare, ENBREL is reimbursed through the Part D program, although less then 10% of prescriptions are reimbursed through Medicare.         Recent Medicare Reforms.  On July 15, 2008, the Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act of 2008 (the  MIPPA ) became
law. The MIPPA contained a number of Medicare and Medicaid reforms, including a broader payment bundle for dialysis services and drugs which will require CMS, beginning in 2011, to establish a bundled Medicare payment rate that includes dialysis
services and drug/labs that are currently separately billed. The new bundled rate will include dialysis services covered under the current composite rate, including all injectable drugs commonly provided during dialysis treatment, including ESAs,
intravenous ( IV ) iron, and IV vitamin D, as well as  oral equivalent  forms of these IV drugs. The bundled reimbursement rate will be phased in over a four year period in equal increments starting in 2011. It is possible that
individual providers could elect to permanently move to a full Medicare bundled payment in 2011. CMS will also be required to establish a quality incentive program that begins concurrently with bundling in 2011 and which subjects facilities to up to
a 2% annual reduction in Medicare reimbursement for failure to meet or exceed CMS quality performance standards, including performance standards related to anemia management and dialysis adequacy.         
   20   

Table of Contents  

      ESA Reimbursement Developments.
   Since April 1, 2006, the Medicare reimbursement for ESAs administered to dialysis patients has been subject to a revised EMP, the Medicare payment review mechanism used   by CMS to monitor EPOGEN      and Aranesp      utilization and appropriate hematocrit outcomes of dialysis patients. The EMP was revised, effective January 1, 2008, requiring a 50%
reduction in Medicare reimbursement if a patient s Hb is above 13 g/dL for three or more consecutive months. In addition, the revised EMP reduces the monthly dosing limits to 400,000 IUs of EPOGEN     , from 500,000 IUs, and to 1,200 mcgs of Aranesp     , from 1,500 mcgs. The implementation of the revised EMP and ESA labeling changes led to a decline in
EPOGEN      sales for the first quarter of 2008 compared to the first quarter of 2007 primarily due to a decline in both overall utilization and as well as average dosing per patient. However,
this dose decline subsequently stabilized. (See     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Results of Operations   EPOGEN     . )         On March 14, 2007, CMS announced that the agency began a review of all Medicare
policies related to the administration of ESAs in non-renal disease applications as part of a national coverage analysis ( NCA ), which is generally CMS  first step toward developing an NCD. On May 14, 2007, CMS issued a proposed
NCD that was open for public comment through June 13, 2007. On July 30, 2007, CMS issued its Decision Memorandum which was substantially altered from the proposed NCD. On January 14, 2008, CMS issued changes to its Medicare NCD
Manual, adding the ESA Decision Memorandum, effective for claims with dates of service on and after July 30, 2007 with an implementation date of April 7, 2008. The Decision Memorandum determined that ESA treatment was not reasonable and
necessary for certain clinical conditions, and established Medicare coverage parameters for FDA-approved ESA use in oncology.      We believe that the restrictions in the Decision Memorandum changed the way ESAs are used in
clinical practice, for example, by decreasing the number of treated patients, the average ESA dose and the duration of ESA therapy. We believe this restriction on reimbursement of ESAs in the Decision Memorandum has had a material adverse effect on
the use, reimbursement and sales of Aranesp     , and our business and results of operations. In addition, based on our knowledge, although no private payors have fully implemented the Decision
Memorandum to date, many private payors have implemented portions of the Decision Memorandum that most commonly reflect the prescriber package insert. Further, we believe many healthcare providers have reduced ESA utilization for all of their
patients regardless of insurance coverage.      On September 11, 2007, the FDA held a joint meeting of the Cardiovascular-Renal Drug
Advisory Committee ( CRDAC ) and the Drug Safety and Risk Management Advisory Committee ( DSaRMAC ) to evaluate the safety data on ESA use in renal disease. On July 31, 2008, CMS issued a listing of potential topics for
future NCDs as a step to increase transparency in the NCD process and which included as potential topics the use of ESAs in ESRD and CKD. CMS has not announced whether it will proceed to a NCD for ESAs in ESRD or CKD and we cannot predict whether
ESAs in the renal setting will be the subject of a future NCD, however, any final NCD for ESAs in the renal setting, which may include non-coverage and/or new dosing and treatment restrictions similar to those proposed in the Decision Memorandum for
treatment of anemia in oncology with ESAs, would negatively affect use, reduce reimbursement and coverage, negatively affect product sales of our ESA products and may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.
      Reimbursement Outside the United States       Generally, in Europe and other countries outside the United States, the government-sponsored healthcare system has traditionally been the primary payor of healthcare costs of patients. Over the past several years, the reimbursement
environment in Europe has become very challenging, with the advent of Health Technology Assessment organizations (e.g., National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence ( NICE ) in the United Kingdom) that make determinations of
coverage and reimbursement based upon both the clinical value as well as cost-effectiveness of a product. With increased budgetary constraints, payors in many countries employ a variety of cost-containment measures that can include reference pricing
(i.e., setting the reimbursement rate for a given class of agents at the lowest price within the class), generic substitution and mandatory price cuts. In many countries, the influence of regional and hospital payors also contributes to the level of
product access that is afforded  
       
   21   

Table of Contents  

to patients. In the future, these trends are likely to continue. Additionally, we anticipate that many payors will request manufacturers to provide
alternative pricing mechanisms (e.g., payment caps) that facilitate greater predictability of payor budgets.         Research and
Development and Selected Product Candidates       Our vision is to deliver therapeutics that can make a meaningful difference in
patients  lives. Therefore, we focus our R D on novel human therapeutics for the treatment of grievous illness in the areas of oncology, inflammation, bone, metabolic disorders and neuroscience. We take a modality-independent approach to
R D   that is, we identify targets, and then choose the modality best suited to address a specific target. As such, our discovery research programs may yield targets that lead to the development of human therapeutics delivered as proteins,
including monoclonal antibodies and peptibodies, or small molecules.      To execute our clinical trial programs, we need to maintain an
effective development organization and associated R D support organizations. We conduct clinical trial activities with both our internal staff and third-party contract clinical trial service providers. In order to increase the number of patients
available for enrollment for our clinical trials, we have and will continue to open clinical sites and enroll patients in a number of geographic locations where we have more limited experience conducting clinical trials, including Russia, India,
East Asia and some Central and South American countries. ( See  Item 1A. Risk Factors   Before we commercialize and sell any of our product candidates or existing products for new indications, we must conduct clinical trials in humans;
if we fail to adequately manage these trials we may not be able to sell future products and our sales could be adversely affected.  )      We have major R D centers in several locations throughout the United States and in the United Kingdom, as well as smaller research centers in Canada and Germany, and smaller development facilities throughout Europe and in Canada,
Australia, Mexico, Hong Kong and India (see   Item 2. Properties  ). As part of our restructuring efforts, we have also moderated expansion of certain R D facilities throughout the United States, including abandoning leases for
certain R D facilities that will no longer be used in our operations.      In addition to product candidates and marketed products generated
from our internal R D efforts, we acquire companies, acquire and license certain product and technology rights and establish R D collaborations, which enhance our strategic position within our industry by strengthening and diversifying our
R D capabilities, product pipeline and marketed product base. (See Note 8,   Acquisitions   to the Consolidated Financial Statements and   Item 1A. Risk Factors   We may not be able to develop commercial
products.  )      Some of our competitors are actively engaged in R D in areas where we have products or where we are developing
product candidates or new indications for existing products. For example, we compete with other clinical trials for eligible patients, which may limit the number of available patients who meet the criteria for certain clinical trials. The
competitive marketplace for our product candidates is significantly dependent upon the timing of entry into the market. Early entry may have important advantages in gaining product acceptance, contributing to the product s eventual success and
profitability. Accordingly, we expect that in some cases, the relative speed with which we can develop products, complete clinical testing, receive regulatory approval and supply commercial quantities of the product to the market is expected to be
important to our competitive position.      Various public and privately owned companies, research organizations, academic institutions and
governmental agencies conduct a significant amount of R D in the biotechnology industry. We face competition in our collaborative arrangements and licensing or acquisition activities from other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that
also seek to license or acquire technologies, product candidates or marketed products from these entities. Accordingly, we may have difficulty entering into collaborative arrangements and licensing or acquiring technologies, product candidates and
marketed products on acceptable terms.         
   22   

Table of Contents  

   The following table is a selection of certain of our product candidates by phase of development in our
therapeutic areas of focus as of February 6, 2009. Additional product candidate (pipeline) information can be found on our website at (http://www.amgen.com). (This website address is not intended to function as a hyperlink, and the information
contained on our website is not intended to be a part of this filing.)       

Molecule    
      
     Disease/Condition    
      
     Therapeutic Area     
 
     Phase 3 Programs    

Cinacalcet   
      
    Cardiovascular disease in patients with secondary hyperparathyroidism and chronic kidney disease undergoing maintenance
dialysis   
      
  Nephrology   
 
    Darbepoetin alfa   
      
    Anemia in heart failure   
      
  Nephrology   
 
    Darbepoetin alfa   
      
    Patients with chronic kidney disease, anemia and type 2 diabetes   
      
  Nephrology   
 
    Denosumab   
      
    Postmenopausal osteoporosis   
      
  Bone   
 
    Denosumab   
      
    Cancer-related bone damage (skeletal-related events) from advanced malignancies in breast cancer, prostate cancer, and solid tumors including
multiple myeloma   
      
  Hematology/Oncology   
 
    Denosumab   
      
    Prevention of bone metastases in prostate cancer   
      
  Hematology/Oncology   
 
    Denosumab   
      
    Bone loss induced by hormone ablation therapy in breast cancer or prostate cancer   
      
  Hematology/Oncology   
 
    Motesanib   
      
    First-line non-small cell lung cancer   
      
  Hematology/Oncology   
 
    Panitumumab   
      
    First- and second-line colorectal cancer   
      
  Hematology/Oncology   
 
    Panitumumab   
      
    Metastatic and/or recurrant head and neck cancer   
      
  Hematology/Oncology   

Phase 2 Programs    

AMG 102   
      
    Various cancer types   
      
  Hematology/Oncology   
 
    AMG 108   
      
    Rheumatoid arthritis   
      
  Inflammation   
 
    AMG 222   
      
    Type 2 diabetes   
      
  General Medicine   
 
    AMG 223   
      
    Hyperphosphatemia   
      
  Nephrology   
 
    AMG 317   
      
    Asthma   
      
  Inflammation   
 
    AMG 386   
      
    Various cancer types   
      
  Hematology/Oncology   
 
    AMG 479   
      
    Various cancer types   
      
  Hematology/Oncology   
 
    AMG 655   
      
    Various cancer types   
      
  Hematology/Oncology   
 
    Denosumab   
      
    Rheumatoid arthritis   
      
  Inflammation   
 
    Motesanib   
      
    First-line breast cancer   
      
  Hematology/Oncology   
 
    Panitumumab   
      
    Locally advanced head and neck cancer   
      
  Hematology/Oncology   
 
    rhApo2L/TRAIL   
      
    Various cancer types   
      
  Hematology/Oncology   
 
    Romiplostim (1)    
      
    Chemotherapy-induced thrombocytopenia in non-small cell lung cancer and lymphoma   
      
  Hematology/Oncology   
 
    Romiplostim (1)    
      
    Myelodysplastic syndromes   
      
  Hematology/Oncology   

Phase 1 Programs    

AMG 191   
      
    Inflammatory diseases   
      
  Inflammation   
 
        AMG 208   
      
    Various cancer types   
      
  Hematology/Oncology   
 
    AMG 221   
      
    Type 2 diabetes   
      
  General Medicine   
 
    AMG 477   
      
    Type 2 diabetes   
      
  General Medicine   
 
    AMG 557   
      
    Systemic lupus erythematosus   
      
  Inflammation   
 
    AMG 745   
      
    Muscle wasting disorders   
      
  Hematology/Oncology   
 
    AMG 747   
      
    Neuroscience   
      
  General Medicine   
 
    AMG 761   
      
    Asthma   
      
  Inflammation   
 
    AMG 811   
      
    Systemic lupus erythematosus   
      
  Inflammation   
 
    AMG 827   
      
    Inflammatory diseases   
      
  Inflammation   
 
    AMG 853   
      
    Asthma   
      
  Inflammation   
 
    AMG 888   
      
    Various cancer types   
      
  Hematology/Oncology   
 
    Sclerostin Ab (AMG 785)   
      
    Bone-related conditions   
      
  Bone   

Phase 1   
    clinical trials investigate safety and proper dose ranges of a product candidate in a small number of human subjects.         

Phase 2   
  clinical trials investigate side effect profiles and efficacy of a product candidate in a large number of patients who have the disease or condition under study.

Phase 3   
  clinical trials investigate the safety and efficacy of a product candidate in a large number of patients who have the disease or condition under study.          
   23   

Table of Contents  

   The following text provides additional information about selected product candidates that are in human
clinical trials.       Denosumab       Denosumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody that specifically targets a ligand known as RANKL (that binds to a receptor known as RANK) which is a key mediator of osteoclast formation, function, and survival. Denosumab is being studied
across a range of conditions including osteoporosis, treatment-induced bone loss, bone metastases, multiple myeloma and RA.      The overall
denosumab program remains on track with all completed PMO and treatment-induced bone loss (prostate and breast cancer) phase 3 studies having met primary and key secondary endpoints. The following chart is an overview of the phase 3 clinical
development program for denosumab:       

Program Area     
      
     Indication     
      
   Enrollment Status    
      
     Project Data Availability     
 
    Osteoporosis      
      
    PMO Treatment (versus placebo)  
      
  Complete  
      
  Received   
 
    Osteoporosis      
      
    PMO Treatment (versus ALN)  
      
  Complete  
      
  Received   
 
    Osteoporosis      
      
    PMO Prevention  
      
  Complete  
      
  Received   
 
    Osteoporosis      
      
    PMO Transition (from ALN)  
      
  Complete  
      
  Received   
 
    Oncology      
      
    Treatment-Induced Bone Loss-Prostate Cancer  
      
  Complete  
      
  Received   
 
    Oncology      
      
  Treatment-Induced Bone Loss-Breast Cancer  
      
  Complete  
      
  Received   
 
    Oncology      
      
  Bone Metastates-Prostate Cancer  
      
  Complete  
      
  2010   (1)      
 
    Oncology      
      
  Skeletal-Related Events-Breast Cancer  
      
  Complete  
      
  3rd Quarter of 2009   (1)      
 
    Oncology      
      
  Skeletal-Related Events-Solid Tumors/multiple myeloma  
      
  Complete  
      
  4th Quarter of 2009   (1)      
 
    Oncology      
      
  Skeletal-Related Events-Prostate Cancer  
      
  Complete  
      
  2010   (1)      

(1)      
    Event-driven study and consequently data availability may vary as a result          Postmenopausal Osteoporosis Trials       In a three-year phase 3 pivotal study of approximately 7,800 women with PMO (Study 216), twice-yearly subcutaneous injections with denosumab resulted in a statistically significant reduction in the incidence of new vertebral fractures
compared with placebo treatment. In addition, women receiving denosumab experienced a statistically significant reduction in the incidence of new non-vertebral and hip fractures compared with those receiving placebo.      In a two-year pivotal phase 3 study of 332 postmenopausal women with low bone mass (osteopenia), treatment with denosumab increased BMD at all sites
measured compared with placebo.      In a one-year non-pivotal phase 3, head-to-head,
double-blind study in 1,189 postmenopausal women comparing the effects of denosumab versus weekly oral ALN (FOSAMAX     ), treatment with denosumab resulted in significantly greater BMD gains
at all sites measured compared with ALN.      In a one-year phase 3 head-to-head, double-blind study (Study 234) comparing the effects of
denosumab in 504 women with PMO transitioned from weekly oral ALN versus continued ALN therapy, treatment with denosumab resulted in significantly greater BMD gains at all sites measured compared with continued treatment with ALN.      In all four PMO studies, the incidence and types of adverse events were generally similar across the treatment groups. The most common adverse events
included back pain, arthralgia and nasopharyngitis.       Treatment-Induced Bone Loss Trials       In a pivotal phase 3 study of more than 1,400 men undergoing ADT for non-metastatic prostate cancer (Study 138), denosumab treatment produced
statistically significantly greater increases in BMD across the  
       
   24   

Table of Contents  

skeleton compared with placebo. During the 36-month evaluation period, men receiving denosumab experienced less than half the incidence of new vertebral
fractures compared with those receiving placebo, a statistically significant finding. Furthermore, in the denosumab arm there were fewer non-vertebral fractures over the 36-month period.      In the pivotal phase 3 trial of 252 women with non-metastatic breast cancer and low bone mass receiving AI therapy, patients experienced significant
increases in BMD across the skeleton when given denosumab once every six months irrespective of duration of AI therapy.      In both studies,
the incidence and types of adverse and serious adverse events observed generally were similar between the denosumab and placebo groups. The most common adverse events across the treatment arms included arthralgia, back pain, constipation, and pain
in extremity.      License applications for PMO and patients undergoing hormone ablation for either prostate or breast cancer were submitted
with the FDA in December 2008 and EMEA in January 2009.       Other Settings       Denosumab is also being studied in patients with breast cancer, prostate cancer, other solid tumors or multiple myeloma for treatment to prevent
skeletal-related events ( SRE ). The Company expects to review the complete data set for SREs in breast cancer and solid tumors in the second half of 2009. The phase 3 study evaluating denosumab in patients with non-metastatic prostate
cancer to prevent bone metastases is ongoing.       Vectibix      (panitumumab)       Panitumumab (Vectibix     ) is a fully-human monoclonal antibody antagonist of the EGFr pathway. It is being investigated as a cancer treatment.      In December 2008, we presented data to the ODAC regarding the utility of KRAS as a predictive
biomarker for Vectibix      monotherapy. We performed a biomarker analysis which indicated that in mCRC patients who have failed all other chemotherapeutic regimens, the efficacy of
Vectibix      monotherapy is confined to patients with non-mutated (wild-type) KRAS tumors. Specifically, patients with non-mutated KRAS tumors treated with Vectibix      monotherapy have shown a significantly prolonged PFS compared to best supportive care alone. Indeed, patients whose tumors contained KRAS mutations did not seem to benefit from Vectibix      treatment. As a result of our KRAS analyses, the statistical analysis plans of the phase 3 studies of Vectibix      in the treatment of first and second line
colorectal cancer, which were initiated in 2006, have been amended. These study changes are expected to allow the Company to assess the utility of Vectibix      in patients according to tumor
KRAS mutational status; data from these phase 3 studies are expected to be available in 2009.      In December 2007, we announced that the European Commission has granted a conditional marketing authorization for Vectibix      as monotherapy for the treatment of patients with EGFr
expressing metastatic colorectal carcinoma with non-mutated (wild-type) KRAS after failure of fluoropyrimidine-, oxaliplatin- and irinotecan-containing chemotherapy regimens. In December 2008, the European Committee for Medicinal Products for Human
Use ( CHMP ) adopted a positive opinion for the renewal of this conditional marketing authorization.      In May 2008, we presented
data from the phase 2 Panitumumab Regimen Evaluation in Colorectal Cancer to Estimate Primary Response to Treatment ( PRECEPT ) trial and phase 1 data evaluating panitumumab in head and neck cancer at the annual meeting of the American
Society of Clinical Oncology ( ASCO ) and in July 2008, we disclosed that the phase 2 Skin Toxicity Evaluation Protocol with Panitumumab ( STEPP ) study showed that preemptive treatment reduced the incidence rate of skin
toxicities without additional side effects. In 2007, we initiated a phase 3 study for the first-line treatment of metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck ( SCCHN ) as well as two randomized phase 2 studies in locally
advanced SCCHN testing panitumumab in combination with chemoradiotherapy or with radiotherapy alone. Panitumumab is also being investigated in combination with other investigational anti-cancer therapies.         
   25   

Table of Contents  

    Nplate      (romiplostim)       Romiplostim (Nplate     ) is a peptibody agonist of the thrombopoietin ( TPO ) receptor.      Nplate        is the first
FDA-approved agent that acts directly to increase platelet production for the treatment of thrombocytopenia in splenectomized (spleen removed) and non-splenectomized adults with chronic ITP, who have had an insufficient response to corticosteroids,
immunoglobulins or splenectomy.      In August 2008, Nplate      became the first FDA-approved peptibody protein, which works by raising and sustaining platelet counts representing a novel approach for the treatment of this chronic disease.      We are also evaluating romiplostim in pediatric ITP, myelodysplastic syndromes ( MDS ), and chemotherapy-induced thrombocytopenia
( CIT ). Phase 2 studies in each setting were initiated in 2006. The trials are currently ongoing and we continue to evaluate the safety and efficacy of romiplostim in these settings.       Sensipar      (cinacalcet)
      Cinacalcet (Sensipar     /Mimpara     ) is an orally-administered small molecule that lowers parathyroid hormone ( PTH ) levels in blood by signaling through the
calcium-sensing receptor ( CaR ) in parathyroid tissue to inhibit PTH secretion. It also lowers blood calcium and phosphorous levels.      The phase 3 EVOLVE (EValuation Of Cinacalcet Therapy to Lower CardioVascular Events) trial,
initiated in 2006, is a large (3,800 patient), multi-center, international, randomized, double-blind study to assess the effects of Sensipar      on mortality and cardiovascular morbidity in
patients with CKD undergoing maintenance dialysis. The EVOLVE study completed enrollment in January 2008.       Aranesp      (darbepoetin alfa)       Darbepoetin alfa (Aranesp     ) is a
recombinant protein agonist of the erythropoietic receptor.      The Reduction of Events with Darbepoetin alfa in Heart Failure
( RED-HF  ) Trial phase 3 study, initiated in 2006, is a large (2,600 patient), global, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study to evaluate the effect of treatment of anemia with darbepoetin alfa on morbidity and mortality
in patients with symptomatic left ventricular heart failure. The RED-HF  Trial continues to enroll patients.      The Trial to Reduce Cardiovascular Events with Aranesp      Therapy ( TREAT ) phase 3 study, initiated in 2004, is a large (4,000 patient),
multi-center, randomized, double-blind, controlled trial designed to determine the impact of anemia therapy with darbepoetin alfa on mortality and non-fatal cardiovascular events in patients with CKD, anemia and type 2 diabetes. In December 2007,
the TREAT study completed enrollment. In November 2008, we disclosed that the independent Data Safety Monitoring Committee ( DSMC ) completed a pre-specified, unblinded review of the data at a point where 80% of the targeted number of
fully adjudicated events had been recorded and recommended that the study continue without modification.       AMG 102       AMG 102 is a fully human monoclonal antibody that blocks the action of hepatocyte growth factor/scatter factor ( HGF/SF ). It is being
investigated as a cancer treatment.      Phase 2 studies of single agent AMG 102 initiated in 2006 for renal cell carcinoma ( RCC )
and glioblastoma multiforme ( GBM ) are ongoing. An interim analysis of the GBM study was presented at ASCO 2008 in which AMG 102 was administered as a single agent to 40 patients with recurrent GBM to assess its safety and efficacy. We
expect the final results from the phase 2 studies in RCC and GBM to be available in the first half of 2009. In 2008, data were presented at ASCO from a separate trial in which AMG 102 was combined with bevacizumab or motesanib. We also initiated in
2008, four separate phase 2 studies for the treatment of gastric, prostate, colorectal and small cell lung cancer.       AMG 108
      AMG 108 is a fully human monoclonal antibody that targets inhibition of the action of interleukin-1 ( IL-1 ).         
   26   

Table of Contents  

   In April 2008, we discussed results from the phase 2 study in RA. AMG 108 appeared to be well tolerated
and showed a statistically significant improvement in the signs and symptoms of RA. However, the efficacy profile based on the results of this study was not comparable to the current standard of care for biologic therapies. Amgen is evaluating other
options for the overall development program.       AMG 222       AMG 222 is an orally-administered small molecule antagonist of DPP-IV. It is being investigated as a treatment of type 2 diabetes. AMG 222 is being developed in partnership with Servier.      A phase 2a study is ongoing in this disease setting in collaboration with Servier. We expect the results from the phase 2a study to be available in the
first half of 2009.       AMG 223       AMG 223 is an orally-administered polymer which binds phosphate. It is being investigated as a treatment of hyperphosphatemia in CKD patients on hemodialysis.      The results for AMG 223 from its recently completed phase 1 study in normal healthy subjects and phase 2 study in subjects with CKD on hemodialysis with hyperphosphatemia have been obtained. AMG 223 appeared to be
well tolerated and showed a statistically significant reduction in serum phosphorus compared with placebo. While these results were consistent with what is required for registration of a phosphate-binding therapy, in the context of our overall
development portfolio, the Company will be reviewing other options for the commercialization of this investigational product.       AMG 317
      AMG 317 is a fully human monoclonal antibody that is under investigation for its ability to block the actions of interleukin-4
( IL-4 ) and interleukin-13 ( IL-13 ), cytokines that may play a role in asthma.      In 2008, a phase 2 dose ranging study
in moderate to severe asthma was completed. An interim analysis showed evidence of biological activity; however, the overall clinical efficacy did not meet expectations. Complete study results will be presented in a peer-reviewed forum in 2009.
      AMG 386       AMG 386 is a
peptibody that binds to and inhibits angiopoietin 1 and 2. It is being investigated as a cancer treatment.      In 2007, we initiated four phase
2 studies of AMG 386 for the treatment of RCC, metastatic breast cancer, ovarian cancer and gastric cancer. We expect the results from the phase 2 gastric study to be available in the second half of 2009.       AMG 479       AMG 479 is a fully human
monoclonal antibody antagonist of IGF-1 receptor. It is being investigated as a cancer treatment.      In 2007, we initiated a phase 2 study of
AMG 479 as a potential cancer therapeutic in Ewing s Sarcoma. We also initiated in 2008, phase 2 studies for the treatment of advanced breast, pancreatic, colorectal and small cell lung cancers.       AMG 655       AMG 655 is a fully human
monoclonal antibody agonist that targets death receptor 5 ( DR5 ) and induces apoptosis in sensitive tumor cells. It is being investigated as a cancer treatment.      Phase 2 studies in pancreatic cancer, NSCLC, colorectal cancer ( CRC ) and soft tissue sarcoma are ongoing. We expect the results from the phase 2 NSCLC and soft tissue sarcoma studies to be available in the
second half of 2009.         
   27   

Table of Contents  

    Motesanib       Motesanib is an orally-administered small molecule antagonist of vascular endothelial growth factor receptors 1, 2 and 3 ( VEGFR1-3 ), platelet-derived growth factor receptor ( PDGFR ) and stem
cell factor receptor ( c-kit ). It is being investigated as a cancer treatment. We are developing this product in collaboration with Takeda.      In 2008, we completed enrollment in phase 2 studies of motesanib versus bevacizumab in the treatment of metastatic breast cancer and NSCLC and we expect the results from these studies to be available in the first half
of 2009.      In November 2008, Amgen and Millennium: The Takeda Oncology Company, a subsidiary of Takeda announced that enrollment in the phase
3 MONET1 trial evaluating motesanib in combination with paclitaxel and carboplatin for the first-line treatment of advanced NSCLC has been temporarily suspended following a planned safety data review of 600 patients by the study s independent
Data Monitoring Committee ( DMC ). The study s DMC also recommended that patients with squamous NSCLC immediately discontinue motesanib therapy but did not recommend discontinuation of motesanib therapy for patients with non-squamous
NSCLC. In February 2009, the DMC recommended the trial resume enrollment of patients with non-squamous NSCLC. Amgen, Millennium and Takeda plan to follow this recommendation, which will require modifications to the trial s study design.
Enrollment is expected to resume once these changes are sanctioned by appropriate global health authorities.       rhApo2L/TRAIL
      rhApo2L/TRAIL is a recombinant human protein that targets death receptors 4 and 5 ( DR4 and DR5 ) and induces apoptosis in
sensitive tumor cells. It is being investigated as a cancer treatment. We are developing this product in collaboration with Genentech.      Phase 2 studies in NSCLC and NHL are ongoing. We expect the results to be available in the second half of 2009.         Manufacturing, Distribution and Raw Materials        Manufacturing       Our manufacturing operations consist of bulk manufacturing, formulation, fill and finish and
distribution activities for Aranesp     , Epoetin alfa, Neulasta     , NEUPOGEN    
 , ENBREL, Vectibix     , Nplate     , denosumab and other products and product candidates for both commercial and clinical
purposes. Bulk manufacturing includes fermentation and cell culture, which are the processes in which our proteins are produced. The proteins are purified to a high quality and then formulated into a stable form. The fill process dispenses the
formulated bulk protein into the vials or syringes. Finally, in the finish process, our products are packaged for distribution. We operate commercial and clinical manufacturing facilities in several locations throughout the United States, Puerto
Rico and the Netherlands (see   Item 2. Properties  ). Manufacturing of Sensipar     , our small molecule product, is performed entirely by third-party contractors.   
  We actively manage our inventory produced at our manufacturing facilities and supply produced by our third-party contract manufacturers. We expect to
continue to use third-party contract manufacturers to produce or assist in the production of certain of our existing products and a number of our clinical product candidates.      (See   Item 1A. Risk Factors   We must continue to build the framework for our future growth, and if we fail to execute on our initiatives our
business could be adversely affected.  )      In general, we have obtained licenses from various parties that we deem to be necessary or
desirable for the manufacture of our products. These licenses generally require us to pay royalties to the parties on product sales.         
   28   

Table of Contents  

    Commercial Bulk Manufacturing       We operate commercial bulk manufacturing facilities in Puerto Rico and in several locations throughout the United States (see   Item 2.
Properties  ). Other than for ENBREL, we perform all of the commercial bulk manufacturing for our proteins.      In addition to
commercial quantities of bulk ENBREL produced at our Rhode Island facility, we and Wyeth also have a contract manufacturing agreement with Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma KG ( BI Pharma ) for the production of additional supply of ENBREL. We
also have a global supply agreement with Wyeth related to the manufacture, supply and allocation of bulk supplies of ENBREL. Under this agreement, we and Wyeth share the total worldwide bulk supply of ENBREL produced by our Rhode Island
manufacturing facility, BI Pharma s manufacturing facility in Germany and Wyeth s manufacturing facility in Ireland.      Our supply
of ENBREL is significantly dependent on product manufactured by BI Pharma, and, accordingly, we have made significant purchase commitments to BI Pharma. Under our supply agreements, BI Pharma has reserved a specified level of production capacity for
ENBREL and we are committed to using at least that level of capacity. We are required to submit a rolling three-year forecast for manufacturing the bulk drug for ENBREL and a rolling forecast for a shorter period for the number of finished vials of
ENBREL. We would be responsible for substantial payments to BI Pharma if we were not to use the minimum production capacity that BI Pharma has reserved for ENBREL each calendar year or if the BI Pharma supply agreement is terminated prematurely
under specified conditions. (See Note 9,   Commitments   to the Consolidated Financial Statements.)      In addition to producing
our own commercial quantities of Epoetin alfa, we also supply Epoetin alfa in the United States to J J under a supply agreement (see   Joint Ventures and Business Relationships   Johnson   Johnson  ).       Commercial Formulation, Fill and Finish Manufacturing       Our primary commercial formulation, fill and finish manufacturing facility is located in Puerto
Rico. In addition, we operate a commercial formulation, fill and finish manufacturing facility in California for Vectibix      and conduct certain finish activities in the Netherlands (see
  Item 2. Properties  ). Other than for ENBREL and Nplate     , we perform substantially all of the commercial formulation, fill and finish activities for our proteins in Puerto
Rico. In addition to the formulation, fill and finish of ENBREL performed by us in Puerto Rico or by BI Pharma for the ENBREL they manufacture and supply to us, fill and finish of a certain portion of ENBREL is also performed by other third-party
contract manufacturers (see   Item 1A. Risk Factors   We manufacture and formulate, fill and finish substantially all our products at our Puerto Rico manufacturing facility; if significant natural disasters or production failures occur
at this facility, we may not be able to supply these products  ).       Clinical Manufacturing       Clinical bulk manufacturing, formulation, fill and finish manufacturing facilities are operated in several locations throughout the United States and in
Puerto Rico (see   Item 2. Properties  ). Certain finishing activities for our clinical products are performed in the Netherlands. In addition, we also utilize third-party contract manufacturers to perform manufacturing activities for
certain of our clinical products.       Distribution       We operate distribution centers in Kentucky, California and the Netherlands for worldwide distribution of the majority of our commercial and clinical products. In addition, we also use third party distributors to supplement distribution of
our commercial and clinical products in certain areas of the world.       Other       In addition to the manufacturing and distribution activities noted above, our operations in the United States and Puerto Rico perform key manufacturing
support functions, including quality control, process development, procurement, distribution and production scheduling. Our global supply of our principal products is significantly dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient operation of our
manufacturing facilities.         
   29   

Table of Contents  

    Manufacturing Initiatives       We have a number of key ongoing initiatives to assist in meeting our future manufacturing needs. In order to maintain supply, mitigate risks associated with the majority of our formulation, fill and finish operations
being performed in a single facility and to adequately prepare to launch a number of our late-stage product candidates, in particular denosumab, we must successfully implement a number of manufacturing projects on schedule, operate our facilities at
appropriate production capacity over the next few years, optimize manufacturing asset utilization, continue our use of third-party contract manufacturers and maintain a state of regulatory compliance. Key manufacturing projects include:
(i) construction, qualification and licensure of a new formulation and filling facility at our Puerto Rico site and (ii) expansion and the related qualification and licensure of our existing bulk protein facilities at our Puerto Rico site
for the production of our late-stage product candidate, denosumab.   (See   Item 1A. Risk Factors   Difficulties, disruptions or delays in manufacturing or failure to comply with manufacturing regulations may limit supply of our
products and limit our product sales; timing of supply may also be affected by operation of our distribution and logistics centers and providers.    )       Raw Materials and Medical Devices       Certain raw materials, medical devices and components needed for manufacturing are
proprietary products provided by single-source third-party suppliers. Certain of these raw materials, medical devices and components are cited in our drug application with regulatory agencies so that they must be obtained from the specified sole
source. We currently attempt to manage the risk associated with such sole-sourced suppliers by inventory management, relationship management and evaluating alternate sources when feasible. We also monitor the financial condition of certain
suppliers, their ability to supply our needs and the market conditions for these items.      Also, certain raw materials required for commercial
and clinical manufacturing of our products are derived from biological sources, including mammalian tissues, bovine serum and human serum albumin ( HSA ). Some of our manufacturing processes currently use biological sources and we continue
to investigate alternatives to biological sources and alternative manufacturing processes that do not require the use of biologically-sourced raw materials as such raw materials may be subject to contamination and/or recall. Also, certain countries
in which we market our products may restrict the use of biologically derived substances in the manufacture of drugs. A material shortage, contamination, recall and/or restriction of the use of biologically derived substances in the manufacture of
our products could disrupt our commercial manufacturing of products, or could result in a mandated withdrawal of products from the market. (See   Item 1A. Risk Factors   We rely on single third-party suppliers for some of our raw
materials, medical devices and components; if these third-parties fail to supply these items, we may be unable to supply our products.  )      We perform various procedures to assist in authenticating the source of raw materials, including intermediary materials used in the manufacture of our products, which include verification of the country of origin. These procedures are
incorporated into the manufacturing processes performed by us and our third-party contract manufacturers.         Joint Ventures and
Business Relationships       From time to time, we may enter into joint ventures and other business relationships to provide additional
development, manufacturing and marketing capabilities. In addition to our internal R D efforts, we have acquired certain product rights and have established R D collaborations to enhance our R D capabilities and internally developed
product pipeline. Our R D collaborations generally provide for non-refundable, upfront license fees, R D and commercial performance milestone payments, cost sharing, royalty payments and/or profit sharing. Additionally, these collaborations
may include manufacturing and co-promotion arrangements. Our collaboration agreements with third parties are performed on a  best efforts  basis with no guarantee of either technological or commercial success.      Trade secret protection for our unpatented confidential and proprietary information is important to us. To protect our trade secrets, we generally require
parties to collaboration and licensing agreements to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of the collaboration or licensing arrangement with us. However, others could either develop independently the same or similar information
or obtain access to our information.         
   30   

Table of Contents  

    Kirin Holdings Company, Limited       We formed KA, a 50-50 joint venture with Kirin in 1984. KA develops and commercializes certain of
our and Kirin s product rights, which have been transferred to this joint venture. KA has given exclusive licenses to us to manufacture and market: (i) darbepoetin alfa in the United States, Europe, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Mexico,
all Central and South American countries and certain countries in Central Asia, North Africa and the Middle East, (ii) pegfilgrastim and G-CSF in the United States, Europe, Canada, Australia and New Zealand, (iii) recombinant human
erythropoietin in the United States and (iv) romiplostim in the United States, Europe, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Mexico, all Central and South American countries and certain African and Middle East countries. We currently market
darbepoetin alfa, pegfilgrastim, G-CSF, recombinant human erythropoietin and romiplostim under the brand names Aranesp     , Neulasta     , NEUPOGEN     /GRANULOKINE     , EPOGEN      and
Nplate     , respectively.      KA has also given exclusive licenses to Kirin to manufacture and market: (i) darbepoetin alfa and romiplostim in Japan, the People s Republic of China ( China ), Taiwan, Korea and certain other countries in Asia,
(ii) pegfilgrastim and G-CSF in Japan, Taiwan and Korea and (iii) recombinant human erythropoietin in Japan. Kirin markets darbepoetin alfa in Japan under the brand name NESP     .
Kirin markets G-CSF and recombinant human erythropoietin in China under a separate agreement with KA. Kirin markets its G-CSF product in its respective territories under the trademark GRAN     . Kirin markets its recombinant human erythropoietin product in Japan under the trademark ESPO     .      KA has licensed to J J rights to recombinant human erythropoietin in all geographic areas of the world outside the United States, China and Japan (see
    Johnson   Johnson  ). Under its agreement with KA, J J pays a royalty to KA based on sales. KA has also licensed to Roche rights to pegfilgrastim and G-CSF in certain geographic areas of the world.      In connection with our various license agreements with KA, we pay KA royalties based on product sales. In addition, we also receive payment from KA for
conducting certain R D activities on its behalf (see Note 4,   Related party transactions   to the Consolidated Financial Statements).       Johnson   Johnson       We granted J J
a license to commercialize recombinant human erythropoietin as a human therapeutic in the United States in all markets other than dialysis. All recombinant human erythropoietin sold by J J in the United States is manufactured by us and sold by
J J under the trademark PROCRIT      (Epoetin alfa). PROCRIT      brand Epoetin alfa is identical to EPOGEN      brand Epoetin alfa, which is manufactured and sold by us in the U.S. dialysis market. Pursuant to the license agreement with J J, we earn a 10% royalty on net sales of PROCRIT      by J J in the United States.      Outside the United States, with the exception of China and Japan, J J was granted rights to manufacture and commercialize recombinant human erythropoietin as a human therapeutic for all uses under a licensing agreement with KA. With
respect to its sales outside of the United States, J J manufactures and commercializes its own brand of Epoetin alfa which is then sold by J J under various trademarks such as EPREX      and ERYPO     . We are not involved in the manufacture of Epoetin alfa sold by J J outside of the United States.       Wyeth       Amgen and Wyeth market and
sell ENBREL under a co-promotion agreement in the United States and Canada for all approved indications. The rights to market ENBREL outside of the United States and Canada are reserved to Wyeth. Under the co-promotion agreement, a management
committee comprised of equal representation from Wyeth and Amgen is responsible for overseeing the marketing and sales of ENBREL, including strategic planning, the approval of an annual marketing plan, product pricing and the establishment of a
brand team. The brand team, with equal representation from each party, prepares and implements the annual marketing plan, which requires a minimum level of financial and sales personnel commitment from each party, and is  
       
   31   

Table of Contents  

responsible for all sales activities. Further, pursuant to the co-promotion agreement, Wyeth and Amgen each pay a defined percentage of all selling and
marketing expenses approved by the management committee. In addition, we pay Wyeth a percentage of the annual gross profits on our ENBREL sales, which reflect the sharing of manufacturing costs in the United States and Canada attributable to all
approved indications for ENBREL on a scale that increases as gross profits increase; however, we maintain a majority share of ENBREL profits. Under the co-promotion agreement, Wyeth is required to reimburse Amgen for: (i) certain clinical and
regulatory expenses we incur in connection with the filing and approval of any new indications for ENBREL in the United States and Canada, (ii) certain specified patent expenses related to ENBREL and (iii) certain costs, expenses and
liabilities associated with the manufacture, use or sale of ENBREL in the United States and Canada.      We also have a global supply agreement
with Wyeth related to the manufacture, supply and allocation of bulk supplies of ENBREL. Under this agreement, we and Wyeth share the total worldwide bulk supply of ENBREL produced by our Rhode Island manufacturing facility, BI Pharma s
manufacturing facility in Germany and Wyeth s manufacturing facility in Ireland.      Our agreements with Wyeth do not include a change of
control provision.       Fresenius Medical Care North America, Inc.       In October 2006, we entered into a five-year sole sourcing and supply agreement with an affiliate of Fresenius Medical Care North America, Inc.
( Fresenius ), on its behalf and on behalf of certain of its affiliates, whereby they have agreed to purchase, and we have agreed to supply, all of Fresenius  commercial requirements for ESAs for use in managing the anemia of its
hemodialysis patients in the United States and Puerto Rico, based on forecasts provided by Fresenius and subject to the terms and conditions of the agreement.       Daiichi Sankyo Company, Limited       In July 2007, we entered into a collaboration and license agreement
with Daiichi Sankyo Company, Limited ( Daiichi Sankyo ), which provided them the exclusive rights to develop and commercialize denosumab in Japan in PMO and oncology with the potential for additional indications. As part of the agreement,
Amgen received exclusive worldwide rights to certain Daiichi Sankyo intellectual property to the extent applicable to denosumab.       Takeda
Pharmaceutical Company Limited       In February 2008, we entered into a license
agreement with Takeda, which provided them the exclusive rights to develop and commercialize for the Japanese market up to 12 clinical stage molecules from our pipeline across a range of therapeutic areas, including oncology and inflammation. The
molecules covered by the license agreement primarily include: AMG 108, AMG 317, AMG 386, AMG 479, AMG 655 and Vectibix     . We have the right to participate in the promotion of these products
in Japan. In addition, we entered into a collaboration agreement with Takeda for the worldwide development and commercialization of motesanib (AMG 706). Each party has the right to participate in the commercialization of motesanib in the other
party s territory. In connection with these agreements, Takeda acquired our subsidiary in Japan, Amgen K.K.         Government
Regulation       Regulation by governmental authorities in the United States and other countries is a significant factor in the production
and marketing of our products and our ongoing R D activities.      In order to clinically test, manufacture and market products for
therapeutic use, we must satisfy mandatory procedures and safety and effectiveness standards established by various regulatory bodies. In the United States, the Public Health Service Act, the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act ( FDCA )
and the FDAAA, as amended, and the regulations promulgated thereunder, and other federal and state statutes and regulations govern, among other things, the raw materials and components used in the production of, research, development, testing,
manufacture, quality control, labeling, storage, record keeping, approval, advertising and promotion, and distribution of our products on a product-by-product basis. The failure to comply with the applicable regulatory  
       
   32   

Table of Contents  

requirements may subject a company to a variety of administrative and/or judicially imposed sanctions. These sanctions could include the FDA s refusal
to approve pending applications, withdrawals of approvals, delay or suspension of clinical trials, warning letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of our operations, injunctions, fines, civil penalties and/or criminal
prosecution.       Clinical Development.  Product development and approval within this regulatory framework takes a number of years and
involves our expenditure of substantial resources, and any approval we obtain remains costly for us to maintain (see   Item 1A. Risk Factors   Our current products and products in development cannot be sold if we do not gain or maintain
regulatory approval of our products and we may be required to perform additional clinical trials or change the labeling of our products or conduct other potentially limiting or costly risk management activities if we or others identify side effects
or safety concerns after our products are on the market. ,    Before we commercialize and sell any of our product candidates or existing products for new indications, we must conduct clinical trials in humans; if we fail to adequately
manage these trials we may not be able to sell future products and our sales could be adversely affected. ,    We may not be able to develop commercial products.   and     If our intellectual property positions are
challenged, invalidated, circumvented or expire, or if we fail to prevail in present and future intellectual property litigation, our business could be adversely affected. ).  After laboratory analysis and preclinical testing in animals, we
file an investigational new drug ( IND ) application with the FDA to begin human testing. The IND application automatically becomes effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless the FDA raises concerns or questions. In such a case,
the IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns before the clinical trial can begin.      Typically, we undertake a
three-phase human clinical testing program. In phase 1, we conduct small clinical trials to investigate the safety and proper dose ranges of our product candidates in a small number of human subjects. In phase 2, we conduct clinical trials to
investigate side effect profiles and efficacy of our product candidates in a larger number of patients who have the disease or condition under study. In phase 3, we conduct clinical trials to investigate the safety and efficacy of our product
candidates in a large number of patients who have the disease or condition under study. The time and expense required for us to perform this clinical testing is substantial and may vary by product. For example, denosumab, one of our late-stage
product candidates, requires large trials that require substantial time and resources to recruit patients and significant expense to execute. Historically, our products have required smaller, shorter trials. Foreign studies performed under an IND
must meet the same requirements that apply to U.S. studies. The FDA will accept a foreign clinical study not conducted under an IND only if the study is well-designed, well-conducted, performed by qualified investigators, and conforms to the ethical
principles contained in the Declaration of Helsinki (as embodied in FDA regulations) and applicable laws and regulations of the country in which the research was conducted. Phase 1, 2 and 3 testing may not be completed successfully within any
specified time period, if at all. (See   Item 1A. Risk Factors   We may not be able to develop commercial products.  ) The FDA monitors the progress of each trial conducted under an IND and may, at its discretion, reevaluate,
alter, suspend, or terminate the testing based upon the data accumulated to that point and the FDA s risk/benefit assessment with regard to the patients enrolled in the trial. (See   Item 1A. Risk Factors   Before we commercialize
and sell any of our product candidates or existing products for new indications, we must conduct clinical trials in humans; if we fail to adequately manage these trials we may not be able to sell future products and our sales could be adversely
affected.  )       Applications . The results of preclinical and clinical trials are submitted to the FDA in the form of a BLA for
biologic products subject to the Public Health Service Act or a new drug application ( NDA ) for drugs subject to the approval provisions of the FDCA. The submission of the application is no guarantee that the FDA will find it complete and
accept it for filing. If an application is accepted for filing, following the FDA s review, the FDA may grant marketing approval, request additional information, or deny the application if it determines that the application does not provide an
adequate basis for approval. As a condition of approval, the FDA may require postmarketing clinical trials or other studies to confirm the product s safety and efficacy for its intended use. We cannot take any action to market any new drug or
biologic product in the United States until our appropriate marketing application has been approved by the FDA.       Post-approval Phase.
 Under the FDAAA, if the FDA becomes aware of new safety information after approval of a product, they may require us to conduct further clinical trials to assess a known or potential serious  
       
   33   

Table of Contents  

risk. If required to conduct a post-approval study, periodic status reports must be submitted to the FDA. Failure to conduct such post-approval studies in a
timely manner may result in substantial civil or criminal penalties.      The FDAAA also gave the FDA authority to require companies to
implement a REMS for a product to ensure that the benefits of the drug outweigh the risks. The FDA may require the submission of a REMS before a product is approved, or after approval based on new safety information, including new analyses of
existing safety information. A REMS may include a medication guide, patient package insert, a plan for communication with healthcare providers, or other elements as the FDA deems are necessary to assure safe use of the product, which could include
imposing certain restrictions on distribution or use of a product. A REMS must include a timetable for submission of assessments of the strategy at specified time intervals. Failure to comply with a REMS, including the submission of a required
assessment or any modification to a REMS, may result in substantial civil or criminal penalties.      Adverse events that are reported after
marketing approval also can result in additional limitations being placed on a product s use and, potentially, withdrawal of the product from the market. The FDA has authority to mandate labeling changes to products at any point in a
product s lifecycle based on new safety information. (See   Item 1A. Risk Factors   Recent labeling changes or risk mitigation activities required by regulatory authorities, as well as the results or meta-analyses of clinical
trials, may adversely impact the use, sales and reimbursement of our ESAs.  ) Failure to implement FDA-mandated changes may result in civil or criminal penalties. (See   Item 1A. Risk Factors   Our current products and products
in development cannot be sold if we do not gain or maintain regulatory approval of our products and we may be required to perform additional clinical trials or change the labeling of our products or conduct other potentially limiting or costly risk
management activities if we or others identify side effects or safety concerns after our products are on the market.  )       FDA
Regulation of Product Marketing and Promotion . The FDA closely reviews and regulates the marketing and promotion of products. We are required to gain FDA approval before marketing or promoting a product as a treatment for a particular
indication. Our product advertising and promotion for approved product indications must comply with the statutory standards of the FDCA, and the FDA s implementing regulations and standards. The FDA s review of marketing and promotional
activities encompasses, but is not limited to, direct-to-consumer advertising, healthcare provider-directed advertising and promotion, sales representative communications to healthcare professionals, promotional programming and promotional
activities involving the Internet. The FDA also reviews industry-sponsored scientific and educational activities. The FDA may take enforcement action against a company for promoting unapproved uses of a product ( off-label promotion ) or
for other violations of its advertising and labeling laws and regulations. Enforcement action may include product seizures, injunctions, civil or criminal penalties or regulatory letters, which may require corrective advertising or other corrective
communications to healthcare professionals. Failure to comply with the FDA regulations also can result in adverse publicity or increased scrutiny of company activities by Congress or other legislators.       FDA Regulation of Manufacturing Standards . The FDA regulates and inspects equipment, facilities, laboratories and processes used in the
manufacturing and testing of products prior to providing approval to market a product. If after receiving clearance from the FDA, we make a material change in manufacturing equipment, location or process, additional regulatory review may be
required. We also must adhere to current Good Manufacturing Practice ( GMP ) regulations and product-specific regulations enforced by the FDA through its facilities inspection program. The FDA also conducts regular, periodic visits to
re-inspect our equipment, facilities, laboratories and processes following an initial approval. If, as a result of these inspections, the FDA determines that our equipment, facilities, laboratories or processes do not comply with applicable FDA
regulations and conditions of product approval, the FDA may seek civil, criminal or administrative sanctions and/or remedies against us, including the suspension of our manufacturing operations.       Approval and Post-Approval Regulation Ex-US.  In the EU countries, Switzerland, Canada and Australia, regulatory requirements and approval processes
are similar in principle to those in the United States. Additionally, depending on the type of drug for which approval is sought, there are currently two potential tracks for marketing approval in the EU, including a centralized procedure. The
specific requirements of each track differ depending upon the type of drug being reviewed. In the centralized procedure, a company submits a single  
       
   34   

Table of Contents  

marketing authorization application to the EMEA who conducts a thorough evaluation, drawing from its scientific resources across Europe. If the drug product
is proven to fulfill the requirements for quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP adopts a positive opinion, which is transmitted to the European Commission for final approval of the marketing authorization. While the Commission generally follows the
CHMP s opinion, it is not bound to do so. Although not all medicines have to undergo the centralized procedure, it is required of products derived from biotechnology. After evaluation and marketing authorization, various parties, including the
national competent authorities, the EMEA, the European Commission and the marketing authorization holders share responsibilities for the detection, assessment and prevention of adverse effects and other medicine-related problems in a process known
as pharmacovigilance. Healthcare professionals and patients are also encouraged to report adverse effects and other medicine-related problems. This process includes the collection of adverse drug reaction reports as part of the follow-up on any side
effects of a product, and upon assessment, the authorities can decide to demand that the product labels be updated with safety data or warnings, that safety data or warnings be provided to healthcare professionals, or recommend the temporary
suspension or complete withdrawal of a product from the market.       Other . We are also subject to various federal and state laws, as
well as foreign laws, pertaining to healthcare  fraud and abuse,  including anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. Anti-kickback laws make it illegal to solicit, offer, receive or pay any remuneration in exchange for, or to induce, the
referral of business, including the purchase or prescription of a particular drug that is reimbursed by a state or federal program. The federal government has published regulations that identify  safe harbors  or exemptions for certain
arrangements that do not violate the anti-kickback statute. We seek to comply with the safe harbors wherever possible. Due to the breadth of the statutory provisions and the absence of guidance in the form of regulations or court decisions
addressing some of our practices, it is possible that our practices might be challenged under anti-kickback or similar laws. False claims laws prohibit anyone from knowingly and willingly presenting, or causing to be presented for payment to
third-party payors (including Medicare and Medicaid), claims for reimbursed drugs or services that are false or fraudulent, claims for items or services not provided as claimed or claims for medically unnecessary items or services. Our activities
relating to the sale and marketing of our products may be subject to scrutiny under these laws. Violations of fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties, as well as the
possibility of exclusion from federal healthcare programs (including Medicare and Medicaid). If the government were to allege against or convict us of violating these laws, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, including our
stock price. Our activities could be subject to challenge for the reasons discussed above and due to the broad scope of these laws and the increasing attention being given to them by law enforcement authorities.      Since 1991, we have participated in the Medicaid rebate program established in Section 1927 of the Social Security Act by the Omnibus Budget
Reconciliation Act of 1990 and subsequent amendments of that law. Related to our participation in this program is a requirement that we extend comparable discounts under the Public Health Service ( PHS ) pharmaceutical pricing program.
Under the Medicaid rebate program, we pay a rebate for each unit of our product reimbursed by Medicaid. The amount of the rebate for each of our products is set by law as a minimum 15.1% of the Average Manufacturer Price ( AMP ) of that
product, or if it is greater, the difference between AMP and the best price available from us to any non-exempt customer. The rebate amount also includes an inflation adjustment if AMP increases faster than inflation. The PHS pricing program
requires that we extend discounts comparable to the Medicaid rebate to a variety of community health clinics and other entities that receive health services grants from the PHS, as well as hospitals that serve a disproportionate share of Medicare
and Medicaid beneficiaries. The rebate amount is determined for each quarter based on our reports of the quarter s AMP and best price for each of our products to the CMS. The terms of our participation in the program impose an obligation to
correct the prices reported in previous quarters, as may be necessary. Any such corrections could result in an overage or underage in our rebate liability for past quarters, depending on the direction of the correction. In addition to retroactive
rebates, if we were found to have knowingly submitted false information to the government, in addition to other penalties available to the government, the statute provides for civil monetary penalties in the amount of $100,000 per item of false
information. Under the Medicare program our products are reimbursed under a Medicare Part B payment methodology that reimburses each product at a specified percentage of its ASP (sometimes referred to as  ASP+6% ). ASP is calculated by the
manufacturer  
       
   35   

Table of Contents  

based on a statutorily defined formula and submitted to CMS and similar civil monetary penalties apply for knowingly submitting false information. (See
  Item 1A. Risk Factors   Our sales depend on coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors, and to the extent access to and reimbursement for our products is reduced, this could negatively impact the utilization of our
products.  )      We also make our products available to authorized users of the Federal Supply Schedule ( FSS ) of the
General Services Administration. Since 1993, as a result of the Veterans Health Care Act of 1992 (the  VHC Act ), federal law has required that we offer deeply discounted FSS contract pricing for purchases by the Department of Veterans
Affairs, the Department of Defense, the Coast Guard and the PHS (including the Indian Health Service) in order for federal funding to be available for reimbursement of our products under the Medicaid program or purchase of our products by these four
federal agencies and certain federal grantees. FSS pricing to these four federal agencies must be equal to or less than the Federal Ceiling Price ( FCP ), which is 24% below the Non-Federal Average Manufacturer Price ( Non-FAMP )
for the prior fiscal year. The accuracy of our reported Non-FAMPs, FCPs and our FSS contract prices may be audited by the government under applicable federal procurement laws and the terms of our FSS contract. Among the remedies available to the
government for inaccuracies in calculation of Non-FAMPs and FCPs is recoupment of any overcharges to the four specified Federal agencies based on those inaccuracies. Also, if we were found to have knowingly reported a false Non-FAMP, in addition to
other penalties available to the government, the VHC Act provides for civil monetary penalties of $100,000 per item that is incorrect. Finally, we are required to disclose in our FSS contract proposal all commercial pricing that is equal to or less
than our proposed FSS pricing, and subsequent to award of an FSS contract, we are required to monitor certain commercial price reductions and extend commensurate price reductions to the government, under the terms of the FSS contract Price
Reductions Clause. Among the remedies available to the government for any failure to properly disclose commercial pricing and/or to extend FSS contract price reductions is recoupment of any FSS overcharges that may result from such omissions.
     We are also subject to regulation under the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Resource Conservation
and Recovery Act and other current and potential future federal, state or local laws, rules and/or regulations. Our R D activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals, biological materials and various radioactive
compounds. We believe that our procedures comply with the standards prescribed by federal, state or local laws, rules and/or regulations; however, the risk of injury or accidental contamination cannot be completely eliminated. While we are not
required to do so, we strive to conduct our research and manufacturing activities in a manner that meets the intents and purposes of the National Institutes of Health Guidelines for Recombinant DNA Research.      Additionally, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ( FCPA ) prohibits U.S. corporations and their representatives from offering,
promising, authorizing or making payments to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party or political candidate in an attempt to obtain or retain business abroad. The scope of the FCPA would include interactions with
certain healthcare professionals in many countries. Our present and future business has been and will continue to be subject to various other U.S. and foreign laws, rules and/or regulations.      (See   Item 1A. Risk Factors   Our current products and products in development cannot be sold if we do not gain or maintain regulatory
approval of our products and we may be required to perform additional clinical trials or change the labeling of our products or conduct other potentially limiting or costly risk management activities if we or others identify side effects or safety
concerns after our products are on the market.   and     Our sales depend on coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors, and to the extent that access to and reimbursement for our products is reduced, this could
negatively impact the utilization of our products.  )         Human Resources       As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately 16,900 staff members, which include approximately 200 part-time staff members. Of the total staff
members as of December 31, 2008, approximately 7,850 were engaged in R D, approximately 3,050 were engaged in selling and marketing, approximately 3,600 were engaged in commercial manufacturing activities and approximately 2,400 were
engaged in other activities. There can be no  
       
   36   

Table of Contents  

assurance that we will be able to continue attracting and retaining qualified personnel in sufficient numbers to meet our needs. None of our staff members
are covered by a collective bargaining agreement, and we have experienced no work stoppages. We consider our staff relations to be good.      Trade secret protection for our unpatented confidential and proprietary information is important to us. To protect our trade secrets, we generally require our staff members, material consultants and scientific advisors to execute
confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of employment or the consulting relationship with us. However, others could either develop independently the same or similar information or obtain access to our information.         Executive Officers of the Registrant       The executive officers of the Company as of January 31, 2009 are as follows:      Mr. Kevin W.
Sharer, age 60, has served as a director of the Company since November 1992. Since May 2000, Mr. Sharer has been Chief Executive Officer and President of the Company and has also been Chairman of the Board of Directors since December 2000. From
October 1992 to May 2000, Mr. Sharer served as President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company. From April 1989 to October 1992, Mr. Sharer was President of the Business Markets Division of MCI Communications Corporation
( MCI ). From February 1984 to March 1989, Mr. Sharer held numerous executive capacities at General Electric Company ( GE ). Mr. Sharer is a director of Chevron Corporation and Northrop Grumman Corporation.   
  Mr. David W. Beier, age 60, became Senior Vice President, Global Government and Corporate Affairs in March 2008. He joined the Company in 2003 as
Senior Vice President, Global Government Affairs. Previously, Mr. Beier was a partner with the law firm of Hogan and Hartson in Washington, D.C. From 1998 to early 2001, Mr. Beier served as Chief Domestic Policy Advisor to the Vice
President of the United States. He also held positions as Vice President of Government Affairs and Public Policy for Genentech and staff counsel in the U.S. House of Representatives. Mr. Beier is a director of ARYx Therapeutics, Inc.
     Dr. Fabrizio Bonanni, age 62, became Executive Vice President, Operations in August 2007. He has served as Senior Vice President,
Manufacturing of the Company since 2004. Dr. Bonanni joined the Company in 1999 as Senior Vice President, Quality and Compliance and in June 2001 he also became the Corporate Compliance Officer. Previously, Dr. Bonanni held various
management positions at Baxter International, Inc. from 1974 to 1999, including positions as Corporate Vice President, Regulatory and Clinical Affairs and Corporate Vice President, Quality System.      Mr. Robert A. Bradway, age 46, became Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in April 2007. He joined the Company in 2006 as Vice
President, Operations Strategy. Previously, Mr. Bradway had an 18 year career at Morgan Stanley in New York and London where he was a managing director in investment banking. Mr. Bradway led Morgan Stanley s healthcare practice in
Europe for several years and also ran Morgan Stanley s European banking department.      Mr. Thomas J. Flanagan, age 59, became
Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer in October 2006. From June 2004 to October 2006, Mr. Flanagan served as Vice President, Information Systems. From December 1995 to May 2004, Mr. Flanagan served in a variety of executive
positions including Chief Information Officer and Vice President, Global Service Delivery at MCI.      Mr. Brian McNamee, age 52, became
Senior Vice President, Human Resources in June 2001. From November 1999 to June 2001, Mr. McNamee served as Vice President of Human Resources at Dell Computer Corp. From 1998 to 1999, Mr. McNamee served as Senior Vice President, Human
Resources for the National Broadcasting Corporation, a division of GE. From July 1988 to November 1999, Mr. McNamee held human resource positions at GE.      Mr. George J. Morrow, age 56, became Executive Vice President of Worldwide Sales and Marketing in January 2001 and became Executive Vice President, Global Commercial Operations in April 2003. From January
1999 to December 2000, Mr. Morrow was President and Chief Executive Officer of Glaxo Wellcome Inc. ( Glaxo ), a subsidiary of GlaxoSmithKline. From January 1997 to December 1998, Mr. Morrow was Managing  
       
   37   

Table of Contents  

Director of Glaxo Wellcome U.K., also a subsidiary of GlaxoSmithKline. From May 1993 to December 1996, Mr. Morrow was Group Vice President for
Commercial Operations of Glaxo. Mr. Morrow currently serves on the Board of Directors of Align Technology, Inc.      Dr. Roger M.
Perlmutter, age 56, became Executive Vice President, Research and Development in January 2001. From July 1999 to December 2000, Dr. Perlmutter was Executive Vice President, Worldwide Basic Research and Preclinical Development of Merck Research
Laboratories. From February 1999 to July 1999, Dr. Perlmutter served as Executive Vice President of Merck Research Laboratories, and from February 1997 to January 1999, as Senior Vice President of Merck Research Laboratories. From May 1989 to
January 1997, Dr. Perlmutter was also Chairman of the Department of Immunology, University of Washington, and from January 1991 to January 1997, Professor in the Departments of Immunology, Biochemistry and Medicine, University of Washington.
From July 1984 to January 1997, Dr. Perlmutter served as Investigator at the Howard Hughes Medical Institute at the University of Washington. Dr. Perlmutter currently serves on the Board of Directors of StemCells, Inc.      Ms. Anna S. Richo, age 48, became Senior Vice President and Chief Compliance Officer in June 2008. From December 2003 to June 2008,
Ms. Richo served as Vice President, Law. Prior to Amgen, she spent 12 years at Baxter Healthcare Corporation in roles of increasing responsibility in law, including Vice President, Law, for Baxter s BioScience Division. Also, for more than
five years, Ms. Richo served on the Board of Directors of Cytyc Corporation and was a member of the Audit and Finance Committees.      Mr. David J. Scott, age 56, became Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in March 2004. From May 1999 to February 2004, Mr. Scott served as Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Medtronic, Inc. and also
as Secretary from January 2000. From December 1997 to April 1999, Mr. Scott served as General Counsel of London-based United Distillers   Vintners. Mr. Scott also served in executive roles at Grand Metropolitan plc and RJR
Nabisco, Inc., and was an attorney in private practice.         Geographic Area Financial Information       For financial information concerning the geographic areas in which we operate, see Note 11,   Segment information   Geographic
information   to the Consolidated Financial Statements.         Investor Information       Financial and other information about us is available on our website (http://www.amgen.com) (This website address is not intended to function as a
hyperlink, and the information contained in our website is not intended to be a part of this filing). We make available on our website, free of charge, copies of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form
8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material electronically or otherwise furnishing it to the Securities and Exchange
Commission ( SEC ). In addition, we have previously filed registration statements and other documents with the SEC. Any document we file may be inspected, without charge, at the SEC s public reference room at 450 Fifth Street, N.W.,
Washington, D.C. 20549 or at the SEC s internet address at http://www.sec.gov. Information related to the operation of the SEC s public reference room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.       

Item 1A.   
   RISK FACTORS         This report and other documents we
file with the SEC contain forward looking statements that are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about us, our future performance, our business or others on our behalf, our beliefs and our management s
assumptions. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties facing our business. The risks
described below are not the only ones facing us. Our business is also subject to the risks that affect many other companies, such as employment relations, general economic conditions, geopolitical events and international operations. Further,
additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business, operations, liquidity and stock price materially and adversely.         
   38   

Table of Contents  

    Our current products and products in development cannot be sold if we do not gain or maintain
regulatory approval of our products and we may be required to perform additional clinical trials or change the labeling of our products or conduct other potentially limiting or costly risk management activities if we or others identify side effects
or safety concerns after our products are on the market.       We and certain of our licensees and partners conduct research, preclinical
testing and clinical trials for our product candidates and marketed products for both their existing indications as well as for new and/or expanded indications. In addition, we manufacture and contract manufacture, and certain of our licensees and
partners manufacture our products and product candidates, price, sell, distribute and market or co-market our products for their approved indications. These activities are subject to extensive regulation by numerous state and federal governmental
authorities in the United States, such as the FDA and CMS, as well as in foreign countries, such as the EMEA in European countries and similar regulatory bodies in Canada and Australia. Currently, we are required in the United States and in foreign
countries to obtain approval from those countries  regulatory authorities before we can manufacture (or have our third-party manufacturers produce), market and sell our products in those countries. The FDA and other U.S. and foreign regulatory
agencies have substantial authority to fail to approve commencement of, suspend or terminate clinical trials, require additional testing, delay or withhold registration and marketing approval, mandate product withdrawals and require changes in
labeling (including eliminating certain therapeutic indications) of our products. In 2007, the FDAAA was signed into law significantly adding to the FDA s authority including allowing the FDA to (i) require sponsors of marketed products to
conduct post-approval clinical studies to assess a known serious risk, signals of serious risk or to identify an unexpected serious risk; (ii) mandate labeling changes to products, at any point in a product s lifecycle, based on new safety
information and (iii) require sponsors to implement a REMS for a product which could include a medication guide, patient package insert, a communication plan to healthcare providers, or other elements as the FDA deems are necessary to assure
safe use of the drug, which could include imposing certain restrictions on distribution or use of a product. Failure to comply with the new requirements, if imposed on a sponsor by the FDA under the FDAAA, could result in significant civil monetary
penalties. Further, regulatory agencies could change existing, or promulgate new, regulations at any time which may affect our ability to obtain or maintain approval of our existing or future products or require significant additional costs to
obtain or maintain such approvals.      In our experience, obtaining regulatory approval has been and continues to be increasingly difficult and
costly and takes many years, and, after it is obtained, is increasingly costly to maintain. With the occurrence of a number of high profile safety events relating to certain pharmaceutical products, regulatory authorities, and, in particular, the
FDA, members of Congress, the U.S. Government Accountability Office ( GAO ), Congressional committees, private health/science foundations and organizations, medical professionals, including physicians and investigators, and the general
public are increasingly concerned about potential or perceived safety issues associated with pharmaceutical and biological products, whether under study for initial approval or already marketed. For example, we have received letters from both the
House Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigation, Committee on Energy and Commerce and the United States Senate Committee on Finance with inquiries with respect to our ESA studies, promotion of our ESAs and other products, our rebates and
contracting strategies and our pharmacovigilance program, to which we have fully cooperated by submitting our responses and meeting with Congressional staff. To the extent that there is resulting legislation or changes in CMS or FDA policy or
regulatory activity as a result of Congressional concerns, such changes could have a material adverse effect on the use of our ESA products that are the subject of such changes.      As a result of this increasing concern, potential or perceived safety signals and safety concerns, from clinical trials, use by the market or other
sources, are receiving greater scrutiny, which may lead to (i) fewer treatments being approved by the FDA or other regulatory bodies, (ii) revised labeling of an approved product or a class of products for safety reasons, potentially
including a boxed warning or additional limitations on the use of approved products in specific therapeutic areas (possibly until additional clinical trials can be designed and completed), (iii) mandated PMCs or pharmacovigilance programs for
approved products and/or (iv) requirement of risk management activities (including a REMS) related to the promotion and sale of a product. In addition, significant concerns about the safety and effectiveness of our products could ultimately
lead to the revocation of  
       
   39   

Table of Contents  

marketing approval of the products within particular therapeutic areas, or in total, which would have a material adverse effect on the use, sales and
reimbursement of the affected products and on our business and results of operations. (See     Our sales depend on coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors, and to the extent that access to and reimbursement for our products is
reduced, this could negatively impact the utilization of our products.  )      Certain specific labeling or label changes of our approved products or product candidates may be necessary or required for a number of reasons, including: the identification of actual or theoretical safety or efficacy concerns concerning
any of our products by regulatory agencies, the discovery of significant problems or safety signals or trends with a similar product that implicates an entire class of products, subsequent concerns about the sufficiency of the data or studies
underlying the label or changes to the underlying safety/efficacy analysis related to results from clinical trials or meta-analysis of clinical trials or clinical data performed by us or others. Label changes may also be required as a result of new
legislation. Under new FDA legislation implemented in 2006, the Physician s Labeling Rule ( PLR ) requires changes to the existing format of U.S. product package inserts for human prescription drug and biological products with the
intent of making product information more easily accessible. The PLR requires revised standards of content and format of labeling and provides timelines for when new and previously approved products must comply with the new regulations. In addition,
before or after any of our products are approved for commercial use, regulatory bodies could decide that the product labels need to include certain warning language as part of an evolving label change to a particular class of products. For example,
in March and November 2007, and in March and August 2008, the U.S. labels for the class of ESA products, including Aranesp      and EPOGEN    
 , were updated to include revised boxed warnings, restrictions on the use of ESAs in specific therapeutic areas and other safety-related product labeling changes. (See     Recent labeling changes or risk management activities
required by regulatory authorities, as well as the results or meta-analyses of clinical trials, may adversely impact the use, sales and reimbursement of our ESAs.  ) On March 17, 2008, we and Wyeth announced updates to the FDA-approved
labeling for ENBREL in which the U.S. PI now contains a boxed warning relating to the risk of infections, including tuberculosis. This information in the boxed warning includes additional language regarding screening and monitoring patients for
tuberculosis, including patients who tested negative for latent tuberculosis infection. Further, on September 4, 2008, the FDA issued a web-alert regarding their review of histoplasmosis and other opportunistic fungal infections in patients
treated with TNF-blockers. The FDA requested that the boxed warning and WARNINGS sections of the U.S. PI and the medication guide for ENBREL (and other TNF-blockers) be strengthened to include the risk of unrecognized histoplasmosis and other
invasive fungal infections with the goal of increasing timely diagnosis and treatment. The FDA also requested that the approved REMS for ENBREL be modified with a communication plan to healthcare providers regarding the risk of unrecognized fungal
infections. In December 2008, we agreed with the FDA on the required revisions to the U.S. PI, and we continue to work with the FDA to finalize the requested updates to the ENBREL REMS.      Additionally, on June 4, 2008, the FDA issued an Early Communication regarding the ongoing safety review of TNF-blockers and the possible association
between the use of these medicines and the development of lymphoma and other cancers in children and young adults and stated that it had decided to conduct further analyses to evaluate the risk and benefits of TNF-blockers in pediatric patients. On
June 18, 2008, we participated in a meeting of the DODAC to review data supporting the supplemental BLA submitted by us for the use of ENBREL in treating pediatric patients with chronic moderate to severe plaque psoriasis, who are inadequately
controlled with topical therapy or who have received systemic therapy or phototherapy and the DODAC recommended, with an 8-5 vote, to approve ENBREL in the treatment of chronic moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in children. On July 24, 2008,
we received notification from the FDA through a complete response letter that the FDA would like additional information from us regarding the use of ENBREL in pediatric patients with chronic moderate to severe plaque psoriasis. We cannot predict
what the result of the FDA s analysis of TNF-blockers and the development of lymphoma or other cancers in children and young adults may be, nor can we speculate on the effect of that analysis on the supplemental BLA. However, further revisions
to the ENBREL label or other actions by the FDA, including additional advisory committee meetings, could have a material adverse impact on the use and sales of ENBREL which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of
operations.         
   40   

Table of Contents  

   A revision of product labeling or the regulatory
actions described above could be required even if there is no clearly established connection between the product and the safety or efficacy concerns that have been raised or if the product is not indicated for a particular use. For example, in
October 2007 we announced that we and the FDA adopted changes to the U.S. labeling for Vectibix      based on the results of the Panitumumab Advanced Colorectal Cancer Evaluation
( PACCE ) trial highlighting to clinicians the greater risk seen when Vectibix      is combined with Avastin      and the
specific chemotherapy used in the PACCE trial to treat patients with first-line mCRC. Vectibix      is not indicated for the first-line treatment of mCRC and the additional safety information
applies to an unapproved use of Vectibix     .      If we or others identify safety concerns before approval of the product or after a product is on the market, the regulatory agencies such as the FDA or EMEA may impose risk management activities upon us (including a
REMS) which may require substantial costs and resources to negotiate, develop and implement, including sales force time to educate physicians on REMS requirements and compliance, and/or may require additional or more extensive clinical trials as
part of a pharmacovigilance program of our product or for approval of a new indication. Further, risk management activities, including a REMS, required by regulatory agencies such as the FDA could also modify, restrict or otherwise impact the
ability of healthcare providers to prescribe, dispense or use our products, limit patient access to our products or affect our ability to compete against products that do not have a REMS, any of which could have a negative effect on our ability to
launch our affected products and could have a material adverse effect on sales of the affected products and on our business and results of operations. For example, as part of the approval for Nplate     , a REMS was developed with the FDA to assure the safe use of Nplate      while minimizing risk. The Nplate    
  REMS involves, among other things, healthcare provider and patient enrollment registries, tracking of patient medical history and data and follow-up safety questionnaires to healthcare providers, all of which require extensive discussion
with and education of healthcare providers which has limited our ability to promote Nplate     . Further, as part of the update to the boxed warning and warnings sections of the U.S. PI and the
medication guide for ENBREL, the FDA stated that it would require us and the other makers of TNF-blockers to educate healthcare providers about the risk of unrecognized histoplasmosis. Our efforts to comply with the requirements of our existing REMS
and any additional REMS or other risk management activities required of us in the future could restrict or otherwise impact our existing promotional activities for our other products as well. In addition, we have ongoing PMC studies for all of our
marketed products. These clinical trials must be conducted by us to maintain regulatory approval and marketing authorization. For example, we have agreed with the FDA to a robust pharmacovigilance program to continue to study the safety surrounding
the use of ESAs in the oncology setting. (See     Recent labeling changes or risk management activities required by regulatory authorities, as well as the results or meta-analyses of clinical trials, may adversely impact the use, sales
and reimbursement of our ESAs.  ) Additionally, the original approvals of Vectibix      in both the United States and EU were conditioned on us conducting additional clinical trials of
the use of Vectibix      as a therapy in treating mCRC. Our conditional approval of Vectibix      in the EU is reviewed annually by the
CHMP, and in December 2008 we agreed as a condition of the renewal of the conditional approval to conduct an additional clinical trial in the existing approved indication. If results from clinical trials as part of a PMC or pharmacovigilance program
are negative, it could result in the revocation of the marketing or conditional marketing approvals or revised labeling of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on sales of the affected products and on our business and results of
operations.      Substantially all of our marketed products are currently approved in the
United States and most are approved in Europe and in other foreign countries for specific uses. However, later discovery of unknown problems with our products could result in the regulatory activities described above or even the potential withdrawal
of the product in certain therapeutic areas or certain product presentations, or completely, from the market. If new medical data suggest an unacceptable safety risk or previously unidentified side-effects, we may voluntarily withdraw, or regulatory
authorities may mandate we withdraw, such product in certain therapeutic areas, or completely recall a product presentation from the market for some period or permanently. For example in 2006, we initiated a voluntary recall of the Neulasta      SureClick  pre-filled pen in Europe because of the potential risk to patients of receiving an incomplete dose and we conducted a voluntary wholesaler recall of a limited number of lots of
ENBREL as a result of a small number of reports of missing, detached or loose rubber caps on the needleless syringe filled with diluent liquid by a third-party contract manufacturer and packaged with the vials of  
       
   41   

Table of Contents  

ENBREL. In addition in August 2008, we voluntary recalled two manufacturing lots of EPOGEN      and
our licensee, Ortho Biotech, voluntarily recalled one manufacturing lot of PROCRIT      (Epoetin alfa) that was manufactured in our manufacturing facilities after having identified cracks in
the necks of a small number of vials upon post-manufacturing inspection. Although there have been no observable adverse event trends associated with the Neulasta      SureClick  pre-filled
pen, with the reports of missing, detached or loose rubber caps on the needleless syringe packaged with the ENBREL vials or with the cracks in the neck of vials of Epoetin alfa, we may experience the same or other problems in the future resulting in
broader product recalls or adverse event trends. Additionally, if other parties (including our licensees, such as J J and Wyeth, or independent investigators) report or fail to effectively report to regulatory agencies side effects or other
safety concerns that occur from their use of our products in clinical trials or studies or from marketed use, regulatory approval may be withdrawn for a product for the therapeutic area in question, or completely, or other risk management activities
may be required by regulators.      If regulatory authorities determine that we or our licensees or partners conducting R D activities on
our behalf have not complied with regulations in the R D of a product candidate, new indication for an existing product or information to support a current indication, then they may not approve the product candidate or new indication or maintain
approval of the current indication in its current form or at all, and we will not be able to market and sell it. If we were unable to market and sell our products or product candidates, our business and results of operations would be materially and
adversely affected. Additionally, safety signals, trends, adverse events or results from clinical trials or studies performed by us or by others (including our licensees or independent investigators) from the marketed use of our drugs that result in
revised safety-related labeling or restrictions on the use of our approved products could negatively impact healthcare provider prescribing behavior, use of our products, regulatory or private health organization medical guidelines and reimbursement
for our products all of which would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. (See       Our sales depend on coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors, and to the extent that access to
and reimbursement for our products is reduced, this could negatively impact the utilization of our products.   and     Guidelines and recommendations published by various organizations can reduce the use of our
products.  )       Recent labeling changes or risk management activities required by regulatory authorities, as well as the results
or meta-analyses of clinical trials, may adversely impact the use, sales and reimbursement of our ESAs.       On March 9, 2007, based upon data from our AoC 103 Study, J J s Correction of Hemoglobin and Outcomes in Renal Insufficiency ( CHOIR ) study, and preliminary data from the third-party
investigator DAHANCA 10 Study, among others, the FDA approved updated safety information, including a boxed warning, in the labeling for the class of ESAs, including Aranesp      and
EPOGEN     . On May 10, 2007, the ODAC held a panel meeting to discuss the safety/efficacy profile of ESA use in oncology. Responding to questions posed by the FDA, the ODAC recommended
that more restrictions be added to ESA labeling and that additional clinical trials be conducted by companies with currently approved ESAs, including us, although no specific restrictions or studies were recommended at the ODAC meeting. The
committee is advisory and FDA officials are not bound to or limited by its recommendations, although the FDA has commonly followed the recommendations of its advisory panels. The FDA also held a joint meeting of the CRDAC and the DSaRMAC on
September 11, 2007, which evaluated the safety data on ESA use in renal disease. On November 8, 2007, in recognition of the input from the May 2007 ODAC and September 2007 joint CRDAC/DSaRMAC meetings, we announced additional updates to
the Aranesp      and EPOGEN     /PROCRIT      labeling which reflected ongoing
interactions with the FDA regarding the safety and benefit/risk profile of ESAs and included modifications to the boxed warnings of the ESA labeling. Additionally, based on safety data from the Preoperative Epirubicin Paclitaxel Aranesp      ( PREPARE ) interim study results in neo-adjuvant breast cancer and the data from the Gynecologic Oncology Group 191 ( GOG-191 ) study in cervical cancer, on March 7,
2008, we announced that the FDA approved updated safety information, including the boxed warning in the labeling information for the class of ESAs, including Aranesp      and EPOGEN     . On March 13, 2008, the FDA held a follow-up ODAC panel meeting to discuss cumulative data, including recent study results, on the risks of ESAs when used in the oncology setting.
        
   42   

Table of Contents  

   On July 30, 2008, we received a complete
response letter from the FDA to the revisions to the ESA labeling we proposed following the March 13, 2008 ODAC meeting. The letter included, among other things, (i) the addition to the boxed warning of a statement that ESAs are not
indicated for patients receiving myelosuppressive therapy when the anticipated outcome of such therapy is cure, (ii) the addition of a statement in the DOSAGE and ADMINISTRATION section of the label that ESA therapy should not be initiated at
Hb levels     10 g/dL and that dose should be adjusted to maintain the lowest Hb level sufficient to avoid red blood cell transfusions and (iii) the removal of reference to the upper safety limit of 12 g/dL. We
revised the ESA labeling on August 6, 2008, as the FDA directed, and have experienced a reduction in our ESA sales, in particular Aranesp      sales in the U.S. supportive cancer care
setting, since that time. Although we cannot predict what further impact the revised ESA labels may have on our business, the revised ESA labeling or any future labeling changes, including any required in connection with our ongoing discussions with
the FDA regarding the conversion of the format of our ESA U.S. labels in accordance with the PLR, could have a material adverse impact on the reimbursement, use and sales of our ESA products, which would have a material adverse effect on our
business and results of operations.      Additionally, we continue to work closely with
the FDA to develop a REMS program for the class of ESA products under authority prescribed by the FDAAA. We have submitted a proposed REMS in response to the FDA s requests, although we cannot predict what risk management activities the FDA may
require of us, and the components of the REMS could be different for the use of ESAs in the oncology and nephrology indications. A REMS program for our ESA products could have a material adverse impact on the reimbursement, use and sales of our ESA
products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. (See     Our current products and products in development cannot be sold if we do not gain or maintain regulatory approval of our products
and we may be required to perform additional clinical trials or change the labeling of our products or conduct other potentially limiting or costly risk management activities if we or others identify side effects or safety concerns after our
products are on the market   and     Our sales depend on coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors, and to the extent that access to and reimbursement for our products is reduced, this could negatively impact the
utilization of our products.  ) We also continue to work with the FDA to finalize a new protocol for a clinical trial to determine the effects of ESAs on survival and tumor outcomes in anemic patients with metastatic cancer receiving
concomitant myelosuppressive chemotherapy. We have submitted an Aranesp      study protocol to the FDA and plan to initiate the study in 2009. The addition of these clinical trials to our
pharmacovigilance program and any additional clinical trials required by the FDA could result in substantial additional expense, and their outcomes could result in additional label restrictions or the loss of regulatory approval for an approved
indication, each of which may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Additionally, any negative results from such trials could materially affect the extent of approvals, the use, reimbursement and sales of our ESA
products. (See     Before we commercialize and sell any of our product candidates or existing products for new indications, we must conduct clinical trials in humans; if we fail to adequately manage these trials we may not be able to
sell future products and our sales could be adversely affected . )      Further
on March 5, 2008, we announced that the European Commission reached its decision to amend the product labeling for the class of ESAs, including Aranesp     , based on the positive opinion from
the CHMP in January 2008, which was consistent with the EMEA s October 23, 2007 press release stipulating a uniform target Hb range for all ESAs of 10 g/dL to 12 g/dL with guidance to avoid sustained Hb levels above 12 g/dL. Following the March
13, 2008 ODAC, we have continued to share additional ESA safety data with the EMEA as it has become available. On May 15, 2008, we and other ESA marketing authorization holders participated in a closed meeting of the SAG-O. The marketing
authorization holders were asked to provide an overview on studies that have been initiated or conducted since July 2007, as well as any other new data that can help to elucidate recent issues on the impact of ESAs on tumor progression and survival
in cancer patients. These data included previously disclosed interim results from the PREPARE study in neo-adjuvant breast cancer therapy; follow-up data from the GOG-191 study in cervical cancer, which were published in the February 2008 issue of
Gynecologic Oncology; and the February 2008 meta-analysis by Bennett et al, which was published in the Journal of the American Medical Association. Scientific Advisory Groups ( SAGs ) are established by the EMEA to deliver answers, on a
consultative basis, to specific questions addressed to them by the CHMP. On June 26, 2008 the  
       
   43   

Table of Contents  

EMEA, based upon the CHMP s opinion which took into account the position expressed by the SAG-O, recommended updating the product information for ESAs
with a new warning for their use in cancer patients. In July 2008, the EMEA requested that further clarity around the product information be provided by regulatory agencies in each European Member State country through the publication of a Dear
Healthcare Professional Communication, following which we followed the necessary regulatory procedure to update the Aranesp      product information. In October 2008, we received
notification that the Aranesp      product information update was approved by the European Commission. The product information for all ESAs was updated to advise that in some clinical
situations blood transfusions should be the preferred treatment for the management of anemia in patients with cancer and that the decision to administer ESAs should be based on a benefit-risk assessment with the participation of the individual
patient, which should take into account the specific clinical context and that factors that should be considered in the assessment should include the type of tumor and its stage, the degree of anemia, life-expectancy, the environment in which the
patient is being treated and patient preference. Although we cannot predict what impact the final EU ESA product information will have on our business, the reimbursement, use and sales of Aranesp    
  in Europe could be materially adversely affected, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.      Further, we continue to receive results from meta-analyses or previously initiated clinical trials
using ESAs. For example, on September 30, 2008, we announced that we had received a summary of preliminary results from the Cochrane Collaboration s independent meta-analysis of patient-level data from previously conducted, randomized,
controlled, clinical studies evaluating ESAs in cancer patients which we submitted to the FDA and the EMEA. These results were also presented by the Cochrane Haematological Malignancies Group in December at the 2008 ASH Congress. This Cochrane
meta-analysis of patient level data from previous studies corroborates prior analyses indicating that the use of ESAs may increase the risk of death in cancer patients. The studies in the analysis all predate the current label, which advises using
the least amount of ESA necessary to avoid transfusion. The analyses on all cancer patients were based on 53 previously conducted studies involving 13,933 patients. None of these studies utilized ESAs according to current label guidance. The overall
survival results corroborate an earlier review by the Cochrane Collaboration, published in 2006, which is included in the WARNINGS section of the current U.S. PI (HR: 1.08 [95% CI 0.99-1.18]). The ESA treatment arm had increased on-study deaths (HR:
1.17 [95% CI 1.06-1.30]) and decreased overall survival (HR: 1.06 [95% CI 1.00-1.12]) compared to controls. The analyses on patients undergoing chemotherapy, the cancer indication for which ESAs are approved, were based on 38 studies with 10,441
patients. None of these studies utilized ESAs according to current label guidance. The ESA treatment arm had increased on-study deaths (HR: 1.10 [95% CI 0.98-1.24]) and decreased overall survival (HR: 1.04 [95% CI 0.97-1.11]) compared to controls.
While neither of these results is statistically significant, they do not exclude the potential for adverse outcomes when ESAs are prescribed according to the current label. The final report on these endpoints is expected in 2009. Additionally, our
TREAT study, a large 4,000 patient multi-center, randomized, double-blind, controlled phase 3 trial designed to determine the impact of anemia therapy with Aranesp      on mortality and
non-fatal cardiovascular events in patients with CKD, anemia and type 2 diabetes, continues to progress. Although we cannot predict the results of meta-analyses or the outcomes of ongoing clinical trials, or the extent to which regulatory
authorities may require additional labeling changes as a result of these or other trials, we cannot exclude the possibility that adverse results could have a material adverse impact on the reimbursement, use and sales of our ESAs which would have a
material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.       Before we commercialize and sell any of our product candidates or
existing products for new indications, we must conduct clinical trials in humans; if we fail to adequately manage these trials we may not be able to sell future products and our sales could be adversely affected.       Before we can sell any products, we must conduct clinical trials which demonstrate that our product candidates are safe and effective for use in humans
for the indications sought or our existing products are safe and effective for use in humans in new indications sought. Additionally, we may be required to conduct additional trials as a condition of the approval of our label or as a result of
perceived or existing safety concerns. The results of these clinical trials are used as the basis to obtain regulatory approval from regulatory authorities such as the FDA. Clinical trials are experiments conducted using our products or product
candidates in human patients hav- 
       
   44   

Table of Contents  

ing the diseases or medical conditions we are trying to address. Conducting clinical trials is a complex, time-consuming and expensive process. We are
required to conduct clinical trials using an appropriate number of trial sites and patients to support the product label claims we are seeking or to support our existing label. The length of time, number of trial sites and patients required for
clinical trials vary substantially according to the type, complexity, novelty and intended use of the product candidate or the extent of the safety concerns, post-marketing issues and/or exposure to patients and therefore, we may spend several years
and incur substantial expense in completing certain trials. Our ability to complete our clinical trials in a timely fashion depends in large part on a number of key factors including protocol design, regulatory and institutional review board
approval, availability of clinical study material and the rate of patient enrollment in clinical trials. Patient enrollment is a function of several factors, including the size and location of the patient population, enrollment criteria and
competition with other clinical trials for eligible patients. As such, there may be limited availability of patients who meet the criteria for certain clinical trials. Delays in planned clinical trials can result in increased development costs,
delays in regulatory approvals, associated delays in product candidates reaching the market and revisions to existing product labels. In addition, in order to increase the number of patients available for enrollment for our clinical trials, we have
and will continue to open clinical sites and enroll patients in a number of new geographic locations where our experience conducting clinical trials is more limited, including Russia, India, East Asia and some Central and South American countries
either through utilization of third-party contract clinical trial providers entirely or in combination with local staff. Conducting clinical trials in locations where we have limited experience requires substantial time and resources to identify and
understand the unique regulatory environments of individual countries. If we fail to adequately manage the design, execution and regulatory aspects of our large, complex and regulatory diverse clinical trials, our clinical trials and corresponding
regulatory approvals may be delayed or we may fail to gain approval for our product candidates altogether or could lose our ability to market existing products in certain therapeutic areas or altogether. If we are unable to market and sell our
product candidates or are unable to obtain approvals in the timeframe needed to execute our product strategies, our business and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Additional information on our clinical trials can be found
on our website at (http://www.amgen.com). (This website address is not intended to function as a hyperlink, and the information contained on our website is not intended to be a part of this filing.)      Patients may also suffer adverse medical events or side effects in the course of our, our licensees, partners or independent investigator s clinical
trials of our products or product candidates that may delay the clinical program, require additional or longer trials to gain approval, prohibit regulatory approval of our product candidates or additional indications for our currently approved
products, or may render the product candidate commercially unfeasible or limit our ability to market existing products in certain therapeutic areas or at all. For example, as a result of observing an increased frequency of cholecystitis
(inflammation of the gall bladder) in patients treated with our late-stage product candidate motesanib, we delayed our phase 3 trial in first-line NSCLC, which was previously expected to begin in the fourth quarter of 2006, until the second half of
2007. Clinical trials must be designed based on the current standard of medical care. However in certain diseases, such as cancer, the standard of care is evolving rapidly. In these diseases, the duration of time needed to complete certain clinical
trials may result in the design of such clinical trials being based on an out of date standard of medical care, limiting the utility and application of such trials. Of course, even if we successfully manage our clinical trials, we may not obtain
favorable clinical trial results and may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for new product candidates, product label extensions or maintenance of our current labels on this basis. Further, clinical trials conducted by others, including our
licensees, partners or independent investigators, may result in unfavorable clinical trials results that may call into question the safety of our products in off-label or on label uses that may result in label restrictions and/or additional trials.
     In connection with our efforts to improve our cost structure, we refocused our spending on critical R D and operational priorities and
sought greater efficiencies in how we conduct our business, including optimizing ongoing clinical trials and trial initiation. To the extent future sales are negatively affected as a result of additional regulatory and reimbursement developments or
other challenges, we may be required to further adjust our R D investment plans. Such actions could result in delays in obtaining approval or reductions in the number of indications and market potential of our product candidates.         
   45   

Table of Contents  

    Our sales depend on coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors, and to the extent that access
to and reimbursement for our products is reduced, this could negatively impact the utilization of our products.       Sales of all of our
principal products are dependent, in part, on the availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payors, including governments and private insurance plans. Generally, in Europe and other countries outside the United States, the
government-sponsored healthcare system is the primary payor of healthcare costs of patients. Governments may regulate access to, prices or reimbursement levels of our products to control costs or to affect levels of use of our products. Worldwide
use of our products may be affected by these cost containment pressures and cost shifting from governments and private insurers to healthcare providers or patients in response to ongoing initiatives to reduce or reallocate healthcare expenditures.
It is possible that applicable statutes, such as the MMA, could be modified or new legislation or regulation introduced in 2009 and later that could include a focus on reducing drug costs and change coverage and reimbursement methodologies for
government healthcare programs that could have a significant impact on our business. Although we cannot predict when legislation or regulation affecting reimbursement from third-party payors may be proposed or enacted in the future or the specific
effect any such legislation or regulation would have on our business, any such legislation or regulations changing and/or reducing the coverage and reimbursement of our products or the way our products are used or prescribed may cause our sales to
decrease and our revenues to decline.      Further, adverse events or results from clinical trials or studies performed by us or by others or
from the marketed use of our drugs may expand the safety information in the labeling for our approved products and may negatively impact worldwide reimbursement for our products. For example, on January 14, 2008, CMS issued changes to its
Medicare National Coverage Determinations Manual that resulted in the reduced use of ESAs in clinical practice. A more detailed discussion of the Decision Memorandum follows below. (See also     Our current products and products in
development cannot be sold if we do not gain or maintain regulatory approval of our products and we may be required to perform additional clinical trials or change the labeling of our products or conduct other potentially limiting or costly risk
management activities if we or others identify side effects or safety concerns after our products are on the market.   and     Guidelines and recommendations published by various organizations can reduce the use of our
products . )      An increasing focus on cost containment by public and private
insurers has resulted, and could result in the future, in lower reimbursement rates for our products. Most patients receiving Aranesp     , Neulasta      and NEUPOGEN      for approved indications are covered by government and/or private payor healthcare programs. Medicare and Medicaid government healthcare
programs  payment policies for drugs and biologicals are subject to various laws and regulations. Effective January 1, 2009 in the hospital outpatient setting, our products are reimbursed under a Medicare Part B payment methodology that
reimburses each product at 104% of its ASP (sometimes referred to as  ASP+4% ). The rate of reimbursement in the hospital outpatient setting has been reduced twice since its inception (with reimbursement rates set at ASP+5% for 2008 and
ASP+6% from 2005 to 2007). Effective January 1, 2009, in the physician office setting, Aranesp     , Neulasta      and NEUPOGEN      are reimbursed under a Medicare Part B payment methodology that reimburses each product at ASP+6%. CMS has the regulatory authority to alter or maintain the Medicare payment rates for Part B
drugs and biologicals in the future for the hospital outpatient setting. A product s ASP is calculated and reported to CMS on a quarterly basis and may change each quarter. The ASP in effect for a given quarter (the  Current Period )
is based upon certain historical sales and sales incentive data covering a statutorily defined period of time preceding the Current Period. For example, the ASP based payment rate for Aranesp    
  that will be in effect for the second quarter of 2009 will be based in part on certain historical sales and sales incentive data for Aranesp      from January 1, 2008 through
December 31, 2008.      In the dialysis setting, our products may also be subject to
downward pressure on reimbursement rates. In the United States, dialysis providers are primarily reimbursed for EPOGEN      by the federal government through the ESRD Program of Medicare. The
ESRD Program reimburses approved providers for 80% of allowed dialysis costs; the remainder is paid by other sources, including patients, state Medicaid programs, private insurance, and to a lesser extent, state kidney patient programs. The ESRD
Program reimbursement methodology is established by federal law and is monitored and implemented by CMS. Currently, the payment mechanism for separately reimbursed dialysis drugs in both free-standing and hospital-based dialysis centers, including
EPOGEN      and  
       
   46   

Table of Contents  

Aranesp     , is reimbursed by Medicare at ASP+6%. Although we cannot predict the payment levels of
EPOGEN      in future quarters or the extent to which Medicare payments for dialysis drugs may be modified by future federal regulation or legislation, a decrease in the reimbursement rate for
EPOGEN      may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Any changes to the ASP calculations directly affect the Medicare reimbursement for our products
administered in the physician clinic setting, dialysis facility and hospital outpatient setting. These calculations are regularly reviewed for completeness and based on such review, and we have revised our reported ASPs to reflect calculation
changes both prospectively and retroactively. For example, partially as a result of our methodology changes, our ASP reimbursement rate for EPOGEN      was reduced for the third quarter of
2007.      Since April 1, 2006, the Medicare reimbursement for ESAs administered to
dialysis patients has been subject to a revised EMP, the Medicare payment review mechanism used by CMS to monitor EPOGEN      and Aranesp    
  utilization and appropriate hematocrit outcomes of dialysis patients. The EMP was revised, effective January 1, 2008, requiring a 50% reduction in Medicare reimbursement if a patient s Hb is above 13 g/dL for three or more
consecutive months. In addition, the revised EMP reduces the monthly dosing limits to 400,000 IUs of EPOGEN     , from 500,000 IUs, and to 1,200 mcgs of Aranesp     , from 1,500 mcgs. The implementation of the revised EMP and ESA labeling changes led to a decline in EPOGEN      sales for the first quarter of 2008 compared to
the first quarter of 2007 primarily due to a decline in both overall utilization and as well as average dosing per patient. While this dose decline subsequently stabilized in 2008, it may further fluctuate in the future, which could have a material
adverse effect on sales of EPOGEN      and our business and results of operations.      On July 15, 2008, the MIPPA became law with a number of Medicare and Medicaid reforms
including a broader payment bundle for dialysis services and drugs which will require CMS, beginning in 2011, to establish a bundled Medicare payment rate that includes dialysis services and drug/labs that are currently separately billed. The new
bundled rate will include dialysis services covered under the current composite rate, as well as all injectable drugs commonly provided during dialysis treatment, and currently billed separately, including ESAs, IV iron, and IV vitamin D, as well as
 oral equivalent  forms of these IV drugs. The bundled reimbursement rate will be phased in over a four year period in equal increments starting in 2011. It is possible that some providers could elect to move to a full Medicare bundled
payment in 2011. CMS will also be required to establish a quality incentive program that begins concurrently with bundling in 2011 and which subjects facilities to up to a 2% annual reduction in Medicare reimbursement for failure to meet or exceed
CMS quality performance standards, including performance standards related to anemia management and dialysis adequacy. Bundling initiatives that have been implemented in other healthcare settings have occasionally resulted in lower utilization of
services that had not previously been a part of the bundled payment. We are in the process of evaluating the potential impact of the new Medicare legislation on our business and at this time cannot predict the impact a bundled payment system for
outpatient dialysis might have on sales of EPOGEN      or Aranesp     .      We face risks relating to the calculation of ASP. ASP is calculated by the manufacturer based on a statutorily defined formula and submitted to CMS.
MedPAC has recommended that ASP reporting requirements be clarified  to ensure that ASP calculations allocate discounts to reflect the transaction price for each drug.  Under the current ASP system, we allocate our discounts based on the
prices paid for individual drugs, according to the terms of our contracts with physicians and other purchasers, and we believe that the resulting ASPs reflect the transaction prices for individual drugs. Moreover, in the Medicare Physician Fee
Schedule Final Rule for 2008, the agency clarified that in the absence of specific guidance, manufacturers may continue to make  reasonable assumptions  in the calculation of ASP, consistent with the general requirements and the intent of
the Medicare statute and regulations and their customary business practices. The agency stated that it will continue to monitor this issue and may provide more specific guidance in the future.      Other initiatives reviewing the coverage or reimbursement of our products, including those related to safety, could result in less extensive coverage or
lower reimbursement and could negatively affect sales of some of our marketed products. For example, on March 14, 2007, shortly after the March 9, 2007 FDA labeling changes for all ESAs, CMS announced that the agency had begun reviewing
all Medicare policies related to the administration of ESAs in non-renal disease applications as part of a NCA which is generally CMS  first step toward developing a NCD. Generally, an NCD is a national policy statement granting, limiting or
excluding Medicare  
       
   47   

Table of Contents  

coverage or reimbursement for a specific medical item or service. On May 14, 2007, CMS issued a proposed NCD that was open for public comment through
June 13, 2007. On July 30, 2007, CMS issued its Decision Memorandum which was substantially altered from the proposed NCD. On January 14, 2008, CMS issued changes to its Medicare NCD Manual, adding the ESA Decision Memorandum,
effective for claims with dates of service on and after July 30, 2007 with an implementation date of April 7, 2008. In the Decision Memorandum, CMS determined that ESA treatment was not reasonable and necessary for certain clinical
conditions, and established Medicare coverage parameters for FDA-approved ESA use in oncology.      We believe this restriction on reimbursement of ESAs in the Decision Memorandum has had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on the use, reimbursement and sales of Aranesp     , and our business and results of operations. Additionally, to our knowledge, although no private payors have fully implemented the Decision Memorandum to date, many private payors have implemented the portions of the
restrictions included in the Decision Memorandum that most commonly reflect the prescriber package insert. Further, we believe many healthcare providers have reduced ESA utilization for all of their patients regardless of insurance coverage. While
we cannot fully predict the further impact of the Decision Memorandum on how, or under what circumstances, healthcare providers will prescribe or administer our ESAs, it had a significant impact to our business in 2007 and 2008 and we believe that
it may continue to impact us in the future.      In addition, the FDA held a joint
meeting of the CRDAC and the DSaRMAC on September 11, 2007 to evaluate safety data on ESA use in renal disease. On July 31, 2008, CMS issued a listing of potential topics for future NCDs as a step to increase transparency in the NCD
process, which included as potential topics the use of ESAs in ESRD and CKD. Also included in the initial potential future NCD topic list is the category of thrombopoiesis stimulating agents (platelet growth factors), the category of drugs that
includes Nplate     . CMS has not announced whether it will proceed to a NCD for ESAs in ESRD or CKD, or for thrombopoiesis stimulating agents, and we cannot predict whether either ESAs in the
renal setting or thrombopoiesis stimulating agents will be the subject of a future NCD; however, any final NCD for ESAs in the renal setting, which may include non-coverage and/or new dosing and treatment restrictions similar to those proposed in
Decision Memorandum for treatment of anemia in oncology with ESAs, would negatively affect use, reduce reimbursement and coverage, negatively affect product sales of our ESA products and may have a material adverse effect on our business and results
of operations.      If, and when, reimbursement rates or availability for our marketed
products changes adversely or if we fail to obtain adequate reimbursement for our current or future products, healthcare providers may limit how much or under what circumstances they will prescribe or administer them, which could reduce the use of
our products or cause us to reduce the price of our products. This could result in lower product sales, which could have a material adverse effect on us and our results of operations. For example, the use of EPOGEN      in the United States in connection with treatment for ESRD is funded primarily by the U.S. federal government. In early 1997, CMS, formerly known as Healthcare Financing Administration ( HCFA ), instituted
a reimbursement change for EPOGEN     , which materially and adversely affected our EPOGEN      sales until the policies were revised. In
addition, following the update to the ESA labeling and associated revisions in compendia, nearly all Medicare contractors dropped reimbursement for Aranesp      for anemia of cancer. (See
    Guidelines and recommendations published by various organizations can reduce the use of our products . ) Also, we believe the increasing emphasis on cost-containment initiatives in the United States, Europe and other
countries has and will continue to put pressure on the price and usage of our products, which may adversely impact product sales. In addition, we believe the new U.S. presidential administration, together with Congress, will shape U.S. healthcare
policy in the coming months and years, and we expect that healthcare reform efforts could include long-term changes to coverage and reimbursement that may have a significant impact on our business. Further, when a new therapeutic product is
approved, the governmental and/or private coverage and reimbursement for that product is uncertain and a failure to demonstrate clear clinical and/or comparative value associated with the use of a new therapeutic product as compared to existing
therapeutic products or practices may result in inadequate or no reimbursement. We cannot predict the availability or amount of reimbursement for our approved products or product candidates, including those at a late stage of development, and
current reimbursement policies for marketed products may change at any time. Sales of all our products are and will be affected by government and  
       
   48   

Table of Contents  

private payor reimbursement policies. Reduction in reimbursement for our products could have a material adverse effect on our product sales and results of
operations.       If our intellectual property positions are challenged, invalidated, circumvented or expire, or if we fail to prevail in
present and future intellectual property litigation, our business could be adversely affected.       The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and often involve complex legal, scientific and factual questions. To date, there has emerged no consistent policy regarding
breadth of claims allowed in such companies  patents. Third parties may challenge, invalidate or circumvent our patents and patent applications relating to our products, product candidates and technologies. In addition, our patent positions
might not protect us against competitors with similar products or technologies because competing products or technologies may not infringe our patents. For certain of our product candidates, there are third parties who have patents or pending patent
applications that they may claim prevent us from commercializing these product candidates in certain territories. Patent disputes are frequent, costly and can preclude or delay commercialization of products. We are currently, and in the future may
be, involved in patent litigation. However, a patent dispute or litigation may not discourage a potential violator from bringing the product that is alleged to infringe to market and we may be subject to competition during certain periods of
litigation. Further, under the Hatch-Waxman Act, products approved by the FDA under a NDA may be the subject of patent litigation with generic competitors before the five year period of data exclusivity provided for under the Hatch-Waxman Act has
expired and prior to the expiration of the patents listed for the product. For example, on July 25, 2008, we, NPS Pharmaceuticals and Brigham and Women s Hospital, filed a lawsuit against Teva and Barr for infringement of four
Sensipar      patents. The lawsuit is based on ANDAs filed by Teva and Barr which seek approval to market generic versions of Sensipar      before expiration of the patents. This lawsuit is described in Note 10,   Contingencies   to the Consolidated Financial Statements. If we lose or settle current or future litigations at certain stages
or entirely, we could be subject to competition and/or significant liabilities; required to enter into third-party licenses for the infringed product or technology or required to cease using the technology or product in dispute. In addition, we
cannot guarantee that such licenses will be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all.      Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and defend patent rights and other intellectual property rights that are important to the commercialization of our products and product candidates. We have filed applications for a number
of patents and have been granted patents or obtained rights relating to erythropoietin, natural and recombinant G-CSF, darbepoetin alfa, pegfilgrastim, etanercept, cinacalcet, panitumumab, romiplostim and our product candidates. We market our
erythropoietin, recombinant G-CSF, darbepoetin alfa, pegfilgrastim, etanercept, cinacalcet, panitumumab and romiplostim products as EPOGEN      (Epoetin alfa), NEUPOGEN      (Filgrastim), Aranesp      (darbepoetin alfa), Neulasta      (pegfilgrastim),
Enbrel      (etanercept), Sensipar     /Mimpara      (cinacalcet), Vectibix      (panitumumab) and Nplate        (romiplostim), respectively. With respect to our material patents, we have had a number of G-CSF
patent expiries in the United States.      We also have been granted or obtained rights to patents in Europe relating to erythropoietin, G-CSF,
pegfilgrastim (pegylated G-CSF), etanercept, darbepoetin alfa, cinacalcet, panitumumab and romiplostim. Our principal European patent relating to erythropoietin expired on December 12, 2004 and our principal European patent relating to G-CSF
expired on August 22, 2006. As these patents have expired, some companies have and we believe others may receive approval for and market biosimilar (as they are generally known in the EU) and other products to compete with these products in the
EU presenting additional competition to our products. (See     Our marketed products face substantial competition and other companies may discover, develop, acquire or commercialize products before or more successfully than we
do.  )       We may experience difficulties, delays or unexpected costs and not achieve or maintain anticipated cost savings from our
restructuring plan.       As a result of various regulatory and reimbursement developments that began in 2007 and, in particular those
affecting our marketed ESA products, on August 15, 2007, we announced a plan to restructure our world- 
       
   49   

Table of Contents  

wide operations in order to improve our cost structure while continuing to make significant R D investments and build the framework for our future
growth. As part of the restructuring plan, we reduced staff, made changes to certain capital projects, closed certain production operations and abandoned leases primarily for certain R D facilities that will not be used in our operations.
Through December 31, 2008, we have completed substantially all of these actions and reduced costs in 2008. Our ability to maintain these savings is dependent upon various future developments, some of which are beyond our control. During 2008,
we identified certain additional initiatives designed to further assist in improving our cost structure. We may not realize, in full or in part, the anticipated benefits and savings from our recent restructuring efforts due to unforeseen
difficulties, delays or unexpected costs. If we are unable to achieve or maintain all of the resulting savings or benefits to our business or other unforeseen events occur, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. Further,
if we were to experience additional changes to our business or redesign certain processes to achieve increased efficiencies, we may face further restructuring and/or reorganization activities in the future.      In addition, our reduction of staff was completed through a combination of a voluntary transition program and an involuntary reduction in force. In order
to be successful and build our framework for future growth, we must continue to execute and deliver on our core business initiatives with fewer human resources and losses of intellectual capital. We must also attract, retain and motivate key
employees including highly qualified management, scientific, manufacturing and sales and marketing personnel who are critical to our business. We may not be able to attract, retain or motivate qualified employees in the future and our inability to
do so may adversely affect our business.       Guidelines and recommendations published by various organizations can reduce the use of our
products.       Government agencies promulgate regulations and guidelines directly applicable to us and to our products. However,
professional societies, practice management groups, insurance carriers, physicians, private health/science foundations and organizations involved in various diseases from time to time may also publish guidelines or recommendations to healthcare
providers, administrators and payors, and patient communities. Recommendations of government agencies or these other groups/organizations may relate to such matters as usage, dosage, route of administration and use of related therapies and
reimbursement of our products by government and private payors. (See     Our sales depend on coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors, and to the extent that access to and reimbursement for our products is reduced, this could
negatively impact the utilization of our products.  ) Organizations like these have in the past made recommendations about our products. Recommendations or guidelines that are followed by patients and healthcare providers could result in
decreased use and/or dosage of our products. Some examples of agency and organizational guidelines include:       

On August 30, 2007, the National Kidney Foundation (the  NKF ) distributed to the nephrology community final updated Kidney Disease Outcomes Quality
Initiative ( KDOQI ) clinical practice guidelines and clinical practice recommendations for anemia in CKD. The NKF s Anemia Work Group conducted an extensive review of results from 26 new and existing randomized controlled trials,
comparing the risks and benefits of a range of Hb therapeutic targets in CKD patients. Based on this review, the NKF-KDOQI  Anemia Work Group recommended in their 2007 Update to the NKF-KDOQI  Anemia Management Guidelines that physicians
target Hb in the range of 11 g/dL to 12 g/dL, and also stipulated that the target not be above 13 g/dL.          

On February 2, 2007, following the reported results from our AoC 103 Study, the USP DI Drug Reference Guides
removed Aranesp      in the treatment of AoC. Thereafter, Aranesp      use in AoC essentially ceased.         Any recommendations or guidelines that result in decreased use, dosage or reimbursement of our products could adversely affect our product sales and
operating results materially. In addition, the perception by the investment community or stockholders that such recommendations or guidelines will result in decreased use and dosage of our products could adversely affect the market price for our
common stock.         
   50   

Table of Contents  

    We may not be able to develop commercial products.       We intend to continue to make significant R D investments. Successful product development in the biotechnology industry is highly uncertain, and very
few R D projects produce a commercial product. Product candidates or new indications for existing products (collectively,  product candidates ) that appear promising in the early phases of development, such as in early human clinical
trials, may fail to reach the market for a number of reasons, such as:       

the product candidate did not demonstrate acceptable clinical trial results even though it demonstrated positive preclinical trial results

the product candidate was not effective or more effective than currently available therapies in treating a specified condition or illness

the product candidate had harmful side effects in humans or animals          

the necessary regulatory bodies, such as the FDA, did not approve our product candidate for an intended use          

the product candidate was not economical for us to manufacture and commercialize          

other parties have or may have proprietary rights relating to our product candidate, such as patent rights, and will not let us sell it on reasonable terms, or at
all          

the product candidate is not cost effective in light of existing therapeutics          

we and certain of our licensees, partners or independent investigators may fail to effectively conduct clinical development or clinical manufacturing activities

the regulatory pathway to approval for product candidates is uncertain or not well-defined         For example, we announced that after discussions with the FDA we have decided not to file for approval of motesanib in refractory thyroid cancer until
there is more clarity on what would constitute an appropriate regulatory filing package for that indication. We believe that the safety concerns around our ESAs expressed by the FDA must be addressed to the agency s satisfaction before new
indications or expanded labeling of our ESA products will likely be approved.      Further, several of our product candidates have failed or
been discontinued at various stages in the product development process, including, but not limited to, Brain Derived Neurotrophic Factor ( BDNF ), Megakaryocyte Growth and Development Factor ( MGDF ) and Glial Cell Lined-Derived
Neurotrophic Factor ( GDNF ). For example, in 1997, we announced the failure of BDNF for the treatment of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or Lou Gehrig s Disease, because the product candidate, when administered by injection, did not
produce acceptable clinical results for a specific use after a phase 3 trial, even though BDNF had progressed successfully through preclinical and earlier clinical trials. In addition, in 1998, we discontinued development of MGDF, a novel platelet
growth factor, at the phase 3 trial stage after several people in platelet donation trials developed low platelet counts and neutralizing antibodies. Also, in June 2004, we announced that the phase 2 study of GDNF for the treatment of advanced
Parkinson s disease did not meet the primary study endpoint upon completion of nine months of the double-blind treatment phase of the study even though a small phase 1 pilot investigator-initiated open-label study over a three-year period
appeared to result in improvements for advanced Parkinson s disease patients. Subsequently, in the fall of 2004 we discontinued clinical development of GDNF in patients with advanced Parkinson s disease after several patients in the phase
2 study developed neutralizing antibodies and new preclinical data in rhesus monkeys showed that GDNF caused irreversible damage to the area of the brain critical to movement control and coordination. On February 11, 2005, we confirmed our
previous decision to halt clinical trials of GDNF and, as a part of that decision and based on thorough scientific review, we also concluded that we will not provide GDNF to the 48 patients who participated in clinical trials that were terminated in
the fall of 2004. Of course, there may be other factors that prevent us from marketing a product. We cannot guarantee we will be able to produce or manufacture commercially successful products. (See     Difficulties, disruptions or
delays in manufacturing or failure to comply with manufacturing regulations may limit   
       
   51   

Table of Contents  

supply of our products and limit our product sales; timing of supply may also be affected by operation of our distribution and logistics centers and
providers.       Our current products and products in development cannot be sold if we do not gain or maintain regulatory approval of our products and we may be required to perform additional clinical trials or change the
labeling of our products or conduct other potentially limiting or costly risk   management activities if we or others identify side effects or safety concerns after our products are on the market .  and     Before we
commercialize and sell any of our product candidates or existing products for new indications, we must conduct clinical trials in humans; if we fail to adequately manage these trials we may not be able to sell future products and our sales could be
adversely affected . )       Our business may be affected by government investigations or litigation.       We and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in legal proceedings relating to various patent matters, government investigations, our business
operations, government requests for information and other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. Matters required to be disclosed by us are set forth in Note 10,   Contingencies   to the
Consolidated Financial Statements and are updated as required in subsequently filed Form 10-Qs. Litigation is inherently unpredictable, and the outcome can result in excessive verdicts and/or injunctive relief that affects how we operate our
business. Consequently, it is possible that we could, in the future, incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims for monetary damages or change the way we operate our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations, financial position or cash flows.      We have received subpoenas from a number of government entities, including the U.S.
Attorney s Offices for the Eastern District of New York and the Western District of Washington, as well as the Attorneys General of New York and New Jersey. The federal subpoenas have been issued pursuant to the Health Insurance
Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (18 U.S.C. 3486), while the Attorneys General subpoenas have been issued pursuant to state specific statutes relating to consumer fraud laws and state false claims acts. In general, the subpoenas
request documents relating to the sales and marketing of our products, and our collection and dissemination of information reflecting clinical research as to the safety and efficacy of our ESAs. To the extent it is alleged in a proceeding that we
are in violation of the various federal and state laws that govern the sales and marketing of its products, then a decision adverse to our interests could result in federal criminal liability and/or federal or state civil or administrative
liability, and thus could result in substantial financial damages or criminal penalties. In addition, as current macroeconomic conditions place increasing fiscal pressure on governments, we may see new governmental investigations of or actions
against us citing novel theories of recovery. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows in the period in which such liabilities are incurred.       We may be required to defend lawsuits or pay damages for product liability claims.       Product liability is a major risk in testing and marketing biotechnology and pharmaceutical products. We may face substantial product liability exposure
in human clinical trials and for products that we sell after regulatory approval. Product liability claims, regardless of their merits, could be costly and divert management s attention, and adversely affect our reputation and the demand for
our products. Amgen and Immunex have previously been named as defendants in product liability actions for certain of our products.       Our
revenues may fluctuate and our operating results are subject to fluctuations and these fluctuations could cause financial results to be below expectations and our stock price is volatile, which could adversely affect your investment.    
  Our revenues and operating results may fluctuate from period to period for a number of reasons,
some of which we cannot control. For example, primarily as a result of various regulatory and reimbursement developments involving ESA products that began in 2007, our anemia product sales, in particular sales of Aranesp     , for 2007 were materially adversely impacted. Even a relatively small revenue shortfall may cause financial results for a period to be below our expectations or projections as some of our operating expenses are fixed
in the short term and cannot be reduced within a short period of time to offset reductions in revenue. Further, primarily as a  
       
   52   

Table of Contents  

result of the various regulatory and reimbursement developments impacting ESA products, on August 15, 2007, we announced a plan to restructure our
worldwide operations in order to improve our cost structure. As of December 31, 2008, we have completed substantially all of the actions initially included in our restructuring plan and have incurred approximately $887 million in charges.
During 2008, we identified certain additional initiatives designed to further assist in improving our cost structure. The estimated cost of these additional initiatives is $95 million to $135 million. As a result of these initiatives and certain
minor changes in expected costs associated with the actions initially included in our restructuring plan, the amount of total charges currently expected to be incurred in connection with our restructuring plan, including implementation costs, is
$950 million to $985 million. Our operating results have and may continue to fluctuate and be adversely impacted as a result of these restructuring charges. (See     We may experience difficulties, delays or unexpected costs and not
achieve or maintain anticipated cost savings from our restructuring plan . ) In addition, in the event that the actual restructuring charges exceed our latest estimate, this may cause our operating results for a period to be below our
expectations or projections. As a result of the above or other challenges, including further label revisions to our ESAs, our revenues and operating results and, in turn, our stock price may be subject to significant fluctuations. Changes in credit
ratings issued by nationally recognized statistical ratings organizations could adversely affect our cost of financing and have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities. Additionally, our stock price, like that of other biotechnology
companies, is volatile. For example, in the fifty-two weeks prior to December 31, 2008, the trading price of our common stock has ranged from a high of $66.51 per share to a low of $39.16 per share.      Our revenues, operating results and stock price may be affected by a number of factors, such as:       

adverse developments regarding the safety or efficacy of our products          

changes in the government s or private payors  reimbursement policies, particularly for supportive cancer care products, or prescribing guidelines for our
products          

current volatility and disruption of the financial markets          

evolving medical care in treating cancer requiring less use of supportive cancer care products and/or changes in chemotherapy usage patterns

inability to maintain regulatory approval of marketed products or manufacturing facilities          

actual or anticipated clinical trial results of ours or our licensees, partners or independent investigators          

business development or licensing activities          

product development or other business announcements by us or our competitors          

regulatory matters or actions, such as label changes or risk management activities, including a REMS          

lower than expected demand for our products or a change in product mix either or both of which may result in less than optimal utilization of our manufacturing
facilities and the potential to incur excess capacity or impairment charges          

changes in our product contracting and related pricing strategies          

changes in wholesaler buying patterns          

increased competition from new or existing products          

fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates          

announcements in the scientific and research community          

intellectual property and legal matters          

actual or anticipated product supply constraints          

broader economic, industry and market trends unrelated to our performance         Of course, there may be other factors that affect our revenues, operating results and stock price in any given period. In addition, if our revenues,
earnings or other financial results in any period fail to meet the investment community s expectations, there could be an immediate adverse impact on our stock price.       
  
   53   

Table of Contents  

    Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented and adverse capital and credit market conditions
may affect our ability to access cost-effective sources of funding and our investment in marketable securities may be subject to market, interest and credit risk that could reduce their value.       The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption which, particularly during the latter part of 2008 and the
beginning of 2009, has led to uncertainty and liquidity issues for both borrowers and investors. We currently have sufficient cash to repay the $1.0 billion of our 4.00% notes due in November 2009. Historically, we have occasionally and
opportunistically accessed the capital markets to support certain business activities including acquisitions, in-licensing activities, share repurchases and to refinance existing debt. In the future, we may not be able to obtain capital market
financing on similar favorable terms, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.      We
have some exposure to financial institutions which have come under pressure as a result of the current credit crisis. For example, we have historically had 16 financial institutions participate in our $2.5 billion revolving credit facility including
a subsidiary of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. ( Lehman ), which had a $178 million commitment. Lehman declared bankruptcy on September 15, 2008, and the subsidiary participant in our credit facility subsequently declared bankruptcy on
October 5, 2008. Although we have never drawn on our credit facilities and do not currently anticipate any need to do so, we would not anticipate the ability to access this specific commitment provided by Lehman in the future. Additionally, the
conversion feature of our 0.125% Convertible Senior Notes due 2011 and our 0.375% Convertible Senior Notes due 2013 are hedged pursuant to transactions entered into with two financial institutions. We have also entered into interest rate swap
agreements for certain of our outstanding debt and routinely enter into foreign currency exchange contracts with financial institutions as counterparties. Additional bankruptcies in the financial sector could limit our ability to replace these
transactions on favorable terms, or at all, or to manage the risks inherent in our business which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.      Additionally, we maintain a significant portfolio of fixed-income based investments disclosed as cash equivalents and marketable securities on our
Consolidated Balance Sheet. The value of our investments may be adversely affected by interest rate fluctuations, downgrades in credit ratings, illiquidity in the capital markets and      other factors which may result in other than temporary declines in the value of our investments. Any of these events could cause us to record impairment charges with respect to our investment portfolio or to realize
losses on the sale of investments. We seek to mitigate these risks with the help of our investment advisors by generally investing in high quality securities and continuously monitoring the overall risk of our portfolio. To date, we have not
realized any material impairments within our investment portfolio.       The volatility of the current financial markets and the general
economic slowdown may magnify certain risks that affect our business.       Sales of our principal products are dependent, in part, on the
availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payors, including governments and private insurance plans. (See     Our sales depend on coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors, and to the extent that access to and
reimbursement for our products is reduced, this could negatively impact the utilization of our products.  ) As a result of the volatility of the current financial markets and the general economic slowdown, our third-party payors may delay or
be unable to satisfy their reimbursement obligations. A reduction in the availability or extent of reimbursement from government programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, and/or private payor healthcare programs could have a material adverse affect
on the sales of our products, our business and results of operations.      In addition, as a result of the volatile financial markets and
economic slowdown, some employers may seek to reduce costs by reducing or eliminating employer group healthcare plans or transferring a greater portion of healthcare costs to their employees. Job losses or changes may also result in reduced levels
of coverage for some individuals, potentially resulting in lower levels of healthcare coverage for themselves or their families. These reductions may affect patients  ability to afford healthcare and/or cause them to forego or postpone
treatment to reduce out-of-pocket healthcare costs as a result of increased co-pay or deductible obligations or for other reasons. These changes may result in reduced demand for our products, which could adversely affect our business  
       
   54   

Table of Contents  

and results of operations. Any resulting decrease in demand for our products could also cause us to experience excess inventory write-offs and/or excess
capacity charges at certain of our manufacturing facilities.      Additionally, we rely upon third-parties for certain parts of our business,
including licensees and partners, wholesale distributors of our products, contract clinical trial providers, contract manufacturers and single third-party suppliers. Because of the recent volatility in the financial markets, there may be a
disruption or delay in the performance or satisfaction of commitments to us by these third-parties which could have a material adverse affect on our business and results of operations. For example, current markets conditions may adversely affect the
ability of our distributors, customers and suppliers to obtain liquidity required to buy inventory or raw materials and to perform their obligations under agreements with us, which could disrupt our operations. In addition, although we monitor our
distributors , customers  and suppliers  financial condition and their liquidity, in order to mitigate our business risks, some of our distributors, customers and suppliers may become insolvent, which could negatively impact our
business and results of operations.       We rely on single third-party suppliers for some of our raw materials, medical devices and
components; if these third-parties fail to supply these items, we may be unable to supply our products.       Certain raw materials necessary
for commercial and clinical manufacturing and formulation of our products are provided by single-source unaffiliated third-party suppliers. Also, certain medical devices and components necessary for formulation, fill and finish of our products are
provided by single-source unaffiliated third-party suppliers. Certain of these raw materials, medical devices and components are the proprietary products of these unaffiliated third-party suppliers and, in some cases, such proprietary products are
specifically cited in our drug application with regulatory agencies so that they must be obtained from that specific sole source and could not be obtained from another supplier unless and until the regulatory agency approved that other supplier.
     We would be unable to obtain these raw materials, medical devices or components for an indeterminate period of time if these third-party
single-source suppliers were to cease or interrupt production or otherwise fail to supply these materials or products to us for any reason, including:       

regulatory requirements or action by regulatory agencies or others          

adverse financial developments at or affecting the supplier          

unexpected demand for or shortage of raw materials, medical devices or components          

labor disputes or shortages, including the effects of an avian or pandemic flu outbreak or otherwise          

failure to comply with our quality standards which results in quality failures, product contamination and/or recall         These events could adversely affect our ability to satisfy demand for our products, which could adversely affect our product sales and operating results
materially. For example, we have experienced shortages in certain components necessary for the formulation, fill and finish of certain of our products in our Puerto Rico facility without impact on our ability to supply these products. However, we
may experience these or other shortages in the future resulting in delayed shipments, supply constraints and/or stock-outs of our products. Also, certain of the raw materials required in the commercial and clinical manufacturing and the formulation
of our products are sourced from other countries and/or derived from biological sources, including mammalian tissues, bovine serum and HSA.      Some countries in which we market our products may restrict the use of certain biologically derived substances in the manufacture of drugs. We are investigating alternatives to certain biological sources and alternative manufacturing
processes that do not require the use of certain biologically-sourced raw materials as such raw materials may be subject to contamination and/or recall. Also, some countries in which we market our products may restrict the use of certain
biologically derived substances in the drug manufacturing process.      A material shortage, contamination, recall and/or restriction of the use
of certain biologically derived substances or other raw materials, which may be sourced from other countries, used in the manufacture of our  
       
   55   

Table of Contents  

products could adversely impact or disrupt our commercial manufacturing of our products or could result in a mandated withdrawal of our products from the
market. This could adversely affect our ability to satisfy demand for our products, which could adversely affect our product sales and operating results materially.      Further, any disruptions or delays by us or by third-party suppliers or partners in converting to alternatives to certain biological sources and alternative manufacturing processes or our ability to gain regulatory
approval for the alternative materials and manufacturing processes could increase our associated costs or result in the recognition of an impairment in the carrying value of certain related assets, which could have a material and adverse affect on
our results of operations.       Difficulties, disruptions or delays in manufacturing or failure to comply with manufacturing regulations may
limit supply of our products and limit our product sales; timing of supply may also be affected by operation of our distribution and logistics centers and providers.       We currently manufacture and market all of our principal products, and we plan to manufacture and market many of our product candidates. Manufacturing biologic human therapeutic products is difficult, complex and
highly regulated. (See     Our current products and products in development cannot be sold if we do not gain or maintain regulatory approval of our products and we may be required to perform additional clinical trials or change the
labeling of our products or conduct other potentially limiting or costly risk management activities if we or others identify side effects or safety concerns after our products are on the market.  )      We currently manufacture our products and product candidates at our manufacturing facilities located in Thousand Oaks and Fremont, California; Boulder and
Longmont, Colorado; West Greenwich, Rhode Island; Bothell, Washington and Juncos, Puerto Rico. (See     We manufacture and formulate, fill and finish substantially all our products at our Puerto Rico manufacturing facility; if
significant natural disasters or production failures occur at this facility, we may not be able to supply these products.  )      Additionally, we currently use third-party contract manufacturers to produce or assist in the
production of ENBREL, Sensipar     /Mimpara      and Nplate        as well
as our late-stage product candidate denosumab and plan to use contract manufacturers to produce a number of our other late-stage product candidates. (See     We are dependent on third parties for a significant portion of our bulk supply
and the formulation, fill and finish of ENBREL . ) Our ability to adequately and timely manufacture and supply our products is dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient operation of our facilities and those of our third-party contract
manufacturers, which is impacted by many manufacturing variables including:       

availability or contamination of raw materials and components used in the manufacturing process, particularly those for which we have no other source or supplier

capacity of our facilities and those of our contract manufacturers          

facility contamination by microorganisms or viruses          

labor disputes or shortages, including the effects of an avian or pandemic flu outbreak          

compliance with regulatory requirements          

changes in forecasts of future demand          

timing and actual number of production runs          

production success rates and bulk drug yields          

timing and outcome of product quality testing         If we have problems in one or more of these or other manufacturing variables, we may experience delayed shipments, supply constraints, stock-outs and/or recalls of our products. For example, in the second quarter of 2002, the prior
co-marketers with respect to ENBREL experienced a brief period where no ENBREL was available to fill new patient prescriptions, primarily due to variation in the expected production yield from BI Pharma. If we are at any time unable to provide an
uninterrupted supply of our products to patients, we may lose patients,  
       
   56   

Table of Contents  

physicians may elect to prescribe competing therapeutics instead of our products, and sales of our products will be adversely affected, which could
materially and adversely affect our product sales and results of operations.      We manufacture and contract manufacture, price, sell,
distribute and market or co-market our products for their approved indications. These activities are subject to extensive regulation by numerous state and federal governmental authorities in the United States, such as the FDA and CMS, as well as in
foreign countries, including European countries, Canada, Australia and Japan. Although we have obtained regulatory approval for our marketed products, these products and our manufacturing processes and those of our third-party contract manufacturers
must undergo a potentially lengthy FDA or other regulatory approval process and are subject to continued review by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. It can take longer than five years to build and license a new manufacturing plant and it can
take longer than three years to qualify and license a new contract manufacturer. In order to maintain supply, mitigate risks associated with the majority of our formulation, fill and finish operations being performed in a single facility and to
adequately prepare to launch a number of our late-stage product candidates, in particular denosumab, we must successfully implement a number of manufacturing projects on schedule, operate our facilities at appropriate production capacity over the
next few years, optimize manufacturing asset utilization, continue our use of third-party contract manufacturers and maintain a state of regulatory compliance. Key manufacturing projects include: (i) construction, qualification and licensure of
a new formulation and filling facility at our Puerto Rico site and (ii) expansion and the related qualification and licensure of our existing bulk protein facilities at our Puerto Rico site for the production of our late-stage product
candidate, denosumab.      If regulatory authorities determine that we or our third-party contract manufacturers or third-party service
providers have violated regulations or if they restrict, suspend or revoke our prior approvals, they could prohibit us from manufacturing our products or conducting clinical trials or selling our marketed products until we or our third-party
contract manufacturers or third-party service providers comply, or indefinitely. Because our third-party contract manufacturers and third-party service providers are subject to FDA and foreign regulatory authorities, alternative qualified
third-party contract manufacturers and service providers may not be available on a timely basis or at all. If we or our third-party contract manufacturers and third-party service providers cease or interrupt production or if our third-party contract
manufacturers and third-party service providers fail to supply materials, products or services to us for any reason, we may experience delayed shipments, supply constraints, stock-outs and/or recalls of our products. If we are unable to manufacture,
market and sell our products, our business and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, we distribute a substantial volume of our commercial products through a single distribution center in Louisville, Kentucky
for the United States and another in Breda, the Netherlands for Europe and the rest of the world. Our ability to timely supply products is dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient operations of our distribution and logistics centers and our
third-party logistics providers.       We manufacture and formulate, fill and finish substantially all our products at our Puerto Rico
manufacturing facility; if significant natural disasters or production failures occur at this facility, we may not be able to supply these products.       We currently perform all of the formulation, fill and finish for EPOGEN     , Aranesp     , Neulasta      and NEUPOGEN     ,
some formulation, fill and finish operations for ENBREL, and all of the bulk manufacturing for Aranesp     , Neulasta      and
NEUPOGEN      at our manufacturing facility in Juncos, Puerto Rico. Our global supply of these products is significantly dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient operation of this facility.
A number of factors could adversely affect our operations, including:       

power failures          

breakdown, failure or substandard performance of equipment          

improper installation or operation of equipment          

labor disputes or shortages, including the effects of an avian or pandemic flu outbreak          

inability of third-party suppliers to provide raw materials and components            
   57   

Table of Contents  

natural or other disasters, including hurricanes          

failures to comply with regulatory requirements, including those of the FDA         For example, this facility in Puerto Rico has experienced manufacturing component shortages and there was evidence of adverse trends in the microbial
bioburden of the production environment that reduced the production output in the past. Although these experiences in Puerto Rico have not impacted our ability to supply product in the past, the same or other problems may result in our being unable
to supply these products, which could adversely affect our product sales and operating results materially. Although we have obtained limited insurance to protect against certain business interruption losses, there can be no assurance that such
coverage will be adequate or that such coverage will continue to remain available on acceptable terms, if at all. The extent of the coverage of our insurance could limit our ability to mitigate for lost sales and such losses could adversely affect
our product sales and operating results materially. (See     Difficulties, disruptions or delays in manufacturing or failure to comply with manufacturing regulations may limit supply of our products and limit our product sales; timing of
supply may also be affected by operation of our distribution and logistics centers and providers.  )       We are dependent on third
parties for a significant portion of our bulk supply and the formulation, fill and finish of ENBREL.       Under a collaboration and global
supply agreement, we and Wyeth share the total worldwide bulk supply of ENBREL produced by our Rhode Island manufacturing facility, BI Pharma s manufacturing facility in Germany and Wyeth s manufacturing facility in Ireland. (See also
    We face uncertainties related to the recently announced Wyeth / Pfizer merger.  ) Our ENBREL supply forecasts rely on certain assumptions of how much ENBREL each of these manufacturing facilities is expected to produce. If
any of these manufacturing facilities are unable to produce in accordance with our or Wyeth s expectations, the worldwide supply of ENBREL could be adversely affected materially. In such cases, we may be required to allocate supply for
Wyeth s benefit. To the extent that there is a shortfall in worldwide production, our supply of ENBREL could be adversely affected. Additionally, the costs associated with a shortfall or failure in production of ENBREL would be borne by both
parties.      We currently produce a substantial portion of the annual ENBREL supply at our Rhode Island manufacturing facility. However, we
also depend on third parties for a significant portion of our ENBREL bulk supply as well as for some of the formulation, fill and finish of ENBREL that we manufacture. BI Pharma is our third-party contract manufacturer of ENBREL bulk drug;
accordingly, our U.S. and Canadian supply of ENBREL is currently significantly dependent on BI Pharma s production schedule for ENBREL. We would be unable to produce ENBREL in sufficient quantities to substantially offset shortages in BI
Pharma s scheduled production if BI Pharma or other third-party contract manufacturers used for the formulation, fill and finish of ENBREL bulk drug were to cease or interrupt production or services or otherwise fail to supply materials,
products or services to us for any reason, including labor shortages or disputes, regulatory requirements or action or contamination of product lots or product recalls.      For example, in the second quarter of 2002, the prior co-marketers with respect to ENBREL experienced a brief period where no ENBREL was available to fill new patient prescriptions, primarily due to variation in the
expected production yield from BI Pharma. We cannot guarantee that an alternative third-party contract manufacturer would be available on a timely basis or at all. This in turn could materially reduce our ability to satisfy demand for ENBREL, which
could materially and adversely affect our operating results.      Among the factors that could affect our actual supply of ENBREL at any time
include, without limitation, BI Pharma s and our Rhode Island facility s bulk drug production scheduling. For example, BI Pharma does not produce ENBREL continuously; rather, it produces the bulk drug substance through a series of periodic
campaigns throughout the year. Our Rhode Island manufacturing facility is currently dedicated to ENBREL production. The amount of commercial inventory available to us at any time depends on a variety of factors, including the timing and actual
number of BI Pharma s production runs, the actual number of runs at our Rhode Island manufacturing facility, and, for either the Rhode Island or BI Pharma facilities, the level of production yields and success rates, the timing and outcome of
product quality testing and the amount of formulation, fill and finish capacity. We are also dependent on third-parties for some formulation, fill and finish of ENBREL bulk  
       
   58   

Table of Contents  

drug substance manufactured at our Rhode Island facility. If third-party formulation, fill and finish manufacturers are unable to provide sufficient capacity
or are otherwise unable to provide services to us, the supply of ENBREL could be adversely affected materially.       Our marketed products
face substantial competition and other companies may discover, develop, acquire or commercialize products before or more successfully than we do.       We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our products compete with other products or
treatments for diseases for which our products may be indicated. For example, ENBREL competes in certain circumstances with products marketed by J J, Abbott, Biogen, Barr, Genentech, BMS, Novartis and Sanofi-Aventis and others, as well as the
generic drug methotrexate, and may face competition from other potential therapies being developed, including J J s CNTO 1275 (ustekinumab) and CNTO 148 (golimumab), Roche s Actemra (tocilizumab) and UCB s Cimzia      (PEGylated anti-TNF). Additionally, in the first quarter of 2008 Abbott received approval from the FDA to market HUMIRA      as a
treatment for adult patients with moderate to severe chronic plaque psoriasis and HUMIRA      now competes with ENBREL in both the rheumatology and dermatology segments and ENBREL has
experienced and continues to experience share loss to competitors.      The following
table reflects companies and their currently marketed products that primarily compete with Aranesp      in the United States and Europe in the supportive cancer care and nephrology segments,
unless otherwise indicated:       

Territory    
      
     Competitor Marketed Product    
      
     Competitor     
 
    U.S.   
      
  PROCRIT        (1)     
      
  J J   
 
    Europe   
      
  EPREX     /ERYPO       
      
  Janssen-Cilag   (2)      
 
    Europe   
      
  NeoRecormon       
      
  Roche   
 
    Europe   
      
  Retacrit        (3)   /Silapo        (3)     
      
  Hospira/Stada   
 
    Europe   
      
  Binocrit        (3)   /Epoetin alfa
Hexal        (3)   /Abseamed        (3)     
      
  Sandoz/Hexal/Medice   
 
    Europe   
      
  MIRCERA        (4)      
      
  Roche   
 
    Europe   
      
  Dynepo        (5)      
      
  Shire   

(1)      
    In the United States, Aranesp      competes with PROCRIT      in the supportive cancer care and pre-dialysis settings.      

(2)      
    A subsidiary of J J.      

(3)      
    Biosimilar product approved and launched in certain EU countries.      

(4)      
    Competes with Aranesp      in the nephrology segment only.

(5)      
    Shire announced in the second quarter of 2008 that it had decided to stop the commercialization of Dynepo     .         In
addition to competition from the above-noted marketed products, a number of companies are developing products that could potentially compete with Aranesp      and/or EPOGEN      in the future. Affymax and Takeda are co-developing Hematide , an ESA for the treatment of anemia in renal patients. FibroGen is developing FG-2216 and FG-4592, orally active ESAs, for the
treatment of anemia and is also studying FG-4592 for the treatment in anemia of CKD. Ratiopharm is developing a biosimilar ESA, EpoTheta, expected to launch in the EU in 2009. Additionally in December 2008, Merck announced the formation of a new
biotech division, Merck Bioventures, which is developing a pegylated ESA (MK-2578), which they have announced they expect to launch in 2012. Further, if our currently marketed products are approved for new uses, or if we sell new products, or our
competitors get new or expanded indications, we may face new, additional competition that we do not face today. Further, adverse clinical developments for our current products could limit our ability to compete. (See     Our current
products and products in development cannot be sold if we do not gain or maintain regulatory approval of our products and we may be required to perform additional clinical trials or change the labeling of our products or conduct other potentially
limiting or costly risk management activities if we or others identify side effects or safety concerns after our products are on the market . ) Our products may compete against products that have lower prices, equivalent or superior
performance, are easier to administer or that are otherwise competitive with our products.         
   59   

Table of Contents  

   Our principal European patent relating to
erythropoietin expired on December 12, 2004 and our principal European patent relating to G-CSF expired on August 22, 2006. As these patents have expired, some companies have and other companies may receive approval for and market
biosimilar or other products to compete with our products in the EU, presenting additional competition to our products. For example, in September 2008, the European Commission issued marketing authorizations for the first G-CSF biosimilar products
to Ratiopharm s Ratiograstim     /Filgrastim Ratiopharm     , CT Arzneimittel s Biograstim      and Teva s Tevagrastim     . Ratiopharm launched its G-CSF biosimilar product, Ratiograstim     ,
in the United Kingdom and Germany in October 2008 and in the Netherlands in January 2009, and is expected to launch it in other European markets in 2009. Teva has stated that it would begin marketing Tevagrastim throughout Europe in 2009. In
February 2009, the European Commission issued marketing authorizations for two additional G-CSF biosimilar products to Sandoz s Zarzio      and Hexal s Filgrastim Hexal     . If these companies  launch plans are successful, there may be as many as six G-CSF biosimilars available in 2009 on the European market. These G-CSF biosimilar products would compete with
Neulasta      and NEUPOGEN     . We cannot predict to what extent the entry of biosimilar products or other competing products will
impact future Aranesp     , Neulasta      or NEUPOGEN      sales in the EU. Our
inability to compete effectively could reduce sales which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.      In 2006, the
EMEA developed and issued final regulatory guidelines related to the development and approval of biosimilar products. The final guidelines included clinical trial guidance for certain biosimilar products including erythropoietins and G-CSFs, which
guidance recommends that applicants seeking approval of such biosimilar products conduct fairly extensive pharmacodynamic, toxicological, clinical safety studies and a pharmacovigilance program. In the United States, there currently is no legal
approval pathway for the abbreviated approval of BLAs for biosimilars. A number of events would need to occur before these products could enter the market, including passage of legislation by Congress to create a new approval pathway and, depending
on the specific provisions of any such legislation, promulgation of associated regulations or guidance by the FDA. In 2007, several members of Congress expressed interest in the issue, a number of bills were introduced, the House of Representatives
and the Senate held hearings on biosimilars, and the Senate Committee on HELP voted on legislation in June 2007. In 2008, additional legislation was introduced in the House of Representatives, but no final legislation was considered or passed in
either chamber of Congress, with all introduced bills expiring at the end of the Congressional session (end of the year). Given the continuing interest of Congress in the issue and in healthcare reform generally, it is likely that legislation on
biosimilars will be introduced in 2009 and possibly passed into law. The new U.S. presidential administration has also expressed an interest in passing legislation regarding biosimilars. It is unknown what type of regulatory framework, what legal
provisions, and what timeframes for issuance of regulations or guidance any final legislation would contain. Until such legislation is created, we cannot predict when biosimilars could appear in the United States.      Certain of our competitors, including biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, market products or are actively engaged in R D in areas where we
have products or where we are developing product candidates or new indications for existing products. In the future, we expect that our products will compete with new drugs currently in development, drugs approved for other indications that may be
approved for the same indications as those of our products and drugs approved for other indications that are used off-label. As with Merck s recent announcement, pharmaceutical companies and generic manufacturers that have traditionally
developed and marketed  small molecule  pharmaceutical products may elect to expand into the biotechnology field, and some of these companies may seek to develop biosimilar products to compete with our products. Large pharmaceutical
corporations may have greater clinical, research, regulatory, manufacturing, marketing, financial and human resources than we do. In addition, some of our competitors may have technical or competitive advantages over us for the development of
technologies and processes. These resources may make it difficult for us to compete with them to successfully discover, develop and market new products and for our current products to compete with new products or new product indications that these
competitors may bring to market. Business combinations among our competitors may also increase competition and the resources available to our competitors.         
   60   

Table of Contents  

    We must continue to build the framework for our future growth, and if we fail to execute on our
initiatives our business could be adversely affected.       As a result of developments in 2007 and, in particular the regulatory and
reimbursement changes to our ESA products, on August 15, 2007, we announced a plan to restructure our worldwide operations in order to improve our cost structure while continuing to make significant R D investments and build the framework
for our future growth. We face a number of risks, some of which we cannot completely control. For example:       

we will need to manage complexities associated with a large and geographically diverse organization          

we will need to manage and execute large, complex and global clinical trials          

we will need to significantly expand our sales and marketing resources to launch our late-stage product candidate, denosumab          

we will need to accurately anticipate demand for the products we manufacture and maintain adequate manufacturing capacity for both commercial and clinical supply

we have implemented a new global enterprise resource planning ( ERP ) system to support our increasing complex business and business processes and need to
ensure that the new system continues to operate without disruptions to our operations         Of course, there may be other risks
and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully manage these or other risks. If we fail to execute on our initiatives in these ways or others, such failure could result in a material adverse effect on our business and results of
operations.       Concentration of sales at certain of our wholesaler distributors and consolidation of free-standing dialysis clinic
businesses may negatively impact our bargaining power and profit margins.       The
substantial majority of our U.S. product sales are made to three pharmaceutical product wholesaler distributors, AmerisourceBergen Corporation, Cardinal Health, Inc. and McKesson Corporation. These distributors, in turn, sell our products to their
customers, which include physicians or their clinics, dialysis centers, hospitals and pharmacies. One of these products, EPOGEN     , is primarily sold to free-standing dialysis clinics, which
have experienced significant consolidation. Two organizations, DaVita Inc. and Fresenius own or manage a large number of the outpatient dialysis facilities located in the United States and account for a significant majority of all EPOGEN      sales in the free-standing dialysis clinic setting. In October 2006, we entered into a five-year sole sourcing and supply agreement with an affiliate of Fresenius, on its behalf and on behalf
of certain of its affiliates, whereby they have agreed to purchase, and we have agreed to supply, all of Fresenius  commercial requirements for ESAs for use in managing the anemia of its hemodialysis patients in the United States and Puerto
Rico, based on forecasts provided by Fresenius and subject to the terms and conditions of the agreement.      These entities  purchasing
leverage has increased due to this concentration and consolidation which may put pressure on our pricing by their potential ability to extract price discounts on our products or fees for other services, correspondingly negatively impacting our
bargaining position and profit margins. The results of these developments may have a material adverse effect on our product sales and results of operations.       Our marketing of ENBREL is dependent in part upon Wyeth.       Under a co-promotion agreement, we and
Wyeth market and sell ENBREL in the United States and Canada. A management committee comprised of an equal number of representatives from us and Wyeth is responsible for overseeing the marketing and sales of ENBREL including strategic planning, the
approval of an annual marketing plan and the establishment of a brand team. The brand team, with equal representation from us and Wyeth, prepares and implements the annual marketing plan, which includes a minimum level of financial and sales
personnel commitment from each party, and is responsible for all sales activities. If Wyeth fails to effectively deliver on its marketing commitments to us or if we and Wyeth fail to coordinate our efforts effectively, our sales of ENBREL may be
adversely affected materially. (See also     We face uncertainties related to the recently announced Wyeth/Pfizer merger.  )         
   61   

Table of Contents  

    We face uncertainties related to the recently announced Wyeth/Pfizer merger.       We are party to a number of agreements with Wyeth relating to the manufacturing, marketing and selling of ENBREL, including a co-promotion agreement and a
global supply agreement. On January 26, 2009, Wyeth and Pfizer announced that they have entered into a definitive merger agreement under which Pfizer will acquire Wyeth in a cash-and-stock transaction approved by the boards of directors of both
companies. Wyeth and Pfizer stated that the transaction is subject to a number of closing conditions, including the approval of Wyeth s stockholders. While our agreements with Wyeth do not include a change of control provision, if the
acquisition transaction is completed, our relationship with Wyeth may be affected in ways we do not anticipate, including changes in Wyeth/Pfizer management, strategy or otherwise.       Our corporate compliance and risk mitigation programs cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all potentially applicable U.S. federal and state
regulations and all potentially applicable foreign regulations and/or that we effectively manage all operational risks.       The
development, manufacturing, distribution, pricing, sales, marketing and reimbursement of our products, together with our general operations, are subject to extensive federal and state regulation in the United States and to extensive regulation in
foreign countries. (See     Our current products and products in development cannot be sold if we do not gain or maintain regulatory approval of our products and we may be required to perform additional clinical trials or change the
labeling of our products or conduct other potentially limiting or costly risk management activities if we or others identify side effects or safety concerns after our products are on the market .  and     Difficulties,
disruptions or delays in manufacturing or failure to comply with manufacturing regulations may limit supply of our products and limit our product sales; timing of supply may also be affected by operation of our distribution and logistics centers and
providers.  ) While we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program, we cannot guarantee you that we, our employees, our consultants or our contractors are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable U.S. federal
and state regulations and/or laws or all potentially applicable foreign regulations and/or laws. If we or our agents fail to comply with any of these regulations and/or laws, a range of actions could result, including, but not limited to, the
termination of clinical trials, the failure to approve a product candidate, restrictions on our products or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of our products from the market, significant fines, exclusion from government healthcare programs or
other sanctions or litigation. Additionally, while we have implemented numerous risk mitigation measures, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to effectively mitigate all operational risks. If we fail to effectively mitigate all operational
risks, our product supply may be materially adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our product sales and results of operations.       Continual process improvement efforts may result in the carrying value of certain existing manufacturing facilities or other assets becoming impaired or other related charges being incurred.       In connection with our continuous process improvement activities, we evaluate our processes and procedures in order to identify opportunities to achieve
greater efficiencies in how we conduct our business in order to reduce costs. In particular, we evaluate our manufacturing practices and related processes to increase production yields and/or success rates as well as capacity utilization to gain
increased cost efficiencies. Depending on the timing and outcomes of these process improvement initiatives, the carrying value of certain manufacturing or other assets may not be fully recoverable and could result in the recognition of impairment
charges and/or the recognition of other related charges. The recognition of such charges, if any, could have a material and adverse affect on our results of operations.       
  
   62   

Table of Contents  

Item 1B.   
   UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS         None.       

Item 2.   
   PROPERTIES           The following table summarizes
our significant properties and their primary functions as of December 31, 2008. For additional information regarding manufacturing initiatives see     Item 1. Business   Manufacturing, Distribution and Raw
Materials   .         

63   

Table of Contents  

   In addition to these properties, we have undeveloped land at certain locations, principally in Thousand
Oaks, California; Longmont, Colorado; Louisville, Kentucky; Allentown, Pennsylvania; West Greenwich, Rhode Island; Seattle and Bothell, Washington; Cork, Ireland and Juncos, Puerto Rico, to accommodate future expansion, as required. Excluded from
the table above are leased properties that have been abandoned and certain buildings that have been closed as part of our restructuring plan as further described in Note 2,   Restructuring   to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
       We believe our facilities are suitable for their intended use and, in conjunction with our third-party contracting manufacturing
agreements, provide adequate capacity. We also believe that our existing facilities, third-party contract manufacturing agreements and our anticipated additions are sufficient to meet our expected needs. There are no material encumbrances on our
properties. (See     Item 1A. Risk Factors   We manufacture and formulate, fill and finish substantially all our products at our Puerto Rico manufacturing facility; if significant natural disasters or production failures occur at
this facility, we may not be able to supply these products.     ,       We rely on single third-party suppliers for some of our raw materials, medical devices and components; if these third-parties fail to supply these
items, we may be unable to supply our products.     and       Difficulties, disruptions or delays in manufacturing or failure to comply with manufacturing regulations may limit supply of our products and limit our
product sales; timing of supply may also be affected by operation of our distribution and logistics centers and providers.    )          

Item 3.   
   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS         Certain of our legal proceedings
in which we are involved are discussed in Note 10,   Contingences   to our Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2008 Form 10-K and are hereby incorporated by reference.       

Item 4.   
   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS         No matters were submitted to a vote of our security holders during the last quarter of our fiscal year ended December 31, 2008.         
   64   

Table of Contents  

      PART II        

Item 5.   
   MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES          Common stock       Our common stock trades
on The NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol AMGN. As of February 13, 2009, there were approximately 11,392 holders of record of our common stock. No cash dividends have been paid on the common stock to date, and we currently do not intend to
pay any dividends.      The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the range of high and low quarterly closing sales prices of
the common stock as quoted on The NASDAQ Stock Market:       
       
   65   

Table of Contents  

    Performance graph       The chart set forth below shows the value of an investment of $100 on December 31, 2003 in each of Amgen Common Stock, the Amex Biotech Index, the Amex Pharmaceutical Index and Standard   Poor s 500
Index (the  S P 500 ). All values assume reinvestment of the pre-tax value of dividends paid by companies included in these indices and are calculated as of December 31st of each year. The historical stock price performance of the
Company s Common Stock shown in the performance graph below is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance.       Amgen
vs. Amex Biotech, Amex Pharmaceutical and S P 500 Indices      

The material in this performance graph is not soliciting material, is not deemed filed with the
SEC, and is not incorporated by reference in any filing of the Company under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, whether made on, before or after the date of this filing and irrespective of any general incorporation language in such filing.
        
   66   

Table of Contents  

    Stock repurchase program       Repurchases under our stock repurchase program reflect, in part, our confidence in the long-term value of our common stock. Additionally, we believe that
it is an effective way of returning cash to our stockholders. The manner of purchases, the amount we spend and the number of shares repurchased will vary based on a number of factors including the stock price, blackout periods in which we are
restricted from repurchasing shares, and our credit rating and may include private block purchases as well as market transactions.      During
the three months ended December 31, 2008, we had one outstanding stock repurchase program. A summary of our repurchase activity for the three months ended December 31, 2008 is as follows:       

(1)      
    In July 2007, the Board of Directors authorized us to repurchase up to $5.0 billion of our common stock. As of
December 31, 2008, $4.2 billion was available for stock repurchases under our stock repurchase program.          

(2)      
    The difference between total number of shares purchased and the total number of shares purchased as part of publicly
announced program is due to shares of common stock withheld by us for the payment of taxes upon vesting of certain employees  restricted stock.            
   67   

Table of Contents  

Item 6.   
   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA          
     
        In addition to the following notes, see   Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   and the consolidated financial statements and accompanying
notes and previously filed Form 10-K s for further information regarding our consolidated results of operations and financial position for periods reported therein and for known factors that will impact comparability of future results.

(1)      
    In 2008 and 2007, we incurred restructuring charges of $148 million ($111 million, net of tax) and $739 million
($576 million, net of tax), respectively, primarily related to staff separation costs, asset impairment charges, accelerated depreciation (in 2007) and loss accruals for leases for certain facilities that will not be used in our business.

(2)      
    In 2008, we completed the acquisition of Domp  Biotec, S.p.A ( Domp  ). The purchase price paid
was approximately $168 million, which included the carrying value of our existing 49% ownership in Domp . In July 2007, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of Ilypsa, Inc. ( Ilypsa ) for a net purchase price of approximately
$400 million. Also in July 2007, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of Alantos Pharmaceuticals Holding, Inc. ( Alantos ) for a net purchase price of approximately $300 million. In October 2006, we acquired all of the outstanding
stock of Avidia, Inc. ( Avidia ) for a net purchase price of approximately $275 million. In April 2006, we acquired all of the outstanding common stock of Abgenix for a purchase price of approximately $2.2 billion. In August 2004, we
acquired all of the outstanding common stock of Tularik Inc. ( Tularik ) for a purchase price of approximately $1.5 billion. Included in operating expenses are acquisition-related charges of $1 million, $37 million, $41 million, $12
million and $53 million, in 2008, 2007, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Acquisition charges, net of tax, for the three years ended December 31, 2008 were $1 million, $22 million and $26 million, respectively. Acquisition charges consist of,
where applicable, the incremental compensation provided to certain employees under short-term retention plans, including non-cash compensation expense associated with stock options assumed in connection with the acquisition, non-cash expense related
to valuing the inventory acquired at fair value, which is in excess of our manufacturing cost, and external, incremental consulting and systems integration costs directly associated with integrating the acquired company.
           
   68   

Table of Contents  

(4)      
    Primarily represents the non-cash amortization of acquired product technology rights, primarily ENBREL, related to the
Immunex acquisition. Amortization charges, net of tax, for the three years ended December 31, 2008 were $183 million, $185 million and $200 million, respectively.          

(5)      
    As part of the accounting for the acquisitions of Alantos and Ilypsa in 2007, Avidia and Abgenix in 2006 and Tularik in
2004, we recorded charges to write-off acquired in-process R D ( IPR D ) of $270 million and $320 million in 2007, respectively, $130 million and $1.1 billion in 2006, respectively, and $554 million in 2004. These charges represent
the estimated fair values of the IPR D that, as of the respective acquisition dates, had not reached technological feasibility and had no alternative future use.          

(6)      
    In 2008, we recorded loss accruals for settlements of certain commercial legal proceedings aggregating
$288 million, principally related to the settlement of the Ortho Biotech antitrust suit. In 2007, we recorded a loss accrual for an ongoing commercial legal proceeding and recorded an expense of $34 million. In 2005, we settled certain legal
matters, primarily related to a patent legal proceeding, and recorded an expense of $49 million, net of amounts previously accrued. The remaining amounts included in  Other charges  in 2008 and 2007, primarily relate to restructuring
charges (see Note 2,   Restructuring   to the Consolidated Financial Statements).          

(9)      
    In May 2007, we issued $2.0 billion aggregate principal amount of floating rate notes due in 2008, $1.1 billion
aggregate principal amount of notes due in 2017 and $900 million aggregate principal amount of notes due in 2037. A total of $3.2 billion of the net proceeds raised from the issuance of these notes were used to repurchase shares of our common stock
under an accelerated share repurchase program ( ASR ) entered into in May 2007.          

(10)      
    In February 2006, we issued $2.5 billion principal amount of convertible notes due in 2011 and $2.5 billion principal
amount of convertible notes due in 2013. In connection with the issuance of these notes, a total of $3.0 billion of our common stock was repurchased under our stock repurchase program. Also, concurrent with the issuance of these notes, we purchased
convertible note hedges in private transactions. The cost of the convertible note hedges, which aggregated approximately $1.5 billion, was recorded as a reduction of equity. Also, concurrent with the issuance of these notes, we sold warrants to
acquire shares of our common stock. Proceeds received from the issuance of the warrants totaled approximately $774 million.          

(11)      
    On March 2, 2007, as a result of holders of substantially all of our outstanding 2032 Modified Convertible Notes
exercising their March 1, 2007 put option, we repurchased $2.3 billion aggregate principal amount, or the majority of the then outstanding convertible notes, at their then-accreted value for $1.7 billion in cash.      

69   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS          Forward looking statements       This
report and other documents we file with the SEC contain forward looking statements that are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about us, our future performance, our business or others on our behalf, our beliefs and
our management s assumptions. In addition, we, or others on our behalf, may make forward looking statements in press releases or written statements, or in our communications and discussions with investors and analysts in the normal course of
business through meetings, webcasts, phone calls and conference calls. Words such as  expect,   anticipate,   outlook,   could,   target,   project,   intend,   plan, 
 believe,   seek,   estimate,   should,   may,   assume,   continue,  variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward looking statements.
These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. We describe our respective risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could affect the outcome or
results of operations in   Item 1A. Risk Factors .  We have based our forward looking statements on our management s beliefs and assumptions based on information available to our management at the time the statements are made. We
caution you that actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed, implied or forecast by our forward looking statements. Reference is made in particular to forward looking statements regarding product sales, reimbursement,
expenses, earnings per share ( EPS ), liquidity and capital resources and trends. Except as required under the federal securities laws and the rules and regulations of the SEC, we do not have any intention or obligation to update publicly
any forward looking statements after the distribution of this report, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in assumptions or otherwise.       Overview       The following management s discussion and analysis ( MD A ) is intended to assist the reader in
understanding the business of Amgen. MD A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes.      We are a global biotechnology company that discovers, develops, manufactures and markets human therapeutics based on advances in cellular and molecular
biology. Our mission is to serve patients. As a science-based, patient-focused organization, we discover and develop innovative therapies to treat grievous illness. We operate in one business segment   human therapeutics. Therefore, our results
of operations are discussed on a consolidated basis.      We primarily earn revenues and
income and generate cash from sales of human therapeutic products in the areas of supportive cancer care, nephrology and inflammation. Our principal products include Aranesp     , EPOGEN     , Neulasta     /NEUPOGEN      and ENBREL all of which are sold in the United
States. ENBREL is marketed under a co-promotion agreement with Wyeth in the United States and Canada. Our international product sales consist principally of European sales of Aranesp      and
Neulasta     /NEUPOGEN     . For additional information about our principal products, their approved indications and where they are
marketed, see   Item 1. Business   Marketed Products and Selected Product Candidates .       We operate in a highly
regulated industry and various U.S. and foreign regulatory bodies have substantial authority over how we conduct our business in those countries. Government authorities in the United States and in other countries regulate the manufacturing and
marketing of our products and our ongoing R D activities. (See   Government Regulation.  ) For example, prior to obtaining regulatory approval to market a product, we must conduct extensive clinical studies designed to establish
the safety and effectiveness of the product candidate for use in humans in the indications sought. Furthermore, in order to maintain regulatory approval to market a product, we may be required to conduct further clinical trials and to provide
additional information on safety and effectiveness. The regulatory environment is evolving and there is increased scrutiny on drug safety and increased authority being granted to regulatory bodies, in particular the FDA, to assist in ensuring the
safety of therapeutic products, which may lead to fewer products being approved by the FDA or other regulatory bodies or  
       
   70   

Table of Contents  

additional safety-related requirements. Safety signals, trends, adverse events or results from clinical trials, studies or meta-analyses performed by us or
by others (including our licensees or independent investigators) or from the marketed use of our products may expand safety labeling, restrict the use for our approved products or may result in additional regulatory requirements, such as requiring
risk management activities, including a REMS, and/or additional or more extensive clinical trials as part of PMCs or a pharmacovigilance program. (See   Item 1. Business   Key Developments   and   Item 1. Business
  Postmarketing Safety Activities . )      Most patients receiving our products are covered by either government and/or private
payor healthcare programs. The reimbursement environment is evolving with greater emphasis on cost containment. For example, we believe that the new U.S. presidential administration, together with Congress, will shape U.S. healthcare policy in the
coming months and years, and we expect that healthcare reform efforts could include long-term changes to coverage and reimbursement that may have a significant impact on our business. Furthermore, due to the increasing expectations and demands of
healthcare payors, we believe that we and others in our industry will be under increased pressure to further demonstrate the efficacy and economic value of our products. Therefore, sales of our products are and will continue to be affected by the
availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payors, including government and private insurance plans and administration of those programs. Governments may regulate access to, prices or reimbursement levels of our products to control
costs or to affect levels of use of our products and private insurers may be influenced by government reimbursement methodologies. Worldwide use of our products may be affected by these cost containment pressures and cost shifting from governments
and private insurers to healthcare providers or patients in response to ongoing initiatives to reduce or reallocate healthcare expenditures. Further, safety signals, trends, adverse events or results from clinical trials, studies or meta-analyses or
from the marketed use of our products may negatively impact worldwide reimbursement for our products. For additional information on reimbursement and its impact on our business, see   Item 1. Business   Reimbursement . 
     For the year ended December 31, 2008, our total revenues were $15.0 billion and net income was $4.2 billion, or $3.90 per share on a
diluted basis. In addition to the negative impact of the regulatory and reimbursement developments on sales of our ESA products, as discussed below, our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2008 were negatively impacted by
charges of $288 million for legal settlements and $148 million in connection with our previously announced restructuring plan.      As of
December 31, 2008, cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were $9.6 billion, of which approximately $8.8 billion was generated from operations in foreign tax jurisdictions and is intended for use in our foreign operations. If these
funds were repatriated for use in the United States, we would be required to pay additional U.S. and state income taxes at the applicable marginal tax rates. Our total debt outstanding was $10.2 billion as of December 31, 2008, of which $1.0
billion is due in November 2009. Our cash flow from operations was $6.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2008.      Our worldwide product sales for the year ended December 31, 2008 were $14.7 billion
representing an increase of $376 million, or 3%, over product sales for the year ended December 31, 2007. This increase reflects growth primarily in ENBREL and Neulasta     /NEUPOGEN      sales significantly offset by a decline in U.S. Aranesp      sales. Product sales in the United States for the year ended
December 31, 2008 totaled $11.5 billion and were relatively unchanged from 2007 as the decline in Aranesp      sales, in particular in the supportive cancer care setting, was offset by the
overall growth in our other products. The decline in sales of Aranesp      reflects a decrease in demand resulting from various regulatory and reimbursement developments which principally
occurred in the second half of 2007, additional product label changes in 2008 and, to a lesser extent, loss of segment share as discussed below.      International product sales totaled $3.2 billion, reflecting an increase of 13% over 2007.
International product sales comprised 22% of total product sales in 2008 compared to 20% in 2007 and consisted principally of European sales of Aranesp      and Neulasta     /NEUPOGEN     . Growth in international product sales for the year ended December 31, 2008 was principally driven by favorable
foreign currency exchange rate changes, which totaled $213 million for the year, and sales of Neulasta     /NEUPOGEN     . Excluding the
impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes for the year ended December 31, 2008, worldwide product sales increased 1% and international product sales increased 5%.         
   71   

Table of Contents  

   Beginning in late 2008 and continuing into 2009, foreign currency rates have also been experiencing
extreme volatility. Changes in foreign currency rates result in increases or decreases in our reported international product sales. However, the benefit or detriment of any resulting increases or decreases that movements in foreign currency exchange
rates have on our international product sales are largely offset by corresponding increases or decreases in our international operating expenses and as a result of our related foreign currency hedging activities. Our hedging activities seek to
offset the impact, both positive and negative, that foreign currency exchange rate changes may have on our net income by hedging our net foreign currency exposure, primarily with respect to the Euro.      As discussed in more detail in   Item 1. Business   Key Developments,   certain
of our products, principally our marketed ESA products, have experienced a number of regulatory and reimbursement challenges, including safety-related revisions to product labels and the loss of or significant restrictions on reimbursement. The
developments with respect to our marketed ESA products have had a material adverse impact on Aranesp      sales, in particular, in the U.S. supportive cancer care setting. Furthermore, our ESA
products will continue to face future challenges. For example, in response to the FDA s request, we have submitted a proposed REMS for the class of ESA products. We believe that a REMS program for our ESA products could have a material adverse
impact on the future sales of Aranesp     , especially in the U.S. supportive cancer care setting. Additionally, future Aranesp     
sales could also be materially adversely impacted by further changes in reimbursement, including as a result of future regulatory developments. In addition, certain of our marketed products are also under increased competitive pressures, including
from biosimilar and other products in Europe, which compete or are expected to compete with Aranesp     , Neulasta      and NEUPOGEN     , as well as our marketed products in the United States, including ENBREL.      In
addition, capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption, particularly during the latter part of 2008 and the beginning of 2009. We are working to manage our business effectively despite the unprecedented
conditions in the financial markets both in the United States and around the world. To date, these macro economic challenges have not affected us to a large degree. The extent and/or the duration of any potential adverse economic impact that such
financial disruption may have on our third-party payors, including governments and private insurance plans, wholesale distributors, customers, service providers and suppliers is unclear. However, it may result in reduced demand for our products.
(See   Item 1A. Risk Factors   The volatility of the current financial markets and the general economic slowdown may magnify certain risks that affect our business.  )      As a result of the challenges facing certain of our products and, in particular, the regulatory and reimbursement developments involving our marketed ESA
products that began in 2007 and their resulting impact on our operations, on August 15, 2007, we announced a plan to restructure our worldwide operations in order to improve our cost structure while continuing to make significant R D
investments and build the framework for our future growth. Key components of our restructuring plan initially included: (i) worldwide staff reductions aggregating approximately 2,500 positions, (ii) rationalization of our worldwide network
of manufacturing facilities in order to gain cost efficiencies while continuing to meet future commercial and clinical demand for our products and product candidates and, to a lesser degree, changes to certain R D capital projects and
(iii) abandoning leases primarily for certain R D facilities that will not be used in our operations. Through December 31, 2008, we have completed substantially all of the actions initially included in our restructuring plan, including
the divestiture of certain less significant marketed products discussed below. During 2008, we identified certain additional initiatives designed to further assist in improving our cost structure, including outsourcing certain non-core business
functions, most notably certain of our information systems  infrastructure services, as well as abandoning leases for certain additional facilities that will no longer be used in our operations. The estimated cost of these additional
initiatives is $95 million to $135 million. As a result of these additional initiatives and certain minor changes in the expected costs for the actions initially included in our restructuring plan, the total charges currently expected to be incurred
in connection with our restructuring plan, including related implementation costs, has been increased to $950 million to $985 million, as compared to our prior estimate of $775 million to $825 million as of December 31, 2007. Through
December 31, 2008 we have incurred $887 million of these costs and estimate that all remaining amounts will be incurred through 2009. Such cost estimates and amounts incurred are net of amounts recovered from our ENBREL co-promotion partner,
Wyeth.         
   72   

Table of Contents  

   In September 2008, we entered into an agreement
with Biovitrum whereby they acquired from us the marketed biologic therapeutic products Kepivance      (palifermin) and Stemgen     
(ancestim), and also obtained from us a worldwide exclusive license to Kineret      (anakinra) for its current approved indication. In connection with the disposal of these less significant
marketed products, we incurred a $10 million loss. For the year ended December 31, 2008, worldwide product sales for these marketed products were approximately $70 million.      There are many factors that affect us and our industry in general, including, among others, those relating to increased complexity and cost of R D
due, in part, to greater scrutiny of clinical trials with respect to safety which may lead to fewer treatments being approved by the FDA or other regulatory bodies and/or safety-related label changes for approved products; increasingly intense
competition for marketed products and product candidates; reimbursement changes; healthcare provider prescribing behavior, regulatory or private healthcare organization medical guidelines and reimbursement practices; complex and expanding regulatory
requirements; and intellectual property protection. (See   Item 1. Business   and   Item 1A. Risk Factors   for further information on these economic and industry-wide factors and their impact and potential impact on
our business.)       Results of Operations        Product sales
      For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, worldwide product sales and total product sales by geographic region were as
follows (dollar amounts in millions):       
    Product sales are influenced by a number of factors, including demand, third-party reimbursement
availability and policies, government programs, regulatory developments or guidelines, clinical trial outcomes, clinical practice, contracting and pricing strategies, wholesaler and end-user inventory management practices, patient population growth,
fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, general economic conditions, new product launches and indications, competitive products, product supply and acquisitions. (See   Item 1. Business   Marketed Products and Selected Product
Candidates   for a discussion of our principal products and their approved indications.)      Total product sales for the year ended December 31, 2008 increased 3%. This increase reflects growth primarily in ENBREL and Neulasta     /NEUPOGEN      sales significantly offset by a decline in U.S. Aranesp      sales. Product sales in the United States for the year ended
December 31, 2008 totaled $11.5 billion and were relatively unchanged from 2007 as the decline in Aranesp      sales was offset by the overall growth in other products. International
product sales for the year ended December 31, 2008 totaled $3.2 billion reflecting an increase of 13% over 2007. International product sales for the year ended December 31, 2008 reflect favorable foreign currency exchange rate changes of
$213 million. Excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes for the year ended December 31, 2008, total product sales increased 1% and international product sales increased 5%.         
   73   

Table of Contents  

    Aranesp            For the years ended December 31, 2008,
2007 and 2006, total Aranesp      sales by geographic region were as follows (dollar amounts in millions):       
    The decrease in U.S. Aranesp      sales for the year ended December 31, 2008 reflects the negative impact on demand, primarily in the supportive cancer care setting, of physician conformance to regulatory and reimbursement
developments which principally occurred in the second half of 2007, additional product label changes which occurred in 2008, and to a lesser extent, loss of segment share. The decline in demand was partially offset by an increase in the average net
sales price. In addition, U.S. sales of Aranesp      for the year ended December 31, 2008 benefited from a slight change in an accounting estimate related to product sales return reserves.
The regulatory and reimbursement developments negatively impacting sales, discussed in more detail in   Item 1. Business   Key Developments ,  include (i) the loss of Aranesp      for use in the treatment of AoC in 2007 (ii) the March 9, 2007, November 8, 2007, March 7, 2008 and August 6, 2008 product safety-related label changes in the United States, and
(iii) the CMS  Decision Memorandum issued in July 2007, which significantly restricted Medicare reimbursement for use of Aranesp      in CIA and which we believe has also negatively
impacted Aranesp      use in CIA for patients covered by private insurance plans.      The increase in international Aranesp     
sales for the year ended December 31, 2008 is due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, which positively impacted sales growth by approximately $104 million. Excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes, international
Aranesp      sales decreased 5%. This decrease reflects dosing conservatism in the oncology segment and pricing pressures across all ESAs in Europe, which has resulted in an overall decrease in
the ESA market. Through December 31, 2008, biosimilars and other recently introduced marketed products in Europe have not had a significant impact on total international Aranesp     
segment share.      The decrease in U.S. Aranesp      sales for the year ended December 31, 2007 was principally driven by a decline in demand. This decline primarily reflects physician conformance to label and reimbursement changes that occurred throughout 2007,
primarily in the supportive cancer care setting, which are discussed in more detail in   Item 1. Business   Key Developments,   and, to a lesser extent, loss of segment share.      The increase in international Aranesp     
sales for the year ended December 31, 2007 was primarily driven by favorable foreign currency exchange rate changes of $100 million. Excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes, international Aranesp      sales increased 2%. International sales were negatively impacted in Europe by dosing conservatism in the oncology segment and pricing pressures across all ESAs.      In addition to the factors mentioned in the   Product sales   section above, future
worldwide Aranesp      sales will be dependent, in part, on such factors as:       

regulatory developments, including those resulting from:          

the proposed REMS for the class of ESAs, which we have submitted to the FDA, or other risk management activities undertaken by us or required by the FDA or other
regulatory authorities;          

product labeling changes occurring in October 2008 in Europe for the class of ESAs, including Aranesp     , by the European Commission and the potential for further changes;          

future product label changes;          

reimbursement developments, including those resulting from:          

government s and/or third-party payor s reaction to regulatory developments, including the proposed REMS, which we have submitted to the FDA, and recent
or future product label changes;            
   74   

Table of Contents  

current or future cost containment pressures by third-party payors, including governments and private insurance plans;          

adverse events or results from clinical trials or studies or meta-analyses performed by us, including our pharmacovigilance clinical trials, or by others (including
our licensees or independent investigators), such as those referred to in   Item 1. Business   Key Developments ,  which have and could further impact product safety labeling, negatively impact healthcare provider prescribing
behavior, use of our product, regulatory or private healthcare organization medical guidelines and reimbursement practices;          

governmental or private organization regulations or guidelines relating to the use of our product;          

our ability to maintain worldwide segment share and differentiate Aranesp      from current and potential future competitive products, including J J s Epoetin alfa product marketed in the United States and certain other locations outside of the United States and other competitors 
products outside of the United States, including biosimilar products that have been or are expected to be launched in the future;          

our current and future contracting and related pricing strategies;          

patient population growth; and          

development of new treatments for cancer and future chemotherapy treatments. For example, targeted therapies and other
treatments that are less myelosuppressive may require less Aranesp     .         Certain of the above factors could have a material adverse impact on future sales of Aranesp     .      See   Item 1. Business   Key Developments   and   Item
1A. Risk Factors   herein for further discussion of certain of the above factors that could impact our future product sales.       EPOGEN            For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, total EPOGEN      sales were as follows (dollar amounts in millions):       
    The 1% decrease in EPOGEN      sales for the year ended December 31, 2008 was primarily due to a decrease in demand, reflecting a decline in the average net sales price. The increase in demand resulting from patient
population growth was offset by a decline in dose/utilization in certain settings. The decline in dose/utilization is related to the ESA label changes and the CMS revision to its EMP, which became effective January 1, 2008, as discussed in more
detail in   Item 1. Business   Key Developments.   We believe that the EMP implementation significantly impacted physician behavior resulting in declines in dosing trends, as particularly noted in the quarter of implementation.
However, this dose decline subsequently moderated throughout 2008.      The decline in
EPOGEN      sales for the year ended December 31, 2007 reflects a decrease in demand due to a decline in dose/utilization, partially offset by patient population growth. The decline in
dose/utilization was due to physician behavior in making treatment and dosing decisions in response to regulatory and reimbursement developments that occurred throughout 2007, including anticipation of the implementation of the CMS revision to its
EMP, as discussed in more detail in   Item 1. Business   Key Developments.   The decline in sales for the year ended December 31, 2007 was partially offset by favorable changes in wholesaler inventory and spillover.
Spillover is a result of the Company s contractual relationship with J J (see Note 1,   Summary of significant accounting policies   Product sales   to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion).
     In addition to the factors mentioned in the   Product sales   section
above, future EPOGEN      sales will be dependent, in part, on such factors as:       

reimbursement developments, including those resulting from:          

changes in healthcare providers  prescribing behavior resulting in dose fluctuations due to the CMS  revisions to its EMP, which became effective
January 1, 2008;            
   75   

Table of Contents  

the federal government s reaction to regulatory developments, including recent or future product label changes;          

changes in reimbursement rates or changes in the basis for reimbursement by the federal and state governments, including Medicare and Medicaid;

cost containment pressures from the federal and state governments on healthcare providers;          

regulatory developments, including those resulting from:          

future product label changes;          

risk management activities, including a REMS, undertaken by us or required by the FDA;          

governmental or private organization regulations or guidelines relating to the use of our products, including changes in medical guidelines and legislative actions;

adverse events or results from clinical trials or studies or meta-analyses performed by us, including our pharmacovigilance clinical trials, or by others (including
our licensees or independent investigators), such as those referred to in   Item 1. Business   Key Developments ,  which have and could further impact product safety labeling, negatively impact healthcare provider prescribing
behavior, use of our product, regulatory or private healthcare organization medical guidelines and reimbursement practices;          

our current and future contracting and related pricing strategies;          

changes in future patient population growth or dose/utilization; and          

development of new modalities to treat anemia associated with CRF.         See   Item 1. Business   Key Developments   and   Item 1A. Risk Factors   for further discussion of certain of the above factors that could impact our future product sales.
      Neulasta     /NEUPOGEN            For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, total Neulasta     /NEUPOGEN      sales by
geographic region were as follows (dollar amounts in millions):       
    The increase in U.S. Neulasta     /NEUPOGEN      sales for the year ended December 31, 2008 primarily reflects an increase in demand for Neulasta      driven by an increase in the average net sales price partially offset by a slight decline in units sold. The increase in international Neulasta     /NEUPOGEN      sales for the year ended December 31, 2008 reflects increased demand driven by continued conversion from NEUPOGEN      to Neulasta      as well as changes in foreign currency exchange rates, which positively impacted the growth in combined international sales by $86 million.
Excluding the favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes, international Neulasta     /NEUPOGEN      sales increased 10%
versus the prior year.      The increase in U.S. Neulasta     /NEUPOGEN      sales for the year ended December 31, 2007 was driven by demand for Neulasta     
primarily due to segment growth and, to a lesser degree, favorable changes in wholesaler inventory levels. The increase in international Neulasta     /NEUPOGEN      sales for the year ended December 31,  
       
   76   

Table of Contents  

2007 was driven by the continued conversion to Neulasta      from NEUPOGEN      and changes in foreign exchange, which positively impacted the growth in combined international sales by $74 million. Excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes, combined
international Neulasta     /NEUPOGEN      sales increased 13%.      In addition to the factors mentioned in the   Product sales   section above, future
worldwide Neulasta     /NEUPOGEN      sales will be dependent, in part, on such factors as:       

penetration of existing segments;          

competitive products or therapies, including biosimilar products that have been or may be approved and launched in the EU (see   Item 1. Business  
Marketed Products and Selected Product Candidates   for additional discussion);          

the availability, extent and access to reimbursement by government and third-party payors;          

adverse events or results from clinical trials or studies or meta-analyses performed by us or by others (including our licensees or independent investigators),
which could impact product safety labeling and may negatively impact healthcare provider prescribing behavior, use of our products, regulatory or private healthcare organization medical guidelines and reimbursement practices;

governmental or private organization regulations or guidelines relating to the use of our products;          

cost containment pressures from governments and private insurers on healthcare providers;          

our current and future contracting and related pricing strategies;          

patient population growth; and          

development of new treatments for cancer and future chemotherapy treatments. For example, targeted therapies and other
treatments that are less myelosuppressive, and changes in chemotherapy usage patterns, may require less Neulasta     /NEUPOGEN     .
        See   Item 1. Business   Key Developments   and   Item 1A. Risk Factors   for further
discussion of certain of the above factors that could impact our future product sales.       ENBREL       For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, total ENBREL sales by geographic region were as follows (dollar amounts in millions):
      
    ENBREL sales growth for the year ended December 31, 2008 reflects higher demand principally
due to increases in average net sales price. ENBREL sales were also favorably impacted by approximately $100 million due to a change in our distribution model for ENBREL. Previously, ENBREL was shipped directly to pharmacies. However, beginning in
the three months ended March 31, 2008, we commenced using a wholesaler distributor model, similar to our other marketed products. Also, ENBREL sales growth for the year ended December 31, 2008 was affected by share declines in the
rheumatology and dermatology segments in the United States compared to the prior year due to increased competitive activity. However, sales growth continued in both rheumatology and dermatology, and ENBREL continues to maintain a leading position in
both segments.      ENBREL sales growth for the year ended December 31, 2007 was driven by demand due to increases in both patients and
average net sales price. While ENBREL continued to maintain a leading position in both rheumatology and dermatology, the sales growth during the year ended December 31, 2007 was affected by slight share declines in the United States in both
segments compared to the prior year due to increased competitive activity.         
   77   

Table of Contents  

   In addition to the factors mentioned in the   Product sales   section above, future
worldwide ENBREL sales will be dependent, in part, on such factors as:       

the effects of competing products or therapies, including new competitive products coming to market, such as J J s CNTO 1275 (ustekinumab) and CNTO 148
(golimumab) (see   Item 1. Business   Marketed Products and Selected Product Candidates  ) and, in part, our ability to differentiate ENBREL based on its safety profile and efficacy;          

recent or future product label changes;          

risk management activities, including a REMS, undertaken by us or required by the FDA or other regulatory authorities;          

growth in the rheumatology and dermatology segments;          

the availability, extent and access to reimbursement by government and third-party payors;          

adverse events or results from clinical trials or studies or meta-analyses performed by us or by others (including our licensees or independent investigators),
which could impact product safety labeling and may negatively impact healthcare provider prescribing behavior, use of our product, regulatory or private healthcare organization medical guidelines and reimbursement practices;

governmental or private organization regulations or guidelines relating to the use of our product;          

cost containment pressures from governments and private insurers on healthcare providers;          

current and future contracting and related pricing strategies;          

patient population growth; and          

penetration of existing segments.         See   Item 1. Business   Key Developments   and   Item 1A. Risk Factors   for further discussion of certain of the above factors that could impact our future product sales.       Selected operating expenses       The following table
summarizes our product sales and operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 (dollar amounts in millions):       
     Cost of sales       Cost of sales, which excludes the amortization of acquired intangible assets, decreased 10% for the year ended December 31, 2008. The decrease was primarily driven by lower restructuring charges incurred in 2008,
as  
       
   78   

Table of Contents  

discussed below. In addition, the decline in cost of sales was due to lower inventory write-offs and lower cost ENBREL, partially offset by higher sales
volume and excess capacity charges.      Cost of sales increased 22% for the year ended December 31, 2007, primarily driven by
restructuring charges, as discussed below, product mix due to higher sales of ENBREL, excess capacity charges and the write-off of excess inventory related to certain new product presentations and due to changing regulatory and reimbursement
environments.      Cost of sales for the year ended December 31, 2008 included $6 million of restructuring charges. Cost of sales for the
year ended December 31, 2007 included $150 million of restructuring charges, primarily related to accelerated depreciation resulting from the decision to accelerate closure of one of our ENBREL commercial bulk manufacturing operations in
connection with the rationalization of our worldwide network of manufacturing facilities. See Note 2,   Restructuring   to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.       Research and development       R D
costs are expensed as incurred and primarily include salaries, benefits and other staff-related costs; facilities and overhead costs; clinical trial and related clinical manufacturing costs; contract services and other outside costs; information
systems  costs and amortization of acquired technology used in R D with alternative future uses. R D expenses include costs incurred under R D arrangements with our corporate partners, such as activities performed on behalf of KA,
and costs associated with collaborative R D and in-licensing arrangements, including upfront fees and milestones paid to collaboration partners in connection with technologies that have no alternative future use. Net payment or reimbursement of
R D costs for R D collaborations are recognized as the obligation has been incurred or as we become entitled to the cost recovery.      R D expenses decreased 7% for the year ended December 31, 2008, which was principally due to $102 million of lower staff-related costs and discretionary expenses; $133 million of lower clinical trial costs; $100 million of
cost recoveries derived from our licensing agreements, primarily with Daiichi Sankyo and Takeda and a $16 million decline in restructuring-related costs, as discussed below, partially offset by a $100 million expense in the year ended
December 31, 2008 for the upfront payment under our licensing agreement with Kyowa Hakko. Our clinical trial costs were lower for the year ended December 31, 2008 primarily due to the completion of enrollment of our large denosumab
clinical trials and the related significant costs associated with site initiation and patient enrollment no longer being incurred, partially offset by increased clinical costs for our emerging pipeline.      R D expenses decreased 3% for the year ended December 31, 2007, which was primarily attributable to reductions in in-licensing expenses of
approximately $95 million primarily due to our agreement with Cytokinetics entered into in 2006 and a $50 million benefit in 2007 from our licensing agreement with Daiichi Sankyo. These decreases in R D expenses for the year ended
December 31, 2007 were partially offset by $19 million of restructuring costs, as discussed below.      For the year ended
December 31, 2008, restructuring-related R D costs totaled $3 million. R D expense for the year ended December 31, 2007 include $19 million of restructuring costs, primarily comprised of $38 million in charges related to asset
impairments offset by a $19 million benefit associated with the reversal of previously accrued expenses for bonuses and stock-based compensation awards, which were forfeited as a result of the employees  termination.       Selling, general and administrative       Selling, general and administrative ( SG A ) expenses are primarily comprised of salaries, benefits and other staff-related costs associated with sales and marketing, finance, legal and other administrative personnel;
facilities and overhead costs; outside marketing, advertising and legal expenses and other general and administrative costs. In connection with a co-promotion agreement, we and Wyeth market and sell ENBREL in the United States and Canada and Wyeth
is paid a share of the related profits, as defined. The share of ENBREL s profits owed to Wyeth is included in SG A expenses.         
   79   

Table of Contents  

   SG A expense increased 13% for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to 2007, in part due to
the impact of our restructuring plan which contributed $161 million to the increase in expenses, as discussed below. The increase was also due to higher expense associated with the Wyeth profit share of $211 million, product promotional spending of
$39 million and staff-related costs of $94 million, partially offset by lower litigation expense of $50 million. For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, the expense associated with the Wyeth profit share, excluding recoveries recorded
as part of our restructuring, as discussed below, was $1,195 million and $984 million, respectively.      SG A remained relatively unchanged
for the year ended December 31, 2007. During the year ended December 31, 2007, outside legal costs increased $53 million and outside marketing costs increased approximately $59 million. The increase in outside marketing is primarily due to
an increase in the expense associated with the Wyeth profit share, partially offset by reductions in promotion and advertising on marketed products. These increases were offset by approximately $125 million in expense recoveries associated with our
restructuring, as discussed below. For the year ended December 31, 2006, the expense associated with the Wyeth profit share was $837 million. See Note 2,   Restructuring   to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further
discussion.      For the year ended December 31, 2008, we recorded $37 million for certain restructuring charges, which primarily included
$17 million in asset impairments, $12 million in loss accruals for leases principally related to certain facilities that will not be used in our business and $9 million in implementation costs associated with certain restructuring initiatives. For
the year ended December 31, 2007, we recorded $114 million in cost recoveries for certain restructuring charges, principally with respect to accelerated depreciation, in connection with our co-promotion agreement with Wyeth and $11 million of
benefit associated with the reversal of previously accrued expenses for bonuses and stock-based compensation awards, which were forfeited as a result of the employees  termination. See Note 2,   Restructuring   to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.       Amortization of acquired intangible assets       Amortization of acquired intangible assets relates to products technology rights acquired in connection with the Immunex acquisition. For the years ended
December 31, 2007 and 2006, amortization expense also included $3 million and $49 million, respectively, related to the impairment of a non-ENBREL related intangible asset previously acquired in the Immunex acquisition.       Write-off of acquired in-process research and development       For acquisitions prior to January 1, 2009, the fair value of acquired IPR D projects, which have no alternative future use and which have not reached technological feasibility at the date of acquisition, were
immediately expensed (see   Recent accounting pronouncements   below). In 2007, we wrote-off $270 million and $320 million of acquired IPR D related to the acquisitions of Alantos and Ilypsa, respectively. The Alantos IPR D
amount is related to an orally administered treatment for type II diabetes that, at the date of acquisition, was in phase 2a clinical trials. The Ilypsa IPR D amount is related to a phosphate binder that, at the date of acquisition, was in phase
2 clinical trials for the treatment of hyperphosphatemia in CKD patients on hemodialysis. In 2006, we wrote-off $1.1 billion and $130 million of acquired IPR D related to the acquisitions of Abgenix and Avidia, respectively. The Abgenix
IPR D amount is primarily comprised of approximately $770 million related to the rights which we did not own pursuant to our agreement with Abgenix to jointly develop and commercialize panitumumab and approximately $330 million related to a
royalty that we would have owed to Abgenix with respect to future sales of denosumab as a result of using certain of Abgenix s patented technologies in the development of this product candidate. Panitumumab was Abgenix s fully human
monoclonal antibody which, at acquisition, was in phase 2/3 clinical trials for the treatment of certain types of cancer. Denosumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody that is a key mediator of osteoclast formation, function and survival and was in
phase 2/3 clinical trials for various types of bone diseases at the time of the Abgenix acquisition. There were no individually significant IPR D projects acquired and written off in the acquisition of Avidia.         
   80   

Table of Contents  

   We used the  income method  to determine the estimated fair values of acquired IPR D, which
uses a discounted cash flow model and applies a probability weighting based on estimates of successful product development and commercialization to estimated future net cash flows resulting from projected revenues and related costs. These success
rates take into account the stages of completion and the risks surrounding successful development and commercialization of the underlying product candidates. These cash flows were then discounted to present value using a discount rate of 10%. The
estimated after-tax cash flows were probability weighted at success rates of 38% for the Alantos product candidate, 77% for the Ilypsa product candidate, and 43% to 85% for the Abgenix product candidates. The incremental R D expenses assumed to
be incurred to obtain necessary regulatory approval for the Alantos and Ilypsa product candidates are immaterial. The incremental R D expenses assumed to be incurred to obtain necessary regulatory approvals for the various indications of
panitumumab were estimated at the time of acquisition at approximately $300 million and would be incurred through 2011. The elimination of the royalty on potential future sales of denosumab did not result in us incurring any incremental R D
expenses.      The above assumptions were used solely for the purposes of estimating fair values of these product candidates as of the date of
their acquisition. However, we cannot provide assurance that the underlying assumptions used to forecast the cash flows or the timely and successful completion of development and commercialization will materialize, as estimated. The major risks and
uncertainties associated with the timely and successful completion of development and commercialization of these product candidates are our ability to confirm their safety and efficacy based on data from clinical trials, our ability to obtain
necessary regulatory approvals and our ability to successfully complete these tasks within budgeted costs. We are not able to market a human therapeutic without obtaining regulatory approvals, and such approvals require completing clinical trials
that demonstrate a product candidate is safe and effective. Consequently, the eventual realized value of the acquired IPR D may vary from its estimated value at the date of acquisition.      At the date of acquisition, we intended to develop panitumumab for treatment of various types of
cancer. Panitumumab received FDA approval in late September 2006 for the treatment of mCRC after disease progression on, or following, fluoropyrimidine-, oxaliplatin- and irinotecan- containing chemotherapy regimens and is marketed under the
trademark Vectibix     . In December 2007, the European Commission granted a conditional marketing authorization for Vectibix      as
monotherapy for the treatment of patients with EGFr expressing mCRC with non-mutated (wild-type) KRAS genes after failure of standard chemotherapy regimens. This conditional approval is reviewed annually by the CHMP, and in December 2008 we agreed
as a condition of the renewal of approval to conduct an additional clinical trial in the existing approved indication. We are continuing to develop or are evaluating plans to develop Vectibix    
  in all of the remaining indications we had intended at the date of acquisition. However, since the acquisition, there have been several events that have affected the development plans for Vectibix     , such as the results of our PACCE trial and KRAS biomarker analysis. Because of these developments, our expected time to obtain regulatory approvals for the remaining indications has been delayed compared to our
original expectations. Our development efforts with respect to denosumab are continuing. In December 2008, we submitted a BLA to the FDA for denosumab for the treatment and prevention of PMO in women and bone loss in patients undergoing hormone
ablation for either prostate or breast cancer. On February 18, 2009, the FDA accepted our BLA and informed us that it will target an FDA action within ten months of the BLA s submission date. Additionally, in January 2009, we submitted an
application to the EMEA for the approval of denosumab for treatment of PMO in women and treatment of bone loss associated with hormone ablation therapy in patients with breast and prostate cancer. In addition, we are continuing to develop the
product candidate acquired in the Alantos acquisition. We have reviewed data from recently-completed phase 1 and 2 clinical trials for AMG 223, the product candidate acquired in the Ilypsa acquisition. The results were consistent with what is likely
required for registration of a phosphate-binding therapy. However, in the context of our overall development portfolio, the Company will be reviewing other options for the commercialization of this investigational product.       Other charges       As discussed in Note
2,   Restructuring   to the Consolidated Financial Statements, on August 15, 2007, we announced a plan to restructure our worldwide operations in order to improve our cost structure while continuing  
       
   81   

Table of Contents  

to make significant R D investments and build the framework for our future growth. As a result of this restructuring plan, we recorded in  Other
charges  in 2008 and 2007 expenses for staff separation costs of $7 million and $209 million, respectively, asset impairments of $36 million and $366 million, respectively, and charges of $49 million and $119 million, respectively,
primarily related to the loss accruals for leases for certain facilities that will not be used in our business.      Also, in 2008, the Company
recorded in  Other charges  loss accruals for settlements of certain commercial legal proceedings aggregating $288 million, principally related to the settlement of the Ortho Biotech antitrust suit. In addition, in 2007, the Company
recorded a $34 million loss accrual for an ongoing commercial legal proceeding.       Income taxes       Our effective tax rate was 20.1%, 20.1% and 26.6% for 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Our effective tax rate for 2008 remained relatively unchanged
from 2007. Although the 2007 effective tax rate benefited from the favorable resolution of certain income tax examinations, this benefit was substantially offset by the write-off of nondeductible acquired IPR D costs, resulting in a comparable
effective tax rate between the two years.      Our effective tax rate for 2007 decreased over 2006 primarily due to the lesser amount of the
write-off of nondeductible acquired IPR D costs in 2007 than in 2006 and the greater tax benefit from the favorable resolutions of our prior years  income tax examinations in 2007 than in 2006.      As permitted in Accounting Principles Board Opinion ( APB ) No. 23,   Accounting for Income Taxes   Special Areas ,  we
do not provide for U.S. income taxes on undistributed earnings of our foreign operations that are intended to be invested indefinitely outside of the United States.      (See Note 5,   Income taxes   to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.)       Recent
accounting pronouncements       In May 2008, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued FASB Staff Position
( FSP ) No. APB 14-1,   Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement)   ( FSP APB 14-1 ) that changes the method of accounting for
convertible debt securities that require or permit settlement in cash either in whole or in part upon conversion, including our convertible debt securities (see Note 6,   Financing arrangements   to the Consolidated Financial
Statements). We will adopt FSP APB 14-1, effective January 1, 2009, and retrospectively apply this change in accounting to all prior periods presented for which we had applicable outstanding convertible debt, as required by this new standard.
Under this new method of accounting, the debt and equity components of our convertible debt securities will be bifurcated and accounted for separately in a manner that will result in recognizing interest expense on these securities at effective
rates reflective of what we would have incurred had we issued nonconvertible debt with otherwise similar terms. The equity component of our convertible debt securities will be included in  Stockholders  equity  on our Consolidated
Balance Sheets and, accordingly, the initial carrying values of these debt securities will be reduced. Our net income for financial reporting purposes will be reduced by recognizing the accretion of the reduced carrying values of our convertible
debt securities to their face amounts as additional non-cash interest expense. The adoption of FSP APB 14-1 will result in a reduction in the carrying value of our convertible debt by approximately $824 million as of December 31, 2008 and will
increase interest expense, net by approximately $234 million, $168 million and $197 million, for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. This new standard will also materially increase interest expense in future
periods that our convertible debt is outstanding, but will have no impact on past or future cash flows.      In December 2007, the FASB issued
SFAS No. 141(R),   Business Combinations   ( SFAS 141(R) ) and SFAS No. 160,   Accounting and Reporting of Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements   an amendment of ARB
No. 51   ( SFAS 160 ). These standards will significantly change the accounting and reporting for business combination transactions and noncontrolling (minority) interests in consolidated financial statements, including
capitalizing the fair value of acquired IPR D at the acquisition date and subsequently testing these assets for impairment. These new standards will be applied prospectively for business combinations  
       
   82   

Table of Contents  

that occur on or after January 1, 2009, except that presentation and disclosure requirements of SFAS 160 regarding noncontrolling interests will be
applied retrospectively.      In June 2008, the FASB ratified EITF Issue No. 07-5,   Determining Whether an Instrument (or Embedded
Feature) Is Indexed to an Entity s Own Stock   ( EITF 07-5 ). Equity-linked instruments (or embedded features) that otherwise meet the definition of a derivative as outlined in SFAS No. 133,   Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities ,  are not accounted for as derivatives if certain criteria are met, one of which is that the instrument (or embedded feature) must be indexed to the entity s own stock. EITF 07-5 provides
guidance on how to determine if equity-linked instruments (or embedded features) such as warrants to purchase our stock, our convertible notes and convertible note hedges are considered indexed to our stock. We will adopt EITF 07-5, effective
January 1, 2009, and apply its provisions to outstanding instruments as of that date. The adoption of EITF 07-5 will not have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.      In December 2007, the FASB ratified EITF No. 07-1,   Accounting for Collaborative Agreements   ( EITF 07-1 ). EITF 07-1
provides guidance regarding financial statement presentation and disclosure of collaborative arrangements, as defined, which includes certain arrangements the Company has entered into regarding development and commercialization of products and
product candidates. EITF 07-1 is effective for the Company as of January 1, 2009, and its adoption will not have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.       Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources       The following table summarizes selected financial data (in millions):       
    We believe that existing funds, including those generated from our $2.0 billion debt offering in
January 2009, cash generated from operations and existing sources of and access to financing are adequate to satisfy our working capital, capital expenditure and debt service requirements for the foreseeable future. In addition, we plan to
opportunistically pursue our stock repurchase programs and other business initiatives, including acquisitions and licensing activities. Our liquidity needs can be met through a variety of sources, including: cash provided by operating activities,
sale of marketable securities, borrowings through commercial paper and/or our syndicated credit facility and other debt markets and equity markets. (See   Item 1A. Risk Factors   Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented and
adverse capital and credit market conditions may affect our ability to access cost-effective sources of funding and our investment in marketable securities may be subject to market, interest and credit risk that could reduce their value.  )
      Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities       Of the total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at December 31, 2008, approximately $8.8 billion was generated from operations in foreign tax jurisdictions and is intended for use in our foreign
operations. If these funds were repatriated for use in the United States, we would be required to pay additional U.S. and state income taxes at the applicable marginal tax rates.      The primary objectives for our marketable security investment portfolio are liquidity and safety of principal. Investments are made with the objective of
achieving the highest rate of return, consistent with these two objectives. Our investment policy limits investments to certain types of debt and money market instruments issued by institutions primarily with investment grade credit ratings and
places restrictions on maturities and concentration by type and issuer.         
   83   

Table of Contents  

    Financing arrangements       The following table reflects the carrying value of our long-term borrowings under our various financing arrangements as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 (in millions):       
    In May 2008, we issued $500 million aggregate principal amount of notes due in 2018 (the  2018
Notes ) and $500 million aggregate principal amount of notes due in 2038 (the  2038 Notes ) in a registered offering. The 2018 Notes and 2038 Notes pay interest at fixed annual rates of 6.15% and 6.90%, respectively. The 2018 Notes
and 2038 Notes may be redeemed at any time at our option, in whole or in part, at 100% of the principal amount of the notes being redeemed plus accrued interest and a  make-whole  amount, as defined. In the event of a change in control
triggering event, as defined, we may be required to purchase for cash all or a portion of the 2018 Notes and 2038 Notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the notes plus accrued interest. Debt issuance costs totaled approximately $6
million and are being amortized over the life of the notes.      In May 2007, we issued $2.0 billion aggregate principal amount of floating rate
notes due in November 2008 (the  2008 Floating Rate Notes ), $1.1 billion aggregate principal amount of notes due in 2017 (the  2017 Notes ) and $900 million aggregate principal amount of notes due in 2037 (the  2037
Notes ). The annual interest rate on our 2008 Floating Rate Notes was equal to LIBOR plus 0.08%, which was reset quarterly. The 2017 Notes and 2037 Notes pay interest at fixed annual rates of 5.85% and 6.375%, respectively. The 2017 Notes and
2037 Notes may be redeemed at any time at our option, in whole or in part, at 100% of the principal amount of the notes being redeemed plus accrued interest and a  make-whole  amount, as defined. In the event of a change in control
triggering event, as defined, we may be required to purchase for cash all or a portion of the 2017 Notes and 2037 Notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the notes plus accrued interest. A total of $3.2 billion of the net proceeds
raised from the issuance of these notes were used to repurchase shares of our common stock under an ASR entered into in May 2007. Upon the receipt of the proceeds from the issuance of the 2018 Notes and 2038 Notes discussed above, in June 2008 we
exercised our right to call and retired $1.0 billion of the 2008 Floating Rate Notes which were scheduled to mature in November 2008. The remaining $1.0 billion of the 2008 Floating Rate Notes matured and were retired in November 2008.   
  In February 2006, we issued $2.5 billion principal amount of convertible notes due in 2011 (the  2011 Convertible Notes ) and $2.5 billion
principal amount of convertible notes due in 2013 (the  2013 Convertible Notes ). The 2011 Convertible Notes and the 2013 Convertible Notes were issued at par and pay interest at a rate of 0.125% and 0.375%, respectively. The 2011
Convertible Notes and 2013 Convertible Notes may be converted based on an initial conversion rate of 12.5247 shares and 12.5814 shares, respectively, per $1,000 principal amount of notes (which represents an initial conversion price of approximately
$79.84 and $79.48 per share, respectively). The 2011 Convertible Notes and 2013 Convertible Notes may only be converted (i) during any  
       
   84   

Table of Contents  

calendar quarter if the closing price of our common stock exceeds 130% of the respective conversion price per share during a defined period at the end of the
previous quarter, (ii) if we make specified distributions to holders of our common stock or specified corporate transactions occur or (iii) one month prior to the respective maturity date. Upon conversion, a holder would receive
(i) cash equal to the lesser of the principal amount of the note or the conversion value, as defined, and (ii) to the extent the conversion value exceeds the principal amount of the note, shares of our common stock, cash or a combination
of common stock and cash, at our option (the  excess conversion value ). In addition, upon a change in control, as defined, the holders may require us to purchase for cash all or a portion of their notes for 100% of the principal amount of
the notes plus accrued interest. See   Recent accounting pronouncements   above.      In connection with the issuance of the 2011
Convertible Notes and 2013 Convertible Notes, a total of $3.0 billion of our common stock was repurchased under our stock repurchase program. Also, concurrent with the issuance of these convertible notes, we purchased convertible note hedges.
The convertible note hedges allow us to receive shares of our common stock and/or cash from the counterparties to the transactions equal to the amounts of common stock and/or cash related to the excess conversion value that we would issue and/or pay
to the holders of the 2011 Convertible Notes and 2013 Convertible Notes upon conversion. These transactions will terminate at the earlier of the maturity dates of the related notes or the first day none of the related notes remain outstanding due to
conversion or otherwise. The cost of the convertible note hedges, which aggregated approximately $1.5 billion, was recorded as a reduction of equity. The net proceeds from the issuance of the 2011 Convertible Notes and 2013 Convertible Notes, the
repurchase of our common stock and the purchase of the convertible note hedges was $439 million.      Also, concurrent with the issuance of the
2011 Convertible Notes and 2013 Convertible Notes, we sold warrants to acquire shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $107.90 per share. Pursuant to these transactions, warrants for approximately 31.3 million shares of our common
stock may be settled in May 2011 and warrants for approximately 31.5 million shares of our common stock may be settled in May 2013 (the  settlement dates ). If the average price of our common stock during a defined period ending on or
about the respective settlement dates exceeds the exercise price of the warrants, the warrants will be net settled, at our option, in cash or shares of our common stock. Proceeds received from the issuance of the warrants totaled approximately $774
million.      As of December 31, 2008, we had $2.2 billion of additional notes outstanding. The notes consisted of
(i) $1.0 billion of notes that bear interest at a fixed rate of 4.00% and mature in November of 2009 ( 2009 Notes ), (ii) $1.0 billion of notes that bear interest at a fixed rate of 4.85% and mature in 2014 ( 2014
Notes ), (iii) $100 million of long-term debt securities that bear interest at a fixed rate of 8.125% and mature in 2097 ( Century Notes ) and (iv) zero coupon convertible notes due in 2032 with an accreted value of $81
million and having an aggregate face amount of $105 million and yield to maturity of 1.125%. See   Recent accounting pronouncements   above.      To achieve a desired mix of fixed and floating interest rate debt, we enter into interest rate swap agreements that effectively convert a fixed rate interest coupon to a LIBOR-based floating rate coupon over the life
of the respective note. These interest rate swap agreements qualify and are designated as fair value hedges. As of December 31, 2008, we had interest rate swap agreements for our 2009 Notes, 2014 Notes, 2018 Notes and Century Notes, with an
aggregate face value of $2.6 billion. As of December 31, 2007, we had interest rate swap agreements for our 2009 Notes, 2014 Notes and Century Notes, with an aggregate face value of $2.1 billion.      In addition to the outstanding debt noted above, in January 2009, we issued $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of notes due in 2019 (the  2019
Notes ) and $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of notes due in 2039 (the  2039 Notes ) in a registered offering. The 2019 Notes and 2039 Notes pay interest at fixed annual rates of 5.70% and 6.40%, respectively. The 2019 Notes
and 2039 Notes may be redeemed at any time at our option, in whole or in part, at 100% of the principal amount of the notes being redeemed plus accrued interest and a  make-whole  amount, as defined. In the event of a change in control
triggering event, as defined, we may be required to purchase for cash all or a portion of the 2019 Notes and 2039 Notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the notes plus accrued interest. Debt issuance costs totaled approximately
$12 million and are being amortized over the life of the notes.         
   85   

Table of Contents  

   On April 17, 2008, we filed a shelf registration statement with the SEC, which replaced our previous
$1.0 billion shelf registration statement and allows us to issue an unspecified amount of debt securities; common stock; preferred stock; warrants to purchase debt securities, common stock, preferred stock or depository shares; rights to
purchase common stock or preferred stock; securities purchase contracts; securities purchase units and depository shares. Under this registration statement, all of the securities available for issuance may be offered from time to time with terms to
be determined at the time of issuance.      In May 2008, we increased our commercial paper program by $1.3 billion, which provides for
unsecured, short-term borrowings of up to an aggregate of $2.5 billion. We also have a $2.5 billion syndicated unsecured revolving credit facility which matures in November 2012 and is available for general corporate purposes, or as a liquidity
backstop to our commercial paper program; however, $178 million of such commitment was provided by a subsidiary of Lehman. Lehman declared bankruptcy on September 15, 2008, and the subsidiary participant in our credit facility subsequently
declared bankruptcy on October 5, 2008. As a result, we would not anticipate the ability to access this specific commitment provided by Lehman in the future. No amounts were outstanding under the commercial paper program or credit facility as
of December 31, 2008.      As of December 31, 2008, we have $400 million remaining under a shelf registration statement that was
established in 1997. In connection with this shelf registration, we established a $400 million medium-term note program. All of the $400 million of debt securities available for issuance may be offered from time to time under our medium-term note
program with terms to be determined at the time of issuance. As of December 31, 2008, no securities were outstanding under the $400 million medium-term note program.      Certain of our financing arrangements contain non-financial covenants and we were in compliance with all applicable covenants as of December 31, 2008. None of our financing arrangements contain any financial
covenants. Our outstanding convertible notes and other outstanding long-term debt are rated  A+  with a stable outlook by Standard   Poor s,  A3  with a stable outlook by Moody s Investors Service, Inc. and
 A  with a stable outlook by Fitch, Inc.       Cash flows       The following table summarizes our cash flow activity for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 (in millions):       
     Operating       Cash provided by operating activities has been and is expected to continue to be our primary recurring source of funds. Cash provided by operating activities increased in 2008 primarily as a result of improvement in
operating income.      Cash provided by operating activities remained relatively unchanged in 2007 as higher cash receipts from customers were
substantially offset by the timing of payments in the ordinary course of business.       Investing       Net purchases of marketable securities were $2.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to net purchases of $52 million for the year
ended December 31, 2007 and net purchases of $1.5 billion for the year ended December 31, 2006.      Capital expenditures totaled $672
million in 2008 and were significantly lower compared to $1.3 billion in 2007 and $1.2 billion in 2006 as we reassessed our capital spending needs. Capital expenditures in 2008 were primarily associated with manufacturing capacity expansions in
Puerto Rico, Fremont and other site developments and  
       
   86   

Table of Contents  

investment in our global ERP system and other information systems  projects. Capital expenditures in 2007 were primarily associated with manufacturing
capacity and site expansions in Puerto Rico and other locations and investment in our global ERP system. Capital expenditures in 2006 were primarily associated with manufacturing capacity and site expansions in Ireland, Puerto Rico and other
locations and costs associated with implementing our ERP system. We currently estimate 2009 spending on capital projects and equipment to be approximately $700 million.      On January 4, 2008, we completed our acquisition of Domp  and pursuant to the merger agreement, we paid $56 million in cash, net of cash acquired and transaction costs of $2 million.      On July 18, 2007, we completed our acquisition of Ilypsa and pursuant to the merger agreement, we paid $398 million in cash, net of cash acquired and
transaction costs of $2 million. On July 16, 2007, we completed our acquisition of Alantos and pursuant to the merger agreement, we paid $299 million in cash, net of cash acquired and transaction costs of $1 million.      On October 24, 2006, we completed our acquisition of Avidia and paid $275 million in cash, net of cash acquired and our existing equity stake in
Avidia. In addition, we may be subject to pay additional amounts upon the achievement of certain future events. On April 1, 2006, we completed our acquisition of Abgenix and paid $2.1 billion in cash to the shareholders of Abgenix to
acquire all outstanding shares. In addition, we acquired $252 million in cash, and subsequent to the completion of the acquisition, we paid off $653 million of debt assumed in this transaction.       Financing       In July 2007, the Board of
Directors authorized us to repurchase up to $5.0 billion of common stock. As of December 31, 2008, we had $4.2 billion available for stock repurchases as authorized by our Board of Directors. The manner of purchases, the amount we spend and the
number of shares repurchased will vary based on a variety of factors, including the stock price, blackout periods in which we are restricted from repurchasing shares, and our credit rating and may include private block purchases as well as market
transactions. A summary of our repurchase activity under our stock repurchase programs for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 is as follows (in millions):       

(1)      
    The total cost of shares repurchased during the three months ended June 30, 2008 excludes approximately $19 million
paid in July 2008 in connection with the final settlement of an ASR entered into in May 2008.          

(2)      
    The total number of shares repurchased during the three months ended June 30, 2007 excludes 2.5 million shares
received in July 2007 in connection with the final settlement of an ASR entered into in May 2007.         As discussed above, in
May 2008, we issued $500 million aggregate principal amount of notes due in 2018 and $500 million aggregate principal amount of notes due in 2038 resulting in net proceeds received of $991 million. In June 2008, upon receipt of the proceeds from the
issuance of these notes, we exercised our right to call and retired $1.0 billion of floating rate notes scheduled to mature in November 2008 and in November 2008, we retired the remaining $1.0 billion of floating rate notes that matured.   
     
   87   

Table of Contents  

   In May 2007, we issued $2.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 2008 Floating Rate Notes, $1.1 billion
aggregate principal amount of 5.85% notes due in 2017 and $900 million aggregate principal amount of 6.375% notes due in 2037, resulting in net proceeds of $4.0 billion. A total of $3.2 billion of the net proceeds raised from the issuance of these
notes were used to repurchase shares of our common stock under an ASR entered into in May 2007.      On March 2, 2007, as a result of
holders of substantially all of our outstanding 2032 Modified Convertible Notes exercising their March 1, 2007 put option, we repurchased $2.3 billion aggregate principal amount, or the majority of the then outstanding convertible notes at
their then-accreted value for $1.7 billion in cash. In addition $135 million of other debt securities matured and were repaid in 2007.      In February 2006, we issued $5.0 billion of convertible notes, of which $2.5 billion pay interest at 0.125% and are due in 2011 and $2.5 billion pay interest at 0.375% and are due in 2013. In connection with the issuance of these
convertible notes, a total of $3.0 billion of our common stock was repurchased under our stock repurchase program. Also, concurrent with the issuance of these convertible notes, we purchased convertible note hedges at a cost of approximately $1.5
billion. The net proceeds received from the issuance of the 2011 and 2013 Convertible Notes, the repurchase of common stock and the purchase of the convertible note hedges was $439 million. Also, concurrent with the issuance of the convertible
notes, we sold 62.8 million warrants to acquire shares of our common stock for proceeds of $774 million, 31.3 million of which may be settled in May 2011 and 31.5 million of which may be settled in May 2013.      We receive cash from the exercise of employee stock options. Employee stock option exercises provided $155 million, $277 million and $528 million of cash
during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options will vary from period to period based upon, among other factors, fluctuations in the market value of our stock relative
to the exercise price of such options.       Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements       We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that are material or reasonably likely to be material to our consolidated financial position or consolidated results of operations.       Contractual Obligations       Contractual obligations
represent future cash commitments and liabilities under agreements with third parties, and exclude contingent liabilities for which we cannot reasonably predict future payment. Additionally, the expected timing of payment of the obligations
presented below is estimated based on current information. Timing of payments and actual amounts paid may be different depending on the timing of receipt of goods or services or changes to agreed-upon terms or amounts for some obligations.
     The following table represents our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2008, aggregated by type (in millions):       

88   

Table of Contents  

2038 Notes at a fixed rate of 6.90% and the Century Notes at a fixed rate of 8.125%. To achieve a desired mix of fixed and floating interest rate debt, we
enter into interest rate swap agreements. These interest rate swap agreements effectively convert a fixed rate interest coupon to a LIBOR-based floating rate coupon over the life of the respective note. We used an interest rate forward curve at
December 31, 2008 to compute the net amounts to be included in the table above for future interest payments on our variable rate interest rate swaps.          

(2)      
    Purchase obligations primarily relate to (i) our long-term supply agreement with BI Pharma for the manufacture of
commercial quantities of ENBREL, which are based on firm commitments for the purchase of production capacity for ENBREL and reflect certain estimates such as production run success rates and bulk drug yields achieved; (ii) R D commitments
(including those related to clinical trials) for new and existing products; (iii) capital expenditures; (iv) open purchase orders for the acquisition of goods and services in the ordinary course of business and (v) our agreement with
International Business Machines Corporation ( IBM ), which we entered into on October 22, 2008, for certain information systems  infrastructure services. The term of the agreement is five years with three one-year renewals, at
our option, for a total of up to eight years. The cost to us for the initial five-year term, included in the table above, is estimated to be $505 million. The estimated aggregate additional cost of the three one-year renewal options not
included in the table above is approximately $254 million. Our obligation to pay certain of these amounts may be reduced based on certain future events.          

(3)      
    In addition to the current liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits ( UTBs ) included in the table above,
long-term liabilities for UTBs (net of federal tax benefits on state taxes) and related accrued interest totaling approximately $915 million at December 31, 2008 are not included in the table above because, due to their nature, there is a high
degree of uncertainty regarding the timing of future cash outflows and other events that extinguish these liabilities.         On
February 4, 2009, we entered into an agreement for certain integrated facilities management services. The contract has an initial term of five years and automatically renews annually thereafter at the Company s option. The cost to the
Company for the initial five-year term is estimated to be approximately $500 million. The contractual obligations under this contract are not included in the table above given the timing of entering into the agreement.      In addition to the above table, we have committed to make potential future milestone payments to third-parties as part of in-licensing and product
development programs all of which are contingent upon the occurrence of certain future events. Such events could include, but are not limited to, development milestones, regulatory approvals and product sales. Because the achievement of these
milestones is neither probable nor reasonably estimable, such contingencies have not been included in the table above or recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Individually, these arrangements are not material in any one reporting period.
However, if the achievement of the milestones covered by these arrangements would happen to be reached in the same reporting period, the resulting payment obligation would be approximately $1.3 billion.       Summary of Critical Accounting Policies       The
preparation of our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ( GAAP ) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the
financial statements and the notes to the financial statements. Some of those judgments can be subjective and complex, and therefore, actual results could differ materially from those estimates under different assumptions or conditions.   
   Product sales, sales incentives and returns       Sales of our products are recognized when shipped and title and risk of loss have passed. Product sales are recorded net of accruals for estimated rebates, wholesaler chargebacks, discounts and other incentives
(collectively  sales incentives ) and returns.         
   89   

Table of Contents  

   In the United States, we utilize wholesalers as the principal means of distributing our products to
healthcare providers, such as physicians or their clinics, dialysis centers, hospitals and pharmacies. Products we sell outside the United States are principally distributed to hospitals and/or wholesalers depending upon the distribution practice in
each country for which the product has been launched. We monitor the inventory levels of our products at our wholesale distributors using third-party data and we believe that wholesaler inventories have been maintained at appropriate levels
(generally two to three weeks) given end-user demand. Accordingly, historical fluctuations in wholesaler inventory levels have not significantly impacted our method of estimating sales incentives and returns.      Accruals for sales incentives are recorded in the same period that the related sales are recorded and are recognized as a reduction in product sales.
Sales incentive accruals are based on estimates of the amounts earned or to be claimed on the related sales. These estimates take into consideration current contractual and statutory requirements, specific known market events and trends, internal
and external historical data and forecasted customer buying patterns. Sales incentives are product-specific and, therefore, for any given year, can be impacted by the mix of products sold.      For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, reductions in product sales relating to sales incentives were comprised of the following
(dollar amounts in millions):       
    Rebates earned by healthcare providers, such as physicians or their clinics, dialysis centers and
hospitals in the United States may include performance-based offers, such as attaining contractually-specified segment share or other performance-based measures. As a result, the calculation of the accrual for these rebates is complicated by the
need to estimate customer buying patterns and the resulting applicable contractual rebate rate(s) to be earned over a contractual period. These rebates totaled $1.8 billion in 2008, $2.2 billion in 2007 and $2.2 billion in 2006. We believe that the
methodology we use to accrue for rebates is reasonable and appropriate given current facts and circumstances. However, actual results may differ. Based on our recent experience, changes in annual estimates related to prior annual periods have been
less than 3.5% of the estimated rebate amounts charged against product sales for such periods. These changes in annual estimates substantially relate to sales made in the immediately preceding annual period. A 3.5% change in our rebate estimate
attributable to rebates recognized in 2008 would have had an impact of approximately $63 million on our 2008 product sales and a corresponding impact on our financial condition and liquidity.      Wholesaler chargebacks are another type of arrangement included in  sales incentives  that relate to our contractual agreements to sell products
to healthcare providers in the United States at fixed prices that are lower than the prices we charge wholesalers. When the healthcare providers purchase our products through wholesalers at these reduced prices, the wholesaler charges us for the
difference between the prices they pay us and the prices they sold the products to the healthcare providers. These chargebacks from wholesalers totaled $1.6 billion for each of the three years ended December 31, 2008. Accruals for wholesaler
chargebacks are less difficult to estimate than rebates and closely approximate actual results since chargeback amounts are fixed at the date of purchase by the healthcare provider and we settle these deductions generally within a few weeks of
incurring the liability.         
   90   

Table of Contents  

   Amounts accrued for sales incentives are adjusted when trends or significant events indicate that
adjustment is appropriate. Accruals are also adjusted to reflect actual results. However, such adjustments to date have not been material to our results of operations or financial position. The following table summarizes amounts recorded in accrued
liabilities regarding sales incentives (in millions):       

(1)      
    Includes immaterial amounts related to prior year product sales based on changes in estimates. Such amounts represented
less than 2% of incentive amounts charged against product sales for 2008 and 2007.         Accruals for estimated sales returns
are recorded in the same period that the related product sales are recorded and are recognized as reductions in product sales. Returns are estimated through comparison of historical return data to their related sales on a production lot basis.
Historical rates of return are determined for each product and are adjusted for known or expected changes in the marketplace specific to each product, when appropriate. Historically, sales return provisions have been insignificant, amounting to less
than 1% of gross product sales. Furthermore, changes in estimates for prior year sales return provisions have historically also been insignificant.       Deferred income taxes       Our effective tax rate reflects the impact of undistributed foreign earnings for which no U.S. taxes
have been provided because such earnings are intended to be invested indefinitely outside the United States based on our projected cash flow, working capital and long-term investment requirements of our U.S. and foreign operations. If future events,
including material changes in estimates of cash, working capital and long-term investment requirements necessitate that certain assets associated with these earnings be repatriated to the United States, an additional tax provision and related
liability would be required at the applicable U.S. and state marginal income tax rates which could materially impact our future effective tax rate.       Contingencies       In the ordinary course of business, we are involved in various legal proceedings such as intellectual
property disputes, contractual disputes, governmental investigations and class action suits. Certain of these proceedings are discussed in Note 10,   Contingencies   to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We record accruals for
such contingencies to the extent we conclude their occurrence is both probable and estimable. We consider all relevant factors when making assessments regarding these contingencies.      In addition, our income tax returns are routinely audited by the Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) and various state and foreign tax authorities.
Significant disputes may arise with these tax authorities involving issues of the timing and amount of deductions and allocations of income among various tax jurisdictions because of differing interpretations of tax laws and regulations.   
  While it is not possible to accurately predict or determine the eventual outcome of these items, one or more of these items currently pending could
have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.       Valuation of acquired
intangible assets       We have acquired and continue to acquire intangible assets primarily by acquiring biotechnology companies. These
intangible assets primarily consist of technology associated with human therapeutic products and in-process product candidates as well as goodwill arising in business combinations. Discounted cash flow  
       
   91   

Table of Contents  

models are typically used in these valuations, and these models require the use of significant estimates and assumptions including but not limited to:

determining the timing and expected costs to complete the in-process projects,          

projecting regulatory approvals,          

estimating future cash flows from product sales resulting from completed products and in-process projects and          

developing appropriate discount rates and probability rates by project.         We believe the fair values assigned to the intangible assets acquired are based upon reasonable estimates and assumptions given available facts and
circumstances as of the acquisition dates.       Fair value measurement of financial instruments       The Company adopted the provisions of the FASB s Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 157,   Fair Value
Measurements   ( SFAS 157 ), effective January 1, 2008, for its financial assets and liabilities. Under this standard, fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability
(i.e., the  exit price ) in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.      In determining the fair
value of its financial assets and liabilities, the Company uses various valuation approaches. SFAS 157 establishes a hierarchy for inputs used in measuring fair value that maximizes the use of observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable
inputs by requiring that observable inputs be used when available. Observable inputs are inputs that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability based on market data obtained from sources independent of the Company. Unobservable
inputs are inputs that reflect the Company s assumptions about the inputs that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability and are developed based on the best information available in the circumstances. The availability of
observable inputs can vary among the various types of financial assets and liabilities. To the extent that the valuation is based on models or inputs that are less observable or unobservable in the market, the determination of fair value requires
more judgment.      Whenever the estimated fair value of any of our available-for-sale securities is less than their related cost, we perform an
impairment analysis in accordance with the FASB s SFAS No. 115,   Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities ,  and related guidance issued by the FASB and the SEC, in order to determine the
classification of the impairment as  temporary  or  other-than-temporary . A temporary impairment results in an unrealized loss being recorded in the other comprehensive income component of stockholders  equity. Such an
unrealized loss does not affect net income for the applicable accounting period. However, an other-than-temporary impairment charge is recorded as a realized loss in the consolidated statement of income and reduces net income for the applicable
accounting period. The primary factors we consider to differentiate our impairments between temporary and other-than-temporary impairments include the length of the time and the extent to which the market value has been less than cost, the financial
condition and near-term prospects of the issuer and our intent and ability to retain our investment in the issuer for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value.      As of December 31, 2008, the Company s available-for-sale securities were comprised of U.S. Treasury securities, obligations of U.S. government
agencies, FDIC guaranteed bank debt, corporate debt securities, mortgage and asset backed securities, other short-term interest bearing securities, including money market funds, and publicly traded equity investments. U.S. Treasury securities, money
market funds and publicly traded equity investments are valued using quoted market prices with no valuation adjustments applied. Obligations of U.S. government agencies, FDIC guaranteed bank debt, corporate debt securities, mortgage and asset backed
securities and other short-term interest bearing securities are valued using quoted market prices of recent transactions or are benchmarked to transactions of very similar securities.         
   92   

Table of Contents  

   Our derivatives assets and liabilities include interest rate swaps and foreign currency forward and
option contracts. The fair values of these derivatives are determined using models based on market observable inputs, including interest rate curves and both forward and spot prices for foreign currencies.      We believe that the values assigned to our available-for-sale securities and derivative instruments as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 are fairly
stated in accordance with GAAP and are based upon reasonable estimates and assumptions. In addition, we believe that the cost basis for our available-for-sale securities as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 was recoverable in all material respects.
In 2008, the U.S. economy continued to be adversely affected by tightening in the credit markets and volatility in capital markets. Interest rates on U.S. treasury instruments declined considerably during this crisis while other interest rates
fluctuated in excess of historical norms. In addition, the U.S. dollar strengthened dramatically over the second half of the year against most other currencies during a period of extremely high levels of currency volatility. Continuing distress in
the economic environment could ultimately result in other-than-temporary impairments of the carrying values of our available-for-sale securities and/or a material adverse impact on the carrying values of our financial instruments.       

Item 7A.   
   QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK         We are a global biotechnology company with operations in various countries. We are exposed to market risks that may result from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, prices of equity instruments as well as changes in
the general economic conditions in the countries where we conduct business. To reduce certain of these risks, we monitor the financial condition of our larger customers and limit our credit exposure by setting credit limits, requiring letters of
credit and obtaining credit insurance, as we deem appropriate. In addition, we have an investment policy that limits investments to certain types of debt and money market instruments, primarily with investment grade credit ratings and places
restriction on maturities and concentrations by type and issuer. We also enter into various types of foreign exchange and interest rate derivative hedging transactions as part of our risk management program. We do not use derivatives for speculative
trading purposes and are not a party to leveraged derivatives.      In 2008, the U.S. economy continued to be adversely affected by a tightening
in the credit markets and volatility in the capital markets. In an attempt to increase liquidity and stabilize the global financial markets, the U.S. federal government acted in concert with other foreign governments through various forms of direct
market intervention. Short-term interest rates on U.S. treasury instruments have declined considerably during this crisis while other short-term rates have fluctuated in excess of historical norms. As a result, in the discussion that follows, we
have assumed a hypothetical change in interest rates of 100 basis points or 20%, as applicable, from those at December 31, 2008. As this crisis deepened, it spread to the economies of many countries worldwide. This resulted in increased demand
for the U.S. dollar due to the financial market s perception of its relatively higher quality and liquidity. Consequently, the U.S. dollar strengthened dramatically over the second half of the year against most other currencies but also
experienced unprecedented levels of volatility. Our analysis which follows assumes a hypothetical 20% change in foreign exchange rates against the U.S. dollar based on its position relative to other currencies as of December 31, 2008.
      Interest rate sensitive financial instruments       Our investment portfolio of available-for-sale securities at December 31, 2008 and 2007 was comprised primarily of U.S. treasury securities and obligations of U.S. government agencies, money market funds whose
underlying securities were U.S. treasury and agency obligations, corporate debt instruments, commercial paper and mortgage backed securities that are guaranteed by U.S. government agencies. The fair value of our investment portfolio was $9.4 billion
and $6.7 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Duration is a sensitivity measure that can be used to approximate the change in the value of a security that will result from a 100 basis point change in interest rates. Applying a
duration model, a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates at December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007 would not have a material effect on the fair values of these securities. In addition a hypothetical 100 basis point
decrease in interest rates at December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007 would not have a material effect on the income or cash flows.         
   93   

Table of Contents  

   On December 31, 2008, we had outstanding debt with a carrying value and a fair value of $10.2
billion, including $5.1 billion of convertible debt with a fair value of $4.8 billion. Our outstanding debt at December 31, 2008 was comprised entirely of debt with fixed interest rates. On December 31, 2007, we had $11.2 billion of
outstanding debt with a fair value of $10.6 billion, including $5.1 billion of convertible debt with a fair value of $4.5 billion. Our outstanding debt at December 31, 2007 was comprised of $9.2 billion of debt with fixed interest rates and
$2.0 billion of debt with variable interest rates. Changes in interest rates do not affect interest expense or cash flows on our fixed rate debt but would impact our variable rate debt outstanding at December 31, 2007. A hypothetical 20%
increase in interest rates relative to interest rates at December 31, 2007 would not have a material impact on income or cash flows with respect to our $2.0 billion of variable rate debt that was outstanding at December 31, 2007.
     Changes in interest rates would, however, affect the fair values of all of the outstanding debt at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
including, to a lesser extent, our variable rate debt outstanding at December 31, 2007 for which the interest rate reset quarterly. A hypothetical 20% decrease in interest rates relative to interest rates at December 31, 2008 would result
in an increase of approximately $550 million in the aggregate fair value of our outstanding debt. A hypothetical 20% decrease in interest rates relative to the interest rates at December 31, 2007 would result in an increase of approximately
$460 million in the aggregate fair value of our outstanding debt.      To achieve a desired mix of fixed and floating interest rate debt, we
enter into interest rate swap agreements, which qualify and are designated as fair value hedges, for certain of our fixed rate debt with carrying values totaling $2.6 billion and $2.1 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. These
derivative contracts effectively convert a fixed rate interest coupon to a LIBOR-based floating rate coupon over the life of the respective note. A hypothetical 20% increase in interest rates relative to interest rates at December 31, 2008 and
2007 would not have a material effect on the fair value, cash flows or income of our interest rate swap agreements.       Market price
sensitive instruments       As noted above, a portion of our outstanding debt may be converted into our common stock in certain
circumstances. Accordingly, the price of our common stock may affect the fair value of our convertible debt. A hypothetical 20% increase in the price of Amgen stock from the price at December 31, 2008 would have increased the fair value of our
then outstanding convertible debt by approximately $325 million. A hypothetical 10% increase in the price of Amgen stock from the price at December 31, 2007 would have increased the fair value of our then outstanding convertible debt by
approximately $78 million.      On December 31, 2008 and 2007, we were also exposed to price risk on equity securities included in our
portfolio of investments, which were acquired primarily for the promotion of business and strategic objectives. These investments are generally in small capitalization stocks in the biotechnology industry sector. Price risk relative to our equity
investment portfolio on December 31, 2008 and 2007 was not material.       Foreign currency sensitive instruments       Our results of operations are affected by fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar as compared to foreign currencies, predominately the Euro, as a
result of the sales of our products in foreign markets. Increases and decreases in our international product sales from movements in foreign exchange rates are partially offset by the corresponding increases or decreases in our international
operating expenses. To further reduce our net exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations on our results of operations, we have entered into foreign currency forward and option contracts.      On December 31, 2008, we had outstanding forward and options contracts, primarily Euro based, with notional amounts of $2.5 billion and $386 million,
respectively. On December 31, 2007, we had outstanding forward and options contracts, primarily Euro based, with notional amounts of $1.4 billion and $788 million, respectively. These contracts are designated for accounting purposes as cash
flow hedges of certain anticipated foreign currency transactions. As of December 31, 2008 the net unrealized gains and as of December 31, 2007  
       
   94   

Table of Contents  

the net unrealized losses on these contracts were not material. With regard to these contracts, a hypothetical 20% adverse movement in foreign exchange rates
compared with the U.S. dollar relative to exchange rates on December 31, 2008 would result in a reduction in fair value of approximately $550 million, a reduction in income of $270 million in the ensuing year and no material impact on cash
flows. A hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign exchange rates compared with the U.S. dollar relative to exchange rates on December 31, 2007 would result in a reduction in fair value of approximately $160 million and no material
reductions in income or cash flows.      Also on December 31, 2008 and 2007, we had outstanding forward contracts with notional amounts
totaling $472 million and $622 million, respectively, that hedge fluctuations of certain assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies but have not been designated as hedges for accounting purposes. These contracts had no material net
unrealized gains or losses as of December 31, 2008 and 2007. With regard to these contracts, a hypothetical 20% adverse movement in foreign exchange rates compared with the U.S. dollar relative to exchange rates on December 31, 2008 would
not have a material impact on fair value, income or cash flows. A hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign exchange rates compared with the U.S. dollar relative to exchange rates on 2007 would not have a material impact on fair value, income or
cash flows.         The analysis above does not consider the impact that hypothetical changes in foreign currency exchange rates would have
on anticipated transactions and assets and liabilities that these foreign currency sensitive instruments were designed to offset.       Counterparty credit risks       Our financial instruments, including derivatives, are subject to counterparty credit risk which
we consider as part of the overall fair value measurement. We attempt to mitigate this risk through credit monitoring procedures.       

Item 8.   
   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA         The
information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the financial statements and schedule listed in Item 15(a)1 and (a)2 of Part IV and included in this Form 10-K Annual Report.       

Item 9.   
   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES         None.       

Item 9A.   
   CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES         We maintain
 disclosure controls and procedures,  as such term is defined under Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e), that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in Amgen s Exchange Act reports is recorded, processed,
summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC s rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to Amgen s management, including its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as
appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures. In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, Amgen s management recognized that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated,
can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives and in reaching a reasonable level of assurance Amgen s management necessarily was required to apply its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of
possible controls and procedures. We have carried out an evaluation under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including Amgen s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design
and operation of Amgen s disclosure controls and procedures. Based upon their evaluation and subject to the foregoing, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective
as of December 31, 2008.      Management determined that, as of December 31, 2008, there were no changes in our internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the fiscal quarter then ended that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.         
   95   

Table of Contents  

    Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting       Management of the Company is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in
Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company s internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. However, all internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems
determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and reporting.      Management
assessed the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008. In making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission ( COSO ) in Internal Control-Integrated Framework. Based on our assessment, management believes that the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on those
criteria.      The effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting has been audited by Ernst   Young LLP,
an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report appearing below, which expresses an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008.
        
   96   

Table of Contents  

    Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm        The Board of Directors and Stockholders of Amgen Inc.       We have audited Amgen Inc. s (the  Company ) internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on criteria established in Internal Control   Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Amgen Inc. s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control
over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our
audit.      We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal
control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered
necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.      A company s internal control
over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts
and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or
disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.      Because of its inherent
limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.      In our opinion, Amgen Inc. maintained, in all
material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on the COSO criteria.      We also
have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Consolidated Balance Sheets of Amgen Inc. as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the related Consolidated Statements of Income,
Stockholders  Equity, and Cash Flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008 of Amgen Inc. and our report dated February 23, 2009 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.      /s/ Ernst   Young LLP      Los Angeles, California      February 23, 2009         
   97   

Table of Contents  

Item 9B.   
   OTHER INFORMATION         Not applicable.         PART III        

Item 10.   
   DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OF THE REGISTRANT         Information about our Directors is incorporated by reference from the section entitled  ELECTION OF DIRECTORS  in our Proxy Statement for the 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be filed with the SEC
within 120 days of December 31, 2008 (the  Proxy Statement ). Information about compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is incorporated by reference from the section entitled  OTHER MATTERS
  Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  in our Proxy Statement. Information about our Audit Committee, members of the committee and our Audit Committee financial experts is incorporated by reference from the section
entitled  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE   Board Committees   Audit committee  in our Proxy Statement. Information about our executive officers is contained in the discussion entitled   Item 1. Business   Executive Officers of
the Registrant.         Changes to Procedures for Recommending Director Nominees       On December 9, 2008, our Board approved an amendment (the  Amendment ) to our Amended and Restated Bylaws (the  Bylaws ), which
became effective upon the Amendment s adoption by the Board on December 9, 2009. Among other things, the Amendment modifies the advance notice provisions in our Amended and Restated Bylaws by requiring that additional information be
furnished in connection with nominations and other business proposals, clarifying that the advance notice provisions apply to all stockholder nominations and other business proposals and effecting other technical changes to the requirements
applicable to stockholder nominations and other business proposals.      Section 15(a)(2) of the Amendment requires, among other things,
that the following disclosure be provided with respect to nominations and business proposals that stockholders seek to present at any meeting of stockholders:       

information regarding nominees for election to the Board, including information regarding the nominee s eligibility to serve as a director, whether the
proponent received payment for making the nomination and required disclosure under federal securities laws;          

information regarding business proposals, including a description of why the proposal was made and whether the proponent received payment relating to the proposal;
and          

information regarding the proponent, including disclosure regarding the class or series and number of shares beneficially owned by the proponent, a description of
any agreement among any group of persons making the proposal and disclosure regarding hedging and derivative transactions entered into by such group.         In addition, Section 15(c)(3) of the Amendment clarifies that the advance notice provisions apply to all stockholder nominations and other business proposals, whether or not they are to be included in our annual
proxy statement, and provides that such provisions are the exclusive means of making nominations or other business proposals. However, the Amendment continues to treat business proposals that are submitted in compliance with Rule 14a-8 (or any
successor thereof) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and included in our proxy statement as having been made in compliance with the advance notice bylaw.      The preceding disclosure is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Amendment, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 3.1 to the Form 8-K we
filed on December 10, 2008, and is incorporated herein by reference.         
   98   

Table of Contents  

    Code of Ethics       We maintain a code of ethics applicable to our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or controller, and other persons performing similar functions. To view this code of
ethics free of charge, please visit our website at www.amgen.com (This website address is not intended to function as a hyperlink, and the information contained in our website is not intended to be a part of this filing). We intend to satisfy the
disclosure requirements under Item 5.05 of Form 8-K regarding an amendment to, or waiver from, a provision of this code of ethics, if any, by posting such information on our website as set forth above.       

Item 11.   
   EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION         Information about director
and executive compensation is incorporated by reference from the sections entitled  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION  and  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  in our Proxy Statement.         
   99   

Table of Contents  

Item 12.   
   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS          Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans       The following table sets forth
certain information as of December 31, 2008 concerning our common stock that may be issued upon the exercise of options or pursuant to purchases of stock under all of our equity compensation plans approved by stockholders and equity
compensation plans not approved by stockholders in effect as of December 31, 2008:       

(2)      
    These plans were assumed pursuant to the terms of the merger agreement between Amgen and Immunex which was approved by
our stockholders in May 2002. Both plans were previously approved by Immunex s shareholders. The Amended and Restated 1993 Equity Incentive Plan terminated on March 11, 2003 and no shares are available for issuance under the 1993 Plan for
future grants.            
   100   

Table of Contents  

(3)      
    This plan was assumed by Amgen in connection with the merger of Tularik with and into Amgen SF, LLC, a wholly owned
subsidiary of Amgen, on August 13, 2004. This plan was previously approved by Tularik s shareholders. This plan terminated on March 2, 2007 and no shares are available for issuance under this plan for future grants.

(4)      
    This plan terminated on December 9, 2007 and no shares are available for issuance under this plan for future
grants.          

(5)      
    These plans were assumed by Amgen in connection with the merger of Abgenix with and into Amgen Fremont Inc., a wholly
owned subsidiary of Amgen, on April 1, 2006. The Amended and Restated 1996 Stock Incentive Plan (the  1996 Plan ) was previously approved by Abgenix s shareholders. The 1996 Plan terminated on July 16, 2006 and no shares are
available for issuance for future grants.          

(6)      
    This plan was assumed by Amgen in connection with the merger of Avidia with and into Amgen Mountain View Inc., a wholly
owned subsidiary of Amgen, on October 24, 2006. This plan was terminated on November 23, 2006 and no shares are available for issuance for future grants.          

(8)      
    Although 300,000 shares of Common Stock are authorized for issuance under the Amgen Limited 2000 U.K. Company Employee
Share Option Plan, no shares have been issued under this plan.          
     Summary of Equity Compensation Plans Not Approved by Stockholders
      The following is a summary of the equity compensation plans, which have shares available for issuance for future grants as of
December 31, 2008 and were adopted or assumed by the Board of Directors without the approval of our stockholders:       Amended and Restated 1999 Equity
Incentive Plan       The Amended and Restated 1999 Equity Incentive Plan (formerly known as the Immunex Corporation 1999 Stock Option Plan)
(the  1999 Plan ) was assumed pursuant to the terms of the merger agreement between the Company and Immunex which was approved by the Company s stockholders in May 2002. The plan was previously approved by Immunex s shareholders.
The 1999 Plan consists of two articles   Article I which governs awards granted prior to July 15, 2002 (the  Restatement Date ) and Article II which governs awards granted on or after the Restatement Date. As the terms of Stock
Awards (as defined below) made pursuant to the 1999 Plan going forward are governed exclusively by Article II of the plan, the following is a description of the material provisions of Article II of the 1999 Plan. This description is qualified in its
entirety by reference to the 1999 Plan itself, which was filed as an exhibit to the Company s Form S-8 dated July 16, 2002.       Stock Subject to the 1999 Plan.  Subject to adjustments upon certain changes in the common stock, the shares available for issuance under the 1999 Plan upon exercise of the outstanding grants made pursuant to the 1999 Plan are
Amgen s common stock. The number of shares authorized for issuance under the 1999 Plan is 19,273,852. Awards of (i) incentive stock options, (ii) nonqualified stock options, (iii) stock bonuses and (iv) rights to purchase
restricted stock ( Stock Award ) may be granted under the 1999 Plan. Pursuant to the 1999 Plan, no incentive stock options may be granted under the 1999 Plan after February 22, 2009.       Administration.  The 1999 Plan is administered by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors has delegated administration of the 1999 Plan to
the committees of the Board of Directors.         
   101   

Table of Contents  

    Eligibility.  Incentive stock options may be granted under the 1999 Plan to all employees
(including officers) of Amgen or its affiliates. All employees (including officers) and directors of Amgen or its affiliates and consultants to Amgen or its affiliates, or trusts for the benefit of such an employee, director or consultant or his or
her spouse or members of their immediate family ( permitted trusts ) designated by any such employee, director or consultant, are eligible to receive Stock Awards other than incentive stock options under the 1999 Plan. For incentive stock
options granted under the 1999 Plan, the aggregate fair market value, determined at the time of grant, of the shares of common stock with respect to which such options are exercisable for the first time by an optionee during any calendar year (under
all such plans of Amgen or any affiliate of Amgen) may not exceed $100,000. No person may receive Stock Awards for more than 649,455 shares of common stock in any calendar year.       Terms of Discretionary Options.  The following is a description of the permissible terms of options granted under the 1999 Plan, other than options
awarded to non-employee directors which are described below under the heading   Terms of Non-Discretionary Options Awarded to Non-Employee Directors   (the options described in this section are referred to as  Discretionary
Options ). Individual Discretionary Option grants may be more restrictive as to any or all of the permissible terms described below. The exercise price of Discretionary Options must be equal to at least 100% of the fair market value of the
underlying stock on the date of the option grant. The exercise price of Discretionary Options must be paid either: (i) in cash at the time the option is exercised or (ii) at the discretion of the Board of Directors, (a) by delivery of
common stock of Amgen that has been held for the period required to avoid a charge to Amgen s earnings, (b) pursuant to a deferred payment or other arrangement or (c) in any other form of legal consideration acceptable to the Board of
Directors. Generally, optionees may designate certain specified trusts as beneficiaries with respect to Discretionary Options. In the absence of such a designation, after the death of the optionee, Discretionary Options shall be exercisable by the
person(s) to whom the optionee s rights pass by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. Generally, during the lifetime of an optionee who is a natural person, only the optionee may exercise the Discretionary Option.      The maximum term of Discretionary Options is ten years. Absent death, disability or voluntary retirement in certain circumstances, Discretionary Options
generally terminate three months after termination of the optionee s employment or relationship as a consultant or director of Amgen or any affiliate of Amgen. Individual options by their terms may provide for exercise within a longer period of
time following termination of employment or the relationship as a director or consultant. Discretionary Options either become exercisable in cumulative increments or are exercisable in full immediately. The Board of Directors has the power to
accelerate the beginning of the period during which an option may be exercised (the  vesting date ). Options granted from the Restatement Date under the 1999 Plan typically vest at the rate of 25% per year during the optionee s
employment or service as a consultant and expire seven years from the date of grant. The grants typically provide for the continuation of the vesting of options if the optionee voluntarily retires at or after age 65 or after age 55, after having
been an employee of Amgen or its affiliate for at least ten consecutive years, and such retirement is not the result of permanent and total disability ( Voluntary Retirement ). Generally, if any optionee shall terminate his or her
employment or relationship as a director or consultant with Amgen or an affiliate due to death or disability, then, in such event, the Discretionary Options granted to such employee, director or consultant or to the permitted trust of such employee,
director or consultant which have not vested as of the date of such employee s, director s or consultant s termination for reasons of death or disability shall automatically be accelerated in full. In the case of Voluntary Retirement
death or disability, Discretionary Options terminate the earlier of the termination date set forth in the applicable grant agreement or five years.      The Board of Directors also has the power to accelerate the time during which a Discretionary Option may be exercised. To the extent provided by the terms of a Discretionary Option, an optionee may satisfy any federal, state or local tax
withholding obligations relating to the exercise of such option by (i) a cash payment upon exercise, (ii) by authorizing Amgen to withhold a portion of the stock otherwise issuable to the optionee, (iii) by delivering already-owned
stock of Amgen or (iv) by a combination of these means.       Terms of Non-Discretionary Options Awarded to Non-Employee Directors. 
The Board of Directors may from time to time adopt award programs under the 1999 Plan providing for the grant of formula or  
       
   102   

Table of Contents  

non-discretionary Stock Awards to directors of Amgen who are not employees of Amgen or any affiliate. The terms and conditions of any such program shall be
established by the Board of Directors in its sole discretion, subject to the terms and conditions of the 1999 Plan.       Terms of Stock
Bonuses and Purchases of Restricted Stock.  Stock bonuses and purchases of restricted stock shall be in such form and contain such terms and conditions as the Board of Directors shall deem appropriate. The following is a description of some of
the permissible terms of stock bonuses and purchases of restricted stock under the 1999 Plan. Individual stock bonuses or purchases of restricted stock may be more restrictive as to any or all of the permissible terms described below or on different
terms and conditions.      The purchase price under each stock purchase agreement shall be determined by the Board of Directors and may provide
for a nominal purchase price or a purchase price that is less than fair market value of the underlying common stock on the award date. The Board of Directors may determine that eligible participants may be awarded stock pursuant to a stock bonus
agreement in consideration for past services actually rendered to Amgen or for its benefit. The purchase price of stock acquired pursuant to a stock purchase agreement must be paid in accordance with the same terms as Discretionary Options. See
  Terms of Discretionary Options .  Shares of common stock sold or awarded under the 1999 Plan may, but need not, be subject to a repurchase option in favor of the Company in accordance with a vesting schedule determined by the Board
of Directors. To the extent provided by the terms of a stock bonus or restricted stock purchase agreement, a participant may satisfy any federal, state or local tax withholding obligations relating to the lapsing of a repurchase option or vesting of
a stock bonus or a restricted stock award in the same manner as that of Discretionary Options. See   Terms of Discretionary Options .  Generally, rights under a stock bonus or restricted stock purchase agreement shall not be
assignable by any participant under the 1999 Plan.       Adjustment Provisions.  If there is any change in the stock subject to the 1999
Plan or subject to any Stock Award granted under the 1999 Plan (through merger, consolidation, reorganization, recapitalization, stock dividend, dividend in property other than cash, stock split, liquidating dividend, combination of shares, exchange
of shares, change in corporate structure or other transaction not involving the receipt of consideration by the Company), the 1999 Plan and outstanding Stock Awards thereunder will be appropriately adjusted as to the class and the maximum number of
shares subject to such plan, the maximum number of shares which may be granted to a participant in a calendar year, the class, number of shares and price per share of stock subject to such outstanding Stock Awards.       Change in Control.  For purposes of the 1999 Plan, a Change in Control occurs at the following times: (i) upon the acquisition of beneficial
ownership of 50% or more of either the then outstanding shares of common stock or the combined voting power of the Company s then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors; (ii) at the time
individuals making up the Incumbent Board (as defined in the 1999 Plan) cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board; (iii) immediately prior to the consummation by the Company of a reorganization, merger or consolidation
with respect to which persons who were the stockholders of the Company immediately prior to such transaction do not, immediately thereafter, own more than 50% of the combined voting power of the reorganized, merged or consolidated company s
voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, or a liquidation or dissolution of the Company or the sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company or (iv) the occurrence of any other event which the
Incumbent Board determines is a Change of Control. Upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, to the extent permitted by applicable law, the vesting and exercisability of any outstanding Stock Awards under the 1999 Plan will accelerate. Upon and
following such acceleration, at the election of the holder of the Stock Award, the Stock Award may be (i) exercised with respect to stock options or, if the surviving or acquiring corporation agrees to assume the Stock Awards or substitute
similar awards, (ii) assumed or (iii) replaced with substitute Stock Awards. Options not exercised, substituted or assumed prior to or upon the Change in Control shall be terminated.       Duration, Amendment and Termination.  The Board of Directors may suspend or terminate the 1999 Plan without stockholder approval or ratification at
any time or from time to time. No amendment, suspension or termination may impair the rights or obligations under any Stock Award except with the consent of the person to whom the Stock Award was granted.         
   103   

Table of Contents  

    Amgen Inc. Amended and Restated 1999 Stock Incentive Plan       The Amgen Inc. Amended and Restated 1999 Stock Incentive Plan (formerly known as the Abgenix, Inc. 1999 Nonstatutory Stock Option Plan, as amended) (the
 Acquired 1999 Plan ) was assumed by Amgen in connection with the merger of Abgenix with and into Amgen Fremont Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Amgen, on April 1, 2006. The Acquired 1999 Plan consists of two articles   Article
I which governs awards granted prior to April 1, 2006 (the  Restatement Date ) and Article II which governs awards granted on or after the Restatement Date. As the terms of option grants made pursuant to the Acquired 1999 Plan going
forward are governed exclusively by Article II of the plan, the following is a description of the material provisions of Article II of the Acquired 1999 Plan. This description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Acquired 1999 Plan
itself, which was filed as an exhibit to the Company s Form S-8 dated April 3, 2006. Except as described below, the material provisions of Article II of the Acquired 1999 Plan are substantially similar to those of Article II of the 1999
Plan described above (reference to the 1999 Plan are deemed to be replaced with references to the Acquired 1999 Plan, as applicable):       

Subject to adjustments upon certain changes in the common stock, the number of shares authorized for issuance under Article II of the Acquired 1999 Plan is
1,950,597;          

No Stock Award may be granted to any person under Article II of the Acquired 1999 Plan who is an employee or director of or consultant to the Company or its
affiliates (other than Abgenix) on the Restatement Date;          

Under Article II of the Acquired 1999 Plan, no person may receive Stock Awards for more than 2,000,000 shares of common stock in any calendar year;

The purchase price under each stock purchase agreement shall be not less than fifty (50%) of the fair market value of the Company s Common Stock on the
date such award is made; and          

The Board of Directors shall have the power to condition the grant or vesting of stock bonuses and rights to purchase restricted stock under Article II of the
Acquired 1999 Plan upon attainment of performance goals with respect to any one or more of the following business criteria with respect to the Company, any affiliate, any division, any operating unit or any product line: (i) return on capital,
assets or equity, (ii) sales or revenue, (iii) net income, (iv) cash flow, (v) earnings per share, (vi) adjusted earnings or adjusted net income (as defined by the plan), (vii) working capital, (viii) total
shareholder return, (ix) economic value or (x) product development, research, in-licensing, out-licensing, litigation, human resources, information services, manufacturing, manufacturing capacity, production, inventory, site development,
plant, building or facility development, government relations, product market share, mergers, acquisitions or sales of assets or subsidiaries.          The Amgen Limited Sharesave Plan       The Amgen Limited Sharesave Plan (the  Sharesave Plan ) was adopted by the Board
of Directors of Amgen Limited, the Company s indirectly wholly-owned U.K. subsidiary, and approved by the Board of Directors of the Company in October 1998. In general, the Sharesave Plan authorizes Amgen Limited to grant options to certain
employees of Amgen Limited to buy shares of the Company s common stock during three-year offering periods through savings contributions and guaranteed company bonuses. The principal purposes of the Sharesave Plan are to provide the
Company s eligible Amgen Limited employees with benefits comparable to those received by U.S. employees under the Company s Amended and Restated Employee Stock Purchase Plan through the granting of options. Under the Sharesave Plan, not
more than 400,000 shares of Common Stock are authorized for issuance upon exercise of options subject to adjustment upon certain changes in the Company s Common Stock. The Sharesave Plan is administered by the Board of Directors of Amgen
Limited. Options are generally exercisable during the six months following the three-year offering period at an exercise price determined by the Board of Directors, which      cannot be less than 80% of the market value of the Company s Common Stock determined in accordance with sections 272 and 273 of the U.K. Taxation of Chargeable Gains Act of 1992 (the  Act of 1992 ) and
agreed for the  
       
   104   

Table of Contents  

purpose of the Sharesave Plan with the Shares Valuation Division (the  Division ) of the Inland Revenue for the business day last preceding the
date of invitation (the  Exercise Price Determination Process ) at the commencement of the offering. Amounts in the Sharesave Plan are paid to the participants to the extent that options are not exercised.       Amgen Limited 2000 U.K. Company Employee Share Option Plan       The Amgen Limited 2000 U.K. Company Employee Share Option Plan ( CSOP ) was adopted by the Board of Directors of Amgen Limited and approved by the Board of Directors of the Company in June 1999. The CSOP was established to provide
stock option grants to employees of Amgen Limited in accordance with certain U.K. tax laws. The terms of the CSOP are, to the extent permitted under U.K. laws, consistent with the Company s 1999 Plan, as described above, with the exception of
the following variations: (i) options cannot be granted to consultants, (ii) options cannot be transferred, (iii) options outstanding after an employee s death must be exercised within 12 months of the date of such death and
(iv) the change in control provision is eliminated. No termination date has been specified for the CSOP. Although 300,000 shares of common stock are authorized for issuance under the CSOP, no shares have been issued under the CSOP.   
   The Amgen Technology Ireland Irish Tax Approved Share Plan       The Amgen Technology Ireland Irish Tax Approved Share Plan (the  Ireland Share Plan ) was adopted by the Board of Directors of Amgen Technology (Ireland) Limited ( ATI ), the Company s indirectly wholly-owned
Ireland subsidiary, and approved by the Board of Directors of the Company in March 2007. In general, the Ireland Share Plan permits certain employees of Amgen Limited to buy shares of the Company s common stock during annual offering periods.
The principal purpose of the Share Plan is to enable the Company s eligible ATI employees to use their bonus or salary to acquire shares of the Company s stock in a tax efficient manner, subject to certain terms and holding requirements
under the plan. Under the Ireland Share Plan, not more than 600,000 shares of common stock are authorized for issuance subject to adjustment upon certain changes in the Company s common stock. The Ireland Share Plan is administered by the Board
of Directors of ATI.       Security Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers and Certain Beneficial Owners       Information about security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management is incorporated by reference from the sections entitled  SECURITY
OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT  in our Proxy Statement.       

Item 13.   
   CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE         Information about security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management is incorporated by reference from the sections entitled  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS  and  CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE   Board Independence  in our Proxy Statement.       

Item 14.   
   PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES         Information
about the fees for professional services rendered by our independent registered public accountants is incorporated by reference from the section entitled  AUDIT MATTERS   Independent Registered Public Accountants  in our Proxy
Statement.         
   105   

Table of Contents  

      PART IV        

Item 15.   
   EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES          (a)1.    Index to Financial Statements       The following Consolidated Financial Statements are included
herein:       

Page number    
 
     Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    
      
  F-1   
 
     Consolidated Statements of Income for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2008    
      
  F-2   
 
     Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2008 and 2007    
      
  F-3   
 
     Consolidated Statements of Stockholders  Equity for each of the three years in the period ended December 
31, 2008    
      
  F-4   
 
     Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008 

F-5   
 
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    
      
  F-6 - F-52   

(a)2.     Index to Financial Statement Schedules    

The following Schedule is filed as part of this Form 10-K
Annual Report:   

Page number    
 
     II. Valuation Accounts     
      
  F-53   
    All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable, not required or because the
required information is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements or notes thereto.       (a)3.    Exhibits  

106   

Table of Contents  

107   

Table of Contents  

108   

Table of Contents  

109   

Table of Contents  

110   

Table of Contents  

Exhibit No.    
      
     Description     

10.37  
      
  Assignment and License Agreement, dated October 16, 1986 (effective July 1, 1986, between Amgen and Kirin-Amgen, Inc. (Filed as an exhibit to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2000 on
March 7, 2001 and incorporated herein by reference.)   

10.38  
      
  G-CSF United States License Agreement, dated June 1, 1987 (effective July 1, 1986), Amendment No. 1, dated October 20, 1988, and Amendment No. 2, dated October 17, 1991 (effective November 13,
1990), between Kirin-Amgen, Inc. and Amgen Inc. (Filed as exhibits to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2000 on March 7, 2001 and incorporated herein by reference.)   

10.39  
      
  G-CSF European License Agreement, dated December 30, 1986, between Kirin-Amgen and Amgen, Amendment No. 1 to Kirin-Amgen, Inc./Amgen G-CSF European License Agreement, dated June 1, 1987,
Amendment No. 2 to Kirin-Amgen, Inc./Amgen G-CSF European License Agreement, dated March 15, 1998, Amendment No. 3 to Kirin-Amgen, Inc./Amgen G-CSF European License Agreement, dated October 20, 1988, and Amendment No. 4 to Kirin-Amgen, Inc./Amgen
G-CSF European License Agreement, dated December 29, 1989, between Kirin-Amgen, Inc. and Amgen Inc. (Filed as exhibits to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2000 on March 7, 2001 and incorporated herein by reference.)   

10.40  
      
  Enbrel      Supply Agreement among Immunex Corporation, American Home Products Corporation and Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma KG, dated as of
November 5, 1998 (with certain confidential information deleted therefrom). (Filed as an exhibit to the Immunex Corporation Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998 on March 23, 1998 and incorporated herein by
reference.)   

10.41  
      
  Amendment No. 1 to the Enbrel      Supply Agreement, dated June 27, 2000, among Immunex Corporation, American Home Products Corporation
and Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma KG, (with certain confidential information deleted therefrom). (Filed as an exhibit to the Immunex Corporation Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2000 on August 11, 2000 and incorporated herein by reference.)

10.42  
      
  Amendment No. 2 to the Enbrel      Supply Agreement, dated June 3, 2002, among Immunex Corporation, Wyeth (formerly known as American Home
Products Corporation) and Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma KG (with certain confidential information deleted therefrom). (Filed as an exhibit to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2002 on August 13, 2002 and incorporated herein by
reference.)   

10.43  
      
  Amendment No. 1 to Amendment No. 2 to the Enbrel      Supply Agreement, dated June 23, 2008, among Immunex Corporation, Wyeth
(formerly  American Home Products Corporation ) and Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma KG (Filed as an exhibit to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2008 on August 8, 2008 and incorporated herein by reference.)   

10.44  
      
  Amendment No. 3 to the Enbrel      Supply Agreement, dated December 18, 2002, among Immunex Corporation, Wyeth (formerly,  American
Home Products Corporation ) and Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma KG (with certain confidential information deleted therefrom). (Filed as an exhibit to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002 on March 10, 2003 and incorporated herein by
reference.)   

10.45  
      
  Amendment No. 4 to the Enbrel      Supply Agreement, dated May 21, 2004, among Immunex Corporation, Wyeth (formerly,  American Home
Products Corporation ) and Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma KG. (Filed as an exhibit to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2005 on August 8, 2005 and incorporated herein by reference.)   

10.46  
      
  Amendment No. 5 to the Enbrel      Supply Agreement, dated August 30, 2005, among Immunex Corporation, Wyeth (formerly,  American
Home Products Corporation ) and Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma KG. (Filed as an exhibit to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2005 on November 9, 2005 and incorporated herein by reference.)   
       
   111   

Table of Contents  

Exhibit No.    
      
     Description     

10.47  
      
  Amendment No. 6 to the Enbrel      Supply Agreement, dated November 27, 2007, among Immunex Corporation, Wyeth (formerly,  American
Home Products Corporation ) and Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma KG (with certain confidential information deleted therefrom) (Filed as an exhibit to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 on February 28, 2008 and incorporated herein by
reference.)   

10.48  
      
  Amendment No. 2 to Amendment No. 6, dated August 26, 2008, to the Enbrel      Supply Agreement, dated November 27, 2007, among Immunex
Corporation, Wyeth (formerly,  American Home Products Corporation ) and Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma KG (with certain confidential information deleted therefrom). (Filed as an exhibit to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2008 on
November 7, 2008 and incorporated herein by reference.)   

10.49  
      
  Agreement Regarding Governance and Commercial Matters, dated December 16, 2001, by and among American Home Products Corporation, American Cyanamid Company and Amgen Inc. (with certain
confidential information deleted therefrom). (Filed as an exhibit to Amendment No. 1 to Form S-4 Registration Statement on March 22, 2002 and incorporated herein by reference.)   

10.50  
      
  Amended and Restated Promotion Agreement, dated as of December 16, 2001, by and among Immunex Corporation, American Home Products Corporation and Amgen Inc. (with certain confidential
information deleted therefrom). (Filed as an exhibit to Amendment No. 1 to Form S-4 Registration Statement on March 22, 2002 and incorporated herein by reference.)   

10.51  
      
  Description of Amendment No. 1 to Amended and Restated Promotion Agreement, effective as of July 8, 2003, among Wyeth, Amgen Inc. and Immunex Corporation, (with certain confidential information
deleted therefrom). (Filed as an exhibit to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003 on March 11, 2004 and incorporated herein by reference.)   

10.52  
      
  Description of Amendment No. 2 to Amended and Restated Promotion Agreement, effective as of April 20, 2004, by and among Wyeth, Amgen Inc. and Immunex Corporation. (Filed as an exhibit to Form
S-4/A on June 29, 2004 and incorporated herein by reference.)   

10.53  
      
  Amendment No. 3 to Amended and Restated Promotion Agreement, effective as of January 1, 2005, by and among Wyeth, Amgen Inc. and Immunex Corporation (with certain confidential information
deleted therefrom). (Filed as an exhibit to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2005 on May 4, 2005 and incorporated herein by reference.)   

10.54  
      
  Confirmation of OTC Convertible Note Hedge related to 2011 Notes, dated February 14, 2006, to Amgen Inc. from Merrill Lynch International related to the 0.125% Convertible Senior Notes Due
2011. (Filed as an exhibit to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 on March 10, 2006 and incorporated herein by reference.)   

10.55  
      
  Confirmation of OTC Convertible Note Hedge related to 2013 Notes, dated February 14, 2006, to Amgen Inc. from Merrill Lynch International related to 0.375% Convertible Senior Notes Due 2013.
(Filed as an exhibit to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 on March 10, 2006 and incorporated herein by reference.)   

10.56  
      
  Confirmation of OTC Convertible Note Hedge related to 2011 Notes, dated February 14, 2006, to Amgen Inc. from Morgan Stanley   Co. International Limited related to the 0.125% Convertible
Senior Notes Due 2011 Notes. (Filed as an exhibit to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 on March 10, 2006 and incorporated herein by reference.)   

10.57  
      
  Confirmation of OTC Warrant Transaction, dated February 14, 2006, to Amgen Inc. from Merrill Lynch International for warrants expiring in 2011. (Filed as an exhibit to Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2005 on March 10, 2006 and incorporated herein by reference.)   
       
   112   

Table of Contents  

Exhibit No.    
      
     Description     

10.58  
      
  Confirmation of OTC Warrant Transaction, dated February 14, 2006, to Amgen Inc. from Merrill Lynch International for warrants expiring in 2013. (Filed as an exhibit to Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2005 on March 10, 2006 and incorporated herein by reference.)   

10.59  
      
  Confirmation of OTC Warrant Transaction, dated February 14, 2006, to Amgen Inc. from Morgan Stanley   Co. International Limited for warrants maturing in 2011. (Filed as an exhibit to
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 on March 10, 2006 and incorporated herein by reference.)   

10.60  
      
  Purchase Agreement, dated May 24, 2007, among Amgen Inc., Morgan Stanley   Co. Incorporated, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith Incorporated and the Initial Purchasers Names in
Schedule A thereof. (Filed as an exhibit to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 on August 9, 2007 and incorporated herein by reference.)   

10.61  
      
  Purchase Agreement, dated May 29, 2007, between Amgen Inc. and Merrill Lynch International. (Filed as an exhibit to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 on August 9, 2007 and
incorporated herein by reference.)   

10.62  
      
  Collaboration Agreement, dated July 11, 2007, between Amgen Inc. and Daiichi Sankyo Company (with certain confidential information deleted therefrom). (Filed as an exhibit to Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended September 30, 2007 on November 9, 2007 and incorporated herein by reference.)   

10.63  
      
  Credit Agreement, dated November 2, 2007, among Amgen Inc., with Citicorp USA, Inc., as administrative agent, Barclays Bank PLC, as syndication agent, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. and Barclays
Capital, as joint lead arrangers and joint book runners, and the other banks party thereto. (Filed as an exhibit to Form 8-K filed on November 2, 2007 and incorporated herein by reference.)   

10.64  
      
  Multi-product License Agreement with Respect to Japan between Amgen Inc. and Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited dated February 1, 2008 (with certain confidential information deleted
therefrom). (Filed as an exhibit to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2008 on May 12, 2008 and incorporated herein by reference.)   

10.65  
      
  License Agreement for motesanib diphosphate between Amgen Inc. and Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited dated February 1, 2008 (with certain confidential information deleted therefrom). (Filed
as an exhibit to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2008 on May 12, 2008 and incorporated herein by reference.)   

10.66  
      
  Supply Agreement between Amgen Inc. and Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited dated February 1, 2008 (with certain confidential information deleted therefrom). (Filed as an exhibit to
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2008 on May 12, 2008 and incorporated herein by reference.)   

10.67  
      
  Sale and Purchase Agreement between Amgen Inc. and Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited dated February 1, 2008 (with certain confidential information deleted therefrom). (Filed as an
exhibit to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2008 on May 12, 2008 and incorporated herein by reference.)   

10.68  
      
  Variable Term Accelerated Share Repurchase Transaction dated May 28, 2008, between Amgen Inc. and Lehman Brothers, Inc. acting as Agent Lehman Brothers OTC Derivatives Inc., acting as Principal.
(Filed as an exhibit to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2009 on August 8, 2008 and incorporated herein by reference.)   

10.69  
      
  Underwriting Agreement, dated May 20, 2008, among Amgen Inc. with Goldman, Sachs   Co. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith Incorporated, as the representatives of
the underwriters. (Filed as an exhibit to Form 8-K on May 23, 2008 and incorporated herein by reference.)   
       
   113   

Table of Contents  

Exhibit No.    
     
     Description     

10.70  
     
  Underwriting Agreement, dated January 13, 2009, by and among the Company and Goldman, Sachs   Co., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith Incorporated and Morgan Stanley   Co.
Incorporated, as representatives of the several underwriters named therein. (Filed as an exhibit to Form 8-K on January 16, 2009 and incorporated herein by reference.)   

10.71*  
     
  Master Services Agreement, dated October 22, 2008, between Amgen Inc. and International Business Machines Corporation (with certain confidential information deleted therefrom).   

10.72*  
     
  Integrated Facilities Management Services Agreement, dated February 4, 2009 between Amgen Inc. and Jones Lang LaSalle Americas, Inc (with certain confidential information deleted therefrom).

21*  
     
  Subsidiaries of the Company.   

23  
     
  Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. The consent is set forth on pages 118 and 119 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.   

24  
     
  Power of Attorney. The Power of Attorney is set forth on pages 116 and 117 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.   

31*  
     
  Rule 13a-14(a) Certifications.   

32**  
     
  Section 1350 Certifications.   
        (*     =  filed herewith)      (**   =  furnished herewith
and not  filed  for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended)      (+     =  management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.)         
   114   

Table of Contents  

      SIGNATURES       Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Annual Report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.       

AMGEN INC.   

(Registrant)   

Date: 02/27/09  
     
  By:  
     
    /s/    R OBERT  A.
B RADWAY             

Robert A. Bradway    

Executive Vice President    

and Chief Financial Officer    
       
   115   

Table of Contents  

    EXHIBIT 24        POWER OF ATTORNEY       KNOW ALL MEN AND WOMEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears
below constitutes and appoints Robert A. Bradway and Michael A. Kelly, or either of them, his or her attorney-in-fact, each with the power of substitution, for him or her in any and all capacities, to sign any amendments to this Report, and to file
the same, with exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming all that each of said attorneys-in-fact, or his or her substitute or substitutes, may do or
cause to be done by virtue hereof.      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below
by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:       

Signature    
      
     Title    
      
          Date          

/ S /    K EVIN  W.
S HARER               Kevin W. Sharer    
      
  Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President, and Director (Principal Executive Officer)  
      
  02/27/09    

/ S /    R OBERT  A.
B RADWAY               Robert A. Bradway    
      
  Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer)  
      
  02/27/09    

/ S /    M ICHAEL  A.
K ELLY               Michael A. Kelly    
      
  Vice President Finance and Chief Accounting Officer (Principal Accounting Officer)  
      
  02/27/09    

/ S /    D AVID 
B ALTIMORE               David Baltimore    
      
  Director  
      
  02/27/09    

/ S /    F RANK  J. B IONDI ,
J R .              Frank J. Biondi, Jr.    
      
  Director  
      
  02/27/09    

/ S /    J ERRY  D.
C HOATE               Jerry D. Choate    
      
  Director  
      
  02/27/09    

/ S /    V ANCE  D.
C OFFMAN               Vance D. Coffman    
      
  Director  
      
  02/27/09    

/ S /    F RAN OIS   DE 
C ARBONNEL               Fran ois de Carbonnel    
      
  Director  
      
  02/27/09    

/ S /    F REDERICK  W.
G LUCK               Frederick W. Gluck    
      
  Director  
      
  02/24/09    

/ S /     F RANK  C.
H ERRINGER               Frank C. Herringer    
      
  Director  
      
  02/27/09    

/ S /    G ILBERT  S.
O MENN               Gilbert S. Omenn    
      
  Director  
      
  02/27/09    
       
   116   

Table of Contents  

117   

Table of Contents  

    EXHIBIT 23        CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       We consent to the incorporation by
reference in the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 33-5111) pertaining to the 1984 Stock Option Plan, 1981 Incentive Stock Option Plan and Nonqualified Stock Option Plan of Amgen Inc., in the Registration Statement (Form S-8
No. 33-24013) pertaining to the Amended and Restated 1988 Stock Option Plan of Amgen Inc., in the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 33-39183) pertaining to the Amended and Restated Employee Stock Purchase Plan, in the Registration
Statement (Form S-8 No. 33-39104) pertaining to the Amended and Restated Amgen Retirement and Savings Plan, in the Registration Statements (Form S-3/S-8 No. 33-29791 and Form S-8 No. 33-42501) pertaining to the Amended and Restated
1987 Directors  Stock Option Plan, in the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 33-42072) pertaining to the Amgen Inc. Amended and Restated 1991 Equity Incentive Plan, in the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 33-47605) pertaining to
the Retirement and Savings Plan for Amgen Puerto Rico, Inc., in the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-44727) pertaining to the Amgen Inc. 1997 Special Non-Officer Equity Incentive Plan, in the Registration Statement (Form S-3
No. 333-19931) of Amgen Inc., in the Registration Statement (Form S-3 No. 333-40405) of Amgen Inc., in the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-62735) pertaining to the Amgen Inc. Amended and Restated 1997 Special Non-Officer
Equity Incentive Plan, in the Registration Statement (Form S-3 No. 333-53929) pertaining to the Amgen Inc. 1997 Special Non-Officer Equity Incentive Plan, the Amgen Inc. Amended and Restated 1991 Equity Incentive Plan, the Amended and Restated
1988 Stock Option Plan of Amgen Inc. and the Amended and Restated 1987 Directors  Stock Option Plan, in the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-74585) pertaining to the Amgen Limited Sharesave Plan, in the Registration Statement (Form
S-8 No. 333-81284) pertaining to the Amgen Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan, in the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-56672) pertaining to the Amended and Restated 1997 Special Non-Officer Equity Incentive Plan, in the
Registration Statement (Form S-3 No. 333-56664 and Amendment No. 1 thereto) pertaining to the Amgen Inc. 1997 Special Non-Officer Equity Incentive Plan, the Amgen Inc. Amended and Restated 1991 Equity Incentive Plan, the Amended and
Restated 1988 Stock Option Plan of Amgen Inc., and the Amended and Restated 1987 Directors  Stock Option Plan, in the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-83824) pertaining to the Amgen Inc. Amended and Restated 1997 Special
Non-Officer Equity Incentive Plan, in the Registration Statement (Form S-3 No. 333-88834) pertaining to Amgen Inc. s Liquid Yield Option  Notes, in the Registration Statement (Form S-3 No. 333-92450 and Amendment No. 1
thereto) pertaining to Amgen Inc. s Common Stock, in the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-92424 and Amendment No. 1 thereto) pertaining to the Amgen Inc. Amended and Restated 1993 Equity Incentive Plan (formerly known as the
Immunex Corporation 1993 Stock Option Plan), the Amgen Inc. Amended and Restated 1999 Equity Incentive Plan (formerly known as the Immunex Corporation 1999 Stock Option Plan), the Amgen Inc. Amended and Restated 1999 Employee Stock Purchase Plan
(formerly known as the Immunex Corporation 1999 Employee Stock Purchase Plan), the Immunex Corporation Stock Option Plan for Nonemployee Directors, and the Amgen Inc. Profit Sharing 401(k) Plan and Trust (formerly known as the Immunex Corporation
Profit Sharing 401(k) Plan and Trust), in the Registration Statement (Form S-3 No. 333-107639 and Amendment 1 thereto) relating to debt securities, common stock and associated preferred share repurchase rights, preferred stock, warrants to
purchase debt securities, common stock or preferred stock, securities purchase contracts, securities purchase units and depositary shares of Amgen Inc. and in the related Prospectuses, in the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-118254)
pertaining to the Amgen Inc. Amended and Restated 1997 Equity Incentive Plan (formerly known as the Tularik Inc. 1997 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended), the Tularik Inc. 1991 Stock Plan, as amended, the Tularik Inc. Amended and Restated 1997
Non-Employee Directors  Stock Option Plan, as amended, the Amgen Salary Savings Plan (formerly known as Tularik Salary Savings Plan), a Nonstatutory Stock Option Agreement, in the Registration Statement (Form S-3 No. 333-132286) relating
to the potential resale of securities acquired from Amgen Inc. by selling security holders in unregistered private offerings, in the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-132932) pertaining to the Amgen Inc. Amended and Restated 1996
Incentive Stock Plan (formerly known as Abgenix, Inc. 1996 Incentive Stock Plan, as amended and restated) Abgenix, Inc. 1998 Director Option Plan, as amended and restated Amgen Inc. Amended and Restated 1999 Incentive Stock Plan (formerly known as
Abgenix, Inc. 1999 Nonstatutory Stock Option Plan, as amended and restated), in the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-133002) pertaining to the Amgen Inc.  
       
   118   

Table of Contents  

Amended and Restated 1996 Incentive Stock Plan (formerly known as Abgenix, Inc. 1996 Incentive Stock Plan, as amended and restated) Abgenix, Inc. 1998
Director Option Plan, as amended and restated Amgen Inc. Amended and Restated 1999 Incentive Stock Plan (formerly known as Abgenix, Inc. 1999 Nonstatutory Stock Option Plan, as amended and restated), in the Registration Statement (Form S-8
No. 333-138325) pertaining to the Amgen Inc. Amended and Restated Assumed Avidia Equity Incentive Plan (formerly known as the Avidia, Inc. Amended and Restated 2003 Equity Incentive Plan), in the Registration Statement (Form S-8
No. 333-141304) pertaining to the Amgen Technology Ireland Irish Tax Approved Share Plan, in the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-144579) pertaining to the Amgen Inc. Amended and Restated 1991 Equity Incentive Plan, in the
Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-144580) pertaining to the Retirement and Savings Plan for Amgen Manufacturing, Limited, in the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-144581) pertaining to the Amgen Retirement and Savings Plan,
in the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-144678 ) pertaining to the Amgen Inc. Assumed Ilypsa, Inc. Stock Plan (formerly known as the Ilypsa Inc. 2003 Stock Plan), in the Registration Statement (Form S-8, Registration No. 33-39104)
pertaining to the Amgen Retirement and Savings Plan, in the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 033-47605) pertaining to the Retirement and Savings Plan for Amgen Manufacturing, Limited, in the Registration Statement (Form S-4
No. 333-147482) relating to the possible exchange of unregistered Senior Floating Notes for registered Senior Floating Notes relating to the Prospectus of Amgen Inc. for the registration of Senior Floating Rate Notes due 2008, 5.85% Senior
Notes due 2017, 6.375% Senior Notes Due 2037, and in the Registration Statement (Form S-3 No. 333-150290) relating to debt securities, common stock, preferred stock, warrants to purchase debt securities, common stock, preferred stock or depositary
shares, rights to purchase common stock or preferred stock, securities purchase contracts, securities purchase units and depositary shares of Amgen Inc. and in the related Prospectuses, of our reports dated February 23, 2009, with respect to
the consolidated financial statements and schedule of Amgen Inc., and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Amgen Inc., included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) for the year ended December 31, 2008.      /s/ Ernst   Young LLP      Los Angeles, California      February 24, 2009         
   119   

Table of Contents  

      Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm        The Board of Directors and Stockholders of Amgen Inc.       We have audited the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets of Amgen Inc. (the  Company ) as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the related Consolidated Statements of Income, Stockholders  Equity, and Cash Flows for
each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15(a) 2. These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the
Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our audits.      We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.      In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Amgen Inc. at December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the consolidated results
of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when
considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.      We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Amgen Inc. s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based
on criteria established in Internal Control   Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 23, 2009 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.   
  /s/ Ernst   Young LLP      Los Angeles, California      February 23, 2009         
   F-1   

Table of Contents  

    AMGEN INC.          CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME        Years ended December 31, 2008,
2007 and 2006        (In millions, except per share data)        
    See accompanying notes.         
   F-2   

Table of Contents  

    AMGEN INC.          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS        December 31, 2008 and 2007
       (In millions, except per share data)        
    See accompanying notes.         
   F-3   

Table of Contents  

    AMGEN INC.          CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY        Years ended
December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006        (In millions)        
    See accompanying notes.         
   F-4   

Table of Contents  

    AMGEN INC.          CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS        Years ended December 31, 2008,
2007 and 2006        (In millions)        
    See accompanying notes.         
   F-5   

Table of Contents  

    AMGEN INC.          NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        December 31, 2008
       1. Summary of significant accounting policies        Business       Amgen Inc., including its subsidiaries, ( Amgen ) is a global biotechnology
company that discovers, develops, manufactures and markets human therapeutics based on advances in cellular and molecular biology.       Principles of consolidation       The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Amgen as well as its wholly owned
subsidiaries. We do not have any significant interests in any variable interest entities. All material intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.       Use of estimates       The preparation of
financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ( GAAP ) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements
and accompanying notes. Actual results may differ from those estimates.       Fair value measurement       The Company adopted the provisions of the Financial Accounting Standards Board s ( FASB s ) Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards ( SFAS ) No. 157,   Fair Value Measurements   ( SFAS 157 ), effective January 1, 2008, for its financial assets and liabilities. The FASB delayed the effective date of SFAS 157 until
January 1, 2009, with respect to the fair value measurement requirements for non-financial assets and liabilities that are not remeasured on a recurring basis. Under this standard, fair value is defined as the price that would be received to
sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (i.e., the  exit price ) in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date (see Note 13,   Fair values  ).       Cash equivalents       We consider cash
equivalents to be only those investments which are highly liquid, readily convertible to cash and which mature within three months from date of purchase.       Available-for-sale securities       We consider our investment portfolio and marketable equity investments
available-for-sale as defined in SFAS No. 115,   Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities .  Accordingly, these investments are recorded at fair value, as discussed above. For the years ended
December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, realized gains totaled $124 million, $17 million and $23 million, respectively, and realized losses totaled $49 million, $20 million and $25 million, respectively. The cost of securities sold is based on the
specific identification method.         
   F-6   

Table of Contents  

AMGEN INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The fair values of available-for-sale investments by type of security, contractual maturity and
classification in the Consolidated Balance Sheets are as follows (in millions):       

(1)      
    Primarily comprised of money market funds whose underlying securities were U.S. treasury and agency obligations.

F-7   

Table of Contents  

AMGEN INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The primary objectives for our marketable security investment portfolio are liquidity and safety of
principal. Investments are made with the objective of achieving the highest rate of return consistent with these two objectives. Our investment policy limits investments to certain types of debt and money market instruments issued by institutions
primarily with investment grade credit ratings and places restrictions on maturities and concentration by type and issuer.      We review
periodically our available-for-sale securities for other than temporary declines in fair value below the cost basis and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. As of
December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Company believes that the cost basis for our available-for-sale securities was recoverable in all material respects.       Derivative instruments       We use financial instruments, including foreign currency forward, foreign
currency option and interest rate swap contracts to manage our exposures to movements in foreign exchange rates and interest rates. The use of these financial instruments modifies the exposure of these risks with the intent to reduce the risk or
cost to us. We do not use derivatives for speculative trading purposes and are not a party to leveraged derivatives.      We recognize all of
our derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities at fair value in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Fair value is determined in accordance with SFAS No. 157 (see Note 13,   Fair values  ). The accounting for changes in
the fair value of a derivative instrument depends on whether it has been designated and qualifies as part of a hedging relationship and further, on the type of hedging relationship. For derivatives designated as hedges, we formally assess, both at
inception and periodically thereafter, whether the hedging derivatives are highly effective in offsetting changes in either the fair value or cash flows of the hedged item. Our derivatives that are not designated and do not qualify as hedges are
adjusted to fair value through current earnings.      We enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts to protect against possible
changes in values of certain anticipated foreign currency cash flows resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily associated with sales denominated in Euros. These contracts are designated as cash flow hedges and accordingly,
the gains and losses on these forward and option contracts are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income and reclassified to earnings, specifically product sales, in the same periods during which the hedged transactions affect earnings.
During the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, unrealized and realized gains and losses on these foreign currency forward and option contracts were not material. No portions of these contracts are excluded from the assessment of hedge
effectiveness, and there are no material ineffective portions of these hedging instruments. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, amounts in accumulated other comprehensive income related to cash flow hedges were not material.      We also enter into foreign currency forward contracts to reduce exposures to foreign currency fluctuations of certain assets and liabilities denominated
in foreign currencies. These forward contracts have not been designated as hedges and accordingly, changes in the fair value of these foreign currency forward contracts are recognized in interest and other income, net in the current period. During
the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, gains and losses on these foreign currency forward contracts were not material.      We
also have interest rate swap agreements, which qualify and are designated as fair value hedges, to achieve a desired mix of fixed and floating interest rate debt. The terms of the interest rate swap agreements correspond to the related hedged debt
instruments. As a result, there is no material hedge ineffectiveness. During the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, gains and losses on these interest rate swap agreements were not material and were fully offset by the losses
and gains on the hedged debt instruments through current earnings.         
   F-8   

Table of Contents  

AMGEN INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    Inventories       Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost, which includes amounts related to materials, labor and overhead, is determined in a manner which approximates the first-in, first-out ( FIFO )
method. During 2008, we wrote-off $84 million of inventory resulting from a strategic decision to change manufacturing processes. During 2007, we wrote-off $90 million of excess inventory principally due to changing regulatory and reimbursement
environments. Such charges are included in  Cost of sales (excludes amortization of acquired intangible assets)  in our Consolidated Statements of Income. Inventories consisted of the following (in millions):       
     Depreciation       Depreciation of buildings, equipment, furniture and fixtures is provided over their estimated useful lives on a straight-line basis. Leasehold improvements are amortized on a straight-line basis over the shorter of
their estimated useful lives or lease terms. Useful lives by asset category are as follows:       
     Property, plant and equipment       As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost and consisted of the following (in millions):       
    We review our property, plant and equipment assets for impairment whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable.      During the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and
2006, we recognized depreciation and amortization charges associated with our property, plant and equipment of $648 million, $786 million and $547 million, respectively.       
  
   F-9   

Table of Contents  

AMGEN INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    Intangible assets and goodwill       Intangible assets are recorded at cost, less accumulated amortization. Amortization of intangible assets is provided over their estimated useful lives
ranging from 5 to 15 years on a straight-line basis (weighted average remaining amortization period of 8 years at December 31, 2008). As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, intangible assets consisted of the following (in millions):   

(1)      
    Amortization is included in  Amortization of acquired intangible assets  in the Consolidated Statements of
Income.      

(2)      
    Amortization is included in  Research and development  expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income.

(3)      
    Amortization is principally included in  Cost of sales  and  Selling, general and administrative 
expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income.         Acquired product technology rights relate to the identifiable
intangible assets acquired in connection with the Immunex Corporation ( Immunex ) acquisition in July 2002. Intangible assets also include acquired research and development ( R D ) technology rights consisting of technology
used in R D with alternative future uses. Acquired R D technology rights principally include certain technology acquired in the Abgenix, Inc. ( Abgenix ) acquisition (see Note 8,   Acquisitions  ). During the years
ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, we recognized amortization charges associated with our intangible assets of $425 million, $416 million and $416 million, respectively. The total estimated amortization for each of the next five years for
our intangible assets is $425 million, $418 million, $367 million, $344 million and $335 million in 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively.      We review our intangible assets for impairment periodically and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. During the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, we
recognized $3 million and $49 million, respectively, of impairment charges related to a non-ENBREL related intangible asset previously acquired in the Immunex acquisition, which is included in  Amortization of acquired intangible assets 
in the Consolidated Statements of Income.        We had $11.3 billion and $11.2 billion of goodwill at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
respectively, which primarily relates to the acquisition of Immunex. The increase in 2008 is principally related to the goodwill associated with our acquisition of the remaining 51% ownership interest of Domp  Biotec, S.p.A
( Domp  ) on January 4, 2008 (see Note 8,   Acquisitions  ). We perform an impairment test annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of goodwill may not be
recoverable.            
   F-10   

Table of Contents  

AMGEN INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    Product sales       Product sales primarily consist of sales of Aranesp      (darbepoetin alfa), EPOGEN      (Epoetin alfa), Neulasta      (pegfilgrastim), NEUPOGEN      (Filgrastim) and Enbrel      (etanercept).      Sales of our products are recognized when shipped and title and risk of loss have passed. Product sales are recorded net of accruals for estimated rebates, wholesaler chargebacks, discounts and other incentives
(collectively  sales incentives ) and returns. Taxes assessed by government authorities on the sales of the Company s products, primarily in Europe, are excluded from revenues.      We have the exclusive right to sell Epoetin alfa for dialysis, certain diagnostics and all
non-human, non-research uses in the United States. We sell Epoetin alfa under the brand name EPOGEN     . We granted to Ortho Pharmaceutical Corporation (which has assigned its rights under the
product license agreement to Ortho Biotech Products, L.P. ( Ortho Biotech )), a subsidiary of Johnson   Johnson ( J J ), a license relating to Epoetin alfa for sales in the United States for all human uses except
dialysis and diagnostics. This license agreement, which is perpetual, may be terminated for various reasons, including upon mutual agreement of the parties, or default. The parties are required to compensate each other for Epoetin alfa sales that
either party makes into the other party s exclusive market, sometimes referred to as  spillover.  Accordingly, we do not recognize product sales we make into the exclusive market of J J and do recognize the product sales made by
J J into our exclusive market. Sales in our exclusive market are derived from our sales to our customers, as adjusted for spillover. We are employing an arbitrated audit methodology to measure each party s spillover based on estimates of
and subsequent adjustments thereto of third-party data on shipments to end users and their usage.       Other revenues       Other revenues consist of royalty income and corporate partner revenues. Royalties from licensees are based on third-party sales of licensed products and
are recorded in accordance with contract terms when third-party results are reliably measurable and collectibility is reasonably assured. Royalty estimates are made in advance of amounts collected using historical and forecasted trends. Pursuant to
the license agreement with J J, noted above, we earn a 10% royalty on net sales, as defined, of Epoetin alfa by J J in the United States. Corporate partner revenues are primarily comprised of amounts earned from Kirin-Amgen, Inc.
( KA ) for certain R D activities and are generally earned as the R D activities are performed and the amounts become due (see Note 4,   Related party transactions  ). In addition, corporate partner revenues include
license fees and milestone payments associated with collaborations with third parties. Revenue from non-refundable, upfront license fees where we have continuing involvement is recognized ratably over the estimated period of ongoing involvement.
Revenue associated with performance milestones is recognized based upon the achievement of the milestones, as defined in the respective agreements. Our collaboration agreements with third parties are performed on a  best efforts  basis
with no guarantee of either technological or commercial success.       Research and development costs       R D costs are expensed as incurred and primarily include salaries, benefits and other staff-related costs; facilities and overhead costs; clinical
trial and related clinical manufacturing costs; contract services and other outside costs; information systems  costs and amortization of acquired technology used in R D with alternative future uses. R D expenses include costs incurred
under R D arrangements with our corporate partners, such as activities performed on behalf of KA, and costs and cost recoveries associated with collaborative R D and in-licensing arrangements, including upfront fees and milestones paid to
collaboration partners in connection with technologies that have no alternative future use. Net payment or reimbursement of R D costs for R D collaborations are recognized as the obligation has been incurred or as we become entitled to the
cost recovery.         
   F-11   

Table of Contents  

AMGEN INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    Selling, general and administrative costs       Selling, general and administrative ( SG A ) expenses are primarily comprised of salaries, benefits and other staff-related costs associated
with sales and marketing, finance, legal and other administrative personnel; facilities and overhead costs; outside marketing, advertising and legal expenses and other general and administrative costs.      We have a co-promotion agreement with Wyeth. Under the terms of this agreement, Amgen and Wyeth market and sell ENBREL in the United States and Canada and
develop certain future indications of ENBREL for use in these geographic territories. Wyeth is paid a share of the resulting profits on our sales of ENBREL, after deducting the applicable costs of sales, including manufacturing costs and royalties
paid to third parties, and certain expenses associated with R D and sales and marketing. The profit share paid to Wyeth is included in  Selling, general and administrative  in the Consolidated Statements of Income. The rights to market
ENBREL outside of the United States and Canada are reserved to Wyeth. We also have a global supply agreement with Wyeth related to the manufacture, supply and allocation of bulk supply of ENBREL. For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and
2006, the Wyeth profit share expense, excluding recoveries recorded as part of our restructuring, was $1,195 million, $984 million and $837 million, respectively (see Note 2,   Restructuring  ).      Advertising costs are expensed as incurred. For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, advertising costs were $81 million, $93 million and
$134 million, respectively.       Acquired in-process research and development       For acquisitions prior to January 1, 2009, the estimated fair value of acquired in-process R D ( IPR D ) projects, which have not
reached technological feasibility at the date of acquisition and which do not have an alternative future use, are immediately expensed. In 2007, we wrote-off $270 million and $320 million of acquired IPR D related to the Alantos Pharmaceuticals
Holding, Inc. ( Alantos ) and Ilypsa, Inc. ( Ilypsa ) acquisitions, respectively. In 2006, we wrote-off $1.1 billion and $130 million of acquired IPR D related to the Abgenix and Avidia, Inc. ( Avidia )
acquisitions, respectively. Acquired IPR D is considered part of total R D expense (see Note 8,   Acquisitions  ). See   Recent accounting pronouncements   below.       Share based payments       We have
employee compensation plans under which various types of stock-based instruments are granted. We account for our share-based payments in accordance with SFAS No. 123(R),   Share-Based Payment   ( SFAS 123(R) ). This
statement requires all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Income as compensation expense (based on their estimated fair values) generally over the vesting
period of the awards. (See Note 3,   Employee stock-based payments  ) .        Interest costs       Interest costs are expensed as incurred, except to the extent such interest is related to construction in progress, in which case interest is capitalized.
Interest expense, net for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $316 million, $328 million and $129 million, respectively. Interest costs capitalized for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were $22 million, $28
million and $43 million, respectively. Interest paid, net of interest rate swap settlement activity, during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, totaled $303 million, $258 million and $122 million, respectively. Included in
interest expense, net, for the year ended December 31, 2007, is a pro rata portion, $51 million, of deferred financing and related costs, which were immediately charged to interest expense upon the repurchase of the 2032 Modified
Convertible Notes. (See   Recent accounting pronouncements   below and Note 6,   Financing arrangements . )         
   F-12   

Table of Contents  

AMGEN INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    Earnings per share       Basic earnings per share ( EPS ) is based upon the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding. Diluted EPS is based upon the
weighted-average number of common shares and dilutive potential common shares outstanding. Potential common shares outstanding principally include stock options, restricted stock (including restricted stock units) and other equity awards under our
employee compensation plans and potential issuance of stock upon the assumed conversion of our 2011 Convertible Notes, 2013 Convertible Notes and 2032 Modified Convertible Notes, as discussed below, and upon the assumed exercise of our warrants
using the treasury stock method (collectively  Dilutive Securities ). The convertible note hedges purchased in connection with the issuance of our 2011 Convertible Notes and 2013 Convertible Notes are excluded from the calculation of
diluted EPS as their impact is always anti-dilutive. For further information regarding our convertible notes and warrants, see Note 6,   Financing arrangements.        Our 2011 Convertible Notes, 2013 Convertible Notes and 2032 Modified Convertible Notes are considered Instrument C securities as defined by Emerging
Issues Task Force Issue ( EITF ) No. 90-19   Convertible Bonds with Issuer Option to Settle for Cash upon Conversion.   Therefore, only the shares of common stock potentially issuable with respect to the excess of the
notes  conversion value over their principal amount, if any, are considered as dilutive potential common shares for purposes of calculating diluted EPS. For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, the conversion values for our
convertible notes were less than the related principal amounts and, accordingly, no shares were assumed to be issued for purposes of computing diluted EPS. For further information regarding our convertible notes, see Note 6,   Financing
arrangements .       The following table sets forth the computation for basic and diluted EPS (in millions, except per share
information):       
    For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, there were employee stock options,
calculated on a weighted average basis, to purchase 45 million, 48 million and 13 million shares, respectively, with exercise prices greater than the average market prices of common stock that are not included in the computation of
diluted EPS as their impact would have been anti-dilutive. In addition, shares which may be issued upon conversion of our convertible debt or upon exercise of our warrants are not included above as their impact on diluted EPS would have been
anti-dilutive. Shares which may be issued under our 2007 performance award programs were also excluded because conditions under the programs were not met as of December 31, 2008.       Recent accounting pronouncements       In
May 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position ( FSP ) No. APB 14-1,   Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement)   ( FSP APB 14-1 )
that changes the method of accounting for convertible debt securities that require or permit settlement in cash either in whole or in part upon conversion, including our convertible debt securities (see Note 6,  
       
   F-13   

Table of Contents  

AMGEN INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
   Financing arrangements  ). We will adopt FSP APB 14-1, effective January 1, 2009, and retrospectively apply this change in accounting
to all prior periods presented for which we had applicable outstanding convertible debt, as required by this new standard. Under this new method of accounting, the debt and equity components of our convertible debt securities will be bifurcated and
accounted for separately in a manner that will result in recognizing interest expense on these securities at effective rates reflective of what we would have incurred had we issued nonconvertible debt with otherwise similar terms. The equity
component of our convertible debt securities will be included in  Stockholders  equity  on our Consolidated Balance Sheets and, accordingly, the initial carrying values of these debt securities will be reduced. Our net income for
financial reporting purposes will be reduced by recognizing the accretion of the reduced carrying values of our convertible debt securities to their face amounts as additional non-cash interest expense. The adoption of FSP APB 14-1 will result in a
reduction in the carrying value of our convertible debt by approximately $824 million as of December 31, 2008 and will increase interest expense, net by approximately $234 million, $168 million and $197 million, for the years ended
December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. This new standard will also materially increase interest expense in future periods that our convertible debt is outstanding, but will have no impact on past or future cash flows.      In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141(R),   Business Combinations   ( SFAS 141(R) ) and SFAS No. 160,
  Accounting and Reporting of Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements   an amendment of ARB No. 51   ( SFAS 160 ). These standards will significantly change the accounting and reporting for
business combination transactions and noncontrolling (minority) interests in consolidated financial statements, including capitalizing the fair value of acquired IPR D at the acquisition date and subsequently testing these assets for impairment.
These new standards will be applied prospectively for business combinations that occur on or after January 1, 2009, except that presentation and disclosure requirements of SFAS 160 regarding noncontrolling interests will be applied
retrospectively.      In June 2008, the FASB ratified EITF Issue No. 07-5,   Determining Whether an Instrument (or Embedded Feature)
Is Indexed to an Entity s Own Stock   ( EITF 07-5 ). Equity-linked instruments (or embedded features) that otherwise meet the definition of a derivative as outlined in SFAS No. 133,   Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities   ( SFAS 133 ), are not accounted for as derivatives if certain criteria are met, one of which is that the instrument (or embedded feature) must be indexed to the entity s own stock. EITF
07-5 provides guidance on how to determine if equity-linked instruments (or embedded features) such as warrants to purchase our stock, our convertible notes and convertible note hedges are considered indexed to our stock. We will adopt EITF 07-5,
effective January 1, 2009, and apply its provisions to outstanding instruments as of that date. The adoption of EITF 07-5 will not have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.   
  In December 2007, the FASB ratified EITF No. 07-1,   Accounting for Collaborative Agreements   ( EITF 07-1 ). EITF
07-1 provides guidance regarding financial statement presentation and disclosure of collaborative arrangements, as defined, which includes certain arrangements the Company has entered into regarding development and commercialization of products and
product candidates. EITF 07-1 is effective for the Company as of January 1, 2009, and its adoption will not have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.       2. Restructuring       On August 15, 2007, we announced a plan to restructure our worldwide operations in order to improve our cost structure while continuing to make significant R D investments and build the framework for our
future growth. This restructuring plan was primarily the result of regulatory and reimbursement developments that began in 2007 involving erythropoiesis-stimulating agent ( ESA ) products, including our marketed ESA products Aranesp      and EPOGEN     , and the resulting impact on our operations.         
   F-14   

Table of Contents  

AMGEN INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   Through December 31, 2008, we have completed substantially all of the actions initially included
in our restructuring plan. Key components of our restructuring plan initially included: (i) worldwide staff reductions aggregating approximately 2,500 positions, (ii) rationalization of our worldwide network of manufacturing facilities in
order to gain cost efficiencies while continuing to meet future commercial and clinical demand for our products and product candidates and, to a lesser degree, changes to certain R D capital projects and (iii) abandoning leases primarily
for certain R D facilities that will not be used in our operations. During 2008, we identified certain additional initiatives designed to further assist in improving our cost structure, including outsourcing certain non-core business functions,
most notably certain of our information systems  infrastructure services, as well as abandoning leases for certain additional facilities that will no longer be used in our operations. The estimated cost of these additional initiatives is $95
million to $135 million. As a result of these additional initiatives and certain minor changes in the expected costs for the actions initially included in our restructuring plan, the total charges currently expected to be incurred in connection with
our restructuring plan, including related implementation costs, has been increased to $950 million to $985 million, as compared to our prior estimate of $775 million to $825 million as of December 31, 2007. Through December 31, 2008, we
have incurred $887 million of these costs and estimate that all remaining costs will be incurred through 2009. Such cost estimates and amounts incurred are net of amounts recovered from our ENBREL co-promotion partner, Wyeth.      The following tables summarize the charges (credits) recorded during the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 related to the restructuring plan by
type of activity (in millions):       
    As noted above, since the inception of our restructuring plan, we have incurred $887 million of the
estimated $950 million to $985 million of charges expected to be incurred. The charges incurred through December 31, 2008 include $188 million of separation costs, $467 million of asset impairments, $148 million of accelerated depreciation and
$84 million of other charges, which primarily include $161 million of loss accruals for leases, $10 million loss on the disposal of certain less significant marketed products, $9 million for implementation costs associated with certain restructuring
initiatives and $19 million of other charges, offset by $115 million of cost recoveries from Wyeth.      During the years ended
December 31, 2008 and 2007, we recorded staff separation costs of $10 million and $209 million, respectively, principally consisting of severance. Partially offsetting these amounts in  Cost of  
       
   F-15   

Table of Contents  

AMGEN INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 sales (excluding amortization of intangible assets),   Research and development  and  Selling, general and administrative  expenses
for the year ended December 31, 2007 are the reversal of previously accrued expenses for bonuses and stock-based compensation awards totaling $31 million, which were forfeited as a result of the employees  termination.      We also recorded asset impairment charges of $59 million and $408 million during the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The
charges for both periods represent the write-off of the total cost of the related assets as they were abandoned with no alternative future uses or residual value. The charges for 2008 included impairments primarily for certain manufacturing-related
assets. The charges in 2007 were primarily incurred in connection with our decisions to make changes to certain manufacturing and, to a lesser degree, certain R D capital projects and to close certain production operations. In particular, these
decisions in 2007 included certain revisions to and the subsequent indefinite postponement of our planned Ireland manufacturing operations, certain revisions to our planned manufacturing expansion in Puerto Rico and the closure of a clinical
manufacturing facility in Thousand Oaks, California.      In addition, in connection with the rationalization of our worldwide network of
manufacturing facilities in 2007, we decided to accelerate the closure of one of our ENBREL commercial bulk manufacturing operations. The decision to accelerate the closure of this manufacturing operation was principally based on a thorough review
of the supply plans for bulk ENBREL inventory across its worldwide manufacturing network, including consideration of expected increases in manufacturing yields, and the determination that the related assets no longer had any alternative future uses
in our operations. Because the related estimated future cash flows for this manufacturing operation were sufficient to recover the respective book values, we were required to accelerate depreciation of the related assets rather than immediately
impairing their carrying values. The amount included in  Cost of sales (excluding amortization of intangible assets)  in the table above, $147 million, represents the excess of the accelerated depreciation expense recognized during the
year ended December 31, 2007 over the depreciation that would otherwise have been recorded, $6 million, if there were no plans to accelerate the closure of this manufacturing operation.      During the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, we also recorded cost recoveries of $1 million and $114 million, respectively, for certain
restructuring charges, principally with respect to accelerated depreciation, in connection with our co-promotion agreement with Wyeth. Such amounts are recorded as a reduction of the Wyeth profit share expense included in  Selling, general and
administrative  expenses. Also included in  Selling, general and administrative  expenses in 2008 are $12 million of loss accruals for leases principally related to certain facilities that will not be used in our operations and $9
million for implementation costs associated with certain restructuring initiatives. In addition during the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, we accrued $49 million and $119 million, respectively, included in  Other charges, 
primarily related to loss accruals for leases for certain facilities that will not be used in our operations. For 2007, these charges primarily related to loss accruals for leases for certain R D facilities. In addition, in 2008, we recorded a
$10 million loss on the disposal of certain less significant marketed products that is included in  Interest and other income, net.       The following table summarizes the charges and spending relating to the restructuring plan (in millions):       
       
   F-16   

Table of Contents  

AMGEN INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The Company records restructuring activities in accordance with SFAS 88,  Employers 
Accounting for Settlements and Curtailments of Defined Benefit Pension Plans and for Termination Benefits,  SFAS 144,  Accounting for the Impairment and Disposal of Long-Lived Assets  and SFAS 146,  Accounting for Costs Associated with
Exit or Disposal Activities .       3. Employee stock-based payments       We have employee compensation plans under which various types of stock-based instruments are granted. These instruments, as more fully described below, principally include stock options, restricted stock (including
restricted stock units) and performance units. As of December 31, 2008, these plans provide for future grants and/or issuances of up to approximately 25 million shares of common stock to our employees. Stock-based awards under our employee
compensation plans are made with newly issued shares reserved for this purpose.      The following table reflects the components of stock-based
compensation expense recognized in our Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 (in millions):       
    During the year ended December 31, 2007, based on revised estimates of our operating
performance, we reduced the expense associated with our performance units recorded in prior years by approximately $60 million.       Employee stock option and restricted stock grants       Our equity-based compensation plans provide for grants of stock options
to employees. The option exercise price is set at the closing price of our common stock on the date of grant, and the related number of shares granted is fixed at that point in time. These plans also provide for grants of restricted stock and
restricted stock units. Grants of these equity instruments generally vest/have restrictions which lapse over a four year period. In addition, stock option awards expire seven years from the date of grant. Eligible employees generally receive a grant
of stock options and/or restricted stock units annually with the number of shares and type of instrument generally determined by the employee s salary grade and performance level. In addition, certain management and professional level employees
typically receive stock options and/or restricted stock unit grants upon commencement of employment. These stock-based plans provide for accelerated or continued vesting/lapse of restrictions in certain circumstances, including upon death,
disability, a change in control as defined in the plans, or retirement of employees who meet certain service and/or age requirements.      We
use the Black-Scholes option valuation model to estimate the grant date fair value of employee stock options. The expected volatility reflects the consideration of the implied volatility in publicly traded instruments associated with Amgen s
common stock during the period the options were granted. We believe implied volatility in these instruments is more indicative of expected future volatility than the historical volatility in the price of our common stock. As permitted by the
Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107, we estimated the expected life of stock options using the  simplified  method during the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006. Under this
method, the expected life was equal to the arithmetic average of the vesting term and the original contractual term of the option. Commencing in 2008, we use historical data to estimate the expected life of the options. The risk-free interest rates
for periods within the expected life of the option are based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect during the period the options were granted. The  
       
   F-17   

Table of Contents  

AMGEN INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 weighted-average assumptions used to estimate the fair value of the stock options using the Black-Scholes option valuation model were as follows for the
years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006:       
    Stock option information with respect to our stock-based compensation plans during the three years
ended December 31, 2008 is as follows:       
    The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the year ended December 31, 2008 was $68
million.         
   F-18   

Table of Contents  

AMGEN INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The fair values of shares of restricted stock are determined based on the closing price of Amgen
common stock on the grant dates. Information regarding our restricted stock during the three years ended December 31, 2008 is as follows:       
    The total fair value of shares of restricted stock that vested during the year ended
December 31, 2008 was $77 million.      As of December 31, 2008, there was $518 million of total unrecognized compensation cost
related to nonvested awards of both stock options and shares of restricted stock. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.7 years. For stock option and restricted stock awards subject to graded vesting that were
issued after January 1, 2006, we recognize compensation cost on a straight-line basis over the service period for the entire award.       Performance award program       Certain management-level employees receive annual grants of performance units, which give the
recipient the right to receive common stock that is contingent upon achievement of specified pre-established performance goals over the performance period, which is generally three years. The performance goals are based upon one or more of the
following, in each case with respect to compound annual growth rates as defined in the program: (i) Amgen s standalone financial performance, (ii) Amgen s financial performance compared to other benchmark companies and
(iii) the Company s annual stockholder return. In general, participants vest in their performance unit awards at the end of the performance period. The performance award program provides for accelerated or continued vesting in certain
circumstances, including upon death, disability, a change in control as defined, or retirement of employees who meet certain service and/or age requirements.      The performance period for those units granted in 2006, totaling approximately 1.1 million units, ended on December 31, 2008. These performance units were accounted for as liability awards and the expense
recognized was based on the assigned value per unit, $71.88, multiplied by the estimated or actual number of units earned. The number of units earned was based on the Company s standalone and comparative financial performance. The aggregate
dollar value of units earned is divided by the average closing price of our common stock during a specified period following the performance period to determine the number of shares of common stock payable to the recipient.      The performance units granted in 2007 and 2008, totaling approximately 1.3 million and 0.9 million, respectively, are accounted for as equity
awards and include total stockholder return performance measures. The  
       
   F-19   

Table of Contents  

AMGEN INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   awards granted in 2007 also include performance measures based on the Company s standalone financial
performance. The expense recognized for the awards granted in 2007 is based on the grant date fair value of a unit multiplied by the estimated number of units to be earned with respect to the performance measures for the Company s standalone
financial performance. The expense recognized for the awards granted in 2008 is based on the grant date fair value of a unit multiplied by the number of units granted. The impact of the Company s stockholder returns for the awards granted in
2007 and 2008 is reflected in the grant date fair values of the units, as discussed below. The number of shares of Amgen s common stock payable to the recipient for performance units granted in 2007 and 2008 will equal the number of performance
units earned. With respect to those performance units granted in 2007 and 2008, there are approximately 2.0 million units which continue to be subject to performance conditions.      The grant date fair value of performance units granted in 2007 and 2008 was calculated using a lattice model with the following assumptions:   
   
    The lattice model uses terms based on the length of the performance period and compound annual
growth rate goals for total stockholder return based on the provisions of the award. The assumptions with respect to the risk-free interest rate and expected volatility are computed in a similar manner as discussed above for stock options.
     The performance period for those instruments granted in 2005 ended on December 31, 2007 and the related liability was paid by the
issuance of approximately one million shares of our common stock to the participants in May 2008, net of shares withheld for taxes. The performance period for those instruments granted in 2004 ended on December 31, 2006 and the related
liability was paid by the issuance of approximately one million shares of our common stock to the participants in May 2007, net of shares withheld for taxes.      As of December 31, 2008, there was approximately $50 million of total estimated unrecognized compensation cost related to the 2007 and 2008 performance unit grants that is expected to be recognized over a
weighted-average period of approximately 1 year.      Under Accounting Principles Board ( APB ) Opinion No. 25,
  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees     ( APB 25 ), the estimated amounts owed for performance units granted in 2004 and 2005 were classified in stockholders  equity, but upon adoption of SFAS 123(R), these
amounts were required to be classified as liabilities based upon the terms of these plans. Accordingly, on January 1, 2006, a reclassification was made from stockholders  equity to liabilities (current and non-current) totaling $104
million.       4. Related party transactions       We own a 50% interest in KA, a corporation formed in 1984 with Kirin Holdings Company, Limited ( Kirin ) for the development and commercialization of certain products based on advanced biotechnology. We account for our interest in
KA under the equity method and include our share of KA s profits or losses in  Selling, general and administrative  in the Consolidated Statements of Income. For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, our share of
KA s profits were $72 million, $51 million and $61 million, respectively. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the carrying value of our equity method investment in KA, net of dividends paid, was $356 million and $292 million, respectively, and
is included in non-current  Other assets  in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. KA s revenues consist of royalty income related to its licensed technology  
       
   F-20   

Table of Contents  

AMGEN INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 rights. All of our rights to manufacture and market certain products including darbepoetin alfa, pegfilgrastim, granulocyte colony-stimulating factor
( G-CSF ) and recombinant human erythropoietin are pursuant to exclusive licenses from KA, which we currently market under the brand names Aranesp     , Neulasta     , NEUPOGEN      and EPOGEN     , respectively. KA receives royalty income from us,
as well as from Kirin, J J and F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd. ( Roche ) under separate product license agreements for certain geographic areas outside of the United States. During the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, KA
earned royalties from us of $321 million, $336 million and $324 million, respectively. These amounts are included in  Cost of sales (excludes amortization of acquired intangible assets)  in the Consolidated Statements of Income. At
December 31, 2008 and 2007, we owed KA $82 million and $91 million, respectively, which was included in  Accrued liabilities  in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.      KA s expenses primarily consist of costs related to R D activities conducted on its behalf by Amgen and Kirin. KA pays Amgen and Kirin for such
services at negotiated rates. During the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, we earned revenues from KA of $124 million, $180 million and $131 million, respectively, for certain R D activities performed on KA s behalf. These
amounts are included in  Other revenues  in the Consolidated Statements of Income. In addition, included in  Other revenues  in the Consolidated Statements of Income for the year ended December 31, 2007 is $45 million
received from KA with respect to achieving certain regulatory filing milestones.       5. Income taxes       The provision for income taxes includes the following (in millions):       
       
   F-21   

Table of Contents  

AMGEN INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   Deferred income taxes reflect the temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and
liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes and the net tax effects of net operating loss and credit carryforwards. Significant components of our deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows (in
millions):       
    At December 31, 2008, we had net current deferred tax assets of $859 million, primarily
composed of temporary differences related to inventory, accrued liabilities and acquired net operating losses and credits. At December 31, 2007, our net current deferred tax assets were $1.2 billion.      The valuation allowance for deferred tax assets decreased by $60 million in 2008. The decrease was primarily due to the deferred tax expense relating to
certain foreign subsidiaries  expenses capitalized for tax and expiration of certain acquired credit carryforwards. Valuation allowances are provided when we believe that our deferred tax assets are not recoverable based on an assessment of
estimated future taxable income that incorporates ongoing, prudent and feasible tax planning strategies.      At December 31, 2008, we had
operating loss carryforwards of $73 million available to reduce future federal taxable income, which will begin expiring in 2020. In addition, we had operating loss carryforwards of $765 million available to reduce future taxable income in various
state taxing jurisdictions. We have provided a valuation allowance against $495 million of the state operating loss carryforwards. The state operating loss carryforwards will begin expiring in 2009.      At December 31, 2008, we had tax credit carryforwards of $32 million available to reduce future federal income taxes, which will begin expiring in
2009. We also had $124 million of tax credit carryforwards available to reduce future state income taxes which have no expiration date, and $79 million of state tax credit carryforwards for which a full valuation allowance has been provided.
     Effective January 1, 2007, we adopted FASB Interpretation No. ( FIN ) 48,   Accounting for Uncertainty in Income
Taxes   an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109     ( FIN 48 ) .  FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for  
       
   F-22   

Table of Contents  

AMGEN INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 uncertainty in income taxes by prescribing rules for recognition, measurement and classification in our consolidated financial statements of tax positions
taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. For tax benefits to be recognized under FIN 48, a tax position must be more-likely-than-not to be sustained upon examination by taxing authorities. The amount recognized is measured as the largest
amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon settlement. There was no cumulative effect of applying the recognition and measurement provisions upon adoption of FIN 48.      FIN 48 also provides guidance on the balance sheet classification of liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits ( UTBs ) as either current or
non-current depending on the expected timing of payments. Upon adoption of FIN 48, we reclassified approximately $240 million of UTBs and related accrued interest from current income taxes payable to other non-current liabilities.   
  The reconciliation of the total gross amounts of UTBs for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 is as follows (in millions):       
    The majority of the UTBs as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, if recognized, would affect our
effective tax rate.      During 2007, we settled our examination with the Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) for the years
ended December 31, 2002, 2003, and 2004. We agreed to certain adjustments proposed by the IRS arising out of this examination primarily related to transfer pricing tax positions. Our closing agreement with the IRS also covers certain
transfer pricing issues for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2006.      During 2008, we reached an agreement with the IRS as to the
amount of certain transfer pricing issues for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2006 which were covered by the Closing Agreement entered into in 2007. However, these years have not been effectively settled for all other issues.   
  As of December 31, 2008, we believe that it was reasonably possible that our liabilities for UTBs may de-crease by $100 million within the
succeeding twelve months due to potential resolution of the tax examination process.      Interest and penalties related to UTBs are included in
our provision for income taxes. During 2008, we recognized approximately $71 million of interest and penalty expense through the income tax provision in the Consolidated Statement of Income. At December 31, 2008, there was approximately $119
million of accrued interest and penalties associated with UTBs.         
   F-23   

Table of Contents  

AMGEN INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The reconciliation between our effective tax rate and the federal statutory rate is as follows:
      
    We do not provide for U.S. income taxes on undistributed earnings of our foreign operations that
are intended to be invested indefinitely outside of the United States. At December 31, 2008, these earnings amounted to approximately $10.8 billion. If these earnings were repatriated to the United States, we would be required to accrue and pay
approximately $3.8 billion of additional taxes based on the current tax rates in effect. For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, our total foreign income before income taxes was approximately $2.6 billion, $2.4 billion, and $2.3
billion, respectively. These earnings include income from manufacturing operations in Puerto Rico under tax incentive grants that expire in 2020.      One or more of our legal entities file income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction, various U.S. state jurisdictions and certain foreign jurisdictions. Our income tax returns are routinely audited by the tax authorities in those
jurisdictions. Significant disputes may arise with these tax authorities involving issues of the timing and amount of deductions, the use of credits, and allocations of income among various tax jurisdictions because of differing interpretations of
tax laws and regulations. We are no longer subject to U.S. federal income tax examinations for tax years ending on or before December 31, 2004 or to California state income tax examinations for tax years ending on or before December 31,
2003.      Income taxes paid during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, totaled $673 million, $895 million, and $987 million,
respectively.         
   F-24   

Table of Contents  

AMGEN INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    6. Financing arrangements       The following table reflects the carrying value of our long-term borrowings under our various financing arrangements as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 (in millions):       
     2018 Notes and 2038 Notes       In May 2008, we issued $500 million aggregate principal amount of notes due in 2018 (the  2018 Notes ) and $500 million aggregate principal
amount of notes due in 2038 (the  2038 Notes ) in a registered offering. The 2018 Notes and 2038 Notes pay interest at fixed annual rates of 6.15% and 6.90%, respectively. Concurrent with the issuance of the 2018 Notes, we entered into
interest rate swap agreements that effectively convert the payment of our fixed rate interest payments to variable rate interest payments over the life of the 2018 Notes. The 2018 Notes and 2038 Notes may be redeemed at any time at our option, in
whole or in part, at 100% of the principal amount of the notes being redeemed plus accrued interest and a  make-whole  amount, as defined. In the event of a change in control triggering event, as defined, we may be required to purchase for
cash all or a portion of the 2018 Notes and 2038 Notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the notes plus accrued interest. Debt issuance costs totaled approximately $6 million and are being amortized over the life of the notes.
      2008 Floating Rate Notes, 2017 Notes and 2037 Notes       In May 2007, we issued $2.0 billion aggregate principal amount of floating rate notes due in November 2008 (the  2008 Floating Rate Notes ), $1.1 billion aggregate principal amount of notes due in 2017 (the
 2017 Notes ) and $900 million aggregate principal amount of notes due in 2037 (the  2037 Notes ). The annual interest rate on our 2008 Floating Rate Notes was equal to LIBOR plus 0.08%, which was reset quarterly. The 2017 Notes
and 2037 Notes pay interest at fixed annual rates of 5.85% and 6.375%, respectively. The 2017 Notes and 2037 Notes may be redeemed at any time at our option, in whole or in part, at 100% of the principal amount of the notes being redeemed plus
accrued interest and a  make-whole  amount, as defined. In the event of a change in control triggering event, as defined, we may be required to purchase for cash all or a portion of the 2017 Notes and 2037 Notes at a price equal to 101% of
the principal amount of the notes plus accrued interest. A total of $3.2 billion of the net proceeds raised from the issuance of these notes were used to repurchase shares of our common stock under an accelerated share repurchase program
( ASR ) entered into in May 2007. Upon the receipt of the proceeds from the issuance of the 2018 Notes and 2038 Notes discussed above, in June 2008 we  
       
   F-25   

Table of Contents  

AMGEN INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 exercised our right to call and retired $1.0 billion of the 2008 Floating Rate Notes which were scheduled to mature in November 2008. The remaining $1.0
billion of the 2008 Floating Rate Notes matured and were retired in November 2008.       2011 and 2013 Convertible Notes       In February 2006, we issued $2.5 billion principal amount of convertible notes due in 2011 (the  2011 Convertible Notes ) and $2.5 billion
principal amount of convertible notes due in 2013 (the  2013 Convertible Notes ). The 2011 Convertible Notes and the 2013 Convertible Notes were issued at par and pay interest at a rate of 0.125% and 0.375%, respectively. The 2011
Convertible Notes and 2013 Convertible Notes may be converted based on an initial conversion rate of 12.5247 shares and 12.5814 shares, respectively, per $1,000 principal amount of notes (which represents an initial conversion price of approximately
$79.84 and $79.48 per share, respectively). These conversion rates will be adjusted if we make specified types of distributions or enter into certain other transactions in respect to our common stock. The 2011 Convertible Notes and 2013 Convertible
Notes may only be converted: (i) during any calendar quarter if the closing price of our common stock exceeds 130% of the respective conversion price per share during a defined period at the end of the previous quarter, (ii) if we make
specified distributions to holders of our common stock or specified corporate transactions occur or (iii) one month prior to the respective maturity date. Upon conversion, a holder would receive the conversion value equal to the conversion rate
multiplied by the volume weighted average price of our common stock during a specified period following the conversion date. The conversion value will be paid in: (i) cash equal to the lesser of the principal amount of the note or the
conversion value, as defined, and (ii) to the extent the conversion value exceeds the principal amount of the note, shares of our common stock, cash or a combination of common stock and cash, at our option (the  excess conversion
value ). In addition, upon a change in control, as defined, the holders may require us to purchase for cash all or a portion of their notes for 100% of the principal amount of the notes plus accrued interest. See Note 1,   Summary of
significant accounting policies   Recent accounting pronouncements .       In connection with the issuance of these convertible
notes, a total of $3.0 billion of our common stock was repurchased under our stock repurchase program. Also, concurrent with the issuance of the 2011 Convertible Notes and 2013 Convertible Notes, we purchased convertible note hedges. The convertible
note hedges allow us to receive shares of our common stock and/or cash from the counterparties to the transactions equal to the amounts of common stock and/or cash related to the excess conversion value that we would issue and/or pay to the holders
of the 2011 Convertible Notes and 2013 Convertible Notes upon conversion. These transactions will terminate at the earlier of the maturity dates of the related notes or the first day none of the related notes remain outstanding due to conversion or
otherwise. The cost of the convertible note hedges, which aggregated approximately $1.5 billion. The net proceeds from the issuance of the 2011 Convertible Notes and 2013 Convertible Notes, the repurchase of our common stock and the purchase of the
convertible note hedges was $439 million.      Also, concurrent with the issuance of the 2011 Convertible Notes and 2013 Convertible Notes, we
sold warrants to acquire shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $107.90 per share. Pursuant to these transactions, warrants for approximately 31.3 million shares of our common stock may be settled in May 2011 and warrants for
approximately 31.5 million shares of our common stock may be settled in May 2013 (the  settlement dates ). If the average price of our common stock during a defined period ending on or about the respective settlement dates exceeds the
exercise price of the warrants, the warrants will be net settled, at our option, in cash or shares of our common stock. Proceeds received from the issuance of the warrants totaled approximately $774 million.      Because we have the choice of settling the convertible note hedges and warrants in cash or shares of our stock, and these contracts meet all of the
applicable criteria for equity classification as outlined in EITF No. 00-19,   Accounting for Derivative Financial Instruments Indexed to, and Potentially Settled in, a Company s Own Stock ,  the cost of the convertible note
hedges and net proceeds from the sale of the warrants are classified  
       
   F-26   

Table of Contents  

AMGEN INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 in  Stockholders  equity  in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. In addition, because both of these contracts are classified in
 Stockholders  equity  and are indexed to our own common stock, they are not accounted for as derivatives under SFAS 133.       2032 Modified Convertible Notes       In 2002, we issued zero coupon, 30 year convertible notes ( 2032 Convertible
Notes ) with an aggregate face amount of $4.0 billion ($1,000 face amount per note) and yield to maturity of 1.125%. The original issue discount of $1.1 billion or $285.77 per note (prior to repurchase of a portion of the 2032 Convertible Notes
discussed below) is being accreted and recognized as interest expense over the life of the 2032 Convertible Notes (or the 2032 Modified Convertible Notes, as discussed below) using the effective interest method.      The holders of the 2032 Convertible Notes had the right to require us to repurchase all or a portion of their notes on March 1, 2005. As a result of
certain holders of the Convertible Notes exercising this March 1, 2005 put option, we repurchased $1.6 billion aggregate principal amount of 2032 Convertible Notes for their then-accreted value of $1.2 billion in cash. Upon the repurchase of
such 2032 Convertible Notes, a pro rata portion, $20 million, of the related debt issuance costs was immediately charged to interest expense. We then made an aggregate cash payment of $22 million to the remaining holders of the 2032 Convertible
Notes. Concurrently, we amended the terms of the 2032 Convertible Notes to add an additional put date in order to permit the remaining holders, at their option, to cause us to repurchase the remaining 2032 Convertible Notes on March 1, 2006 at
the then-accreted value. Subsequently, substantially all of the convertible note holders did not require us to repurchase such notes on the March 1, 2006 put date.      On May 6, 2005, we exchanged new zero-coupon senior convertible notes (the  2032 Modified Convertible Notes ) and a cash payment of approximately $6 million for approximately 95% of the remaining 2032
Convertible Notes then outstanding. Subsequently, we exchanged substantially all of the remaining outstanding 2032 Convertible Notes. The changes to the 2032 Convertible Notes outstanding as a result of these exchanges combined with those made in
March 2005 were accounted for as a debt modification. Accordingly, all cash paid to the holders of the 2032 Modified Convertible Notes is being amortized to interest expense over the life of the convertible notes using the effective interest method,
and the costs incurred to modify the terms of the convertible notes were expensed as incurred.      On March 2, 2007, as a result of
holders of substantially all of our 2032 Modified Convertible Notes exercising their March 1, 2007 put option, we repurchased $2.3 billion aggregate principal amount of these convertible notes for their then accreted value of
$1.7 billion in cash, representing the majority of the then outstanding balance of these notes. Upon the repurchase of these notes, a pro rata portion, $51 million, of deferred financing and related costs were immediately charged to
interest expense.      Holders of 2032 Modified Convertible Notes may convert each of their notes based on a conversion rate of 8.8601 shares of
common stock. The conversion price per share of the convertible notes as of any day will equal the original issuance price plus the accrued original issue discount to that day, divided by the conversion rate or $87.02 as of December 31, 2008.
The 2032 Modified Convertible Notes can only be converted in certain circumstances. If converted, the 2032 Modified Convertible Notes will be settled for a  conversion value  equal to the product of the conversion rate (8.8601 shares of
Amgen common stock per note as of December 31, 2008) multiplied by the average closing price of our common stock during a specified period following the conversion date. The conversion value is paid in: (i) cash equal to the lesser of the
accreted value of the 2032 Modified Convertible Notes at the conversion date or the conversion value and (ii) shares of common stock, if any, to the extent the conversion value exceeds the accreted value. See Note 1,   Summary of
significant accounting policies   Recent accounting pronouncements .          
   F-27   

Table of Contents  

AMGEN INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    2009 Notes and 2014 Notes       At December 31, 2008 and 2007, we had $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of notes with a fixed interest rate of 4.00% due in November of 2009
(the  2009 Notes ) and $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of notes with a fixed interest rate of 4.85% due 2014 (the  2014 Notes ) outstanding.       Other       We had $100 million of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2008 and 2007 with a
fixed interest rate of 8.125% due in 2097 (the  Century Notes ).      During the year ended December 31, 2007, we repaid $135
million of other debt securities.       Shelf registration statements and other facilities       In 2008, we filed a shelf registration statement with the SEC, which replaced our previous $1.0 billion shelf registration statement and allows us to
issue an unspecified amount of debt securities; common stock; preferred stock; warrants to purchase debt securities, common stock, preferred stock or depository shares; rights to purchase common stock or preferred stock; securities purchase
contracts; securities purchase units and depository shares. Under this registration statement, all of the securities available for issuance may be offered from time to time with terms to be determined at the time of issuance.      In 2008, we increased our commercial paper program by $1.3 billion, which provides for unsecured, short-term borrowings of up to an aggregate of $2.5
billion. We also have a $2.5 billion syndicated unsecured revolving credit facility which matures in November 2012 and is available for general corporate purposes, or as a liquidity backstop to our commercial paper program; however, $178 million of
such commitment was provided by a subsidiary of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. ( Lehman ). Lehman declared bankruptcy on September 15, 2008, and the subsidiary participant in our credit facility subsequently declared bankruptcy on
October 5, 2008. As a result, we would not anticipate the ability to access this specific commitment provided by Lehman in the future. No amounts were outstanding under the commercial paper program or credit facility as of December 31,
2008.      As of December 31, 2008, we have $400 million remaining under a shelf registration statement that was established in 1997. In
connection with this shelf registration, we established a $400 million medium-term note program. All of the $400 million of debt securities available for issuance may be offered from time to time under our medium-term note program with terms to be
determined at the time of issuance. As of December 31, 2008, no securities were outstanding under the $400 million medium-term note program.      To achieve a desired mix of fixed and floating interest rate debt, we enter into interest rate swap agreements that effectively convert a fixed rate interest coupon to a LIBOR-based floating rate coupon over the life of the respective note.
These interest rate swap agreements qualify and are designated as fair value hedges. As of December 31, 2008, we had interest rate swap agreements for our 2009 Notes, 2014 Notes, 2018 Notes and Century Notes, with an aggregate face value of
$2.6 billion. As of December 31, 2007, we had interest rate swap agreements for our 2009 Notes, 2014 Notes and Century Notes, with an aggregate face value of $2.1 billion.      Certain of our financing arrangements contain non-financial covenants and we were in compliance with all applicable covenants as of December 31,
2008. None of our financing arrangements contain any financial covenants.         
   F-28   

Table of Contents  

AMGEN INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    Contractual maturities of long-term debt obligations       The aggregate contractual maturities of all long-term debt obligations due subsequent to December 31, 2008 are as follows (in millions):   

(1)      
    This amount represents the 2032 Modified Convertible Notes  accreted value on March 1, 2012, the next date on
which holders may put the debt to us for repayment.          7. Stockholders  equity        Stock repurchase program       A summary
of the activity under our stock repurchase program for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 is as follows (in millions):       

(1)      
    The total cost of shares repurchased during the three months ended June 30, 2008 excludes approximately $19 million
paid in July 2008 in connection with the final settlement of an ASR entered into in May 2008.          

(2)      
    The total number of shares repurchased during the three months ended June 30, 2007 excludes 2.5 million shares
received in July 2007 in connection with the final settlement of an ASR entered into in May 2007.         In July 2007, the Board
of Directors authorized us to repurchase up to $5.0 billion of common stock. As of December 31, 2008, we had $4.2 billion available for stock repurchases as authorized by our Board of Directors. The manner of purchases, the amount we spend and
the number of shares repurchased will vary based on a variety of factors, including the stock price, blackout periods in which we are restricted from repurchasing shares, and our credit rating and may include private block purchases as well as
market transactions. In addition to the shares repurchased under our publicly announced stock repurchase program, for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, we withheld shares for the payment of taxes upon vesting of certain
employees restricted stock aggregating $26 million, $23 million and $21 million, respectively.         
   F-29   

Table of Contents  

AMGEN INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    Accumulated other comprehensive income       The components of accumulated other comprehensive income as of December 31, 2008 are as follows (in millions):       
    The components of accumulated other comprehensive income as of December 31, 2007 are as
follows (in millions):       
     Other       In addition to common stock, our authorized capital includes 5 million shares of preferred stock, $0.0001 par value. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, no shares of preferred stock were issued or outstanding.
     At December 31, 2008, we had reserved 236 million shares of our common stock, which may be issued through our employee
compensation and stock purchase plans, through conversion of our convertible notes and through our warrants.       8. Acquisitions        Domp  Biotec, S.p.A       On
January 4, 2008, we completed the acquisition of Domp , a privately held company that marketed certain of our products in Italy. This acquisition was accounted for as a business combination. The purchase price was approximately $168
million, which included the carrying value of our existing 49% ownership in Domp . The purchase price paid was allocated to net assets acquired of approximately $63 million based on their estimated fair values at the acquisition date and the
excess of the purchase price over the fair values of net assets acquired of approximately $105 million was assigned to goodwill. There was no material gain or loss related to the reacquisition of marketing rights previously granted to Domp 
as a result of this business combination. The results of Domp  s operations have been included in the consolidated financial statements commencing January 4, 2008. Pro forma results of operations for the year ended December 31,
2008 assuming the acquisition of Domp  had taken place at the beginning of 2008 would not differ significantly from the actual reported results.       Ilypsa, Inc.       On July 18, 2007, we completed the acquisition of Ilypsa, which was accounted for
as a business combination. Ilypsa was a privately held company that specialized in the development of non-absorbed drugs for renal disorders. Pursuant to the merger agreement, we paid cash of approximately $400 million to acquire all of the
outstanding shares of Ilypsa. The purchase price paid, including transaction costs, was allocated to acquired IPR D of $320 million and other net assets acquired of $42 million, based on their estimated fair values at the  
       
   F-30   

Table of Contents  

AMGEN INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 acquisition date. The excess of the purchase price over the fair values of assets and liabilities acquired of approximately $41 million was assigned to
goodwill. The estimated fair value of the acquired IPR D was determined based upon discounted after-tax cash flows adjusted for the probabilities of successful development and commercialization. The amount allocated to acquired IPR D was
immediately expensed in the Consolidated Statement of Income (see Note 1,   Summary of significant accounting policies   Acquired in-process research and development  ). The results of Ilypsa s operations have been included
in the consolidated financial statements commencing July 18, 2007. Pro forma results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2007 assuming the acquisition of Ilypsa had taken place at the beginning of 2007 would not differ
significantly from the actual reported results.       Alantos Pharmaceuticals Holding, Inc.       On July 16, 2007, we completed the acquisition of Alantos, which was accounted for as a business combination. Alantos was a privately held company
that specialized in the development of drugs for the treatment of diabetes and inflammatory diseases. Pursuant to the merger agreement, we paid cash of approximately $300 million to acquire all of the outstanding shares of Alantos. The purchase
price paid, including transaction costs, was allocated to acquired IPR D of $270 million and other net assets acquired of approximately $10 million, based on their estimated fair values at the acquisition date. The excess of the purchase price
over the fair values of assets and liabilities acquired of $23 million was assigned to goodwill. The estimated fair value of the acquired IPR D was determined based upon discounted after-tax cash flows adjusted for the probabilities of
successful development and commercialization. The amount allocated to acquired IPR D was immediately expensed in the Consolidated Statement of Income (see Note 1,   Summary of significant accounting policies   Acquired in-process
research and development  ). The results of Alantos  operations have been included in the consolidated financial statements commencing July 16, 2007. Pro forma results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2007
assuming the acquisition of Alantos had taken place at the beginning of 2007 would not differ significantly from the actual reported results.      In addition, proforma results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2007, assuming both the acquisitions of Ilypsa and Alantos had taken place at the beginning of 2007, would not differ significantly from the actual reported
results.       Avidia, Inc.       On October 24, 2006, we completed the acquisition of Avidia, which was accounted for as a business combination. Avidia was a privately held company focused on the discovery and development of a new class of human therapeutic known as
Avimer  proteins. Pursuant to the merger agreement, we paid cash of approximately $275 million, net of cash acquired and our existing equity stake in Avidia, and may be subject to pay additional amounts upon the achievement of certain future
events, as discussed further below. The purchase price, including cash paid to the former shareholders, the fair value of stock options assumed and transaction costs was allocated to acquired IPR D of $130 million and other net assets acquired
of $29 million, primarily intangible assets associated with R D technology rights, based on their estimated fair values at the acquisition date. The excess of the purchase price over the fair values of assets and liabilities acquired of
approximately $126 million was assigned to goodwill. The estimated fair values of the acquired IPR D and the identifiable intangible asset were determined based upon discounted after-tax cash flows adjusted for the probabilities of successful
development and commercialization. The amount allocated to acquired IPR D was immediately expensed in the Consolidated Statement of Income (see Note 1,   Summary of significant accounting policies   Acquired in-process research and
development  ). The results of Avidia s operations have been included in the consolidated financial statements commencing October 24, 2006. Pro forma results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2006 assuming the
acquisition of Avidia had taken place at the beginning of 2006 would not differ significantly from actual reported results.         
   F-31   

Table of Contents  

AMGEN INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   We may be required to pay an additional $30 million to the former Avidia shareholders if on or
before October 24, 2009 we complete the first dosing in humans of a once per week subcutaneous formulation of a specified interleukin 6 ( IL-6 ) inhibitor molecule developed using Avidia s proprietary methodology. We also
may be required to make an additional payment to the former Avidia shareholders if on or before December 31, 2010 we complete the first dosing of a registration-enabling clinical trial with any IL-6 inhibitor molecule developed using
Avidia s proprietary methodology. If the first such dosing is completed on or before December 31, 2009, the amount of the payment owed would be $30 million; if the first dosing is completed after December 31, 2009 but on or before
December 31, 2010, the amount of the payment owed would be reduced to $5 million.       Abgenix, Inc.       On April 1, 2006, we acquired all of the outstanding common stock of Abgenix, a company with expertise in the discovery and development of monoclonal
antibodies. We paid cash consideration of $22.50 per share in this transaction that was accounted for as a business combination. Additionally, we issued 1.9 million stock options in exchange for Abgenix stock options assumed in the acquisition,
1.4 million of which were vested at the date of acquisition. The purchase price was as follows (in millions):       
    The purchase price was allocated to all of the tangible and amortizable intangible assets acquired,
including acquired IPR D, and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values at the acquisition date. The excess of the purchase price over the fair values of assets and liabilities acquired was assigned to goodwill. The following
table summarizes the allocation of the purchase price (in millions):       
    The estimated fair values of the acquired IPR D and the identifiable intangible asset were
determined based upon discounted after-tax cash flows adjusted for the probabilities of successful development and commercialization. The identifiable intangible asset consists of certain technology that has alternative future uses in our R D
activities and will be amortized over its five-year estimated useful life. The amount allocated to acquired IPR D was immediately expensed in the Consolidated Statement of Income (see Note 1,   Summary of significant accounting policies
  Acquired in-process research and development  ). The results of Abgenix s operations have been included in the consolidated financial statements commencing April 1, 2006. Pro forma results of operations for the year ended
December 31, 2006 assuming the acquisition of Abgenix had taken place at the beginning of 2006 would not differ significantly from actual reported results.      In addition, proforma results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2006, assuming both the acquisitions of Avidia and Abgenix had taken place at the beginning of 2006, would not differ significantly from
the actual reported results.         
   F-32   

Table of Contents  

AMGEN INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    9. Commitments       We lease certain administrative, R D, sales and marketing and manufacturing facilities and equipment under non-cancelable operating leases that expire through December 2023. The following table summarizes the
minimum future rental commitments under non-cancelable operating leases at December 31, 2008 (in millions):       
    Included in the table above are future rental commitments for abandoned leases in the amount of
$337 million less assumed sublease income of $139 million. Rental expense on operating leases, net of sublease rental income, for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $120 million, $104 million and $69 million, respectively.
Sublease income for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 was not material.      The following table summarizes the minimum
contractual commitments to all third-party contract manufacturers at December 31, 2008 (in millions):       
    The amounts above primarily relate to our long-term supply agreement with Boehringer Ingelheim
Pharma KG ( BI Pharma ) for the manufacture of commercial quantities of ENBREL. Under the terms of this agreement, we are required to purchase certain minimum quantities of ENBREL each year through 2012. Amounts owed to BI Pharma are based
on firm commitments for the purchase of ENBREL and reflect certain estimates such as production run success rates and bulk drug yields achieved.      Amounts purchased under contractual inventory commitments from third-party contract manufacturers for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were $196 million, $153 million and $333 million, respectively.       10. Contingencies       In the ordinary course of
business, we are involved in various legal proceedings and other matters that are complex in nature and have outcomes that are difficult to predict. In accordance with SFAS No. 5,   Accounting for Contingencies,   we record
accruals for such contingencies to the extent that we conclude that it is probable that a liability will be incurred and the amount of the related loss can be reasonably estimated.         
   F-33   

Table of Contents  

AMGEN INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   Certain of our legal proceedings and other matters are discussed below:       Transkaryotic Therapies ( TKT ) and Aventis Litigation       On April 15, 1997, Amgen filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts (the  Massachusetts District Court ) against TKT and Hoechst Marion Roussel, Inc. ( HMR 
  now Aventis Pharmaceuticals Inc., together with TKT, the  TKT Defendants ) alleging, after subsequent amendment, infringement of five U.S. patents owned by Amgen that included claims to erythropoietin products and processes for
making erythropoietin products. Amgen sought an injunction preventing the TKT Defendants from making, importing, using or selling erythropoietin in the United States. The TKT Defendants  amended answer asserted that all five of the
patents-in-suit were not infringed, were invalid and were unenforceable due to inequitable conduct.      As a result of multiple proceedings
before the Massachusetts District Court and the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit (the  Federal Circuit ), it has been finally determined that claim 1 of U.S. Patent No. 5,955,422 ( the  422
Patent ), claims 1, 3, 4, 6 and 7 of U.S. Patent No. 5,756,349 ( the  349 Patent ) and claims 4 through 9 of U.S. Patent No. 5,618,698 ( the  698 Patent ), are valid, enforceable and would be infringed by
the TKT Defendant s erythropoietin product and the cells and processes used to produce it. Likewise, it was also determined that claims 2 through 4 of U.S. Patent No. 5,621,080 ( the  080 Patent ) are valid and enforceable
but not infringed, and that claims 1 and 2 of U.S. Patent No. 5,547,933 ( the  933 Patent ) are invalid.      On
October 2, 2008, the Massachusetts District Court entered a Memorandum and Order enjoining the TKT Defendants from infringing the  422 Patent, the  698 Patent and  349 Patent for the life of the patents, the last of which expires
in 2015. No appeal from this judgment has been taken.       Average Wholesale Price ( AWP ) Litigation       Amgen and Immunex are named as defendants, either separately or together, in numerous civil actions broadly alleging that they, together with many other
pharmaceutical manufacturers, reported prices for certain products in a manner that allegedly inflated reimbursement under Medicare and/or Medicaid programs and commercial insurance plans, including co-payments paid to providers who prescribe and
administer the products. The complaints generally assert varying claims under the Medicare and Medicaid statutes, as well as state law claims for deceptive trade practices, common law fraud and various related state law claims. The complaints seek
an undetermined amount of damages, as well as other relief, including declaratory and injunctive relief.      The AWP litigation was commenced
against Amgen and Immunex on December 19, 2001 with the filing of Citizens for Consumer Justice, et al. v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et al. Additional cases have been filed since that time. Most of these actions, as discussed below, have been
consolidated, or are in the process of being consolidated, in a federal Multi-District Litigation proceeding ( the MDL Proceeding ), captioned In Re: Pharmaceutical Industry Average Wholesale Price Litigation MDL No. 1456 and pending
in the Massachusetts District Court.      These cases have been consolidated into the MDL Proceeding, are being brought by consumer classes and
certain state and local governmental entities. These cases consist of the following:       Citizens for Consumer Justice, et al., v. Abbott
Laboratories, Inc., et al.; Teamsters Health   Welfare Fund of Philadelphia, et al., v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et al.; Action Alliance of Senior Citizens of Greater Philadelphia v. Immunex Corporation; Constance Thompson, et al., v.
Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et al.; Ronald Turner, et al., v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et al.; Congress of California Seniors v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et al.; County of Suffolk v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et al.; County of Westchester
v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et al.; County of Rockland v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et al.; City of New York v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et al.; County of Nassau v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et al; County of Onondaga v. Abbott
Laboratories, Inc., et al.; County of Erie v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et al.; County of   
       
   F-34   

Table of Contents  

AMGEN INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
  Chenango v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et al.; County of Chautauqua v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et al.; County of Tompkins v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc.,
et al.; County of Wayne v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et al.; County of Monroe v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et al.; County of Washington v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et al.; County of Herkimer v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et al.; County of Cayuga
v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et al.; County of Allegany v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et al.; County of Rensselaer v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et al.; County of Albany v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et al.; County of Cattaraugus v. Abbott
Laboratories, Inc., et al.; County of Yates v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et al.; County of Broome v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et al.; County of Warren v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et al.; County of Greene v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et
al.; County of Saratoga v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et al.; County of St. Lawrence v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et al.; County of Oneida v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et al.; County of Genesee v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et al.; County of
Fulton v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et al.; County of Steuben v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et al.; County of Putnam v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et al.; County of Niagara v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et al.; County of Jefferson v. Abbott
Laboratories, Inc., et al.; County of Madison v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et al.; County of Lewis v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et al.; County of Columbia v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et al.; County of Essex v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et al.;
County of Cortland v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et al.; County of Seneca v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et al.; County of Orleans v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et al.; County of Duchess v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et al.; County of Ontario v.
Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et al.; County of Schuyler v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et al.; County of Wyoming v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et al.; State of California ex rel. Ven-A-Care of the Florida Keys, Inc. v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et
al., State of Iowa v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et al.       In the MDL Proceeding, the Massachusetts District Court has set various
deadlines relating to motions to dismiss the complaints, discovery, class certification, summary judgment and other pre-trial issues. For the private class action cases, the Massachusetts District Court has divided the defendant companies into a
Track I group and a Track II group. The class certification hearing for the Track I group was held on February 10, 2004. On January 30, 2006, the Massachusetts District Court certified three classes (one nationwide class and two
Massachusetts only classes) with respect to the Track I group. Both Amgen and Immunex are in the Track II group. On March 2, 2006, plaintiffs filed a fourth amended master consolidated complaint, which did not include their motion for class
certification as to the Track II group. On September 12, 2006, a hearing before the Massachusetts District Court was held on plaintiffs  motion for class certification as to the Track II group defendants, which include Amgen and Immunex.
On November 6, 2006, the Massachusetts District Court commenced the Track I trial as to the two Massachusetts only classes certified. Closing arguments in that case were held on January 26, 2007. On March 7, 2008, the Track II
defendants reached a tentative class settlement of the MDL Proceeding, which was subsequently amended on April 3, 2008. The tentative Track II settlement relates to claims against numerous defendants, including Abbott Laboratories, Inc., Amgen
Inc., Aventis Pharmaceuticals Inc., Hoechst Marion Roussel, Inc., Baxter Healthcare Corporation, Baxter International Inc., Bayer Corporation, Dey, Inc., Fujisawa Healthcare, Inc., Fujisawa USA, Inc., Immunex Corporation, Pharmacia Corporation,
Pharmacia   Upjohn LLC (f/k/a Pharmacia   Upjohn, Inc.), Sicor, Inc., Gensia, Inc., Gensia Sicor Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and ZLB Behring, L.L.C. A hearing before the Massachusetts District Court was held
on April 9, 2008 and on July 2, 2008, the Massachusetts District Court issued an order of preliminary approval of the Track II defendants  class settlement and scheduled a fairness hearing for December 16, 2008. At that hearing,
the District Court was not satisfied with several notice requirements the plaintiffs were to have completed prior to the hearing and rescheduled the fairness hearing for April 27, 2009.      For the state and local governmental entities in the MDL Proceeding, on July 30, 2008, the
Massachusetts District Court issued an order granting in part and denying in part Amgen s renewed Motion to Dismiss the First Amended Consolidated Complaint filed by New York City and 44 New York counties in the MDL
Proceeding. The judge dismissed claims relating to all of Amgen s products named in the New York counties  first amended complaint with the exception of claims relating to NEUPOGEN     . Subsequent to the filing of Amgen s  
       
   F-35   

Table of Contents  

AMGEN INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 motion, the New York counties filed a Revised First Amended Consolidated Complaint. It is unclear what bearing the Massachusetts District
Court s decision will have on the revised complaint.     Certain AWP litigation cases remain part of the MDL Proceeding but are likely to
be remanded. These cases are:       State of Iowa v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et al.  This case was filed against Amgen
and Immunex, along with several other pharmaceutical manufacturers, on October 9, 2007 in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Iowa. On October 9, 2007, Immunex was served with the complaint and on October 25, 2007,
Amgen was served with the complaint. On November 20, 2007, this case was removed to the District of Massachusetts and was transferred to the MDL Proceeding. On January 18, 2008, a status conference was held. A Joint Motion to Dismiss was
filed on February 20, 2008, and the motion was granted in part, denied in part on August 29, 2008.      Certain AWP litigation cases
are not a part of the MDL Proceeding. These cases are:       Robert J. Swanston v. TAP Pharmaceutical Products, Inc., et
al.  This Arizona state class action was filed against Amgen and Immunex on December 20, 2002 in the Maricopa County, Arizona Superior Court. The Maricopa County, Arizona Superior Court set a hearing on plaintiffs  motion to certify a
statewide class for May 13, 2005; however, the state court stayed the entire case on March 10, 2005. The case remains stayed and another status conference was held on March 17, 2008. On August 6, 2008, Defendants filed a motion
for summary judgment. The hearing on defendants  motion for summary judgment was postponed due to need for assignment of a new judge. On October 20, 2008, the Track II defendants filed a motion to stay all proceedings.       Commonwealth of Pennsylvania v. TAP Pharmaceutical Products, Inc., et al.  This case was filed against Amgen in the Commonwealth
Court for Pennsylvania in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania on March 10, 2004. On March 10, 2005, the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania filed an amended complaint, adding Immunex, and defendants filed Preliminary Objections. A hearing on the Preliminary
Objections was held on June 8, 2005. On July 13, 2005, defendants filed a notice of removal from the Commonwealth Court for Pennsylvania to the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania (the  Pennsylvania District
Court ). This case was remanded to state court by order dated September 9, 2005. Amgen and Immunex filed answers to the complaint on January 5, 2006. Immunex filed an answer to the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania s amended complaint
on April 6, 2006. On October 11, 2006, the case was removed to the Pennsylvania District Court. Plaintiffs filed a motion to remand and on January 22, 2007, the Pennsylvania District Court stayed the case pending transfer to the MDL
Proceeding. A hearing on plaintiff s motion to remand was held on February 1, 2007. On September 1, 2007, the case was remanded to the Commonwealth Court for Pennsylvania. Currently, the parties have briefed and are awaiting the
court s ruling on the protective order to be entered in the case.       State of Wisconsin v. Amgen Inc., et al.  An
amended complaint was filed against Amgen and Immunex on November 1, 2004 in the Circuit Court for Dane County, Wisconsin. Defendants  filed their motions to dismiss the complaint on January 20, 2005. On July 13, 2005, defendants
filed a notice of removal from the Circuit Court to the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Wisconsin (the  Wisconsin District Court ). This case was remanded to state court by order dated September 29, 2005. On
October 11, 2006, this case was removed to the Wisconsin District Court. Plaintiffs filed a motion to remand and on January 16, 2007, the Wisconsin District Court remanded the case back to state court. On July 16, 2007, defendants
filed a motion to sever, which was denied on September 28, 2007. Amgen and Immunex reached a settlement with the State, and both companies were dismissed with prejudice from the case on December 22, 2008. Amgen and Immunex admitted to no
wrongdoing as part of the settlement agreement.         
   F-36   

Table of Contents  

AMGEN INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    Commonwealth of Kentucky v. Alpharma, Inc., et al . This case was filed against
Amgen and Immunex on November 4, 2004 in the Franklin County Circuit Court, Franklin County, Kentucky. Defendants filed their motions to dismiss the complaint on February 1, 2005. On July 13, 2005, defendants filed a notice of removal
from County Circuit Court to the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Kentucky. A hearing on plaintiffs  opposition to the proposed transfer of this case to the MDL Proceeding in Boston was considered by the Joint Panel on
Multidistrict Litigation on November 17, 2005. This case was remanded to state court by order dated March 16, 2006. A hearing on defendants  motion to dismiss was held on June 6, 2006. Defendants filed a motion to sever the case
on July 9, 2007, and a decision on that motion is pending. A case management conference was held on February 27, 2008, and a trial date of May 16, 2009 has been set for the first defendant, which did not include Amgen. On
June 20, 2008, Immunex was dismissed with prejudice from the matter after reaching a settlement with the Commonwealth of Kentucky. Amgen subsequently reached a settlement with the Commonwealth and was dismissed with prejudice from the case on
January 12, 2009. Amgen and Immunex admitted to no wrongdoing as part of the settlement agreements.       State of
Alabama v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et al.  This case was filed against Amgen and Immunex on January 26, 2005, in the Circuit Court of Montgomery County, Alabama. On July 13, 2005, defendants filed a notice of removal from the Circuit
Court to the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Alabama (the  Alabama District Court ). This case was remanded to state court by order dated August 11, 2005. Defendants  motions to dismiss were denied on
October 13, 2005. Amgen and Immunex filed their answer to plaintiff s second amended complaint on January 30, 2006. On October 11, 2006, this case was removed to the Alabama District Court. On November 3, 2006, this case was
remanded to state court. On January 22, 2007, the state court issued an order assigning defendants into four tracks for trial. Amgen and Immunex were assigned to Track 4. The Track 1 trial commenced on February 11, 2008. Two additional
trials of non-Track 4 defendants (which did not include Amgen and Immunex) were held in June 2008. Following these trials, plaintiff Alabama filed a motion to set a trial date for four additional companies, including Amgen and Immunex. The state
court granted the motion and set trial for Amgen and Immunex for February 2009. The plaintiff also filed a motion to consolidate the four defendants into one trial and the motion to consolidate was granted as to two of the four defendants, which did
not include Amgen or Immunex. Amgen and Immunex reached a settlement with the State, and both companies were dismissed with prejudice from the case on December 19, 2008. Amgen and Immunex admitted to no wrongdoing as part of the settlement
agreement.       People of State of Illinois v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et al.  This case was filed against Amgen and
Immunex on February 7, 2005 in the Circuit Court for Cook County, Illinois. Defendants filed their motions to dismiss the complaint on June 7, 2005. A hearing on plaintiffs  opposition to the proposed transfer of this case to the MDL
Proceeding in Boston was considered by the Joint Panel on Multidistrict Litigation on November 17, 2005. This case was remanded to state court by order dated March 16, 2006. On October 11, 2006, this case was removed to the U.S.
District Court for the Northern District of Illinois. On December 14, 2006, the case was transferred to the MDL Proceeding. A hearing before the Massachusetts District Court on plaintiff s motion to remand was held on February 1,
2007. On September 1, 2007, the case was remanded to the state court. Defendants have filed a joint motion to dismiss and a hearing on the motions to dismiss was held on March 13, 2008. An amended complaint was filed on June 10, 2008
in the state court. A status hearing was held on July 22, 2008 and on October 29, 2008.       State of Mississippi
v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et al.  This case was filed against Amgen and Immunex, along with several other pharmaceutical manufacturers, on October 20, 2005 in the Chancery Court of Hinds County, Mississippi, First Judicial District. The
complaint alleges that defendants reported prices for certain products in a manner that allegedly inflated reimbursement under the Mississippi state Medicaid program. On October 11, 2006, this case was removed to the U.S. District Court for the
Northern District of Mississippi. On October 25, 2006, the case was transferred to the MDL Proceeding. A hearing before the Massachusetts District Court on plaintiff s motion to remand was held on February 1, 2007. On
September 1, 2007, the case was  
       
   F-37   

Table of Contents  

AMGEN INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 remanded to the state court. On December 13, 2007, defendants  motion to dismiss for subject matter jurisdiction was denied. On September 3,
2008, order to sever defendants and transfer the case was granted. Defendants are awaiting the assignment of a new judge in a new county.       State of Arizona, etc., et al. v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et al.  This case was filed against Amgen and Immunex, along with several other pharmaceutical manufacturers, on December 7, 2005 in Maricopa
County, Arizona. The complaint alleges that Amgen and Immunex, together with many other pharmaceutical manufacturers, reported prices for certain products in a manner that allegedly inflated reimbursement under the Arizona state Medicaid program. On
October 10, 2006, this case removed to the Massachusetts District Court and was transferred to the MDL Proceeding. Plaintiff s motion to remand was denied on October 25, 2006.       State of Alaska v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et al.  This case was filed against Amgen and Immunex, along with several other
pharmaceutical manufacturers, on October 6, 2006 in the Alaska Superior Court in Anchorage, Alaska. The compliant alleges that Amgen and Immunex, together with many other pharmaceutical manufacturers, reported prices for certain products in a
manner that allegedly inflated reimbursement under the Alaska state Medicaid program. Amgen and Immunex were served with the complaint on October 19, 2006. Amgen and Immunex filed motions to dismiss on January 5, 2007. A hearing on
defendants , which includes Amgen and Immunex together with other pharmaceutical manufacturers, motions to dismiss was held on May 9, 2007. At this hearing, the court orally denied the joint motion to dismiss. A tentative trial date of
April 2010 has been set. On February 4, 2008, Immunex was dismissed from the case without prejudice. Amgen subsequently reached a settlement with the State and was dismissed with prejudice from the case on January 2, 2009. Amgen admitted
to no wrongdoing as part of the settlement agreement.       County of Erie v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et al.  This case
was filed against Amgen and Immunex on March 8, 2005, in the Supreme Court of New York, Erie County. The complaint alleges that all defendants participated in a scheme to market the spread between the true wholesale price (i.e., selling price)
and the false and inflated AWP reported, in order to increase market share, thus defrauding the county Medicaid program. On April 15, 2005, defendants filed a notice of removal from the state court to the U.S. District Court for the Western
District of New York (the  New York District Court ). This case was remanded to state court by order dated January 10, 2006. A hearing on defendants  motion to dismiss was held on May 2, 2006. On September 7, 2006, the
state court granted in part, and denied in part, defendants  motions to dismiss. Immunex s motion to dismiss was granted and Amgen s motion to dismiss was denied. On October 11, 2006, this case was removed to the New York
District Court. On September 1, 2007, the case was remanded to the state court. The State of New York Litigation Coordinating Panel granted defendants  motions to coordinate the Erie, Oswego and Schenectady County cases.       County of Schenectady v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et al.  This case was filed against Amgen and Immunex, along with several other
pharmaceutical manufacturers, on May 9, 2006 in the Supreme Court of New York, Schenectady County. On August 21, 2006, Immunex was served with the complaint and on August 24, 2006, Amgen was served with the complaint. On
October 11, 2006, this case was removed to the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of New York. Plaintiffs filed a motion to remand on November 6, 2006. On September 1, 2007, the case was remanded to the state court. The
State of New York Litigation Coordinating Panel granted defendants  motions to coordinate the Erie, Oswego and Schenectady County cases.       County of Oswego v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et al.  This case was filed against Amgen and Immunex, along with several other pharmaceutical manufacturers, on May 9, 2006 in the Supreme Court of New York,
Oswego County. On August 21, 2006, Immunex was served with the complaint and on August 24, 2006, Amgen was served with the complaint. On October 11, 2006, this case was removed to the U.S. District  
       
   F-38   

Table of Contents  

AMGEN INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 Court for the Northern District of New York. Plaintiffs filed a motion to remand on November 6, 2006. On September 1, 2007, the case was remanded
to the state court. The State of New York Litigation Coordinating Panel granted defendants  motions to coordinate the Erie, Oswego and Schenectady County cases.       State of Kansas, ex rel Steve Six v. Amgen Inc. and Immunex Corporation.  On November 3, 2008, the State of Kansas filed a
complaint against Amgen and Immunex in the District Court of Wyandotte County, Kansas, Civil Court Division. Approximately forty other pharmaceutical manufacturers were also sued by the state. Plaintiff Kansas alleges that the manufacturers
misrepresented product pricing information reported to the state by falsely inflating those prices.       Roche Matters        Amgen Inc. v. F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd., et al.       On November 8, 2005, Amgen filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the District of
Massachusetts (the  Massachusetts District Court ) against F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd., Roche Diagnostics GmbH, and Hoffmann-La Roche, Inc. (collectively,  Roche Defendants ) seeking a declaration by the court that the importation,
use, sale or offer to sell pegylated erythropoietin (alternatively referred to as peg-EPO or MIRCERA     ) infringes Amgen s EPO patents. Amgen alleged infringement of six of its U.S.
Patents that claim erythropoietin products, pharmaceutical compositions, and processes for making erythropoietin, specifically U.S. Patent No. 5,547,933 ( the  933 Patent ), U.S. Patent No. 5,621,080 ( the  080
Patent ), U.S. Patent No. 5,955,422 ( the  422 Patent ), U.S. Patent No. 5,756,349 ( the  349 Patent ), U.S. Patent No. 5,618,698 ( the  698 Patent ) and U.S. Patent No. 5,441,868
( the  868 Patent ). Amgen sought a permanent injunction preventing the Roche Defendants from making, importing, using, offering for sale or selling recombinant human erythropoietin, including pegylated EPO, in the United States. The
Roche Defendants  amended answer asserted that all six of the patents-in-suit were not infringed, were invalid and were unenforceable due to inequitable conduct and counterclaimed asserting violations of federal and state antitrust laws. On
June 5, 2007, the Massachusetts District Court entered an order dismissing the  080 Patent from the case.      On August 27,
2007, the Massachusetts District Court granted Amgen s motions for summary judgment that the  349 Patent, the  422 Patent and the  933 Patent are not invalid for obviousness-type double patenting over Amgen s now expired
U.S. Patent 4,703,008 ( the  008 Patent ) and that certain of the asserted patent claims are not invalid for indefiniteness, lack of written description or lack of enablement. On August 28, 2007, the Massachusetts District Court
granted Amgen s motion for summary judgment of infringement of claim 1 of the  422 Patent.      During the period starting
September 4, 2007 and ending October 18, 2007, Amgen s remaining patent infringement claims were tried before a jury along with certain of the Roche Defendants  defenses and counterclaims of non-infringement and patent
invalidity. On September 25, 2007, the Massachusetts District Court granted judgment as a matter of law that the Roche Defendants had not satisfied its burden of proving that  422 Patent claim 1 is anticipated. On October 16, 2007,
the Massachusetts District Court granted judgment as a matter of law that Amgen had not satisfied its burden to prove that the production of Roche Defendants  peg-EPO product infringes claim 7 of the  349 Patent. On October 17, 2007,
the Massachusetts District Court granted judgment as a matter of law that Amgen had not satisfied its burden to prove that the Roche Defendants  peg-EPO product infringes claim 9 of the  933 Patent. On October 23, 2007, the jury
rendered a verdict that claim 1 of the `422 Patent, claims 3, 7, 8, 9, 11, 12 and 14 of the `933 Patent, claims 1 and 2 of the `868 Patent, claims 6 through 9 of the `698 Patent and claim 7 of the `349 Patent were valid and that claims 3, 7, 8 and
12 of the  933 Patent, claims 1 and 2 of the  868 Patent and claims 6 through 9 of the  698 Patent will be infringed by the Roche Defendants.      Roche s defenses and counterclaims of invalidity based on obviousness-type double patenting and unenforceability based on alleged inequitable conduct were tried to the Massachusetts District Court in separate

F-39   

Table of Contents  

AMGEN INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 proceedings. On October 23, 2007, the Massachusetts District Court ruled that Roche did not meet its burden to prove the patents-in-suit are
unenforceable. On October 30, 2007, the Massachusetts District Court granted Roche s post-trial motion overturning the jury s verdict of infringement of claim 12 of the  933 Patent.      Evidentiary hearings were held on November 15, 2007 and December 5-7, 2007 before the Massachusetts District Court concerning Amgen s
request for a permanent injunction. On February 29, 2008, the Massachusetts District Court preliminarily enjoined the Roche Defendants from infringing the claims of the patents-in-suit found to have been infringed. Roche appealed this grant of
a preliminary injunction but the Federal Circuit affirmed the District Court s actions on October 10, 2008.      On October 2,
2008, the Massachusetts District Court entered an Order denying the parties  post-trial motions and upholding the jury s verdict in all respects except infringement of claim 12 of the  933 Patent under the Doctrine of Equivalents,
finding that the  868 Patent and the  698 Patent were not invalid for obviousness-type double patenting in view of the  008 Patent, that the  933 Patent, the  422 Patent and the  349 Patent were not invalid for
obviousness-type double patenting in view of the  868 Patent or the  698 Patent, and that the Roche Defendants antitrust counterclaims were moot. On October 17, 2008, the Massachusetts District Court entered judgment that the
patents-in-suit are valid, enforceable and infringed and permanently enjoined Roche from infringing the  422 Patent, the  933 Patent, the  868 Patent and the  698 Patent for the remaining life of these patents.      On December 15, 2008, the Roche Defendants filed their opening brief with the Federal Circuit in support of their appeal of the Massachusetts
District Court s final judgment and permanent injunction. On January 27, 2009, Amgen filed its brief in response to the Roche Defendants appeal and in support of Amgen s cross-appeal of the Massachusetts District Court s judgment
of non-infringement of  349 claim 7 and  933 claims 9, 11-12 and 14. The Roche Defendant s brief in opposition to Amgen s cross appeal and in reply to Amgen s opposition to the Roche appeal is due by March 9, 2009.
      U.S. International Trade Commission       On April 11, 2006, Amgen filed a complaint with the U.S. International Trade Commission ( ITC ) in Washington D.C. requesting that the ITC institute an investigation of Roche s importation of
peg-EPO into the United States as Amgen believes that importation of peg-EPO is unlawful because peg-EPO, and the method of its manufacture, are covered by Amgen s EPO patents. Amgen asked the ITC to issue a permanent exclusion order that would
prohibit importation of peg-EPO into the United States. The ITC instituted an investigation of Roche s importation of peg-EPO into the United States.      On July 7, 2006, the Administrative Law Judge ( ALJ ) at the ITC issued a summary determination that Roche s importation and use of peg-EPO in the United States to date are subject to a clinical
trial exemption to patent infringement. On July 14, 2006, Amgen filed a petition requesting that the ALJ s summary determination be reviewed by the full ITC and on August 31, 2006, the ITC adopted the ALJ s summary determination
terminating the investigation based on the clinical trial exemption to patent infringement liability under 35 U.S.C. 271(e)(1).      On
October 11, 2006, Amgen filed a petition for review of the ITC s decision with the Federal Circuit. On March 19, 2008, the Federal Circuit issued a ruling on Amgen s appeal reversing the ITC s dismissal of the investigation
on jurisdictional grounds and remanding the case for further proceeding to determine if infringement has occurred or will occur and to provide a remedy, if appropriate. In May 2008, Roche and the ITC filed a motion asking the Federal Circuit to
reconsider its ruling in Amgen s favor, which is still pending before the court.         
   F-40   

Table of Contents  

AMGEN INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    Amgen Inc., et al., v. Ariad Pharmaceuticals, Inc.       On April 20, 2006, Amgen, Immunex, Amgen USA Inc., Amgen Manufacturing, Limited and Immunex
Rhode Island Corporation (the  Amgen Entities ) filed a complaint against Ariad Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ( Ariad ) in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware (the  Delaware District Court ) requesting that the
court declare all of the claims of U.S. Patent Number 6,410,516 ( the  516 Patent ) invalid and not infringed by any activities related to ENBREL or Kineret     . The  516
Patent is exclusively licensed to Ariad. On April 13, 2007, the Amgen Entities filed an amended complaint for declaratory judgment of invalidity and non-infringement against Ariad and the Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research (the
 Whitehead Institute ). On April 13, 2007, Ariad, the Whitehead Institute, Massachusetts Institute of Technology ( MIT ) and The President and Fellows of Harvard College ( Harvard ) filed an answer to Amgen s
amended complaint and a counterclaim against the Amgen Entities and Wyeth for patent infringement.      On May 30, 2007, Ariad filed a
motion for leave to file amended counterclaims to assert additional claims for infringement of U.S. Patent Nos. 6,150,090 ( the  090 Patent ) and 5,804,374 ( the  374 Patent ), which was granted by The Delaware District
Court on September 13, 2007. On October 9, 2007 Amgen filed its reply to Ariad s amended counterclaims. The Court scheduled a separate trial in March 2009 on the  090 Patent and  374 Patent. On December 11, 2007, Wyeth
and Ariad filed a stipulated dismissal without prejudice and the Delaware District Court granted the motion on December 12, 2007. On January 31, 2008, Ariad agreed to dismiss with prejudice its claims of infringement with respect to the
 090 Patent and  374 Patent for any of Amgen s activities as of the date of the dismissal. The Delaware District Court granted the dismissal with prejudice on February 1, 2008.      With respect the  516 Patent, both parties filed dispositive motions on April 25, 2008.
On June 19, 2008, the Delaware District Court held a hearing on the dispositive motions and issues of claim construction. On September 19, 2008, the Delaware District Court issued an order construing the claims of the  516 Patent and
granted summary judgment that ENBREL does not infringe the  516 Patent. Also on September 19, 2008, the Delaware District Court granted summary judgment in-part in favor of Ariad, ruling that Amgen could not prove inequitable conduct on
the basis of one of its claims, but that sufficient evidence exists for a trial on inequitable conduct on Amgen s alternative bases. The Delaware District Court also dismissed Amgen s claims of invalidity on the claims of the  516
Patent not asserted by Ariad to be infringed by sales of ENBREL (Ariad had asserted that only seven of the 203 patent claims were infringed), but the Delaware District Court maintained Amgen s unenforceability claims to all 203 claims of the
 516 patent. The Delaware District Court acknowledged in its ruling that Ariad asserted it would no longer pursue its claim of infringement by Kineret     . On October 3, 2008, the
Delaware District Court stayed Amgen s invalidity and unenforceability claims and entered final judgment of no infringement in favor of Amgen. The Delaware District Court declared the case administratively closed, to be reopened only by the
parties after a decision on appeal.      On October 6, 2008, Ariad filed a notice of appeal. Ariad filed its Appellate brief on
December 16, 2008 with the Federal Circuit, appealing the District Court s claim construction order and grant of summary judgment of noninfringment. Amgen filed its opposition brief on January 28, 2009. Ariad filed its reply brief on
February 17, 2009. Oral argument on appeal remains to be scheduled.       Human Genome Sciences Litigation       On August 30, 2007, Human Genome Sciences ( HGS ) filed an action under 35 U.S.C.  146 against Amgen and Immunex in the Delaware
District Court to review the judgment entered July 27, 2007 by the Board of Patent Appeals and Interferences in Interference No. 105,381. Amgen filed its Answer and Counterclaims to the complaint on October 22, 2007 and HGS filed its
reply on November 9, 2007. On February 3, 2009, the Delaware District Court entered an order staying the case until further order of the court on a joint request by the parties.         
   F-41   

Table of Contents  

AMGEN INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   On November 30, 2007, HGS filed an action under 35 U.S.C.  146 against Amgen in the
Delaware District Court to review a Decision on Motions entered on July 26, 2007 and the Final Judgment entered November 20, 2007 by the Board of Patent Appeals and Interferences in Interference No. 105,240. On May 9, 2008, the
Delaware District Court granted Amgen s Motion to Dismiss the complaint with prejudice pursuant to Rule 12(b)(1) for lack of subject matter jurisdiction and Rule 12(b)(6) for failure to state a claim. HGS filed a Notice of Appeal to the Federal
Circuit and on January 7, 2009, HGS filed its opening brief on appeal.       Sensipar      Abbreviated New Drug Application ( ANDA ) Litigation       On July 25, 2008, Amgen, NPS Pharmaceuticals ( NPS ) and Brigham and Women s
Hospital ( BWH ), filed a lawsuit against Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc., Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (collectively  Teva ) and Barr Laboratories, Inc. ( Barr ) in the Delaware District Court for infringement of
four patents   U.S. Patent Nos. 6,001,068; 6,031,003; 6,313,146; and 6,211,244. The lawsuit is based on ANDAs filed by Teva and Barr which seek approval to market generic versions of Sensipar     . Amgen s filing of the lawsuit stays any U.S. Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) approval of the Teva or Barr ANDA until September 2011, unless there is an earlier decision by the Delaware District
Court adverse to Amgen.     On November 13, 2008, the Delaware District Court entered a scheduling order setting a claims construction
hearing for September 16 and 17, 2009 and indicating that the case will be placed in the trial pool on May 3, 2010.       Federal
Securities Litigation   In re Amgen Inc. Securities Litigation       The six
federal class action shareholder complaints filed against Amgen Inc., Kevin W. Sharer, Richard D. Nanula, Dennis M. Fenton, Roger M. Perlmutter, Brian M. McNamee, George J. Morrow, Edward V. Fritzky, Gilbert S. Omenn and Franklin P. Johnson, Jr.,
(the  Federal Defendants ) in the United States District Court for the Central District of California (the  California Central District Court ) on April 17, 2007 (Kairalla v. Amgen Inc., et al.), May 1, 2007 (Mendall v.
Amgen Inc., et al.,   Jaffe v. Amgen Inc., et al.), May 11, 2007 (Eldon v. Amgen Inc., et al.), May 21, 2007 (Rosenfield v. Amgen Inc., et al.) and June 18, 2007 (Public Employees  Retirement Association of Colorado v.
Amgen Inc., et al.) were consolidated by the California Central District Court into one action captioned  In re Amgen Inc. Securities Litigation . The consolidated complaint was filed with the California Central District Court on
October 2, 2007. The consolidated complaint alleges that Amgen and these officers and directors made false statements that resulted in: (i) deceiving the investing public regarding Amgen s prospects and business;
(ii) artificially inflating the prices of Amgen s publicly traded securities and (iii) causing plaintiff and other members of the class to purchase Amgen publicly traded securities at inflated prices. The complaint also makes
off-label marketing allegations that, throughout the class period, the Federal Defendants improperly marketed Aranesp      and EPOGEN      for off-label uses while aware that there were alleged safety signals with these products. The plaintiffs seek class certification, compensatory damages, legal fees and other relief deemed proper. The Federal
Defendants filed a motion to dismiss on November 8, 2007. On February 4, 2008, the California Central District Court granted in part, and denied in part, the Federal Defendants  motion to dismiss the consolidated amended complaint.
Specifically, the California Central District Court granted the Federal Defendants  motion to dismiss as to individual defendants Fritzky, Omenn, Johnson, Fenton and McNamee, but denied the Federal Defendants  motion to dismiss as to
individual defendants Sharer, Nanula, Perlmutter and Morrow. The California Central District Court granted plaintiffs leave to amend the complaint. Parties in the case are conducting class certification discovery. Plaintiff s motion for class
certification is due before the California Central District Court on March 4, 2009 and Amgen s response in opposition is due 45 days later. The California Central District Court has not set a date for the hearing on the motion for class
certification.         
   F-42   

Table of Contents  

AMGEN INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    State Derivative Litigation        Larson v. Sharer, et al.  The three state shareholder derivative complaints filed against
Amgen Inc., Kevin W. Sharer, George J. Morrow, Dennis M. Fenton, Brian M. McNamee, Roger M. Perlmutter, David Baltimore, Gilbert S. Omenn, Judith C. Pelham, Frederick W. Gluck, Jerry D. Choate, J. Paul Reason, Frank J. Biondi, Jr., Leonard D.
Schaeffer, Frank C. Herringer, Richard D. Nanula, Willard H. Dere, Edward V. Fritzky, Franklin P. Johnson, Jr. and Donald B. Rice as defendants (the  State Defendants ) on May 1, 2007 ( Larson v. Sharer, et al. ,  
 Anderson v. Sharer, et al. ), and August 13, 2007 ( Weil v. Sharer, et al. ) in the Superior Court of the State of California, Ventura County (the  Superior Court ) were consolidated by the Superior Court under one action
captioned  Larson v. Sharer, et al . The consolidated complaint was filed on July 5, 2007. The complaint alleges that the State Defendants breached their fiduciary duties, wasted corporate assets, were unjustly enriched and violated the
California Corporations Code. Plaintiffs allege that the State Defendants failed to disclose and/or misrepresented results of Aranesp      clinical studies, marketed both Aranesp      and EPOGEN      for off-label uses and that these actions or inactions caused shareholders to suffer damages. The complaints also allege
insider trading by the State Defendants. The plaintiffs seek treble damages based on various causes of action, reformed corporate governance, equitable and/or injunctive relief, restitution, disgorgement of profits, benefits and other compensation,
and legal costs. A hearing on State Defendants  motion to dismiss and other motions was held on March 13, 2008.      An amended
consolidated complaint was filed on March 13, 2008, adding Anthony Gringeri as a defendant and removing the causes of action for insider selling and misappropriation of information, violation of California Corporations Code Section 25402
and violation of California Corporations Code Section 25403. Defendants  demurrers and alternative motion to stay this action were filed on April 14, 2008, and a hearing was held on June 10, 2008 in the Superior Court. On
July 14, 2008, the Superior Court dismissed without prejudice the consolidated state derivative class action. The judge also ordered a stay of any re-filing of an amended complaint until the federal court has determined whether any securities
fraud occurred.       Birch v. Sharer, et al.  On January 23, 2009, a shareholder derivative lawsuit titled  Birch v. Sharer, et
al.  was filed in Los Angeles County Superior Court naming Amgen Inc., Kevin W. Sharer, David Baltimore, Frank J. Biondi, Jr., Jerry D. Choate, Vance D. Coffman, Frederick W. Gluck, Frank C. Herringer, Gilbert S. Omenn, Judith C. Pelham, J. Paul
Reason, Leonard D. Schaeffer and Tom Zindrick as defendants. The complaint alleges derivative claims for breach of fiduciary duty based on a purported failure to implement adequate internal controls and to oversee the Company s operations,
which plaintiff claims resulted in numerous lawsuits and investigations over a number of years. Plaintiff seeks damages on behalf of Amgen, including costs and expenses, allegedly incurred, among other things, in connection with wrongful termination
lawsuits and potential violations of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act ( HIPPA ). On February 25, 2009, the case was reassigned to a judge in the Complex Department of the Los Angeles County Superior Court and the
initial status conference has not yet been scheduled.       Federal Derivative Litigation       On May 7, 2007, the shareholder derivative lawsuit of  Durgin v. Sharer, et al. , was filed in the California Central District Court and named
Amgen Inc., Kevin W. Sharer, George J. Morrow, Dennis M. Fenton, Brian M. McNamee, Roger M. Perlmutter, David Baltimore, Gilbert S. Omenn, Judith C. Pelham, Frederick W. Gluck, Jerry D. Choate, J. Paul Reason, Frank J. Biondi, Jr., Leonard D.
Schaeffer, Frank C. Herringer, Richard D. Nanula, Edward V. Fritzky and Franklin P. Johnson, Jr. as defendants. The complaint alleges the same claims and requests the same relief as in the three state shareholder derivative complaints now
consolidated as  Larson v. Sharer, et al . The case has been stayed for all purposes until thirty days after a final ruling on the motion to dismiss by the California Central District Court in the  In re Amgen Inc. Securities Litigation 
action.      On September 21, 2007, the shareholder derivative lawsuit of  Rosenblum v. Sharer, et al. , was filed in the California
Central District Court. This lawsuit was brought by the shareholder who previously made a demand on  
       
   F-43   

Table of Contents  

AMGEN INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 the Amgen Board on May 14, 2007. The complaint alleges that the defendants breached their fiduciary duties, wasted corporate assets and were unjustly
enriched. Plaintiffs allege that the defendants failed to disclose and/or misrepresented results of Aranesp      clinical studies, marketed both Aranesp      and EPOGEN      for off-label uses and that these actions or inactions as well as the Amgen market strategy caused damage to the Company resulting in several
inquiries, investigations and lawsuits that are costly to defend. The complaint also alleges insider trading by the defendants. The plaintiffs seek treble damages based on various causes of action, reformed corporate governance, equitable and/or
injunctive relief, restitution, disgorgement of profits, benefits and other compensation, and legal costs. The case was stayed for all purposes until thirty days after a final ruling on the motion to dismiss by the California Central District Court
in the  In re Amgen Inc. Securities Litigation  action.      Thereafter, on May 1, 2008, plaintiff in  Rosenblum v. Sharer, et
al. , filed an amended complaint which removed Dennis Fenton as a defendant and also eliminated the claims for insider selling by defendants. On July 28, 2008, the California Central District Court heard Amgen and the defendants  motion
to dismiss and motion to stay. On July 30, 2008, the California Central District Court granted Amgen and the defendants  motion to dismiss without prejudice and also granted a stay of the case pending resolution of the  In re Amgen Inc.
Securities Litigation  action.       ERISA Litigation       On August 20, 2007, the ERISA class action lawsuit of  Harris v. Amgen Inc., et al.,  was
filed against Amgen and certain members of its Board of Directors ( Board ) in the California Central District Court. Plaintiffs claim that Amgen and various Board members breached their fiduciary duties by failing to inform current and
former employees who participated in the Amgen Retirement and Savings Manufacturing Plan and the Amgen Savings Plan of the alleged off-label promotion of both Aranesp      and EPOGEN      while a number of studies allegedly demonstrated safety concerns in patients using ESAs. On February 4, 2008, the California Central District Court dismissed the complaint with prejudice
as to plaintiff Harris, who had filed claims against Amgen Inc. The claims alleged by the second plaintiff, Ramos, were also dismissed but the court granted the plaintiff leave to amend his complaint. On February 1, 2008, the plaintiffs
appealed the decision by the California Central District Court to dismiss the claims of both plaintiffs Harris and Ramos to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 9   th    Circuit, which remains pending before the 9   th    Circuit. On May 19, 2008, plaintiff Ramos in the  Harris v.
Amgen Inc., et al.,  action filed another lawsuit captioned  Ramos v. Amgen Inc., et al.,  in the California Central District Court. The lawsuit is another ERISA class action. The  Ramos v. Amgen Inc., et al ., matter names the same
defendants in the  Harris v. Amgen Inc., et al.,  matter plus four new defendants: Amgen Manufacturing Limited, Richard Nanula, Dennis Fenton and the Fiduciary Committee. Pursuant to the parties  stipulation, the Ramos matter has been
stayed pending the outcome of the Harris matter appeal.       Third-Party Payors Litigation       On June 5, 2007, the  United Food   Commercial Workers Central Pennsylvania and
Regional Health   Welfare Fund v. Amgen Inc.  (the  United Food Matter ), on June 7, 2007 the  Vista Healthplan Inc. v. Amgen Inc.  (the  Vista Healthplan Matter ), on June 14, 2007, the  Painters
District Council No. 30 Health   Welfare Fund v. Amgen. Inc.  (the  Painters Matter ), on August 8, 2007, the  Ironworkers v. Amgen Inc.  (the  Ironworkers Matter ), on August 15, 2007,  Watters
(State of Michigan) v. Amgen Inc.  (the Watters Matter ), and on August 28, 2007,  Sheet Metal v. Amgen Inc.  (the  Sheet Metal Matter ), putative class action lawsuits, were filed by third-party payors against Amgen in
the California Central District Court. In each action, the plaintiff alleges that Amgen marketed its anemia medicines, EPOGEN      and Aranesp     , for  off-label  uses, or uses that are not approved by the FDA, and claims that, as a result, the plaintiff paid for unwarranted prescriptions. Specifically, the complaints allege that Amgen promoted
EPOGEN      and Aranesp      for: treating cancer patients who are not on chemotherapy; treating quality of life symptoms associated
with anemia, such as fatigue; and reaching hemoglobin targets above the FDA-approved level. Each plaintiff asserts claims under California s consumer protection statutes and for breach of implied warranty and unjust enrichment and plaintiffs
seek to represent a nationwide class of individuals and entities.         
   F-44   

Table of Contents  

AMGEN INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   On October 29, 2007, in the United Food Matter, the Vista Healthplan Matter and the
Painters Matter, a motion to dismiss and a motion to transfer each of the three cases were heard before California Central District Court. On November 13, 2007, the United Food Matter was transferred to the U.S. District Court for the District
of Pennsylvania, the Vista Healthplan Matter was transferred to the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida and the Painters Matter was transferred to the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois. On
December 4, 2007, the Watters Matter was transferred to the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan. On January 25, 2008, the Ironworkers Matter was transferred back to the District Court of New Jersey. On February 4,
2008, the California Central District Court heard defendants  motion to dismiss and motion to transfer the Sheet Metal Matter back to the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Pennsylvania.      On January 10, 2008, plaintiffs in the United Food Matter brought a motion before the Judicial Panel on Multi-District Litigation ( MDL )
seeking to have the five third-party payor lawsuits consolidated into one MDL case and assigned to the Northern District of Illinois. Defendants filed an opposition to the MDL consolidation motion on February 3, 2008.      On January 11, 2008, the Vista Healthplan Matter was voluntarily dismissed. On April 8, 2008, the Judicial Panel on MDL granted plaintiffs 
motion in the United Food Matter to centralize the five third-party payor lawsuits into one MDL case for the purpose of consolidated pre-trial proceedings and the five cases have been transferred back to the California Central District Court. The
five cases will be transferred back to their respective jurisdictions if and when they are set for trial. On July 2, 2008, the plaintiffs in the MDL filed an amended and consolidated complaint. Defendants  motion to dismiss before the
California Central District Court was filed on August 4, 2008. On December 17, 2008, the MDL Court granted Defendants  motion to dismiss without prejudice and, on January 30, 2009, plaintiffs filed an Amended Consolidated Class
Action Complaint, which is predicated on similar underlying allegations. Defendants  motion to dismiss the Amended Complaint is due before the MDL Court on March 6, 2009.       Other       On February 19, 2007,
Amgen received an informal inquiry from the SEC s Atlanta District Office regarding the Danish Head and Neck Cancer ( DAHANCA ) 10 study. The SEC s Atlanta District Office transferred the inquiry to the Los Angeles office in late
2007. Amgen voluntarily produced certain information and documentation related to a number of ESA studies. On February 9, 2009, Amgen received a letter from the SEC s Los Angeles Regional Office indicating that this investigation has been
completed and that the SEC s Office of Enforcement does not intend to recommend any enforcement action by the SEC.      On May 10,
2007, Amgen received a subpoena from the Attorney General of the State of New York seeking documents related to Amgen s promotional activities, sales and marketing activities, medical education, clinical studies, pricing and contracting,
license and distribution agreements and corporate communications. Amgen continues to fully cooperate in responding to the subpoena.      On
October 25, 2007, Amgen received a subpoena from the U.S. Attorney s Office, Eastern District of New York, seeking documents relating to its products. Amgen continues to fully cooperate with the request.      On February 10, 2009, the presiding judge in the U.S. District Court for the District of
Massachusetts partially unsealed a complaint previously filed in that court on July 3, 2007 by a confidential private plaintiff against Amgen, Immunex, Wyeth and a number of other defendants. The complaint unsealed by the court is titled
 First Amended Complaint,  suggesting that it amends an earlier complaint previously filed by the private plaintiff and kept under seal by the court. The unsealed complaint was filed pursuant to the Qui Tam provisions of the Federal Civil
False Claims Act and on behalf of 17 named states and the District of Columbia under their respective State False Claims Acts (the  Qui Tam Action ). The unsealed complaint alleges that various of the defendants engaged in unlawful sales
and marketing activities with respect to two drugs, Aranesp      and ENBREL, in violation of federal and state laws, including the Federal and respective State False Claims Act(s), the Medicare
and Medicaid Antikickback Statute, and the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. Amgen has not yet been served  
       
   F-45   

Table of Contents  

AMGEN INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
  
 with the unsealed complaint. We believe that certain portions of the subpoenas Amgen received from the U.S. Attorney s Office, Eastern District of New
York and the Attorney General of the State of New York may relate to allegations in the Qui Tam Action and that such allegations may also be related to an ongoing civil and criminal investigation by the U.S. Attorney s Office, Eastern District
of New York.      On November 1, 2007, Amgen received a subpoena from the U.S. Attorney s Office, Western District of Washington, for
production of documents relating to its products. Amgen is fully cooperating with the request. On July 18, 2008, Amgen received a supplemental subpoena from the U.S. Attorney s Office, Western District of Washington, pursuant to the Health
Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (18 U.S.C. 3486), which requests documents relating generally to Amgen s collection and dissemination of information regarding clinical research on the efficacy and safety of ESAs. Amgen
intends to fully cooperate with the government s document requests.      On January 14, 2008, Amgen received a subpoena from the New
Jersey Attorney General s Office for production of documents relating to one of its products. Amgen has completed its response per the terms of the subpoena.      In the ordinary course of business, we are involved in various legal proceedings and other matters, including those discussed in this Note. While it is not possible to accurately predict or determine the eventual
outcome of these items, one or more of these items currently pending could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.       11. Segment information       We operate in one business segment   human therapeutics. Therefore,
results of our operations are reported on a consolidated basis for purposes of segment reporting, consistent with internal management reporting. Enterprise-wide disclosures about product sales, revenues and long-lived assets by geographic area, and
revenues from major customers are presented below.       Revenues       Revenues consisted of the following (in millions):       
       
   F-46   

Table of Contents  

AMGEN INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    Geographic information       Outside the United States, we principally sell Aranesp     , Neulasta      and NEUPOGEN      in Europe. We sell ENBREL only in the United States and Canada.
Information regarding revenues and long-lived assets (consisting of property, plant and equipment) attributable to the United States and to all foreign countries collectively is stated below. The geographic classification of product sales was based
upon the location of the customer. The geographic classification of all other revenues was based upon the domicile of the entity from which the revenues were earned.      Certain geographical information with respect to revenues and long-lived assets are as follows (in millions):       
       
   F-47   

Table of Contents  

AMGEN INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    Major customers       In the United States, we sell primarily to wholesale distributors of pharmaceutical products. We
utilize these wholesale distributors as the principal means of distributing our products to healthcare providers, such as physicians or their clinics, dialysis centers, hospitals and pharmacies. In early 2008, ENBREL s distribution model was
converted from primarily being drop shipped directly to pharmacies to a wholesale distribution model similar to our other products. Outside the United States, Aranesp     , Neulasta      and NEUPOGEN      are principally distributed to hospitals and/or wholesalers depending upon the distribution practice in each country
for which the product has been launched. We monitor the financial condition of our larger customers and limit our credit exposure by setting credit limits, requiring letters of credit, and obtaining credit insurance, as we deem appropriate. We had
product sales to three large wholesaler customers each accounting for more than 10% of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. On a combined basis, these distributors accounted for 71% and 87% of worldwide gross
revenues and U.S. gross product sales, respectively, for 2008, as noted in the following table (dollar amounts in millions):       
    At December 31, 2008 and 2007, amounts due from these three large wholesalers each exceeded
10% of gross trade receivables, and accounted for 58% and 57%, respectively, of net trade receivables on a combined basis. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, 40% and 35%, respectively, of trade receivables, net were due from customers located
outside the United States, primarily in Europe. Our total allowance for doubtful accounts as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 was not material.       12.
Accrued liabilities       Accrued liabilities consisted of the following (in millions):       
       
   F-48   

Table of Contents  

AMGEN INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    13. Fair values        Fair value measurement       The Company adopted the provisions of the FASB s SFAS 157, effective
January 1, 2008, for its financial assets and liabilities. The FASB subsequently issued FSP FAS 157-2,   Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157,   which delayed the effective date of SFAS 157 until January 1, 2009,
with respect to the fair value measurement requirements for non-financial assets and liabilities that are not remeasured on a recurring basis. Under this standard, fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to
transfer a liability (i.e., the  exit price ) in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The adoption of SFAS 157 did not have a material impact on the Company s consolidated financial statements.
     In determining the fair value of its financial assets and liabilities, the Company uses various valuation approaches. SFAS 157 establishes
a hierarchy for inputs used in measuring fair value that maximizes the use of observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs by requiring that observable inputs be used when available. Observable inputs are inputs that market
participants would use in pricing the asset or liability based on market data obtained from sources independent of the Company. Unobservable inputs are inputs that reflect the Company s assumptions about the inputs that market participants
would use in pricing the asset or liability and are developed based on the best information available in the circumstances. The fair value hierarchy is broken down into three levels based on the source of inputs as follows:       

Level 1   

Valuations based on unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the Company has the ability to access   

Level 2   

Valuations based on quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active and models
for which all significant inputs are observable, either directly or indirectly   

Level 3   

Valuations based on inputs that are unobservable and significant to the overall fair value measurement.   
    The availability of observable inputs can vary among the various types of financial assets and
liabilities. To the extent that the valuation is based on models or inputs that are less observable or unobservable in the market, the determination of fair value requires more judgment. In certain cases, the inputs used to measure fair value may
fall into different levels of the fair value hierarchy. In such cases, for financial statement disclosure purposes, the level in the fair value hierarchy within which the fair value measurement is categorized is based on the lowest level input that
is significant to the overall fair value measurement.      As of December 31, 2008, the Company s available-for-sale securities were
comprised of U.S. Treasury securities, obligations of U.S. government agencies and FDIC guaranteed bank debt, corporate debt securities, mortgage and asset backed securities, other short-term interest bearing securities, including money market
funds, and publicly traded equity investments. U.S. Treasury securities, money market funds and publicly traded equity investments are valued using quoted market prices with no valuation adjustments applied. Accordingly, these securities are
categorized in Level 1. Obligations of U.S. government agencies and FDIC guaranteed bank debt, corporate debt securities, mortgage and asset backed securities and other short-term interest bearing securities are valued using quoted market prices of
recent transactions or are benchmarked to transactions of very similar securities. Accordingly, these securities are categorized in Level 2.      Our derivatives assets and liabilities include interest rate swaps and foreign currency forward and option contracts. The fair values of these derivatives are determined using models based on market observable inputs, including interest
rate curves and both forward and spot prices for foreign currencies. All of these derivative contracts are categorized in Level 2.         
   F-49   

Table of Contents  

AMGEN INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The following fair value hierarchy table presents information about each major category of the
Company s financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of December 31, 2008 (in millions):       
    There were no material remeasurements to fair value during the year ended December 31, 2008 of
financial assets and liabilities that are not measured at fair value on a recurring basis.      Following is a summary of the fair value of other financial
instruments:       Short-term assets and liabilities       The fair values of cash equivalents, accounts receivable and accounts payable approximate their carrying values due to the short-term nature of these financial instruments.       Notes       The following table presents
fair value information for our convertible notes, modified convertible notes and other long-term notes. The fair values shown are based on significant other observable inputs (Level 2) (in millions):       
     14. Other charges       In 2008, we recorded loss accruals for settlements of certain commercial legal proceedings aggregating $288 million, principally related to the settlement of the Ortho Biotech antitrust suit. In 2007, we recorded a
loss accrual for an ongoing commercial legal proceeding, and recorded an expense of $34 million. These amounts are included in  Other charges  in the Consolidated Statements of Income.         
   F-50   

Table of Contents  

AMGEN INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   In 2008 and 2007, we recorded restructuring charges of $92 million and $694 million, respectively.
Such expenses are included in  Other charges  in the Consolidated Statements of Income. (See Note 2,   Restructuring   for further discussion.)       15. Subsequent event       On January 16, 2009, we issued $1.0 billion aggregate principal
amount of notes due in 2019 (the  2019 Notes ) and $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of notes due in 2039 (the  2039 Notes ) in a registered offering. The 2019 Notes and the 2039 Notes pay interest at fixed annual
rates of 5.70% and 6.40%, respectively. We may redeem the notes at any time at our option, in whole or in part, at 100% of the principal amount of the notes being redeemed plus accrued interest and a  make-whole  amount, as defined. In the
event of a change of control triggering event, as defined, we may be required to purchase for cash all or a portion of the 2019 Notes and the 2039 Notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the notes plus accrued interest.
      16. Quarterly financial data (unaudited)        

(1)      
    In the fourth quarter 2008, we recorded the following in the Consolidated Statement of Income:

a.  
  charges of $97 million primarily for asset impairments, loss accruals for leases for certain facilities that will not be used in our business and staff separation costs associated
with our restructuring plan; and         

b.  
  charge of $21 million ($15 million, net of tax) for loss accruals for settlements of certain commercial legal proceedings.         

(2)      
    In the third quarter 2008, we recorded the following in the Consolidated Statement of Income:

a.  
  charges of $17 million primarily for a loss on the disposal of certain less significant marketed products and loss accruals for leases for certain facilities that will not be used
in our business associated with our restructuring plan;         

b.  
  charge of $84 million ($64 million, net of tax) related to the write-off of inventory resulting from a strategic decision to change manufacturing processes; and

c.  
  charge of $4 million ($3 million, net of tax) for loss accruals for settlements of certain commercial legal proceedings.           
   F-51   

Table of Contents  

AMGEN INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          

(3)      
    In the second quarter 2008, we recorded the following in the Consolidated Statement of Income:

a.  
  charges of $22 million primarily for asset impairments and loss accruals for leases for certain facilities that will not be used in our business associated with our restructuring
plan; and         

b.  
  charge of $263 million ($200 million, net of tax) for loss accruals for settlements of certain commercial legal proceedings.         

(4)      
    In the first quarter of 2008, we recorded the following in the Consolidated Statement of Income:

a.  
  charges of $12 million primarily for asset impairments, loss accruals for leases for certain facilities that will not be used in our business and staff separation costs associated
with our restructuring plan.         

(5)      
    In the fourth quarter 2007, we recorded the following in the Consolidated Statement of Income:

a.  
  charges of $157 million primarily for staff separation costs, asset impairments and accelerated depreciation associated with our restructuring plan;         

b.  
  charge of $34 million ($25 million, net of tax) for a loss accrual for an ongoing commercial legal proceeding; and         

c.  
  severance-related expenses of $21 million ($13 million, net of tax) incurred in connection with our acquisition of the remaining 51% ownership interest of Domp .

(6)      
    In the third quarter 2007, we recorded the following in the Consolidated Statement of Income:

a.  
  charges of $293 million primarily for staff separation costs, asset impairments and accelerated depreciation associated with our restructuring plan;         

b.  
  charges of $270 million and $320 million related to the non-tax deductible write-off of IPR D related to the Alantos and Ilypsa acquisitions, respectively; and

c.  
  pre- and post-tax charge of $90 million related to the write-off of excess inventory principally due to changing regulatory and reimbursement environments.     

(7)      
    In the second quarter 2007, we recorded the following in the Consolidated Statement of Income:

a.  
  charges of $289 million primarily for asset impairments associated with our restructuring plan; and         

b.  
  income tax benefit of $92 million recognized as the result of resolving certain non-routine transfer pricing issues with the IRS for prior periods.         

(8)      
    In the first quarter of 2007, we recorded the following in the Consolidated Statement of Income:

a.  
  pro-rata portion of the deferred financing and related costs of $51 million ($32 million, net of tax) that were immediately charged to interest expense as a result of certain
holders of our 2032 Modified Convertible Notes due in 2032 exercising their March 1, 2007 put option and the related convertible notes being repaid in cash; and         

b.  
  pre- and post-tax charge of $26 million related to the write-off of the cost of a semi-completed manufacturing asset that will not be used due to a change in manufacturing strategy.

(9)      
    EPS is computed independently for each of the quarters presented. Therefore, the sum of the quarterly EPS information
may not equal annual EPS.         See Notes 1, 2, 5, 8 and 14 for further discussion of the items described above.         
   F-52   

Table of Contents  

    SCHEDULE II        AMGEN INC.          VALUATION ACCOUNTS        Years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006        (In millions)        
       
   F-53   

<EX-3.4>
 2
 dex34.htm
 CERTIFICATE OF ELIMINATION OF THE SERIES A JUNIOR PARTICIPATING PREFERRED STOCK

Certificate of Elimination of the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock 

Exhibit 3.4        CERTIFICATE OF ELIMINATION OF THE        CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS OF THE        SERIES A JUNIOR PARTICIPATING PREFERRED STOCK       (Pursuant to the provisions of Section 151(g) of      the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware)      Amgen Inc. (the  Company ), a corporation duly organized and existing under and by virtue of the General Corporation Law of the State of
Delaware (the  DGCL ), does hereby certify that:      1. The name of the Company is Amgen Inc. and the date on which the
Company s original Certificate of Incorporation was filed with the Secretary of the State of Delaware (the  Secretary of State ) is October 31, 1986.      2. The voting powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, of the Series A Junior Participating
Preferred Stock, par value $0.0001 per share, of the Company (the  Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock ) were originally set forth in a resolution adopted by the Board of Directors and set forth in a Certificate of Designations
filed with the Secretary of State on April 10, 1997, were substantially amended and restated in a resolution adopted by the Board of Directors and set forth in a Certificate of Designations filed with the Secretary of State on January 30, 2001, and
were subsequently set forth in the Certificate of Designations attached as Appendix A to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as amended (the  Restated Certificate of Incorporation ), as filed with the Secretary of
State on January 9, 2006.      3. None of the authorized shares of the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock are outstanding and none
in the future will be issued.      4. The Board of Directors of the Company, acting in accordance with the provisions of the DGCL, adopted the
following resolutions at a meeting duly called and held on December 9, 2008:       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED,  that none of the
authorized shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, par value $0.0001 per share, of the Company are outstanding and none in the future will be issued pursuant to the Certificate of Designations previously filed with the Secretary of
State of the State of Delaware and attached as Appendix A to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation (the  Secretary of State ).       RESOLVED FURTHER,  that pursuant to the provisions of Section 151(g) of the DGCL, the proper officers of the Company be, and each such officer hereby is, authorized and directed, for and on behalf of the Company and in its name, to
file a certificate setting forth this resolution with the Secretary of State for the purpose of eliminating all reference to the said Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock from the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company and
take all such further actions as such officers deem necessary or advisable to carry out the purpose and intent of these resolutions.   

5. That, in accordance with Section 151(g) of the DGCL, all provisions set forth in the Certificate of
Designations of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock attached as Appendix A to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, and all matters set forth in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation relating thereto, are hereby eliminated from
the Restated Certificate of Incorporation.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Amgen Inc. has caused this Certificate of Elimination to be executed this
9th day of December, 2008.        

AMGEN INC.   

By:  
     
    /s/    D AVID  J. S COTT     

David J. Scott   

Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary   

</EX-3.4>

<EX-10.2>
 3
 dex102.htm
 FORMS OF EX-US STOCK OPTION GRANT AND RSU AGREEMENTS

Forms of Ex-US Stock Option Grant and RSU Agreements 

Exhibit 10.2        GRANT OF NONQUALIFIED STOCK OPTION        (EX-U.S.)                                               
  , Amgen Inc. Stock Optionee:      AMGEN INC., a Delaware corporation (the   Company  ), pursuant to its Director Equity
Incentive Program (the  Program ) under the Amended and Restated 1991 Equity Incentive Plan (the   Plan  ), has this day granted to you, the optionee named above, an option to purchase
               shares of the $.0001 par value common stock of the Company (  Common Stock  ) pursuant to the terms hereof. This option is not intended to qualify and
will not be treated as an  incentive stock option  within the meaning of Section 422 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (together with the regulations and other official guidance promulgated thereunder) (the
  Code  ).      The provisions of your option are as follows:      1. [Subject to the limitations contained herein, this option shall vest on [ grant date ]. [Subject to the provisions contained herein, this option shall vest on [ one year from grant date ], provided that
from the date of grant of this option through the vesting date, you have continuously served as a non-employee director of the Company (as that term is defined in the Plan).]      2.    (a) The per share exercise price of this option is $              , being not less than the fair market value of the Common
Stock on the date of grant of this option.      (b) To the extent permitted by applicable statutes and regulations, payment of the exercise
price per share is due in full in cash or check upon exercise of all or any part of this option which has become exercisable by you. However, if at the time of exercise, the Company s Common Stock is publicly traded and quoted regularly in the
 Wall Street Journal , payment of the exercise price may be made by delivery of already-owned shares of Common Stock of a value equal to the exercise price of the shares of Common Stock for which this option is being exercised. The
already-owned shares must have been owned by you for the period required to avoid a charge to the Company s reported earnings and owned free and clear of any liens, claims, encumbrances or security interests. Payment may also be made by a
combination of cash and already-owned Common Stock.      3. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, this option may not be exercised unless
the shares issuable upon exercise of this option are then registered under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the   Act  ), or, if such shares are not then so registered, the Company has determined that such exercise and
issuance would be exempt from the registration requirements of the Act.      [4. The term of this option commences on the date hereof and, unless sooner
terminated pursuant to the Plan, terminates on                (which date shall be no more than seven (7) years from the date this option is granted).]         
   - 1 -   

[4. The term of this option commences on the date hereof and, unless sooner terminated pursuant to the Plan, terminates
on                (which date shall be no more than seven (7) years from the date this option is granted). If termination of your relationship as a director of the Company is due
to (a) your permanent and total disability (as certified by an independent medical advisor appointed by the Company prior to such termination), or (b) your death, then the vesting schedule of unvested portions of the option will be
accelerated by twelve (12) months for each full year that you have been affiliated as a director with the Company.      However, in any and
all circumstances and except to the extent the vesting schedule has been accelerated by the Company in its sole discretion during the term of this option or as a result of your permanent and total disability or death as provided above, this option
may be exercised following termination of your relationship as a director of the Company only as to that number of shares as to which it was exercisable on the date of such termination provisions of paragraph 1 of this option. For purposes of this
option,  termination of your relationship as a director of the Company  shall mean the last date you are a director of the Company.]      5. To the
extent specified above, this option may be exercised by delivering a Notice of Exercise of Stock Option form, together with the exercise price to the Secretary of the Company, or to such other person as the Company may designate, during regular
business hours, together with such additional documents as the Company may then require pursuant to section 5 of the Plan.      6. This option is not
transferable, except as set forth below:      (a) By will or the laws of descent and distribution; and      (b) The transfer of the option by the optionee named above to a Trust or an Alternate Payee (in each case, as defined in and pursuant to the terms of the
Plan).      7. This option is exercisable during your life only by you, except that, to the extent the option or any portion thereof is transferred to an
Alternate Payee or a Trust in accordance with the terms of the Plan and Section 6(b) above, such Alternate Payee or Trust may exercise the option or such portion thereof so transferred.      8. This option is not an employment or consulting contract and nothing in this option shall be deemed to create in any way whatsoever any obligation on the part of the
non-employee director on whose behalf the option right was created, to continue to serve as a director of the Company, or of the Company to continue such non-employee director s service as a director of the Company.      9. Any notices provided for in this option or the Plan shall be given in writing and shall be deemed effectively given upon receipt or, in the case of notices delivered
by the Company to you, five (5) days after deposit in the United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to you at the address specified below or at such other address as you hereafter designate by written notice to the Company.         
   - 2 -   

10.  
  In accepting this option, you acknowledge that:        (a) the
Plan is established voluntarily by the Company, is discretionary in nature and may be modified, amended, suspended or terminated by the Company at any time;      (b) the grant of this option is voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right receive future options, or benefits in lieu of options, even if options have been granted repeatedly in the
past;      (c) your participation in the Program and Plan is voluntary;      (d) all decisions with respect to future grants of options, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Company;      (e) the future value of the underlying shares of Common Stock is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty;      (f) if the underlying shares of Common Stock do not increase in value, this option will have no value; if you exercise this option and obtain shares of
Common Stock, the value of those shares acquired upon exercise may increase or decrease in value, even below the exercise price;      (g) in
consideration of this option, no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages shall arise from forfeiture of this option resulting from termination of your service as a director (for any reason whatsoever and whether or not in breach of local
labor laws) and you irrevocably release the Company from any such claim that may arise; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to have arisen, you shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived
your entitlement to pursue such claim; and      (h) this option and benefits under the Program and Plan, if any, will not automatically transfer
to another company in the case of a merger, takeover or transfer of liability.      12. The Company is not providing any tax, legal or financial advice, nor is
the Company making any recommendations regarding your participation in the Program and Plan, or your acquisition or sale of the underlying shares of Common Stock. You are hereby advised to consult your own personal tax, legal and financial advisors
regarding your participation in the Plan before taking any action related to the Program and Plan.      13.  (a) You hereby explicitly and
unambiguously consent to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of your personal data as described in this option by and among, as applicable, the Company or Affiliates of the Company for the exclusive purpose of
implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Program and Plan.      (b) You understand that the Company or Affiliates of
the Company may hold certain personal information about you, including, without limitation, your name, home address and  
       
   - 3 -   

telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number (to the extent permitted under applicable local law) or other identification number, salary,
nationality, job title, residency status, any shares of stock or directorships held in the Company, details of all equity compensation or any other entitlement to shares awarded, canceled, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor, for the
purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Program and Plan ( Data ). You understand that Data may be transferred to UBS Financial Services, Inc. or any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and
management of the Program and Plan, that these recipients may be located in your country or elsewhere including outside the European Economic Area, and that the recipient s country (e.g., the United States) may have different data privacy laws
and protections than Belgium. You understand that you may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting the Company. You authorize the Company, Affiliates of the Company, UBS Financial Services,
Inc. and any other possible recipients which may assist the Company (presently or in the future) with implementing, administering, and managing your participation in the Program and Plan to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in
electronic or other form, for the sole purposes of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data as may be required to any other broker, escrow agent or other third party with
whom the shares received upon exercise of this option may be deposited. You understand that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage your participation in the Program and Plan. You understand that you may,
at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting in writing the Company. You
understand that refusal or withdrawal of consent may affect your ability to participate in the Program and Plan. For more information on the consequences of your refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, you understand that you may contact the
Company.      14. If you have received this option or any other document related to the Program and Plan translated into a language other than English and if
the meaning of the translated version differs from the English version, the English version shall control.      15. The Company may, in its sole discretion,
decide to deliver any documents related to current or future participation in the Program and Plan by electronic means. You hereby consent to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agree to participate in the Program and Plan through an
online or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or a third party designated by the Company.      16. The provisions of this option are
severable and if any one or more are determined to be illegal or otherwise unenforceable, in whole or in part, the remaining provisions shall nevertheless be binding and enforceable.      17. This option is subject to all the provisions of the Program and Plan and their provisions are hereby made a part of this option, including without limitation the provisions of section 5 of the Plan relating to
option provisions, and is further subject to all interpretations, amendments, rules, and regulations which may from time to time be promulgated and adopted pursuant to the  
       
   - 4 -   

Plan. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this option and those of the Plan, the provisions of the Program and Plan shall control.
     18. The terms of this option shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware without giving effect to principles of conflicts of laws. For purposes
of litigating any dispute that arises hereunder, the parties hereby submit to and consent to the jurisdiction of the State of Delaware, or the federal courts for the United State for the federal district located in the State of Delaware, and no
other courts, where this agreement is made and/or to be performed.      19. This option is not intended to constitute  nonqualified deferred
compensation  within the meaning of Code Section 409A, but rather is intended to be exempt from the application of Code Section 409A. To the extent that this option is nevertheless deemed to be subject to Code Section 409A for
any reason, this option shall be interpreted in accordance with Code Section 409A and Department of Treasury regulations and other interpretive guidance issued thereunder, including without limitation any such regulations or other guidance that
may be issued after the Grant Date. Notwithstanding any provision herein to the contrary, in the event that following the Grant Date, the Committee (as defined in the Plan) determines that this option may be or become subject to Code
Section 409A, the Committee may adopt such amendments to the Plan and/or this option or adopt other policies and procedures (including amendments, policies and procedures with retroactive effect), or take any other actions, that the Committee
determines are necessary or appropriate to (a) exempt the Plan and/or this option from the application of Code Section 409A and/or preserve the intended tax treatment of the benefits provided with respect to this option, or (b) comply
with the requirements of Code Section 409A.      20. The Company reserves the right to impose other requirements on your participation in the Program and
Plan, on this option and on any shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan, to the extent the Company determines it is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local law or facilitate the administration of the plan, and to require you to
sign any additional agreements or undertakings that may be necessary to accomplish the foregoing.         
   - 5 -   

Dated the            day of
                          .        

Very truly yours,         AMGEN INC.        

By:   

Duly authorized on behalf     of the Board of Directors

Agreed and accepted as of the date written above:       

[name]     Address:    
       
   - 6 -   

RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT        (EX- U.S.)                                               
  , Amgen Inc. Grantee:      On this            day of
               (the   Grant Date  ), Amgen Inc., a Delaware corporation (the   Company  ), pursuant to its Director Equity Incentive Program (the
  Program  ) which implements the Amended and Restated 1991 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended (the   Plan  ), has granted to you, the grantee named above,
               restricted stock units (the   Units  ) with respect to                shares of Common
Stock on the terms and conditions set forth in this Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (this   Agreement  ) and the Plan. Capitalized terms not defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Program.      I.  Vesting Schedule . Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement and in consideration for services previously rendered by you, one
hundred percent (100%) of the Units shall vest upon [the date hereof (the   Vesting Date  )][the date (the   Vesting Date  ) upon which you have provided one year of continuous service following the Grant Date;
 provided, however , that in the event you cease to be an Eligible Director by reason of your death or total and permanent disability (as certified by an independent medical advisor appointed by the Company prior to such termination), a
prorated number of Units shall vest immediately upon such death or disability, determined by multiplying the number of unvested Units by a fraction (rounded to two decimal places), the numerator of which is the number of complete months of
continuous service during the one year period following the Grant Date and the denominator of which is 12.]      II.  Form and Timing of
Payment . Any vested Units shall be paid by the Company in shares of Common Stock (on a one-to-one basis) on, or as soon as practicable after, the Vesting Date (but in any event by the fifteenth day of the third month following the tax year in
which they vest), unless you have irrevocably elected in writing by December 31 of the year preceding the Grant Date to defer the payment of such Units under one of the following options: (i) full payment of the vested Units in January of
a year specified by you which shall be no earlier than the third calendar year following the calendar year in which the date of grant occurs and no later than the tenth calendar year following such year, (ii) full payment of the vested Units in
January of the calendar year following the year in which you cease to be an Eligible Director (and experience a  separation from service  with the Company within the meaning of U.S. Internal Revenue Code ( Code )
Section 409A) for any reason, (iii) payment of the vested Units in five substantially equal annual installments, commencing in January of the calendar year following the year in which you cease to be an Eligible Director (and experience a
 separation from service  with the Company within the meaning of Code Section 409A) for any reason, or (iv) payment of the vested Units in ten substantially equal annual installments, commencing in January of the calendar year
following the year in which you cease to be an Eligible Director (and experience a  separation from service  with the Company within the meaning of Code Section 409A) for any reason;  provided, however , that no shares of Common
Stock shall be issued hereunder unless the Board determines that the consideration received by the Company in exchange for the issuance of Common Stock has a value not less than the par value thereof. Any  

deferral election made pursuant to this Section II shall specify the distribution schedule from the options provided in this Section II and shall be
irrevocable.      III.  Transferability . No benefit payable under, or interest in, this Agreement shall be subject in any manner to
anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance or charge and any such attempted action shall be void and no such benefit or interest shall be, in any manner, liable for, or subject to, your or your beneficiary s
debts, contracts, liabilities or torts;  provided, however , nothing in this Section III shall prevent transfer (i) by will, (ii) by applicable laws of descent and distribution or (iii) to an Alternate Payee to the extent that a
QDRO so provides, as further described in the Program.      IV.  No Contract for Employment . This Agreement is not an employment or
service contract and nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed to create in any way whatsoever any obligation on your part to continue in the employ or service of the Company, or of the Company to continue your employment or service with the
Company.      V.  Notices . Any notices provided for in this Agreement or the Plan shall be given in writing and shall be deemed
effectively given upon receipt or, in the case of notices delivered by the Company to you, five (5) days after deposit in the United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to you at such address as is currently maintained in the Company s
records or at such other address as you hereafter designate by written notice to the Company.      VI.  Nature of Grant . In accepting the
Units granted hereunder, you acknowledge that:      (a) the Plan is established voluntarily by the Company, is discretionary in nature and may
be modified, amended, suspended or terminated by the Company at any time;      (b) the grant of the Units is voluntary and occasional and does
not create any contractual or other right to receive future grants of Units, or benefits in lieu of Units, even if Units have been granted repeatedly in the past;      (c) your participation in the Plan is voluntary;      (d) all decisions with respect to future awards, if any,
will be at the sole discretion of the Company;      (e) the future value of the underlying shares of Common Stock is unknown and cannot be
predicted with certainty;      (i) in consideration of the grant of the Units, no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages shall arise
from forfeiture of the Units resulting from termination of your service as an director (for any reason whatsoever and whether or not in breach of local labor laws) and you irrevocably release the Company from any such claim that may arise; if,
notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to have arisen, you shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived your entitlement to pursue such claim; and         
   - 2-   

(j) the Units and the benefits under the Program and Plan, if any, will not automatically transfer to
another company in the case of a merger, takeover or transfer of liability.      VII.  No Advice Regarding Grant . The Company is not
providing any tax, legal or financial advice, nor is the Company making any recommendations regarding your participation in the Program and Plan, or your acquisition or sale of the underlying shares of Common Stock. You are hereby advised to consult
with your own personal tax, legal and financial advisors regarding your participation in the Plan before taking any action related to the Program and Plan.      VIII.  Data Privacy . You hereby explicitly and unambiguously consent to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of your personal data as described in this Agreement by and among, as
applicable, the Company or Affiliates of the Company for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Program and Plan.      You understand that the Company or Affiliates of the Company may hold certain personal information about you, including, without limitation, your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social
insurance number (to the extent permitted under applicable local law) or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, residency status, any shares of stock or directorships held in the Company, details of all equity compensation or
any other entitlement to shares awarded, canceled, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor, for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Program and Plan ( Data ). You understand that Data may be transferred to UBS
Financial Services, Inc. or any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Program and Plan, that these recipients may be located in your country or elsewhere including outside the European Economic Area, and
that the recipient s country (e.g., the United States) may have different data privacy laws and protections than Belgium. You understand that you may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by
contacting the Company. You authorize the Company, Affiliates of the Company, UBS Financial Services, Inc. and any other possible recipients which may assist the Company (presently or in the future) with implementing, administering, and managing
your participation in the Plan to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the sole purposes of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Program and Plan, including any requisite
transfer of such Data as may be required to any other broker, escrow agent or other third party with whom the shares issued upon vesting of the Units may be deposited. You understand that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement,
administer and manage your participation in the Program and Plan. You understand that you may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or
withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting in writing the Company. You understand that refusal or withdrawal of consent may affect your ability to participate in the Program and Plan. For more information on the
consequences of your refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, you understand that you may contact the Company.         
   - 3 -   

IX.  Language . If you have received this Agreement or any other document related to the Program and
Plan translated into a language other than English and if the meaning of the translated version differs from the English version, the English version shall control.      X.  Electronic Delivery . The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to current or future participation in the Program and Plan by electronic means. You hereby consent to
receive such documents by electronic delivery and agree to participate in the Program and Plan through an online or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or a third party designated by the Company.      XI.  Severability . The provisions of this Agreement are severable and if any one or more are determined to be illegal or otherwise unenforceable, in
whole or in part, the remaining provisions shall nevertheless be binding and enforceable.      XII.  Plan and Program . This Agreement is
subject to all the provisions of the Plan and Program and their provisions are hereby made a part of this Agreement, including without limitation the provisions of paragraph 7 of the Plan relating to stock bonuses, and is further subject to all
interpretations, amendments, rules and regulations which may from time to time be promulgated and adopted pursuant to the Plan. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and those of the Plan and the Program, the
provisions of the Plan shall control.      XIII.  Governing Law . This Agreement shall be construed and interpreted, and the rights of the
parties shall be determined, in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to conflicts of law provisions thereof. For purposes of litigating any dispute that arises hereunder, the parties hereby submit to and consent to the
jurisdiction of the State of Delaware, or the federal courts for the United States for the federal district located in the State of Delaware, and no other courts, where this Agreement is made and/or to be performed.      XV.  Imposition of Other Requirements . The Company reserves the right to impose other requirements on your participation in the Program and Plan, on
the Units and on any shares of Common Stock acquired under the Program and Plan, to the extent the Company determines it is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local law or facilitate the administration of the Program and Plan, and to
require you to sign any additional agreements or undertakings that may be necessary to accomplish the foregoing.        

Very truly yours,         AMGEN INC.        

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

Accepted and Agreed,         this                day of
                      , 200    .        

By:   

Name:   

- 4 -   

</EX-10.2>

<EX-10.19>
 4
 dex1019.htm
 AMENDMENT AND RESTATEMENT OF THE AMGEN CHANGE OF CONTROL SEVERANCE PLAN

Amendment and Restatement of the Amgen Change of Control Severance Plan 

Exhibit 10.19        AMENDMENT AND RESTATEMENT OF THE        AMGEN CHANGE OF CONTROL SEVERANCE PLAN        EFFECTIVE DECEMBER 9, 2008       The Amgen
Change of Control Severance Plan, effective as of October 20, 1998 (the  Plan ), is hereby amended and restated effective as of December 9, 2008, except as otherwise provided herein, to incorporate the following modifications:
     1. The first paragraph of the Plan is amended in its entirety to read as follows:      AMGEN INC., a Delaware corporation, established this Change of Control Severance Plan (the  Plan ), effective as of October 20, 1998, for
the benefit of certain key employees of the Company. By resolution of the Board of Directors of Amgen Inc., the Plan is hereby amended and restated, effective as of December 9, 2008, to add Anna Richo as a Group I Participant and establish an
exemption from or otherwise comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code.      2. Section 1(L) of the Plan is amended in
its entirety to read as follows:       

(L)  
    Good Reason ,  with respect to any Participant, shall mean the occurrence (without the Participant s express written consent) of any of the following
conditions, but only if (1) the Participant provides written notice to the Company of the existence of the condition within thirty (30) days of the initial existence of the condition; (2) the Company fails to remedy the condition
within the thirty (30)-day period following the Company s receipt of the notice delivered pursuant to clause (1); and (3) the Participant actually terminates employment within thirty (30) days following the expiration of the thirty
(30)-day period described in clause (2):        (i) any adverse and material diminution in the Participant s authority, duties
or responsibilities as they existed immediately prior to the Change of Control or as the same may be increased from time to time thereafter;      (ii) the Company s material reduction of the Participant s annual base salary as in effect on the date hereof or as the same may be increased from time to time;      (iii) relocation of the Company s offices at which the Participant is employed which increases the Participant s daily commute by more than
one-hundred (100) miles on a round trip basis; or      (iv) any other action or inaction by the Company that constitutes a material breach
of the agreement under which the Participant provides services.   

A Participant s right to terminate his or her employment for Good Reason shall not be affected by
the Participant s incapacity due to physical or mental illness.      3. Section 2 of the Plan is amended in its entirety to read as follows:

2.   
    Effective Date and Term of Plan  . The Plan, as amended and restated, shall be effective as of December     , 2008 and shall continue in effect
through December 31, 2012;  provided, however , that commencing on December 31, 2012 and on each December 31 thereafter, the Plan shall automatically be extended for one additional year by adding one year to the last day of the
term as then in effect unless, not later than September 30 of such year, the Company shall have given notice to the Participants that the term of the Plan will not be extended;  provided, further , that if a Change of Control occurs during
the original or any extended term of the Plan, the term of the Plan shall continue in effect for a period of not less than thirty-six (36) months beyond the month in which such Change of Control occurred.        4. Section 4.1(B) of the Plan is amended in its entirety to read as follows:       

(B)  
   Benefits.  Subject to subsection (B) of Section 11.6,         

(i)  
  During the Benefits Continuation Period, the Company shall provide the Participant and his or her dependents with life, disability, accident, and health insurance benefits
substantially similar to those provided to the Participant and his or her dependents immediately prior to the Date of Termination or the date of the Change of Control, whichever is more favorable to the Participant;  provided, however , that
such benefits shall be provided on substantially the same terms and conditions and at the same cost to the Participant as in effect immediately prior to the Date of Termination or the date of the Change of Control, whichever is more favorable to the
Participant. At the termination of the group health plan coverage under this paragraph, the Participant and his or her dependents shall be entitled to continuation coverage pursuant to Section 4980B of the Code, Sections 601-608 of the Employee
Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and under any other applicable law, to the extent required by such laws, as if the Participant had terminated employment with the Company on the date such group health plan coverage terminates.

(ii)  
    Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Participant becomes reemployed with another employer and is eligible to receive such benefits under another employer s
plans, the Company s obligations under its plans and this Section 4.1(B) shall be secondary to the coverage provided by such other employer s plans during the Benefits Continuation Period, and any such benefits actually received by
the Participant shall be reported to the Company. In the event that the Participant is ineligible under the terms of the Company s benefit plans to continue  
          
   2   

to be so covered, the Company, during the Benefits Continuation Period, shall provide the Participant with substantially equivalent coverage through other
sources or will reimburse the Participant s expenses incurred in obtaining such coverage, provided the Participant provides the Company with reasonable documentation substantiating such expenses were incurred during the Benefits Continuation
Period, and the Company reimburses the Participant s expenses no later than the end of the calendar year immediately following the calendar year in which the expenses were incurred by the Participant. Except as set forth in Treasury Regulation
  1.409A-3(i)(1)(iv)(B) or successor provision, the amount of expenses eligible for reimbursement, or the amount of in-kind benefits coverage provided under this Section 4.1(B) to the Participant in any calendar year, may not affect the
expenses eligible for reimbursement or benefit coverage provided in any other calendar year. If any reimbursements under this Section 4.1(B)(ii) are includible in the gross income of the Participant for income or employment tax purposes, the
Company shall pay the Participant an additional amount ( Gross-Up Payment ) such that after the payment of all income and employment taxes (but not any excise or 409A taxes) on the reimbursements and the Gross-Up Payment, the Participant
retains an amount equal to the reimbursements. The Company shall pay the Gross-Up Payment to the Participant no later than 30 days after the Participant is required to remit the taxes related to the reimbursements.         5. Section 4.1(D) of the Plan is amended in its entirety to read as follows:       

(D)  
  The Participant shall be fully vested in his or her accrued benefits under the Amgen Retirement Savings Plan and the Amgen Supplemental Retirement Plan, as applicable, and the
Company shall provide the Participant with additional fully vested benefits under such plans in an amount equal to the benefits which the Participant would have accrued (based upon the amount of the contributions thereto by the Participant and the
Company on the Participant s behalf, in each case immediately prior to the Date of Termination or, if more favorable to the Participant, immediately prior to the Change of Control) had he or she continued employment with the Company following
his or her Date of Termination for that number of years equal to the Participant s Benefits Multiple;  provided, however , that to the extent that the acceleration of vesting or enhanced accrual of such benefits under the Amgen Retirement
Savings Plan would violate any applicable law or require the Company to accelerate the vesting of the accrued benefits of all participants in such plan or to provide additional benefit accruals to such participants, the Company shall pay the
Participant a lump-sum cash payment at the time specified in Section 4.3 hereof in an amount equal to the value of such benefits. In no event shall a cash payment be made to the Participant in lieu of the acceleration of vesting or enhanced
accrual of benefits under the Amgen Supplemental Retirement Plan.           
   3   

6. Section 4.1(G) of the Plan is amended in its entirety to read as follows:       

(G)  
  If it shall be determined by the Accountants that any payment, distribution or acceleration of vesting or exercisability of any stock option or other right with respect to a
Participant who is a  disqualified individual  within the meaning of Section 280G(c) of the Code, whether paid, distributed or accelerated pursuant to the terms of the Plan or otherwise (the  Payment ), would be subject to
the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Code (the  Excise Tax ), then the Participant shall be entitled to receive from the Company, within the time period set forth in Section 4.3 and no later than the end of the
Participant s taxable year following the taxable year in which the Participant remits such taxes, an additional lump sum cash payment (the  20% Payment ) in an amount equal to twenty percent (20%) of the amount of the
Participant s  excess parachute payment  within the meaning of Section 280G(b)(1) of the Code.        7. Section 4.3 of
the Plan is amended in its entirety to read as follows:       

4.3  
  Subject to subsection (B) of Section 11.6, the cash payments provided in subsections (A), (C), (D) and (G) of Section 4.1 hereof shall be made by the fifth
(5th) day following the receipt by the Participant of the Accountants  determination, but in no event later than March 15 of the calendar year following the calendar year in which the Participant s employment is terminated. As a
result of uncertainty in the application of Section 280G and Section 4999 of the Code at the time of the initial determination by the Accountants hereunder, it is possible that the Cash Severance Payment and/or the 20% Payment made by the
Company will have been less than the Company should have paid pursuant to Section 4.1(A) or (G) hereof, as the case may be (the amount of any such deficiency, the  Underpayment ) or more than the Company should have paid pursuant
to Section 4.1(A) or (G) hereof, as the case may be (the amount of any such overage, the  Overpayment ). In the event of an Underpayment, the Company shall pay the Participant the amount of such Underpayment (together with
interest at 120% of the rate provided in Section 1274(b)(2)(B) of the Code) not later than five (5) business days after the amount of such Underpayment is subsequently determined,  provided, however,  such Underpayment shall not be
paid later than the end of the calendar year following the calendar year in which the Participant remitted the related taxes. In the event of an Overpayment, the amount of such Overpayment shall constitute a loan by the Company to the Participant,
payable not later than five (5) business days after the amount of such Overpayment is subsequently determined (together with interest at 120% of the rate provided in Section 1274(b)(2)(B) of the Code).        8. Section 5.2 of the Plan is amended in its entirety to read as follows:       

5.2  
   Date of Termination .  Date of Termination,  with respect to any purported termination of a Participant s employment (other than by reason of the
Participant s death), shall mean (i) if the Participant s employment is terminated for Disability, the date upon which a Notice of Termination is given, and (ii) if the Participant s employment is terminated for any other
reason, whether voluntarily or involuntarily, the date that the Participant s employment terminates, as specified in the Notice of Termination (which shall be within sixty (60) days from the date such Notice of Termination is given).
          
   4   

9. Section 9.3 of the Plan is amended by adding the following sentence to the end of that Section:      The Company shall make such payments no later than the last day of the Participant s taxable year immediately following the taxable year in which the
expenses are incurred.      10. Section 11.5 of the Plan is amended in its entirety to read as follows:       

11.5  
   Tax Withholding . The Company shall withhold from any payments made to a Participant under this Plan all federal, state and local income, employment and other taxes that the
Company reasonably determines to be required to be withheld by the Company in connection with such payments, in amounts and in a manner to be determined in the sole discretion of the Company. Except to the extent specifically provided within this
Plan or any separate written agreement between a Participant and the Company, a Participant shall be solely responsible for the satisfaction of any taxes with respect to the benefits payable to the Participant under this Plan (including, but not
limited to, employment taxes imposed on employees and additional taxes on nonqualified deferred compensation).        11. The following is added to
the Plan as Section 11.6:       

(A)  
   Generally . Although the Company intends and expects that the Plan and its payments and benefits will not give rise to taxes imposed under Section 409A of the Code,
neither the Company, nor its employees, directors, or agents shall have any obligation to mitigate or to hold any Participant harmless from any or all of such taxes.         

(B)  
   Section 409A Six-Month Delayed Payment Rule . If any payments or benefits that become payable under this Plan on account of the Participant s termination of
employment constitute a deferral of compensation under Code Section 409A, such payments or benefits will be provided when the Participant incurs a  separation from service  within the meaning of Treasury Regulation   1.409A-1(h)
or successor provision ( Separation from Service ). If, at the time of the Participant s Separation from Service, the Participant is a  specified employee  (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code and Treasury
Regulation Section 1.409A-1(i) or successor provision), the Company will not pay or provide any  Specified Benefits  (as defined herein) during the six-month period beginning with the date of the Participant s Separation from
Service (the  409A Suspension Period ). In the event of a Participant s death, however, the Specified Benefits shall be paid to the Participant s Beneficiary without regard to the 409A Suspension Period. For purposes of this
Plan,  Specified Benefits  are any payments or benefits that would be subject to Section 409A additional taxes if the Company were to pay them, pursuant to this Plan, on account of the Participant s  separation from
service.  Within 14 calendar days after the end of the 409A Suspension Period, the Participant shall be paid a lump-sum payment in cash equal to any Specified Benefits delayed during the 409A Suspension Period.           
   5   

12. Annex A to the Plan is revised in its entirety to read as follows:       ANNEX A        AMGEN INC. CHANGE OF
CONTROL SEVERANCE PLAN        GROUP I PARTICIPANTS       Effective December 31, 2008, the following senior executive-level staff members are designated Group I Participants in the Amgen Inc. Change of Control Severance Plan (the  Plan ) and such designation
shall remain in effect until modified by the Administrative Committee as defined in the Plan:      Balachandran, Madhavan      Beier, David W.      Bonanni, Fabrizio
     Bradway, Robert      Daly, James
M.      Dere, Willard H.      Eisenberg, Paul      Flanagan, Thomas      Harper, Sean      Hoffman, Rolf      Lacey, David      McNamee, Brian M      Miletich, Joseph P.      Morrow, George J.      Perlmutter, Roger M.      Richo, Anna S.
     Scott, David J.      Sharer, Kevin
W.      Slaff, Geoffrey      13. All Plan references
to section numbers and defined terms are amended to reflect the above modifications.      To record this Amendment and Restatement of the Plan
as set forth herein, the Company has caused its authorized officer to execute this document (as well as a revised plan document incorporating all the above modifications) this 9th day of December, 2008.        

AMGEN INC.   

By:  
     
    /s/ Brian McNamee    

Brian McNamee   

Senior Vice President   

Human Resources   

6   

</EX-10.19>

<EX-10.71>
 5
 dex1071.htm
 MASTER SERVICE AGREEMENT

Master Service Agreement 

Exhibit 10.71        MASTER SERVICES AGREEMENT       This MASTER SERVICES AGREEMENT (this   Agreement  ), is made and effective
as of October 22, 2008 (the   Effective Date  ), by and between Amgen Inc., a Delaware corporation having a place of business at One Amgen Center Drive, Thousand Oaks, CA 91320 (  Company  ), and International
Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation having a place of business at One New Orchard Road, Armonk, NY 10504 (  Supplier  ) (each a   Party  , and collectively, the   Parties  ).   
   RECITALS       WHEREAS, Company is engaged in the
business of the research, development and commercialization of human therapeutics;      WHEREAS, Supplier is in the business of, amongst other things,
performing outsourcing services with respect to management of information technology systems; and      WHEREAS, pursuant to the terms of this Agreement,
Company intends to establish a framework within which Company may engage Supplier to provide services to Company from time to time, which framework shall govern the relationship between the Parties in respect of such services.      NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the promises and mutual covenants set forth herein, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of
which are hereby acknowledged, the Parties agree as follows:       ARTICLE 1        DEFINITIONS       Section 1.1  Definitions .       Abandonment .   Abandonment   means the [  *  ] by Supplier to (i) provide or perform [  *  ], or (ii) comply with
[  *  ] of Supplier hereunder, in each case, [  *  ].       Accept  or  Acceptance .   Accept   or
  Acceptance   means to accept a Deliverable in accordance with the acceptance criteria and acceptance testing procedures applicable to such Deliverable.       Affected Contractors .   Affected Contractors   means those individuals or entities who are subject to Company Contractor Agreements and who are identified as  affected contractors  in
 Exhibit 19  (Affected Personnel).       Affected Employees .   Affected Employees   means those Company employees identified as
 affected employees  in  Exhibit 19  (Affected Personnel).       Affected Personnel .   Affected Personnel   means,
collectively, Affected Contractors and Affected Employees.       Affiliate .   Affiliate   means any entity Controlling, Controlled by or
under common Control with a Party, but only for so long as such Control continues, where  Control  means: (i) the ownership of at least fifty percent (50%) of the equity or beneficial interest of such entity, or the right to vote
for or appoint a majority of the board of directors or other governing body of such entity; or (ii) the power to directly or indirectly direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such entity by any means whatsoever.
      Applicable Laws .   Applicable Laws   means Company Laws with respect to Company, and Supplier Laws and Legal Compliance Obligations
with respect to Supplier.            Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*].
The redacted portions are subjects to a request for confidential treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission.   

ARD Countries .   ARD Countries   means those jurisdictions that have implemented ARD Laws and in
which Company or one of its Affiliates employs Affected Employees.       ARD Laws .   ARD Laws   means (1) the European Community
Council Directive (77/187/EEC) of February 14, 1977 as consolidated by Council Directive 2001/23/EC of March 12, 2001, in each case as amended from time to time, and legislation and Laws implementing such directives in any country in
which a Company Service Location or a Supplier Service Location is located or where Transitioned Employees are employed; and (2) equivalent legislation and Laws dealing with the same subject matter as such directives in each of Turkey and
Switzerland.       Assigned Contracts .   Assigned Contracts   means the third-party agreements that are assigned, in whole or in part, to
Supplier and identified as  Assigned Contracts  in  Exhibit 11  (Assigned and Managed Contracts).       Authorized User .
  Authorized User   means any individual (e.g., an employee, contractor, subcontractor, agent or representative of Company) who is designated by Company to receive or use the Services.       Base Charges .   Base Charges   means the base Charges applicable to the Services or to a Project as further defined in  Exhibit 1 
(Definitions) or the applicable Order.       Charges .   Charges   means the costs and fees for Services as further defined in
 Exhibit 4  (Pricing).       cGMP .   cGMP   means (i) the applicable regulatory requirements, as amended from time to time,
for current good manufacturing practices, including without limitation those promulgated by the Food and Drug Administration under the United States Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, 21 CFR   210  et seq . or under the Public Health
Service Act, Biological Products, 21 CFR    600-610, the European Medicines Agency or Health Canada under the Food and Drugs Act (Canada), R.S. 1985, CF-27 and its associated regulations; (ii) any applicable guidance documents
published by a Governmental Authority; and (iii) current industry practice consistent and in accordance therewith.       Company Competitor .
  Company Competitor   means those companies identified in  Exhibit 27  (Company Competitors).       Company Data .
  Company Data   means all information entered in Software or Equipment by or on behalf of Company, including information relating to Company s customers and vendors, and information derived from such information, including as
stored in or processed through the Equipment or Software.       Company Group .   Company Group   means Company and its Affiliates who are
receiving Services under this Agreement.       Company Laws .   Company Laws   means Laws to the extent applicable to the Services that are
(i) identified by Company or Supplier as being applicable to Company and (ii) applicable to the collection, use, storage, or transfer of Company Data including without limitation the Laws set forth in  Exhibit 20  (Company Laws)
(as modified from time-to-time in accordance with  Section 9.2 ).       Company Provided Equipment .   Company Provided
Equipment   means Equipment owned or leased by Company.       Company Provided Materials .   Company Provided Materials   means
Company Provided Equipment, Company Software, and all other materials provided by Company.       Company Service Location .   Company Service
Location   means any facility or location to which Supplier shall provide the Services, including the facilities set forth in  Exhibit 7  (Sites).       Company Software .   Company Software   means Software owned by Company.         

Confidential   
     
  2  

Compliance Requirements .   Compliance Requirements   means the requirements of the Securities and
Exchange Commission Act of 1934 and all amendments thereto, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, Regulation AB, and any similar, future SEC requirements, and any requirements and rules pertaining thereto established by Law, including
requirements imposed by auditing standards or reporting requirements promulgated by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board or the Securities and Exchange Commission.       Confidential Information .   Confidential Information   of a Party means all information, unless specifically identified by such Party as
non-confidential, regardless of how communicated or stored, concerning the operations, affairs, products and businesses of such Party, the financial affairs of such Party, and the relations of such Party with its customers, employees and service
providers, including without limitation, confidential or proprietary information, trade secrets, data, drafts, documents, communications, plans, know-how, formulas, improvements, designs, estimates, calculations, test results, specimens, schematics,
drawings, tracings, studies, specifications, surveys, facilities, photographs, documentation, software, equipment, processes, programs, reports, orders, maps, models, agreements, ideas, methods, discoveries, inventions, patents, concepts, research,
development, business and financial information, customer or client lists, account information, procedures, computer information and databases, business plans, budget forecasts, business arrangements, financial information and estimates, personnel
data, and long-term plans and goals.   Confidential Information   of Company shall include (i) all information relating to the Services and Orders, including the terms and conditions of this Agreement, (ii) the
specifications, designs, documents, correspondence, Software, documentation, data and other materials and work products produced by or for Supplier in the course of performing the Services, (iii) Deliverables and Company Data, and
(iv) other Company information or data stored or otherwise or communicated, and obtained, received, transmitted, processed, stored, archived, maintained or derived by Supplier under this Agreement or in connection with the Services.
  Confidential Information   of Supplier shall include (i) all information concerning the operations, affairs and businesses of Supplier, the financial affairs of Supplier, and the relations of Supplier with its other customers,
employees and suppliers (including customer lists, customer (other than Company) information, account information, and consumer markets), and (ii) Software owned by Supplier and provided to Company by or through Supplier.       Control Objectives .   Control Objectives   means, collectively, as applicable to the Services and Systems (1) those control objectives
included in  Exhibit 24  (Compliance Requirements and Control Objectives), (2) additional control objectives established by Supplier (or Supplier Personnel) after the Effective Date that are relevant to the Services; and
(3) those control objectives established by Company pursuant to  Section 18.3(E)  of this Agreement.       Core Software Deliverables .
  Core Software Deliverables   means all Software Deliverables that are (i) specifically identified as Core Software Deliverables in an Order or (ii) designed to be used in Company s core business of research,
development, manufacturing, or commercialization of human therapeutics.       Critical Affected Personnel .   Critical Affected Personnel  
means Affected Personnel who are identified as  critical affected personnel  in  Exhibit 19  (Affected Personnel).       Direct
Damages .   Direct Damages   means actual, direct damages incurred by the claiming entity directly and naturally resulting from or arising out of a breach of this Agreement. Direct Damages include, by way of example but without
limitation, the following: (i) costs of [  *  ]; (ii) costs of replacing [  *  ]; (iii) [  *  ] incurred by Company [  *  ]; (iv) the costs incurred by Company to correct any
[  *  ], (v) the difference in the amounts to be [  *  ], (vi) the [  *  ], (vii)     [  *  ]; and (viii) the costs and expenses incurred by Company to [  *  ]. A Party
shall not be precluded from establishing that a particular damage is a Direct Damage on the basis that (i)     [  *  ], or (ii) the Parties [  *  ].       Deliverables .   Deliverables   means any and all tangible work product, reports, data, specifications, designs, documents, correspondence,
Software, documentation, and other materials, and other deliverables identified in an Order, including Transition Deliverables, Transformation Deliverables, Software Deliverables and Non-Software Deliverables.         

Confidential   
     
  3  

Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential
treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission.   

Equipment .   Equipment   means the computer, telecommunications and other equipment (without regard
to the entity owning or leasing such equipment) used by Supplier to provide the Services. Equipment includes the following: (1) computer equipment, including associated attachments, features, accessories, peripheral devices and other computer
equipment; and (2) telecommunications equipment, including private branch exchanges, multiplexors, modems, CSUs/DSUs, hubs, bridges, routers, switches and other telecommunications equipment.       Event of Deteriorating Supplier Condition .   Event of Deteriorating Supplier Condition   means any of the following events: (i) Supplier or
its Global Technology Services division ceases to do business as a going concern, makes an assignment of all or substantially all of its assets for the benefit of creditors, is insolvent or the subject of receivership, or any substantial part of
Supplier s property is or becomes subject to any levy, seizure, assignment or sale for or by any creditor or governmental agency without being released or satisfied within a reasonable time thereafter; (ii) Supplier s auditors issue
an opinion expressing doubt as to whether Supplier can maintain itself as a  going concern,  or Supplier s credit is downgraded to a Moody rating of  Baa1  or below; (iii) any judgment or tax lien is filed or issued
against Supplier that materially impacts Supplier s ability to provide the Services to Company, and such judgment or tax lien is not resolved or satisfied within a reasonable time thereafter; (iv) voluntary bankruptcy proceedings or
involuntary bankruptcy proceedings that have not been dismissed within ninety (90) days of commencement, are commenced by or against Supplier; (v) Supplier sells all or substantially all of its assets, or a material portion of its assets
related to the Services except in connection with a Change of Control as permitted under this Agreement; (vii) there is a material adverse change in the business, financial condition or prospects of Supplier s Global Technology Services
division that is reasonably likely to result in a delay in the performance of Supplier s obligations hereunder, or a reduction in the quality of such performance; (viii) the [  *  ]; (ix) Supplier fails to [  *  ];
(x) Supplier s [  *  ] is not approved by Company (acting in good faith); and (xi) within thirty (30) days after Company s delivery of written notice to Supplier, Supplier fails to [  *  ].       Governmental Authorities .   Governmental Authorities   means any national, state or local, U.S. or foreign, governmental, regulatory or judicial
authority having jurisdiction over Company, Supplier, this Agreement or any Services.       [  *   ]       Intellectual Property .   Intellectual Property   means: (i) patents, patent applications and statutory invention registrations (in the case of
Non-Software Deliverables, based on inventions embodied therein); (ii) copyrights, including registrations and applications for registration thereof; (iii) trade secrets; and (iv) any other rights similar to the foregoing.   
   Law(s) .   Law(s)   means all federal, state, provincial, regional, territorial and local laws, statutes, ordinances, regulations, rules,
executive orders, supervisory requirements, directives, circulars, opinions, interpretive letters and other official releases of or by any government, or any authority, department or agency thereof, including the United States Securities and
Exchange Commission and the Public Accounting Oversight Board.   Laws   shall include Laws relating to data privacy trans-border data flow or data protection, such as the implementing legislation and regulations of the European Union
member states under the European Union Directive 95/46/EC, and any and all of Canada s federal and provincial privacy laws. Laws shall include Company Laws and Supplier Laws.       Legal Compliance Obligations .   Legal Compliance Obligations   means Supplier s obligations under  Section 9.1  and  Section 9.3 .       Managed Contracts .   Managed Contracts   means the Third-Party agreements for which Supplier assumes management responsibility that are identified
as  Managed Contracts  in  Exhibit 11  (Assigned and Managed Contracts) or identified by Company from time to time.       Non-Core
Software Deliverables .   Non-Core Software Deliverables   means all Software Deliverables other than Core Software Deliverables.         

Confidential   
     
  4  

Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential
treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission.   

Non-Software Deliverables .   Non-Software Deliverables   means literary works or other works of
authorship created for and required to be delivered to Company under this Agreement, including the Transition Plan, Transformation Plan, Change Request Authorizations, Orders, Policies and Procedures Manual, business requirements documents, design
documents, manuals, training materials and documentation, but excluding Software.       Out-of-Pocket Expenses .   Out-of-Pocket Expenses  
means reasonable, demonstrable and actual invoiced expenses for Equipment, materials, supplies or Services provided to or for Company as identified in this Agreement, but not including Supplier s overhead costs (or allocations thereof),
internal administrative expenses or other mark-ups, in each case, (A) that are due and payable to a Third Party by Supplier and (B) (i) that are approved in advance by Company, or (ii) for which Supplier is entitled to be
reimbursed as a Pass-Through Expense in accordance with  Exhibit 4  (Pricing) of this Agreement. Out-of-Pocket Expenses shall be calculated at Supplier s actual incremental expense and shall be net of all refunds, returns, rebates and
allowances.       Pass-Through Expenses .   Pass-Through Expenses   has the meaning set forth in  Exhibit 4  (Pricing).
      Personnel .   Personnel   of a Party means such Party s directors, officers, employees, Subcontractors (with respect to Supplier
only), consultants, representatives and agents, excluding the other Party, who contribute to the performance of such Party s obligations under this Agreement.       Pre-Existing Rights .   Pre-Existing Rights   means any and all Software and other Intellectual Property rights (i) owned by or licensed to a Party and incorporated in or required to operate any Deliverable, and
(ii) that is pre-existing on the Effective Date or the effective date of the applicable Order governing the development of such Deliverable, as applicable.       SAS 70 Gap Period .   SAS 70 Gap Period   means the period of time between the issuance of a SAS 70 Type 2 Report by the service auditor and the date of the assessment by Company of the adequacy of Company s
controls pursuant to the Compliance Requirements.       SAS 70 Type 2 Report .   SAS 70 Type 2 Report   means a written opinion of a
service auditor, issued in accordance with and subject to the requirements of SAS 70, covering each Supplier facility where Services are performed and addressing (1) whether Supplier s description of its controls presents fairly, in all
material respects, the relevant aspects of Supplier s controls that had been placed in operation as of a specified date, (2) whether such controls were suitably designed to achieve the Control Objectives, and (3) whether the controls
that were tested were operating with sufficient effectiveness to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that the Control Objectives were achieved during the period specified; together with the service auditor s (a) description of
the Control Objectives, (b) report on the operating effectiveness of the controls, and (c) description of the tests of the operating effectiveness of the controls that may be relevant to specified assertions in Company s financial
statements, and the results of those tests. The SAS 70 Type 2 Report will contain any additional information that may be required under SAS 70 and will contain a paragraph stating that the SAS 70 Type 2 Report is intended to be used by customers of
Supplier and such customers  independent auditors.       Service Level Credit .   Service Level Credit   means the applicable credit
against the Charges payable by Supplier to Company hereunder for failure of Supplier to meet a particular Service Level.       Service Level Default .
  Service Level Default   means in respect of each Critical Service Level or Key Measurement that (i) Supplier s Service Level Performance fails to [  *  ]; or (ii) Supplier s Service Level Performance
fails to [  *  ]; or (iii) Measurement data for the [  *  ]  .   All capitalized terms used in but not defined in this definition or in the body of this Agreement are defined in  Exhibit 1  (Definitions).
      Software .   Software   means the object code versions of any applications programs, operating system software, computer software
languages, utilities, other computer programs and related documentation, in whatever form or media, including the tangible media upon which such applications programs, operating  

Confidential   
     
  5  

Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential
treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission.   

system software, computer software languages, utilities, other computer programs and related documentation are recorded or printed, together with all
corrections, improvements, updates and releases thereof.       Software Deliverables .   Software Deliverables   mean all Deliverables that
include Software that are required to be delivered to Company under this Agreement or an Order, including Core Software Deliverables and Non-Core Software Deliverables.       Subcontractor .   Subcontractor   means any individual or entity (other than Supplier), including an Affiliate of Supplier, that performs Services under this Agreement (including any Order).
      Supplier Laws .   Supplier Laws   means all Laws applicable to Supplier in its capacity as a provider of IT services and all Laws
that are generally applicable to Supplier, which Laws may include HIPAA, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and well-known Laws governing privacy.       Supplier Proprietary Software .   Supplier Proprietary Software   means the Software (which may include Tools) and related documentation (1) owned by Supplier and (2) any enhancements,
modifications or derivatives thereof owned by Supplier, in each case, (a) that are used in connection with the Services, and (b) excluding Core Software Deliverables. The Supplier Proprietary Software includes the Software designated as
 Supplier Proprietary Software  in  Exhibit 10  (Equipment and Software Lists).       Supplier Service Location .   Supplier
Service Location   means each facility of Supplier from which Supplier provides the Services, as set forth in  Exhibit 17  (Supplier Service Locations).       Supplier Software .   Supplier Software   means, collectively, the Supplier Proprietary Software and the Supplier Third Party Software.       Supplier Third Party Software .   Supplier Third Party Software   means the Software (which may include Tools) and related documentation licensed or
leased by Supplier from a Third Party that are used (1) in connection with the Services or (2) with any Supplier Proprietary Software. The Supplier Third Party Software includes the Software designated as  Supplier Third Party
Software  in  Exhibit 10  (Equipment and Software Lists).       System .   System   means the computing infrastructure,
including Software, Tools and Equipment, used by Supplier to provide the Services, and to access, process or store any Company Data.       Third Party .
  Third Party   means a legal entity, company or person that is not a Party, or an Affiliate of a Party, to this Agreement. Personnel of a Party or Subcontractors, or of an Affiliate of a Party, shall be considered   Third
Parties   hereunder.       Tools .   Tools   means any testing, monitoring or other tools or utilities and related know-how,
methodologies, processes, technologies, or algorithms.       Tower .   Tower   means a general grouping of related Services that are
described within  Exhibit 2  (Statement of Work), namely  Cross-Functional ,  Messaging, Directory,   Collaboration ,  Application Hosting ,  Managed Network , or  End-User .
      Transitioned Contractors .   Transitioned Contractors   means Affected Contractors whose contractor agreements are either terminated
or assigned pursuant to  Section 11.5(B) .       Transitioned Employees .   Transitioned Employees   means Affected Employees who
either accept an offer of employment with Supplier or whose employment is transitioned to Supplier pursuant to relevant ARD Laws (or the equivalent in countries outside of the EU) and become employed by Supplier effective as of the start of business
on the Effective Date or such other date as to which the Parties mutually agree.         

Confidential   
     
  6  

Transitioned Personnel .   Transitioned Personnel   means, collectively, Transitioned Employees and
Transitioned Contractors.       Use .   Use   means the right to load, execute, store, transmit, display, copy and perform.       Wind-down Expenses .   Wind-down Expenses   means (1) Supplier s actual out-of-pocket reasonable costs and expenses related to the
displacement of assets [  *  ] due to Company s early termination, excluding overhead and general expenses, markups and opportunity costs; and (2) Supplier s then-current net book value (using straight-line depreciation
method) of Equipment, Software and materials used in and procured specifically for the delivery of Services under this Agreement, excluding costs and expenses for Transition and Transformation, provided in each case, that Supplier shall have an
obligation to mitigate the foregoing, and that Wind-down Expenses shall be [  *  ] and shall be subject to audit by Company in accordance with this Agreement. In the event a Section of this Agreement specifically provides for (i) the
purchase of (or option to purchase) Equipment or the assumption of leases by Company, and (ii) payment of Wind-down Expenses, the provisions of such Section governing the purchase of (or option to purchase) Equipment or the assumption of leases
by Company shall prevail over this definition.      Section 1.2  Other Defined Terms Used in this Agreement .       

ARD Affected Employees    
      
  Section 11.5(D)   

Agreement    
      
  Preamble and Section 1.4(A)   

Background Check Certification Form    
      
  Section 11.1   

Benchmarked Representative Sample    
      
  Section 19.5(B)   

Benchmark-Affected Employees    
      
  Section 19.5(D)(4)   

Benchmarker    
      
  Section 19.5(A)   

Change Control Procedure    
      
  Section 17.4   

Change Request Authorization    
      
  Section 17.5   

Change Request    
      
  Section 17.5   

Company    
      
  Preamble   

Company Contract Executive    
      
  Section 16.1   

Company Contractor Agreements    
      
  Section 11.5   

Company Facilities    
      
  Section 15.5   

Company Indemnified Parties    
      
  Section 25.1   

Company Non-Software Deliverables    
      
  Section 14.4   

Company Policies    
      
  Section 9.3   

Company Required Consents    
      
  Section 8.2   

Company Service Recipients    
      
  Section 4.5   

Company Transition Manager    
      
  Section 3.3(C)   

Critical Affected Personnel    
      
  Section 11.5   

Confidential   
     
  7  

Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential
treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission.   

Dispute Notice    
      
  Section 28.1   

DRP    
      
  Section 27.1(A)   

Effective Date    
      
  Preamble   

Employee Transfer Date    
      
  Section 11.5(D)   

Exhibit 4-Pre-Benchmark Charges Schedule    
      
  Section 19.5(D)(5)   

Force Majeure Event    
      
  Section 27.1   

HIPAA    
      
  Section 21.3   

Initial Term    
      
  Section 2.1   

IT    
      
  Section 1.2   

Key Supplier Personnel    
      
  Section 11.2   

Legal Compliance Obligations    
      
  Section 9.1   

Local Country Agreement    
      
  Section 1.7   

Losses    
      
  Section 25.1   

Monthly Service Level Report    
      
  Section 10.8   

New Service    
      
  Section 17.5   

Notice of Election    
      
  Section 25.3   

Offshore Location    
      
  Section 15.1   

Offshore Tax Jurisdiction    
      
  Section 19.4   

Order    
      
  Section 6.2   

Parties    
      
  Preamble   

Party    
      
  Preamble   

Pass-through Subcontracts    
      
  Section 17.7(C)   

Personally Identifiable Information    
      
  Section 21.3   

PHI    
      
  Section 21.3   

Policies and Procedures Manual    
      
  Section 17.3   

Privacy Laws and Regulations    
      
  Section 21.3   

Project    
      
  Section 6.2   

Project Request    
      
  Section 6.2   

Refresh Schedule    
      
  Section 13.4   

Renewal Term    
      
  Section 2.2   

Required Consents    
      
  Section 8.2   

Confidential   
     
  8  

Resources    
      
  Section 4.1   

RTOs    
      
  Section 27.1(A)   

Qualifying Invoice    
      
  Section 19.4(D)   

Service Levels    
      
  Section 10.1   

Services    
      
  Section 4.1   

Shared Subcontractors    
      
  Section 17.7(A)(2)   

Software Deliverables    
      
  Section 14.3   

Staffing Action Plan    
      
  Section 11.6   

Staffing Notice    
      
  Section 11.6   

Steering Committee    
      
  Section 17.1   

Supplier    
      
  Preamble and Section 1.4(B)(5)   

Supplier Data Connections    
      
  Section 13.7   

Supplier Equipment    
      
  Section 13.2   

Supplier Indemnified Parties    
      
  Section 25.2   

Supplier Non-Software Deliverables    
      
  Section 14.4   

Supplier Project Executive    
      
  Section 11.2   

Supplier Provided Items    
      
  Section 25.1(I)   

Supplier Required Consents    
      
  Section 8.1   

Supplier Transition Manager    
      
  Section 3.3   

Technology Refresh Plan    
      
  Section 17.1   

Term    
      
  Section 2.1   

Termination/Expiration Assistance Period    
      
  Section 29.7   

Termination/Expiration Assistance    
      
  Section 29.7   

Third Party Claims    
      
  Section 25.1   

Third-Party Resources    
      
  Section 4.1   

Third Party Vendor    
      
  Section 7.1   

Top Quartile Average Price    
      
  Section 19.5(D)   

Transformation    
      
  Section 5.1   

Transformation Deliverables    
      
  Section 5.3   

Transformation Milestone    
      
  Section 5.3   

Transformation Milestone Credit    
      
  Section 5.6   

Confidential   
     
  9  

Transformation Objectives    
      
  Section 5.1   

Transformation Plan    
      
  Section 5.3   

Transformation Project    
      
  Section 5.2   

Transition    
      
  Section 3.1   

Transition Deliverables    
      
  Section 3.2   

Transition Milestone    
      
  Section 3.2   

Transition Milestone Credit    
      
  Section 3.2   

Transition Period    
      
  Section 3.1   

Transition Plan    
      
  Section 3.2   
    Section 1.3  Other Defined Terms Used in the Exhibits .       

Access Loop    
      
  Exhibit 4   

Actual Foreign Exchange Rate    
      
  Exhibit 4   

Actual Inflation    
      
  Exhibit 4   

Action Item    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Actual Uptime    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Add/Change    
      
  Exhibit 4   

Additional Resource Charge (ARC)    
      
  Exhibit 1   

ADM    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Allocation of Pool Percentage    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Application Server(s)    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Applications    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Applications Software    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Architecture    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Asset Inventory and Management System    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Authorized User    
      
  Exhibit 1   

At-Risk Amount    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Availability    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Availability Management    
      
  Exhibit 1   

AVTS    
      
  Exhibit 4   

Base Charge    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Base Charges    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Base Foreign Exchange Rate    
      
  Exhibit 4   

Base Year Index    
      
  Exhibit 4   

BAU Resources or Business as Usual Resources    
      
  Exhibit 4   

Benchmarking    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Business Continuity (Services)    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Business Continuity Lifecycle    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Business Continuity Management (BCM)    
      
  Exhibit 1   

CAB/Emergency Committee    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Cabling    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Calls    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Call Seat Center    
      
  Exhibit 4   

Capacity Management    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Capacity Management Database    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Carrier    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Cascade    
      
  Exhibit 4   

Change    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Change Advisory Board (CAB)    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Change Management    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Change Request Authorization(s)    
      
  Exhibit 1   

CI Release    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Collaborative Applications    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Commencement Date    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Commercial Off The Shelf (COTS)    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Company Information    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Company Materials    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Conferencing Network    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Conferencing Premise Equipment    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Confidentiality    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Configuration Item (CI)    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Configuration Management    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Configuration Management Database (CMDB)    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Connectivity    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Contract Year    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Control (and its derivatives)    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Critical Deliverables    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Critical Service Level    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Critical Transition and Transformation Credits    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Cross-Functional Services    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Currency Pairs    
      
  Exhibit 4   

Current Projects    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Data Center    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Deferred Countries    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Definitive Hardware Store (DHS)    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Definitive Software Library (DSL)    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Deliverable Credits    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Desktop    
      
  Exhibit 4   

Disaster Recovery Planning    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Disaster Recovery (Services)    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Downtime    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Earnback    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Economic Change Adjustment    
      
  Exhibit 4   

Email Account    
      
  Exhibit 4   

End-User Computing (EUC)    
      
  Exhibit 1   

End-User Services    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Expected Service Level    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Expected Service Level Default    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Expiration Date    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Extranet    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Fees    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Foreign Exchange Sensitivity    
      
  Exhibit 4   

Forward Schedule of Changes    
      
  Exhibit 1   

FTE Criteria    
      
  Exhibit 4   

FXRCA Deadband    
      
  Exhibit 4   

Handheld Device    
      
  Exhibit 4   

Hard IMAC    
      
  Exhibit 1   

High Availability (clusters)    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Hypercare    
      
  Exhibit 1   

IMAC(s)    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Impact    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Incident    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Incident Management    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Incident Management System    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Incident Record    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Inflation Index    
      
  Exhibit 4   

Infrastructure    
      
  Exhibit 1   

In-Scope    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Install    
      
  Exhibit 4   

Integrity    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Inter-Office Channel (IOC)    
      
  Exhibit 4   

Interconnect Devices    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Internet Network    
      
  Exhibit 1   

IT Service Continuity Management    
      
  Exhibit 1   

ITIL    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Key Measurements    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Known Error    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Known Error Database    
      
  Exhibit 1   

LAN (Local Area Network)    
      
  Exhibit 1   

LAN Equipment    
      
  Exhibit 1   

LAN Segment    
      
  Exhibit 1   

LAN Systems    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Laptop    
      
  Exhibit 4   

Level 1 Support    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Level 2 Support    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Level 3 Support    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Logical Security    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Long-Range IT Plan    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Major Incident    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Major Software Release    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Materials    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Measurement Window    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Messaging    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Messaging Service    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Minimum Performance Default    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Minimum Service Level(s)    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Mobile Data Communications Equipment    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Mobile Data Communications Network    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Mobile Data Communications System    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Mobile Short Messaging Equipment (MSM Equipment)    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Mobile Short Messaging Network    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Monthly Invoice Amount    
      
  Exhibit 1   

N Release Level    
      
  Exhibit 1   

N-1 Release Level    
      
  Exhibit 1   

N-2 Release Level    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Network    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Network Topology    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Nine-Month Measurement Period    
      
  Exhibit 1   

One-Time Charges    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Operating Software (Operating System)    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Operating System Instance (OS Instance)    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Operational Level Agreement    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Other Peripheral Device    
      
  Exhibit 4   

PBX Port  or  KTS Port    
      
  Exhibit 4   

Performance Category    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Performance Credit(s)    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Planned Projects    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Policies and Procedures Manual    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Pool Percentage Available for Allocation    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Portable Network Devices    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Post Implementation Review (Post Project Review)    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Print Pages    
      
  Exhibit 4   

Problem    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Problem Management    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Problem Manager    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Problem Tracking System    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Procurement Catalog    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Project FTE Day    
      
  Exhibit 4   

Project IMAC    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Qualified    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Reduced Resource Credit (RRC)    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Refresh    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Regulated    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Release Management    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Replacement    
      
  Exhibit 4   

Request for Change (RFC)    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Request Management    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Resource Baseline(s)    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Resource Capacity Management (RCM)    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Resource Unit(s)    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Retained Employees    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Retained Expense(s)    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Scheduled Downtime    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Scheduled Uptime    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Security    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Security Management    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Security Manager    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Security Officer    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Server    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Service Capacity Management    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Service Catalog    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Service Desk    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Service Level Credit Allocation Percentage    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Service Level Performance    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Service Request    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Severity Level    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Site(s)    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Soft IMAC    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Standard Change    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Standard Laptop    
      
  Exhibit 4   

Standard Products    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Standard Voice Network    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Standard Voice Premise Equipment    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Standard Voice Premise Systems    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Sub-Towers    
      
  Exhibit 4   

Successor    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Supplier Materials    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Supplier Requested Changes    
      
  Exhibit 4   

System(s) Software    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Termination Fees    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Third-Party Materials    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Transport    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Transport Facilities    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Transport Services    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Transport Systems    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Transport Vendor(s)    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Unix Workstation    
      
  Exhibit 4   

Unrelieved Service Level Credits    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Unserviceable Equipment    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Urgency    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Utility Server(s)    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Utility Server Support   Infrastructure    
      
  Exhibit 4   

Validated    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Video Conference Room    
      
  Exhibit 4   

Voice IMAC    
      
  Exhibit 4   

WAN (or Wide Area Network)    
      
  Exhibit 1   

WAN Equipment    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Wiring    
      
  Exhibit 1   

Yearly Performance Average    
      
  Exhibit 1   
    Those terms, acronyms and phrases utilized in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry, information
technology (  IT  ) services industry, or other pertinent business context that are not otherwise defined in this Agreement shall be interpreted in accordance with their generally understood meaning in such industries or business
contexts.      Section 1.4  Incorporation and References .       

(A)  
  Incorporation of Exhibits, Schedules and Appendices        The
Exhibits, Schedules and Appendices attached hereto are hereby incorporated into this Agreement by reference and deemed part of this Agreement for all purposes. All references to this   Agreement   shall include such Exhibits,
Schedules and Appendices.       

(B)  
  References         

(1)  
  References to any Law means references to such Law in changed or supplemented form, or to a newly-adopted Law replacing a previous Law.         

(2)  
  References to and the use of the word  include  and its derivatives (such as  including  and  includes ) means  include without limitation. 

(3)  
  References to and the use of the word  days  means calendar days, unless otherwise specified.         

(4)  
  References to and the use of the word  hours  means hours as determined on a 24x7 basis and not business hours, unless otherwise specified.           

(5)  
  References to   Supplier   include Supplier Personnel, Equipment providers, Software providers and service providers, where such entities are performing the Services
or services related to the Services.         

(6)  
  References to   Company   include Company and members of Company Group.        Section 1.5  Headings and Cross-References . The Article and Section headings and the table of contents used in this Agreement are for reference and convenience only and shall not enter into the
interpretation of this Agreement. Any reference herein to a particular Article or Section number or Exhibit, Schedule or Appendix means that the reference is to the specified Article, Section, Exhibit, Schedule or Appendix of this Agreement, except
to the extent that the cross-reference expressly refers to another document.      Section 1.6  Interpretation of Documents . In the event of a
conflict or inconsistency between the terms of this Agreement and the Exhibits, Schedules or Appendices, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.      Section 1.7  Local Country Agreements . The Parties acknowledge and agree that this Agreement is intended to provide the framework for a global relationship. As deemed appropriate by Supplier and Company taking into account the
Services and the country or region outside of the United States that is involved, the Parties will enter into one or more local country agreements to this Agreement between Supplier or corresponding Supplier Affiliates, and Company or Company
Affiliate for the purpose of memorializing the implementation of this Agreement with respect to such entities and effecting the intent of the Parties under this Agreement (each, a   Local Country Agreement  ). All references herein to
this Agreement shall be deemed to include all Local Country Agreements. Supplier will agree to perform or cause to be performed the performance obligations under this Agreement, including the Local Country Agreements. Company and Supplier agree to
be and remain liable and responsible to the other for all obligations undertaken by its Affiliates, respectively, under such Local Country Agreements, and that the execution of any Local Country Agreement will in no way either enlarge or reduce the
obligations of either Company or Supplier under this Agreement, including with respect to the provision of Services to any Company Affiliate, except (i) provisions in a particular Local Country Agreement that are expressly acknowledged to be an
amendment to this Agreement for purposes of such Local Country Agreement, which will include the listing of any provisions of applicable local law in the country for which the Local Country Agreement is entered identified by either Party as
non-waivable, or (ii) terms for transition of Affected Personnel located in the country for which the Local Country Agreement is signed. No Local Country Agreement may be signed or, once signed, be modified or amended, without the consent of
each of Supplier and Company.       ARTICLE 2        TERM       Section 2.1  Term . The term of this Agreement (the   Initial Term  , together with
any Renewal Terms, and as extended pursuant to  Section 29.6 , the   Term  ) shall commence on the Effective Date and shall expire at midnight (Pacific Time) on the fifth (5th) anniversary of January 18, 2009,
unless this Agreement is extended pursuant to  Section 2.2  or earlier terminated in accordance with this Agreement.      Section 2.2
 Extension . On written notice to Supplier no less than one hundred twenty (120) days prior to the expiration of the Initial Term or then-current Renewal Term, Company shall have the right to extend the Term for one (1) year
extensions (each a   Renewal Term  ) on the terms and conditions (including the Charges) then in effect. Company shall have three (3) such extension options of one (1) year each.      Section 2.3  Termination Charges . In the event that Company does not elect to extend the Term after the Initial Term or any Renewal Term, or upon expiration
of the final Renewal Term, [  *  ], which at the time of such expiration, is [  *  ].  Section 29.2  (Termination for Convenience) sets forth the applicability of fees associated with Company s termination for
convenience.         

    Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential
treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission.   

ARTICLE 3        TRANSITION       Section 3.1  General .       

(A)  
  Commencing on the Effective Date and ending on completion of the Transition Plan (the   Transition Period  ), Supplier shall plan, prepare for and conduct transition
activities in accordance with the Transition Plan (the   Transition  ). Except with respect to those costs identified as Company s responsibility in  Exhibit 4  (Pricing), Supplier s responsibilities with respect
to the Transition shall include paying all costs associated with the Transition and otherwise performing such tasks as are required to enable Supplier to provide the Services, including following the Transition Completion Date.

(B)  
  During the Transition Period, Company shall perform those tasks that are designated to be the responsibility of Company in the Transition Plan.         

(C)  
  Except as otherwise provided in  Exhibit 4  (Pricing) or required for Company to complete those tasks which are designated to be the responsibility of Company in the
Transition Plan, Company shall not incur any charges, fees, costs or expenses in connection with the Transition.        Section 3.2
 Transition Plan .       

(A)  
  General        The Transition shall be conducted in accordance
with a written plan (the   Transition Plan  ) which, at a minimum, shall include:       

(1)  
  a detailed description of the IT operations being transitioned to Supplier;         

(2)  
  a detailed description of the Transition activities and responsibilities to be performed by Supplier in order for Supplier to properly complete the Transition;

(3)  
  a detailed description of the deliverables (  Transition Deliverables  ) and milestones (  Transition Milestones  ) to be completed by Supplier;

(4)  
  a detailed description of any tasks that Company is required to complete in connection with the Transition;         

(5)  
  a detailed description of the technology, methods, procedures, Supplier Personnel and organization that Supplier shall use to perform the Transition;         

(6)  
  a detailed schedule and workplan of all Transition activities to be completed in connection with the Transition, including the dates on which each such activity and any Transition
Milestones and Transition Deliverables shall be completed;         

(7)  
  for certain Transition Milestones and Transition Deliverables, the applicable Transition Milestone or Deliverable Credit (each a   Transition Milestone Credit  ) that
shall be paid to Company if the Transition Milestone or Transition Deliverable is not achieved by Supplier, other than for the reasons set forth in  Section 16.2  (Savings Clause), in accordance with the schedule set forth in the
Transition Plan, which Transition Milestone Credits available for payment by Supplier to Company shall in the aggregate equal at least [  *  ] and Transition Milestone Credits payable by Supplier to Company shall in the aggregate not
exceed [  *  ];           

    Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential
treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission.   

(8)  
  a detailed description of the potential risks associated with the Transition and the risk mitigation strategies that shall be employed by Supplier to eliminate or minimize such
risks;         

(9)  
  a process and set of standards and completion criteria acceptable to Company to which Supplier shall adhere in the performance of the Transition and that shall enable Company to
determine whether Supplier has successfully completed the Transition activities and Transition Deliverables associated with each Transition Milestone; and         

(10)  
  any other information and planning necessary to ensure that the Transition takes place on schedule and without disruption to Company s business or IT operations.

(B)  
  Completion of the Transition Plan        Supplier shall be
responsible for preparing the Transition Plan. The initial draft of the Transition Plan as of the Effective Date is included in  Exhibit 22  (Transition and Transformation). No later than thirty (30) days prior to the Commencement
Date, Supplier shall finalize the Transition Plan which Transition Plan shall not be considered final until Accepted by Company. Supplier shall cooperate and work closely with Company in finalizing the Transition Plan (including incorporating
Company s reasonable comments) and the final Transition Plan and any subsequent changes to the Transition Plan shall be subject to Acceptance by Company in accordance with schedule set forth in  Exhibit 22  (Transition and
Transformation).      Section 3.3  Performance of the Transition .       

(A)  
  General        Supplier shall perform the Transition in
accordance with the Transition Plan and in such a manner so as to not disrupt Company s IT and business operations (except to the extent that Supplier has provided Company with reasonable advance written notice of such disruption and Company
has agreed in writing that such disruption is acceptable). Supplier shall provide all cooperation and assistance reasonably required and requested by Company in connection with Company s evaluation and testing of the Transition Deliverables.

(B)  
  Transition Manager        Supplier shall, in accordance with
 Section 11.2(D) , designate an individual to manage the Transition (the   Supplier Transition Manager  ) on a dedicated, full-time basis during the Transition Period. The Supplier Transition Manager shall (1) report to
the Supplier Project Executive, (2) serve as the single point of accountability for Supplier for the Transition and (3) have day-to-day authority for ensuring that the Transition is completed in accordance with the Transition Plan. The
Supplier Transition Manager shall be one of the Key Supplier Personnel.       

(C)  
  Meeting and Reporting Requirements        The Supplier
Transition Manager shall meet at least once each week with the individual designated to manage the Transition for Company (the   Company Transition Manager  ) to report on Supplier s progress in performing the Transition and
meeting the requirements of the Transition Plan. As part of each weekly meeting, Supplier shall provide Company with a written status report that shall include (1) an updated Gantt chart  

detailing the then-current status of all Transition activities, including the Transition Deliverables, against the Transition Plan, (2) a list of Tools
or Software that shall be added (whether temporarily or permanently) to Company s IT environment during the forthcoming month and (3) any issues or problems that Supplier is experiencing in connection with the Transition and any efforts or
remedial actions that Supplier is undertaking to resolve such issues or problems. The Supplier Transition Manager shall also meet at least once each week with the Company Transition Manager and the transition managers of applicable Third Party
Vendors to report on, lead and coordinate such Third Party Vendors  efforts in connection with the requirements of the Transition Plan. The meetings described in this Section shall take place at the time and place designated by Company, and
with agendas specified by Company.       

(D)  
  Company s Right to Participate in the Transition        Company reserves the right to monitor, test and otherwise participate in the Transition. Supplier shall immediately notify Company if such monitoring, testing or participation has caused (or in Supplier s reasonable opinion may cause)
a problem or delay in the Transition and work with Company to prevent or circumvent such problem or delay.      Section 3.4  Completion of the
Transition .       

(A)  
  The Transition shall not be considered to be complete until all Transition Deliverables have been Accepted by Company.         

(B)  
  If any Transition Deliverable with an associated Transition Milestone Credit is not Accepted by Company or any Transition Milestone with an associated Transition Milestone Credit is
not completed by Supplier on or before the applicable Transition Milestone due to the fault of Supplier, Supplier shall pay to Company the applicable Transition Milestone Credit, as set forth in  Exhibit 22  (Transition and
Transformation), for each applicable period that the Transition Deliverable is not Accepted by Company or such Transition Milestone is not completed by Supplier.         

(C)  
  If any Transition Deliverable with an associated Transition Milestone Credit is not Accepted by Company or any Transition Milestone with an associated Transition Milestone Credit is
not completed by Supplier on or before the applicable Transition Milestone due to the fault of Company, then for the period of delay Company shall reimburse Supplier for any Out-of-Pocket Expenses associated with such delay.
       Section 3.5  [  *   ].       ARTICLE 4        SERVICES       Section 4.1  Description of the Services .       

(A)  
  General        Commencing on the Effective Date and continuing
throughout the Term, Supplier shall provide to Company the following services, functions and responsibilities, as they may evolve or be supplemented, enhanced, modified or replaced (collectively, the   Services  ):       

(1)  
    the services, functions and responsibilities described in this Agreement, including (a) the services, functions, responsibilities and Deliverables described in
 Exhibit 2  (Statement of Work), (b) the services, functions and responsibilities  

Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential
treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission.   

relating to the Transition, including Transition Deliverables (and, if applicable, the Transformation, including Transformation Deliverables), and
(c) the Termination/Expiration Assistance;          

(2)  
  the services, functions and responsibilities described in any Order approved in writing by Company;         

(3)  
  the services, functions and responsibilities described in any Change Request Authorization approved in writing by Company;         

(4)  
  the IT infrastructure-related services, functions and responsibilities forming part of the Services and performed in the ordinary course during the twelve (12) month period
preceding the Effective Date by Affected Personnel and Third Party Vendors who were transitioned to Supplier or displaced, or whose functions were displaced, in each case, as a result of this Agreement, even if such IT-related services, functions
and responsibilities are not specifically described in this Agreement; and         

(5)  
  the IT-related services, functions, projects and responsibilities reflected in those categories of the Company Base Case that Supplier is assuming pursuant to this Agreement, as set
forth in  Exhibit 4  (Pricing).         

(B)  
  Implied Services        If any facilities, Equipment, Software,
services, functions, responsibilities or Deliverables not specifically described in this Agreement are required for the proper performance and provision of the Services, such facilities, Equipment, Software, services, functions, responsibilities or
Deliverables shall be deemed to be implied by and included within the scope of the Services (and delivered to Company at no additional charge) to the same extent and in the same manner as if expressly described in this Agreement.       

(C)  
  Supplier Responsibility         

(1)  
  Supplier shall be responsible for the provision of the Services in accordance with the terms of this Agreement even if, by agreement of the Parties, such Services are actually
performed by persons other than Supplier Personnel acting under the management and direction of Supplier, including Company Personnel and Third Party Vendors, except to the extent that such Company Personnel or Third Party Vendors other than
Supplier fail to satisfactorily follow the reasonable management and direction of Supplier and such failure results in a deficiency in delivery of the Services, subject to  Section 16.2  (Savings Clause).         

(2)  
  Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement, Supplier shall be responsible for providing the facilities, Personnel, Equipment, Software, materials, technical knowledge,
training, expertise and other resources necessary for the proper performance of the Services.         

(3)  
    Supplier shall ensure that all Services, Equipment, networks, Software, enhancements, upgrades, modifications, and other resources (collectively, the
  Resources  ) utilized by Supplier or approved by Supplier for utilization by Company in connection with the Services shall be integrated and interfaced as necessary for performance of the Services in accordance with the Service
Levels, and shall be compatible with the services, systems, items, and other resources that are being provided to, recommended to, or approved for use by, Company by Third Party Vendors as of the Effective Date (collectively, the  

Third-Party Resources  ) to the extent Company provides Supplier with all relevant information regarding these Third Party Resources prior
to the Effective Date.          

(4)  
  Supplier shall ensure that none of the Services or other Resources provided to Company by Supplier shall be adversely affected by, or shall adversely affect, those of any such Third
Party Resources identified by Company pursuant to  Section 4.1(C)(3) , whether as to functionality, speed, service levels, interconnectivity, reliability, availability, performance, security, response times, or similar measures. To the
extent that any interfaces need to be developed or modified in order for the Resources to integrate successfully, and be compatible, with the Third-Party Resources, Supplier shall develop or modify such interfaces as part of the Services.
       Section 4.2  Obligation to Evolve the Services and Keep Technology Current .       

(A)  
  Supplier shall cause the Services and the methods, processes and technologies being used to provide the Services, as approved by Company, to evolve and to be reasonably modified,
enhanced, supplemented and replaced as necessary for the Services and the methods, processes and technologies being used to provide the Services to keep pace with advances in the methods, processes, technologies, Software and Equipment being used to
deliver similar services, where such advances are at the time pertinent and in general use within the IT industry or among other customers of Supplier or Company s competitors. Any changes to the methods, processes, technologies, Software and
Equipment used to provide the Services in accordance with this Section shall be deemed to be included within the scope of the Services to the same extent and in the same manner as if expressly described in this Agreement. Without limiting the
foregoing, the Parties acknowledge and agree that any changes to the scope of the Services (other than changes to the methods, processes, technologies, Software and Equipment used to provide the Services) shall be implemented in accordance with the
Change Control Procedure.         

(B)  
  Supplier shall meet with Company at least once during every sixty (60) day period during the Term to inform Company of any new methods, processes, technologies, Software or
Equipment Supplier is developing or of which Supplier is otherwise aware that could reasonably be expected to have an impact on Company s IT or business operations.        Section 4.3  Non-Exclusivity; Right to In-Source and Re-Source the Services .       

(A)  
  Supplier acknowledges and agrees that this Agreement does not give Supplier any exclusive rights with respect to the provision of any services, including the Services, or products
to Company.         

(B)  
  At any time during the Term, Company has the right to perform itself, or retain third parties to perform, any of the Services. To the extent Company in-sources or re-sources any of
the Services pursuant to this Section: (1) Supplier shall cooperate with Company in accordance with  Article 7  and (2) the Charges shall be reduced in accordance with the process and methodology described in  Exhibit 4 
(Pricing). At Company s request, Supplier shall assist Company in identifying qualified third-party service providers.           

Section 4.4  Support for Acquisitions and Divestitures .       

(A)  
  Acquisition Support         

(1)  
  With respect to a potential acquisition by Company, upon Company s request, Supplier shall provide acquisition support (including assessments of any technology environments to
be acquired, potential integration approaches, and the impact of the acquisition on the Services, Service Levels, Charges and other aspects of this Agreement) as reasonably necessary to assist with Company s assessment of the portion of the
acquisition to which the Services relate. Such support shall be provided within the timeframe reasonably requested by Company or as required by the timing of the transaction.         

(2)  
  As requested by Company and as it relates to the Services, Supplier shall transition the IT environment of the acquired entity to Company s environment.

(3)  
  As requested by Company, Supplier shall provide Supplier Personnel to staff vacancies and to provide management for the information technology functions needed to support an
acquisition, including to the extent necessary, on-site support at any location of the acquired entity.         

(4)  
  Supplier shall provide acquisition support as described in this  Section 4.4(A)  as part of the Services to the extent that such acquisition support may be provided using
applicable resources then primarily assigned to the performance of the Services according to the Service Levels and baselines, and without adversely impacting Supplier s ability or costs to perform such Services. If acquisition support will
require the use of different or additional resources beyond that which Supplier is then using to provide the Services in accordance with the baselines and Service Levels, then such request for acquisition support shall be subject to the Change
Control Procedure.         

(B)  
  Divestitures         

(1)  
  In the event that Company divests an entity or business unit, Supplier shall, at Company s request, for a period of two (2) years from the effective date of such
divestiture (or such shorter time period as Company may require) or until termination of expiration of this Agreement, whichever is earlier, continue to provide the Services to such divested entity or business unit at the Charges and on the terms
and conditions then in effect. At Company s request, Supplier shall separately invoice such divested entity. To the extent applicable, Services and Deliverables for Company and its divested entity shall be combined for purposes of determining
Charges. Supplier shall not unreasonably withhold consent to novation of this Agreement in part as relates to the divested entity or business unit in favor of the divested entity or business unit or the acquirer thereof.         

(2)  
  Services provided to divested entities under  Section 4.4(B)(1)  shall be performed (A) until the termination or expiration of this Agreement, whichever is earlier,
(B) under the terms of this Agreement, and (C) in the event this Agreement is not novated in favor of the divested entity or business unit or the acquirer thereof, and the divested entity or the purchaser of the divested entity is unable
to provide adequate assurance of payment to the reasonable satisfaction of Supplier, Company shall remain liable in all respects under this Agreement, including the Charges. Supplier and Company shall address any increases or decreases in the scope
of Services that might result (e.g., the need to create separate instances of technology for separate locations where Services would be delivered/received) in accordance with the Change Control Procedure.           

Section 4.5  Service Recipients . Supplier shall provide the Services to: (A) Company and (B) such
other entities as Company designates from time to time (  Company Service Recipients  ). For purposes of this Agreement, Services provided to such entities shall be deemed to be Services provided to Company.      Section 4.6  Acceptance . All Deliverables provided by Supplier to Company as part of the Services under this Agreement shall be subject to Company s
review and acceptance (or rejection) in accordance with  Exhibit 6  (Governance).       ARTICLE 5        TRANSFORMATION       Section 5.1  Transformation
Objectives . Supplier shall be required to conduct transformation activities to enable Company to achieve the transformation objectives set forth in the Transformation Plan (collectively, the   Transformation Objectives  ), which
objectives shall include performing all Transformation activities necessary to provide the Services as set forth in  Exhibit 2  (Statement of Work) (  Transformation  ).      Section 5.2  Transformation Projects . Supplier shall complete the Transformation projects described in the Transformation Plan (each a   Transformation
Project  ) to achieve the Transformation Objectives. Except as otherwise provided in  Exhibit 4  (Pricing) or required for Company to complete those tasks that are designated to be the responsibility of Company in the
Transformation Plan, Company shall not be responsible for any charges, fees, costs or expenses incurred in connection with the Transformation.      Section 5.3  Transformation Plan . The initial draft of the transformation plan describing all Transformation Projects as of the Effective Date is included in  Exhibit 22  (Transition and Transformation) (the
  Transformation Plan  ). Within sixty (60) days of the Effective Date, Supplier shall revise and finalize the Transformation Plan for Company s review, comment and approval. Supplier shall cooperate and work closely with
Company in finalizing the Transformation Plan (including incorporating Company s reasonable comments) and the final Transformation Plan and any subsequent changes to the Transformation Plan shall be subject to written approval by Company. The
Transformation Plan shall include:       

(A)  
  a detailed description of how the Services and Company s associated IT environment, operations and business processes shall be transformed by Supplier via the Transformation
Projects to achieve the Transformation Objectives;         

(B)  
  a detailed description of the Transformation Projects;         

(C)  
  a detailed description of each deliverable (  Transformation Deliverables  ) and milestone (each a   Transformation Milestone  ) to be completed by
Supplier in connection with each Transformation Project;         

(D)  
  a detailed description of any tasks that Company is required to complete in connection with each Transformation Project;         

(E)  
  a detailed description of the methods and procedures, Personnel and organization Supplier shall use to complete the Transformation Projects;         

(F)  
  a detailed schedule and work plan of all Transformation Projects to be completed in connection with the Transformation, including the date on which each Transformation Project and
each associated Transformation Deliverable and Transformation Milestone shall be completed;           

(G)  
  a detailed description of the potential risks associated with the Transformation and the risk mitigation strategies that shall be employed by Supplier to eliminate or minimize such
risks;         

(H)  
  a process and set of standards acceptable to Company to which Supplier shall adhere in the performance of the Transformation and shall enable Company to determine whether Supplier
has successfully completed the Transformation Projects, Transformation Deliverables and Transformation Milestones; and         

(I)  
  any other information and planning necessary to ensure that the Transformation takes place on schedule and without disruption to Company s business or IT operations.
       Section 5.4  Completion of the Transformation Projects .       

(A)  
  Supplier shall complete the Transformation Projects in accordance with the Transformation Plan in such a manner so as to not disrupt Company s business and IT operations
(except to the extent that Supplier has provided Company with reasonable advance written notice of such disruption and Company has agreed in writing that such disruption is acceptable). Company shall reasonably cooperate with Supplier in connection
with the Transformation Projects and perform those tasks identified as Company tasks in the Transformation Plan.         

(B)  
  Supplier recognizes that its failure to meet the Transformation Milestones may have a material adverse impact on the business and operations of Company. Accordingly, if Supplier
fails to meet a Transformation Milestone or Transformation Deliverable for which there is an associated Transformation Milestone Credit or Deliverable Credit, other than for the reasons set forth in  Section 16.2  (Savings Clause), then,
in addition to any other remedies available to Company under this Agreement, at Law or in equity, Company may elect to recover the applicable Transformation Milestone Credits or Deliverable Credits, which Transformation Milestone Credits and
Deliverable Credits available for payment by Supplier to Company shall in the aggregate equal at least [  *  ] and Transformation Milestone Credits and Deliverable Credits payable by Supplier to Company shall in the aggregate not exceed
[  *  ].        Section 5.5  Company-Requested Delays . Company shall have the right to request that Supplier delay any
Transformation Projects for any reason at any time during the Term. If Company elects to delay any part of the Transformation Plan and such delay results in demonstrable increased costs to Supplier, Company shall pay such increased costs to
Supplier; provided, however, that Supplier has used commercially reasonable efforts to mitigate such increased costs, Supplier has notified Company in advance of such increased costs and Company has approved in writing such increased costs. In
addition, Company shall not incur any increase in Supplier s costs to the extent that Company s decision to delay any such Transformation activities is based on Supplier s failure to perform its obligations in accordance with the
terms of this Agreement.      Section 5.6  [  *   ].       ARTICLE 6        PROJECTS       Section 6.1  General . To the extent that any Projects include activities or components that otherwise fall within the scope of the Services, such activities and components shall be provided by Supplier
within the Base Charges.      Section 6.2  Project Requests . Company may initiate a request for Supplier to perform a particular Project, as such
term is defined in  Exhibit 4  (Pricing), by providing such request in writing (each such  

Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential
treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission.   

request, a   Project Request  ) to Supplier in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Policies and Procedures Manual. In engaging
Supplier to perform a Project, Company shall enter into one or more written Orders (each an   Order  ) pursuant to which such particular Project shall be performed. Supplier shall, within a reasonable timeframe specified in such
Project Request, prepare and deliver to Company a proposed Order as described in  Section 6.3 .      Section 6.3  Orders . Each Order
prepared by Supplier for Company s consideration shall be in the form presented in the Policies and Procedures Manual contained in  Exhibit 6.2  of  Exhibit 6  (Governance) attached hereto and shall, at a minimum, contain
the following information:       

(A)  
  a detailed description of the scope of work to be performed by Supplier to complete and implement the Project, including any required Deliverables;         

(B)  
  any specific performance standards that shall apply to the completion and implementation of such Project, including Supplier s agreement to meet applicable Service Levels;

(C)  
  an anticipated schedule for completing and implementing the Project and any related Deliverables, including milestones and credits for failing to achieve milestone deadlines;

(D)  
  the types of Supplier Personnel, or the specific Supplier Personnel, if known, who shall be assigned to each activity specified in the Order, including the location of such
Personnel;         

(E)  
  Supplier s proposed productivity measures for the activities specified in the Order;         

(F)  
  a description of the acceptance criteria and acceptance testing procedures to be used by Company in connection with any acceptance testing of such Project and any related
Deliverables;         

(G)  
  the estimated number of person-hours needed to complete the Project, or the fixed charge for the Project, as applicable;         

(H)  
  To the extent that any activities associated with the Project do not fall within the scope of the Services, a description of such activities, an explanation of why such activities
are not included in the Services and the estimated number of person-hours associated with such activities (to the extent relevant to the pricing of the Project);         

(I)  
  any increase or decrease in the Base Charges on an ongoing basis caused by such Project (which adjustments shall be made in accordance with the mechanism therefore in
 Exhibit 4  (Pricing)), the date any such Base Charges adjustments would go into effect, and the reasons for such adjustments; and         

(J)  
  any adjustment in the Service Levels on an ongoing basis caused by such Project, the date any such Service Level adjustments would go into effect, and the reasons for such
adjustments.        Each Party shall bear its own costs in connection with preparation of any Project Requests and Orders. Supplier shall not
commence performing any Services in connection with a Project, and Company shall not be responsible for any Charges applicable to such Project, until the Company Contract Executive has provided Supplier with written approval of the Order. Any change
to an Order shall be made pursuant to a Change Request approved in writing by Company pursuant to  Section 17.5 .      Section 6.4  In-Flight
Projects . Supplier shall provide the services, functions and responsibilities necessary to complete and implement the in-flight projects described in  Exhibit 9  (Current and Planned Projects). Such in-flight projects, including all
activities associated with the management thereof, shall be performed by Supplier within the Base Charges.         

ARTICLE 7        MULTI-VENDOR ENVIRONMENT; COOPERATION WITH THIRD PARTIES       Section 7.1  General .       

(A)  
  Supplier acknowledges that it is performing the Services in a multi-vendor environment and agrees that its responsibilities shall include leading and coordinating the efforts of any
third-party vendors providing services or products to Company (collectively,   Third Party Vendors  ), which leadership and coordination efforts shall include proactively communicating with Third Party Vendors regarding Services
issues and coordination issues, acting as the single point of intake and resolution for Third Party Vendors  questions and issues, scheduling meetings for the discussion and exchange of information as appropriate, and providing guidance to
Third Party Vendors with respect to Supplier s and Company s IT environment as it relates to the Services. Supplier further agrees to cooperate with Company and Third Party Vendors so as to allow such Third Party Vendors to provide any
services (including services similar to the Services) or products in an integrated and seamless manner without disruption to Company s business or IT operations.         

(B)  
  Supplier s cooperation with Company and any Third Party Vendors shall include:         

(1)  
  providing access to the facilities being used by Supplier to provide the Services (as necessary for Company or a Third Party Vendor to perform its work);     

(2)  
  providing access to Company s technical environment and the Equipment and Software being used by Supplier to provide the Services (to the extent permitted under any underlying
agreements with third parties and as necessary for Company or a Third Party Vendor to perform its work);         

(3)  
  providing to Third Party Vendors copies of such reports as are provided to Company pursuant to this Agreement, and providing such information, data (including performance data) and
cooperation as are necessary for Third Party Vendors to create reports for Company s use;         

(4)  
  cooperating with Company and Third Party Vendors (including by providing any performance information or data obtained by Supplier in the conduct of its own root cause analysis
pursuant to  Section 10.2 ) in performing root cause analysis of problems with the Services or Company s IT environments, whether the ultimate responsibility for performing such root cause analysis lies with Supplier or with any such
Third Party Vendor; and         

(5)  
  providing Company and Third Party Vendors such information and data regarding the Equipment, Software, Tools and operating environment, System constraints, processes and other
operating parameters as a person with reasonable commercial skills and expertise would find reasonably necessary for Company or a Third Party Vendor to perform its work.        Section 7.2  Compliance with Supplier s Policies . To the extent that any Third Party Vendors retained by Company (other than pursuant to Managed Contracts) require any access as described in this
Section, Company shall cause such Third Party Vendors to comply with Supplier s reasonable security and confidentiality requirements and with Supplier s reasonable work standards, methodologies and procedures, as these have been provided
by Supplier to Company and such Third Party Vendors. Supplier shall use reasonable efforts to cause Third Party Vendors under Managed Contracts to comply with such requirements, standards, methodologies and procedures.         

Section 7.3  Problems and Delays . Supplier shall immediately notify Company if an act or omission of a Third
Party Vendor may cause a problem or delay in providing the Services and shall work with Company to prevent or circumvent such problem or delay.       ARTICLE 8        REQUIRED CONSENTS       Section 8.1  Supplier Required Consents . Supplier, with the cooperation of Company, shall obtain and maintain any licenses, consents, authorizations or approvals that are necessary or required for Supplier to provide the Services
(collectively, the   Supplier Required Consents  ), including those consents set forth in the Transition Plan or  Exhibit 11  (Assigned and Managed Contracts) and those consents that are necessary to allow:       

(A)  
  Supplier to (1) grant any licenses or rights of use to Supplier Proprietary Software or (2) assign any of its interests in the Software Deliverables or Non-Software
Deliverables, in each case, as described in  Article 14 ;         

(B)  
  Company to use any Supplier Equipment;         

(C)  
  Company to take an assignment to any Equipment leases pursuant to  Section 29.7(B)(3) ; and         

(D)  
  Supplier to take an assignment to any Assigned Contracts pursuant to  Section 12.2 .        Section 8.2  Company Required Consents . Company, with the cooperation of Supplier, shall obtain and maintain those consents set forth in the Transition Plan or  Exhibit 11  (Assigned and Managed
Contracts) and the following licenses, consents, authorizations or approvals (collectively, the   Company Required Consents  , and together with the Supplier Required Consents, the   Required Consents  ) that are
necessary to allow:       

(A)  
  Company to grant any of the licenses or rights described in  Article 14 ; and         

(B)  
  Supplier to use any of the Company Provided Equipment as permitted in this Agreement.        Section 8.3  Compliance with Required Consents . Supplier and Company shall comply with the requirements of each of the Required Consents.      Section 8.4  Costs and Fees . Each Party shall pay any costs, expenses and fees (including license, re-licensing, transfer or upgrade fees or termination charges) as may be required to obtain the
Parties  respective Required Consents.      Section 8.5  Alternative Approaches . If either Party is unable to obtain a Required Consent, then,
unless and until such Required Consent is obtained, Supplier and Company shall determine and adopt, subject to Company s prior approval, such alternative approaches as are necessary and sufficient to provide the Services without such Required
Consent. If such alternative approaches are required for a period longer than sixty (60) days following the Effective Date, the Parties shall utilize the Change Control Procedure to increase or decrease the Charges to reflect any increase in
the costs and expenses of one Party due to the other Party s failure to obtain a Required Consent. If Supplier fails to obtain a Supplier Required Consent within sixty (60) days of the Effective Date and such failure has a material adverse
impact on Company s receipt of the Services, [  *  ] The failure to obtain any Supplier Required Consent shall not relieve Supplier of its obligations under this Agreement and Supplier shall not be entitled to any additional
compensation or reimbursement of any amounts in connection with obtaining or failing to obtain any Supplier Required Consent or implementing any alternative approach required by such failure.         

    Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential
treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission.   

ARTICLE 9        COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND COMPANY POLICIES       Section 9.1  Compliance with Laws . In performing under this
Agreement, Supplier shall       

(A)  
  comply with all Supplier Laws;         

(B)  
  Monitor the issuance of and notify Company of new Laws applicable to the performance of the Services [  *  ];         

(C)  
  upon becoming aware of new Laws applicable to the performance of the Services [  *  ], either due to notification by Company, Supplier s own awareness of such, or
from a third-party source, provide Company with Supplier s recommendations, and the basis for such recommendations, for changes in the Services or proposals that no changes in the Services are required to comply with such new Laws or changes in
Law;         

(D)  
  exercise its expertise to assist Company in identifying Laws that may apply to [  *  ] the Services, and suggest to Company approaches that Supplier may take with respect
to the Services so as to comply with such Laws;         

(E)  
  perform changes to the Services to comply with new or changed Laws to the extent such changes have been authorized in accordance with the Change Control Procedure;

(F)  
  upon Company s approval of such approaches, develop the means to implement the approaches within the Services procedures and techniques to comply with such Laws, and implement
such procedures and techniques in accordance with the Change Control Procedure; and         

(G)  
  comply with Company s instructions or requirements in this Agreement; or, in accordance with the Change Control Procedure, as otherwise specified by Company in writing or
required by Law; or assist Company in complying with Company Laws as specified in this Agreement or as otherwise specified by Company in writing or required by Law.        Supplier shall have no responsibility to Company for the accuracy of Company s interpretation of Company Laws. In meeting its obligations under this  Section 9.1 , Supplier shall not be deemed to be
providing legal advice to Company.      Section 9.2  Changes in Applicable Laws . Each Party shall promptly notify the other Party of any changes in
Applicable Laws of which it becomes aware that may impact Supplier s delivery of [  *  ]. Supplier shall comply with additional or new Legal Compliance Obligations applicable to Company or to the Services upon becoming aware thereof,
provided that, (i) such compliance shall be implemented in accordance with Change Control Procedure, and (ii) if such compliance will require the use of different or additional resources beyond that which Supplier is then using to provide
the Services in accordance with the Service Levels, then the Charges shall be modified accordingly in accordance with the Change Control Procedure. Supplier shall provide reasonable cooperation to Company in Company s efforts to comply with
Company Laws. Supplier shall remain fully informed of changes to Supplier Laws.      Section 9.3  Compliance with Company Policies . Company shall be
solely responsible for reviewing, approving, modifying and granting waivers with respect to policies governing (A) Company s standards, practices, processes, procedures and controls, including those policies set forth in
 Exhibit 23  (Company Policies), (B) the Services and any activities, including the use of Deliverables, affecting Company s compliance with Applicable Laws, and (C) associated technologies, architectures and standards,

Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential
treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission.   

methodologies and procedures to be used by Supplier in providing the Services to Company that support Company s regulatory compliance programs
(collectively,   Company Policies  ). The Company Policies include those policies, procedures and practices relating to regulatory compliance and regulated Systems, as set forth in  Exhibit 2  (Statement of Work) and
 Exhibit 24  (Compliance Requirements and Control Objectives). Company shall make available to Supplier in writing any Company Policies in existence as of the Effective Date and any new or revised Company Policies created or revised by
Company during the Term provided that if such created or revised policies shall require a change in scope of the Services, such change shall be implemented through the Change Control Procedure. Supplier shall implement all Company Policies
applicable to its delivery of the Services, including those created or revised following the Effective Date, and shall deliver the Services in accordance with the Company Policies. The Company Policies applicable to Supplier s delivery of the
Services shall be deemed included as part of the Policies and Procedures Manual as of the time they are made available to Supplier and shall be added by Supplier to the Policies and Procedures Manual upon its next revision,  provided ,
 however , that to the extent that modifications to the Services are required to adapt to any new or revised Company Policies, then such revised Company Policies shall become applicable to Supplier s delivery of the Services as set forth
in the Change Request authorizing the modification to the Services.      Section 9.4  Obligation to Perform . Supplier shall perform the Services
regardless of changes in Applicable Laws unless performance of such Services would be unlawful. If changes in Applicable Laws prevent Supplier from performing its obligations under this Agreement, Supplier shall develop and, upon Company s
approval in accordance with the Change Control Procedure, implement a suitable workaround until such time as Supplier can perform its obligations under this Agreement without such workaround. In the event such workaround is required due to a change
in Supplier Laws, the cost of such change shall be borne by Supplier. In the event such workaround is required due to a change in Company Laws or Company Policies, and such change results in a material increase in the costs to Supplier in delivering
the Services, then Supplier shall be entitled to an equitable increase in the applicable Charges under the Change Control Procedure.      Section 9.5
 Notification of Failure . If Supplier (i) becomes aware of any material failure to comply with any Applicable Laws, any of the Company Policies, or any of Supplier s obligations under this Agreement or (ii) becomes aware of any
other situation that may reasonably be expected to lead to, has had, or should have been expected to have, any material adverse impact on the Services, or Supplier s ability to perform its obligations hereunder, then Supplier shall immediately
inform Company in writing of such failure or situation and the impact or expected impact and recommend means for addressing such, and Supplier and Company shall meet to discuss Supplier s recommended means and to formulate an action plan to
minimize or eliminate the impact of such failure or situation.      Section 9.6  Evidence of Compliance . Supplier shall furnish any evidence Company
reasonably requests in writing that is related to Supplier s compliance with Applicable Laws or with Company Policies at any time during the Term and, to the extent related to obligations that survive the Term, the period of such survival. The
substance, form and timing of such evidence shall be subject to Company s reasonable satisfaction.      Section 9.7  Licenses . Supplier shall
obtain and maintain all applicable authorizations, permits, certificates and licenses required of Supplier in connection with its obligations under this Agreement.      Section 9.8  Remote Computing Service . The Parties agree that in performing the Services contemplated under this Agreement, the parties intend for (i) Supplier to be a  remote computing service  as defined in the
Stored Communications Act, 18 U.S.C.  2711, and (ii) Company to be the  subscriber  of the Services for purposes of 18 U.S.C.  2702.       ARTICLE 10        SERVICE LEVELS AND CUSTOMER SATISFACTION       Section 10.1  General . Supplier shall perform the Services at least (i) at the same level and with at least the same degree of accuracy, quality,
completeness, timeliness, responsiveness, security and  

efficiency as was provided prior to the Effective Date by or for Company, and (ii) at the level of the quantitative performance standards for required
availability, response times, or other performance standards for the Services (  Service Levels  ) set forth in  Exhibit 3  (Service Level Management). At all times Supplier s level of performance shall be at least
equal to the Service Levels and to standards satisfied by well-managed operations performing services similar to the Services.      Section 10.2
 Failure to Perform .       

(A)  
  If Supplier fails to meet a Service Level, Supplier shall immediately (1) investigate, assemble and preserve pertinent information with respect to, and report on the causes of,
the problem, including performing a root cause analysis of the problem; (2) advise Company, as and to the extent requested by Company, of the status of remedial efforts being undertaken with respect to such problem; (3) minimize the impact
of and correct the problem and begin meeting the Service Level; and (4) take appropriate preventive measures so that the problem does not recur.         

(B)  
  Supplier recognizes that its failure to meet certain Service Levels may have a material adverse impact on the business and operations of Company. In the event that Supplier fails to
meet such Service Levels for reasons other than those that are excused pursuant to  Section 10.4 , then in addition to any other remedies available to Company under this Agreement, at law or in equity, Company may elect to recover the
applicable Service Level Credit for such failure to meet such Service Level.        Section 10.3  Cooperation with Third Parties . In
order for Supplier to provide the Services in accordance with the Service Levels, Supplier may be required to coordinate its efforts with Third Party Vendors. With respect to Service Level failures caused by Third Party Vendors: (A) Supplier
shall provide a single point of contact for the management of the prompt resolution of such Service Level failures; and (B) except as set forth in  Section 10.4 , Supplier s failure to meet such Service Levels shall not be
excused and Supplier shall remain responsible for the performance of the Services in accordance with the Service Levels.      Section 10.4  Excused
Performance . To the extent Supplier demonstrates to Company s reasonable satisfaction that any Service Level Default or any failure to achieve a milestone or Deliverable deadline (e.g., Transition, Transformation or pursuant to an Order) is
directly attributable to: (A) a Force Majeure Event; (B) a breach of this Agreement by Company that prevents Supplier from meeting the applicable Service Level or milestone or Deliverable; or (C) acts or omissions of Company or a
Third Party Vendor, provided that (1) Supplier was unable to alert Company of the consequences of such acts or omissions or (2) Company disregarded any such alert by Supplier as to the consequences of such acts or omissions or fails to
take necessary corrective actions requested of Company in writing and within the control of Company, (3) Supplier complied with the requirements of the DRP, and (4) Supplier was unable to take other reasonable steps to avert such
consequences, then such Service Level shall be measured excluding the time (or other appropriate unit of measure) that the foregoing was in effect or such milestone or Deliverable deadline shall be extended in respect of the time that the foregoing
was in effect.      Section 10.5  Periodic Reviews . At least annually and as more fully described in  Exhibit 3  (Service Level
Management), Company and Supplier shall review the Service Levels and shall make adjustments to them as appropriate to reflect improved performance capabilities associated with advances in the technology and methods used to perform the Services. The
Parties expect and understand that the Service Levels shall be improved over time as further described in  Exhibit 3  (Service Level Management).      Section 10.6  Measurement and Monitoring Tools . Supplier shall, with respect to each Service Level, prior to the date that such Service Level takes effect, implement and test measurement and monitoring Tools and procedures
acceptable to Company to measure and report Supplier s performance of the Services against the applicable Service Levels. Such measurement and monitoring Tools and procedures shall permit reporting at a level of detail sufficient to verify
Supplier s compliance with the Service Levels. Supplier shall also provide Company with (i) on-line, real time access to the data used by  

Supplier to calculate its performance against the Service Levels and (ii) documentation relating to the measurement and monitoring tools and procedures
utilized by Supplier to generate such data. Given the nature of Company s multi-vendor environment, any such data may be shared by Company with Third Party Vendors, provided that such Third Party Vendors have executed appropriate non-disclosure
agreements or are otherwise bound by confidentiality obligations. The use of any such data by the Third Party Vendors shall be limited to managing the provision and delivery of services, products and resources to Company and resolving any issues or
problems relating to the provision and delivery of any such services, products or resources. Company shall not be required to pay any amount in addition to the Charges for (A) such measurement and monitoring Tools or (B) any resources
utilized in connection with such measurement and monitoring Tools.      Section 10.7  Third Party Vendor Performance Data . Supplier acknowledges and
agrees that it may receive performance data from Third Party Vendors and such performance data shall be Confidential Information of Company. Supplier further agrees that it shall use such performance data only for managing the provision and delivery
of services, products and resources and resolving any problems or issues that relate to such services, products and resources. Supplier shall not use any such performance data for any other purpose, except as otherwise agreed by Company.   
  Section 10.8  Service Level Reporting . No later than the tenth (10th) business day of each month during the Term, Supplier shall provide Company with
a monthly performance report describing Supplier s performance of the Services in the preceding month, which report shall be made available to Company in an online, electronic form (the   Monthly Service Level Report  ). The
Monthly Service Level Report shall:       

(A)  
  for each area of the Services, assess the degree to which Supplier has attained or failed to attain the Service Levels;         

(B)  
  explain any Service Level Defaults and include a plan for corrective action where appropriate;         

(C)  
  describe any Service Level Credits that have been incurred by Supplier due to any Service Level Defaults;         

(D)  
  identify any problems or issues that are being caused by the acts or omissions of any Third Party Vendors and the steps being taken to resolve any such problems or issues; and

(E)  
  include such documentation and other information as Company may reasonably request to verify compliance with the Service Levels.        Any failure by Supplier to report on Supplier s success or failure to meet any Service Level, including if such failure results from Supplier s failure to
implement, or delay in implementing, appropriate measurement and monitoring Tools pursuant to  Section 10.6 , shall be deemed to be a Service Level Default with respect to the applicable Service Level.      Section 10.9  Quarterly Reporting . No later than ten (10) days after the end of each calendar quarter during the Term, Supplier shall provide Company
with a quarterly analysis and report identifying and analyzing service trends and providing observations and suggestions for the continuous improvement of the Services.      Section 10.10  Customer Satisfaction Surveys .       

(A)  
    As set forth in  Exhibit 13  (Customer Satisfaction Surveys), Supplier shall, on a periodic basis throughout the Term, survey a representative sample of
Authorized Users to ascertain their level of satisfaction with Supplier s management and provision of the  

Services. The representative sample, survey format and questions shall be as described in  Exhibit 13  (Customer Satisfaction Surveys) and shall be
subject to Company s review and approval.          

(B)  
  Supplier shall, within thirty (30) days of the completion of the applicable customer satisfaction survey, (1) conduct a root cause analysis as to the cause of any
dissatisfaction; (2) develop an action plan to address and improve the level of satisfaction; (3) present such plan to Company for its review, comment and approval; and (4) take action in accordance with the approved plan and as
necessary to improve the level of satisfaction. Supplier s action plan developed hereunder shall set forth the specific measures to be taken by Supplier and the dates by which each such measure shall be completed. Following implementation of
such action plan, Supplier shall conduct a follow-up survey with the affected management to confirm that the cause of any dissatisfaction has been addressed and that the level of satisfaction has improved.         ARTICLE 11        PERSONNEL
      Section 11.1  Qualifications, Retention and Replacement of Supplier Personnel .       

(A)  
  Supplier shall assign an adequate number of Supplier Personnel to perform the Services. Supplier Personnel shall be properly educated, trained and fully qualified with respect to
the Systems and the Services they are to perform. Supplier acknowledges and agrees that it shall be the responsibility of Supplier to ensure that it provides adequate levels of training and education so that the Supplier Personnel remain current as
to industry and technology developments and changes in the Systems. Company shall not be required to pay any amounts in addition to the Charges to train or educate any Supplier Personnel.         

(B)  
  Supplier shall be solely responsible for compliance with immigration and visa Laws and requirements in respect of the Supplier Personnel. Supplier represents and warrants that all
non-United States citizens who are assigned by Supplier to perform the Services within the United States (1) shall hold appropriate and valid visas or other work authorizations, each of which shall be valid for a period at least equal to the
anticipated duration of such employee s assignment to Company s account, and (2) shall not be provided by Supplier with any technology or information in violation of any U.S. export Laws.         

(C)  
  In the event that Company determines in good faith that the continued assignment to Company s account of one of the Supplier Personnel is not in the best interests of Company,
then Company shall give Supplier written notice to that effect. After receipt of such notice, Supplier shall promptly remove such individual from the Company account and shall replace that person with another person of suitable ability and
qualifications.         

(D)  
    Supplier shall comply with its physical and information security and access policies and procedures. In addition to that, no Supplier Personnel shall
(1) receive access badges from Company, (2) drive Company-owned or leased vehicles, or transport Company Personnel or (3) have access to (i.e. ability to read, write or modify) Company Data or Company Confidential Information
(including electronic mail, voicemail, networks, internet access and the Company web), without Supplier first providing to Company s security department the background check certification form (  Background Check Certification
Form  ) included in  Exhibit 21  (Background Check Certification Form) for the applicable Supplier Personnel. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if Supplier Laws prohibit the performance of background checks on Supplier s
Personnel when required pursuant to this  Section 11.1(D) , Supplier shall comply with, and shall cause its Subcontractors to comply with, reasonable alternative background check requirements imposed by  

Company for such Personnel, provided that such requirements (as the same may be subsequently revised) comply with Supplier Laws. Supplier Personnel and
Subcontractors  Personnel who drive Company-owned or leased vehicles, or transport Company Personnel must meet all other obligations to do so, including proper licensure, insurance and insurability. Supplier shall perform, or shall use an
outside agency to perform, the background check and all legally required notifications to Supplier Personnel and Subcontractor Personnel set forth in the Background Check Certification Form or alternative background check requirements, as
applicable. Supplier shall return the appropriate Background Check Certification Form or alternative background check requirements, as applicable, for Supplier Personnel and Subcontractor Personnel to Company s security department, Mailstop
10-1-A, ATTN: Security Director, One Amgen Center Drive, Thousand Oaks, CA 91320-1799. Company may, by written notice to Supplier, change the recipient of such certifications.          

(1)  
  Supplier shall provide monthly reports to Company regarding Supplier s compliance with this  Section 11.1(D) .         

(2)  
  Supplier s failure or refusal to provide the requisite Background Check Certification Form which failure or refusal [  *  ].         

(3)  
  In the event at any time during the Term the [  *  ] Company may [  *  ].         

(4)  
  In the event Company suffers damages due to Supplier s failure to comply with  Section 11.1(D)(2) , without prejudice to any other rights or remedies Company may
have, Company may recover any and all of such damages from Supplier, subject to the limitations set forth in  Article 26 (Liability).         

(5)  
  Company shall immediately notify Supplier in writing upon Company becoming aware of Supplier s failure to meet the obligations of this  Section 11.1(D) ). Supplier
shall immediately notify Company in writing upon Supplier becoming aware of a failure to meet the obligations of this  Section 11.1(D) . Such notice from Supplier shall be sent to the notice recipients specified in  Section 30.3 
and the following:        Amgen Inc.      Security Department, Mailstop 10-1-A      Attn: Security Director      One Amgen Center Drive      Thousand Oaks, CA 91320-1799      Within five (5) days of Supplier becoming aware of a failure to meet the obligations of this  Section 11.1(D) , Supplier shall have completed an investigation of the events that led to the failure and shall provide Company
with a written investigation report. Such written investigation report shall include, at a minimum, a description of the obligations that were not met, the role of the personnel for which the obligations of this  Section 11.1(D)  were not
met, the access that such personnel had, and the corrective actions to be taken or taken to ensure that Supplier meets the obligations under this  Section 11.1(D) .      Section 11.2  Key Supplier Personnel .       

(A)  
    Company and Supplier may designate certain employees of Supplier as key employees (  Key Supplier Personnel  ), which Key Supplier Personnel shall be
named in  Exhibit 18  (Supplier Personnel) or the relevant Order, if known. Supplier shall cause each of the Supplier Personnel serving as Key Supplier Personnel to devote substantially full time  

Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential
treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission.   

and effort to the provision of the Services for at least twenty-four (24) months from the date that each such individual is assigned to fill a Key
Supplier Personnel position, unless (i) a different period is specified in  Exhibit 18  (Supplier Personnel) or the relevant Order, (ii) Company consents to reassignment or replacement of the Supplier Personnel filling such Key
Supplier Personnel position; or (iii) Supplier Personnel filling such Key Supplier Personnel position (a) voluntarily resigns from Supplier; (b) is dismissed by Supplier for cause; (c) fails to perform his or her duties or
responsibilities; or (d) dies or is unable to work due to his or her disability. The Supplier Personnel approved as of the Effective Date to serve as the Key Supplier Personnel are listed in  Exhibit 18  (Supplier Personnel).

(B)  
  Company may from time to time change the positions designated as Key Supplier Personnel positions under this Agreement, provided that without Supplier s consent, the number of
Key Supplier Personnel shall not exceed the number then currently specified in  Exhibit 18  (Supplier Personnel). If Company designates a new Key Supplier Personnel position pursuant to this  Section 11.2(B)  above, the
reassignment restrictions set forth in  Section 11.2(A) ,  Section 11.2(B) , and  Section 11.2(D)  shall not apply to the individuals assigned to such positions for a period of three (3) months following the date
that Company notifies Supplier of such designation, unless and to the extent Supplier agrees that such Sections shall apply.         

(C)  
  Supplier shall, in accordance with  Section 11.2(D) , designate an individual to serve as the project executive under this Agreement (the   Supplier Project
Executive  ). The Supplier Project Executive shall be one of the Key Supplier Personnel. The Supplier Project Executive shall (a) serve as the single point of accountability for Supplier for the Services; and (b) have day-to-day
authority for undertaking to ensure customer satisfaction. The Supplier Project Executive shall be located at Company s corporate headquarters or any other Company Service Location designated by Company.         

(D)  
  Before assigning an individual to a Key Supplier Personnel position, whether as an initial assignment or a subsequent assignment, Supplier shall notify Company of the proposed
assignment and provide Company with a r sum  and other information about the individual reasonably requested by Company, consistent with Supplier s applicable policies and Applicable Laws. If Company in good faith objects to the
proposed assignment, the Parties shall attempt to resolve Company s concerns to the reasonable satisfaction of Company. If the Parties have not been able to resolve Company s concerns within five (5) business days, Supplier shall
(1) not assign the individual to that position and (2) propose to Company the assignment of another individual of suitable ability and qualifications. Individuals serving as Key Supplier Personnel may not be transferred or reassigned until
a suitable replacement has been approved by Company, and no such transfer shall occur at a time or in a manner that would have a material adverse impact on delivery of the Services. In no event shall Supplier transfer or reassign more than two
(2) Key Supplier Personnel from the Company account in any six (6) month period, and in no event shall such Key Supplier Personnel include both the Supplier Project Executive and the Supplier Delivery Project Executive. Supplier shall
establish and maintain an up-to-date succession plan for all individuals serving as Key Supplier Personnel, and such succession plan shall be made available to Company for review and subject to Company s approval. Upon Company s request,
Supplier shall provide Company with a list of all the Supplier Personnel primarily assigned to the Company account.         

(E)  
    Supplier shall not assign an individual filling a Key Supplier Personnel position to the account of any Company Competitor without Company s prior written
consent (1) while such individual is assigned to Company s account, and (2) for a period of twelve (12) months following the date that such individual is removed from or ceases to provide services in connection with
Company s account. Should this  Section 11.2(E)  be declared unenforceable or invalid by a court with jurisdiction on the basis that it exceeds statutorily  

required territorial or time limits on extensions of obligation not to compete, such a declaration will render this provision invalid only as it relates to
the excess over what is allowed under Supplier Laws or Company Laws. The provision will be deemed amended to comply with statutorily required limits.      Section 11.3  Conduct of Supplier Personnel . While at Company Facilities, Supplier shall ensure that the Supplier Personnel (A) comply with the requests, standard rules and regulations of Company regarding safety and health,
personal and professional conduct (including non-discrimination and anti-harassment policies, the wearing of an identification badge or personal protective equipment and adhering to facility regulations and general safety practices or procedures,
and including any drug testing policies applicable to Company employees) generally applicable to such Company Facilities, including all obligations set forth in  Exhibit 16  (Safety and Security Requirements) and (B) otherwise conduct
themselves in a professional and businesslike manner. In the event that Company determines that any of the Supplier Personnel are not conducting themselves in accordance with this Section, Company may notify Supplier of such conduct. After receipt
of such notice, Supplier shall promptly remove such individual from Company s account and shall replace that person with another person of suitable ability and qualifications.      Section 11.4  Performance of Supplier Personnel . Supplier shall ensure that all Supplier Personnel are performing their tasks, responsibilities and functions in accordance with the terms of this Agreement
and in a productive and professional manner.      Section 11.5  Transitioned Personnel .       

(A)  
  Affected Employees        Supplier shall have offered employment
to the appropriate number of Affected Employees who are not in ARD countries in accordance with the timing specified in  Exhibit 5  (Human Resources) (including without limitation Attachment 5.A). The terms for such offers of
employment and for employment of the Affected Employees are set forth in  Exhibit 5  (Human Resources). Supplier shall treat the Transitioned Employees as its employees for all purposes, including tax reporting and employee benefits, and
Supplier shall obtain from each Transitioned Employee a signed statement in a form acceptable to Company indicating that the Transitioned Employee understands that he or she is not a Company employee and is not entitled to any Company employee
benefits, and that if it ever is determined that he or she actually was a Company employee, he or she shall disclaim all such benefits. Supplier shall supervise, pay, evaluate, discipline and set the hours of work of the Transitioned Employees,
provide the Transitioned Employees with all necessary tools, supplies, offices and equipment, and provide training to the Transitioned Employees on how to perform their services.       

(B)  
  Affected Contractors        Company shall terminate or allow to
expire the Company contractor agreements identified in  Exhibit 2  (Statement of Work) (the   Company Contractor Agreements  ) or, subject to obtaining Required Consents as set forth in  Section 12.2 , assign such
Company Contractor Agreements to Supplier. The action of termination, expiration or assignment for particular Company Contractor Agreements shall be in accordance with a plan prepared by Supplier and approved by Company. Supplier shall be
responsible for the costs, charges and fees associated with such assignment actions and Company shall be responsible for the costs, charges and fees associated with termination actions. Supplier shall use commercially reasonable efforts to continue
to use those Personnel of Affected Contractors identified in  Exhibit 19  (Affected Personnel) as  Key Company Contractor Personnel  to perform the Services for the period specified therein.         

(C)  
  Critical Affected Personnel        Supplier acknowledges that
certain of the Affected Personnel are Affected Personnel who Company believes are critical to Supplier in providing the Services (  Critical Affected Personnel  ). The Critical Affected Personnel are identified in
 Exhibit 19  (Affected Personnel). During the first [  *  ] following the Effective Date, Supplier shall use the Critical Affected Personnel to provide Services and shall not, without Company s prior written approval:
(1) terminate, except for cause, the employment of any Critical Affected Personnel who become employees of Supplier or (2) transfer or reassign any Critical Affected Personnel from performing the Services. In the event Supplier intends to
terminate for cause any Critical Affected Personnel who are Transitioned Employees during the initial [  *  ] following the Effective Date, Supplier will (A) provide timely notice to Company of such termination and (B) give due
consideration to Company s concerns with respect to the impact of terminating such Critical Affected Personnel prior to so terminating any such person. Without Company s prior written consent, Supplier and its Subcontractors shall not
assign Critical Affected Personnel to the account of any Company Competitor without Company s prior written consent (1) while such individual is assigned to Company s account, and (2) for a period of [  *  ] following
the date that such individual is removed from or ceases to provide services in connection with the Company s account.       

(D)  
  Acquired Rights Directive         

(1)  
  In accordance with its obligations under local legislation implementing ARD Laws, any relevant collective agreements and other Supplier Laws or Company Laws, respectively, the
Parties shall work together to obtain and deliver all information as is necessary so as to enable both Parties to be in compliance with ARD Laws, and any other Supplier Laws or Company Laws, respectively. It is the Parties  understanding that
ARD Laws may require that certain Affected Employees in ARD Countries receive offers of employment from Supplier (  ARD Affected Employees  ), that the time of transfer under ARD Laws be the date(s) that such ARD Affected Employees
actually transition to Supplier (  Employee Transfer Date  ), and that the contract of employment between Company and each of the ARD Affected Employees shall have effect on and from the Employee Transfer Date. Each Party shall comply
with ARD Laws (and other Applicable Laws) with respect to the ARD Affected Employees before, on and after the Effective Date. To the extent that any entitlement under a ARD Affected Employee s contract of employment or ancillary employment
rights is not automatically transferred to Supplier under ARD Laws (e.g., certain occupational pension rights in the United Kingdom), then Supplier shall nonetheless provide to the relevant ARD Affected Employee actually hired by Supplier, either on
an individual or collective basis, entitlement to rights that are equivalent and no less favorable than the existing Company position, except for entitlement to pension rights.         

(2)  
  Supplier may not transfer the employment of the Transitioned Employees to any Third Party who is not performing any of the Services and shall during the Term remain the employer of
the Transitioned Employees except only to the extent: (1) that ARD Laws shall apply to transfer the employment of any Transitioned Employees to any Third Party or subcontractor which, subject to the terms of this Agreement, Supplier engages to
perform any of the Services; or (2) that Supplier shall terminate the employment of any Transitioned Employees for misconduct, non-performance, or economic reasons.         

(3)  
    For the avoidance of doubt, Supplier shall be obligated to make offers to and hire only such Affected Employees required by ARD Laws to receive such transfer

Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential
treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission.   

offers. If ARD Laws do not operate to mandate the transfer to Supplier of any Affected Employee who is working in an ARD Country, Supplier may nonetheless
make to such Affected Employees an offer of employment at Supplier s sole discretion, provided, however, that such offer shall remain open for a period of twenty-eight (28) days.         Section 11.6  Staffing Issues . Company and Supplier agree that it is in their best interests to keep the attrition rate of Supplier Personnel to a reasonably
low level. If Company believes that Supplier s attrition rate may be excessive and so notifies Supplier, Supplier shall provide data concerning its attrition rate and meet with Company to discuss the reasons for, and impact of, the attrition
rate. In any event, Supplier shall use commercially reasonable efforts to keep the attrition rate to a reasonably low level. Notwithstanding transfer, attrition or other turnover of Supplier Personnel, Supplier remains obligated to perform the
Services without degradation (in accordance with the Service Levels) and in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. Without limiting the foregoing, Supplier shall promptly give written notice to Company (a  Staffing Notice ) upon the
occurrence of either of the following: [  *  ]     No later than ten (10) days after the time Supplier is required to provide Company with a Staffing Notice, Supplier shall develop and submit to Company for Company s
approval an action plan (a  Staffing Action Plan ) pursuant to which Supplier shall retain a sufficient number of new employees, or otherwise assign employees from other divisions or Affiliates of Supplier, to perform Services for the
Project to cause the Services to be completed in a timely manner and consistent with the requirements of this Agreement (taking into account the then-current scope and volumes of the Services, and productivity and technology improvements in the
delivery of the Services). Upon Company s approval of a Staffing Action Plan, Supplier shall promptly and diligently implement such Company-approved Staffing Action Plan. Upon Company s request and otherwise on a monthly basis after
Company s approval of a Staffing Action Plan, Supplier shall provide Company with a written report describing any changes in Supplier s staffing of an Order and any other facts and circumstances which may impact Supplier s ability to
provide adequate staffing to timely perform the Services in a manner consistent with the requirements of this Agreement.       ARTICLE 12  
      THIRD PARTY CONTRACTS       Section 12.1  General . Supplier shall structure its arrangements with Third Party Vendors of services (e.g., maintenance agreements) that shall be primarily dedicated to the performance of the Services so that the relevant
contracts may be assigned to Company upon the termination, in whole or in applicable part, or expiration of this Agreement and so that the ongoing fees under those arrangements payable by Company after such assignment are consistent with and no
higher than the fees payable by Supplier prior to such assignment. If Supplier is not able to accomplish the foregoing after using commercially reasonable efforts, Supplier shall notify Company and discuss with Company the consequences (including
any impact on the Services and Service Levels) of Supplier not being able to use the services from the provider who shall not allow the assignment sought by Company. If, following that discussion, Company directs Supplier to not use such services,
and Supplier is not able to find a suitable work-around, Supplier shall be relieved of its obligations under this Agreement to the extent its ability to perform is adversely impacted by the inability to use such third-party services.      Section 12.2  Assigned Contracts . Effective as of the Effective Date and subject to Supplier having obtained any applicable Required Consents, Company shall
assign to Supplier, and Supplier shall assume from Company, the Assigned Contracts. Supplier shall pay directly, or reimburse Company if Company has paid, the charges and other amounts under the Assigned Contracts, where such charges are
attributable to the periods on or after the Effective Date. Supplier shall comply with the duties imposed on Company under such contracts.         

    Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential
treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission.   

Section 12.3  Managed Contracts .       

(A)  
  General        Effective as of the Effective Date and subject to
Supplier and Company having obtained any applicable Required Consents, Supplier shall manage, administer and maintain the Managed Contracts. Supplier shall provide Company with no less than ninety (90) days notice of any renewal, termination or
cancellation dates and fees with respect to the Managed Contracts. Supplier shall not renew, modify, terminate or cancel, or request or grant any consents or waivers under any Managed Contracts without the consent of Company. Any fees or charges or
other liabilities or obligations imposed upon Company in connection with any such renewal, modification, termination or cancellation of, or consent or waiver under, the Managed Contracts that is obtained or given without Company s consent shall
be paid or discharged, as applicable, by Supplier.       

(B)  
  Managed Contract Invoices        Supplier shall (1) receive
all Managed Contract invoices, (2) review and correct any errors in any such Managed Contract invoice in a timely manner, and (3) submit such Managed Contract invoices to Company within a reasonable period of time prior to the due date or
the date on which Company may pay such Managed Contract invoice with a discount. Company shall be responsible for payment of Managed Contract invoices received and approved by Supplier. Company shall only be responsible for payment of Managed
Contract invoices and shall not be responsible to Supplier for any management, administration or maintenance fees of Supplier in connection with the Managed Contract invoices beyond those included in the Base Charges. Company shall be responsible
for any late fees in respect of the Managed Contract invoices, provided that Supplier submitted the applicable Managed Contract invoices for payment within a reasonable period of time prior to the date any such Managed Contract is due, but in no
event later than twenty (20) days prior to the date upon which payment is due (provided that Supplier receives such invoice at least thirty (30) days prior to the date upon which payment is due). If Supplier fails to submit a Managed
Contract invoice to Company for payment in accordance with the preceding sentence, Supplier shall be responsible for any discount not received or any late fees in respect of such Managed Contract invoice not to exceed the amount of the applicable
discount or late fee that would have applied if Company had paid such Managed Contract invoice a number of business days after the applicable payment due date that is equal to the actual number of business days that Supplier was late in submitting
the Managed Contract invoice to Company for payment.       

(C)  
  Performance Under Managed Contracts        Supplier shall
promptly notify Company of any breach of, or misuse or fraud in connection with, any Managed Contracts of which Supplier becomes aware or receives written notification, and shall cooperate with Company to prevent or stay any such breach, misuse or
fraud. Supplier shall pay all amounts due for any penalties or charges (including amounts due to a Third Party as a result of Supplier s failure to promptly notify Company pursuant to the preceding sentence), associated taxes, legal expenses
and other incidental expenses incurred by Company as a result of Supplier s non-performance of its obligation under this Agreement with respect to the Managed Contracts.       ARTICLE 13        EQUIPMENT AND CONNECTIVITY       Section 13.1  Company Provided Equipment . Company shall retain the Company Provided Equipment and provide Supplier with access to such Company Provided
Equipment on an  as is, where is  basis for  

use by Supplier in delivering the Services. Company s and Supplier s respective responsibilities with respect to the upgrade, replacement and
refresh of Company Provided Equipment may vary by Equipment type and shall be as set forth in  Exhibit 4  (Pricing). Company shall be responsible for procuring any upgrades with respect to such Company Provided Equipment. Unless otherwise
set forth in  Exhibit 2  (Statement of Work) or  Exhibit 4  (Pricing), Supplier shall manage and maintain all of the Company Provided Equipment in accordance with the maintenance schedules recommended by the applicable Equipment
manufacturer.      Section 13.2  Supplier Equipment . Supplier shall be responsible for providing any Equipment other than the Company Provided
Equipment that is necessary to provide the Services (collectively, the   Supplier Equipment  ). Supplier shall install, operate, manage and maintain all of the Supplier Equipment as required to provide the Services in accordance with
the Service Levels. Notwithstanding the location of Supplier Equipment at a Company Service Location, all right, title and interest in and to any such Supplier Equipment shall be and remain in Supplier, and Company shall not have any title or
ownership interest in the Supplier Equipment.      Section 13.3  New Equipment . Supplier shall acquire new Equipment in addition to existing
Supplier Equipment and Company Provided Equipment that is (A) necessary or appropriate to provide the Services in accordance with the Service Levels and (B) in the case of upgrading or replacing Company Provided Equipment, in accordance
with the provisions of  Section 13.4 . Unless otherwise set forth in  Exhibit 4  (Pricing), such new Equipment shall be purchased or leased in the name of Supplier, except for purchases or leases of upgrades for Company Provided
Equipment, which shall be purchased or leased in the name of Company.      Section 13.4  Technology Refresh .  Exhibit 2  (Statement of
Work),  Exhibit 4  (Pricing), and  Exhibit 8  (Technical Architecture and Product Standards) set forth the strategy and schedule pursuant to which particular items or types of Equipment and Software shall be replaced or upgraded
during the Term (the   Refresh Schedule  ). With respect to each item of Equipment and Software, Supplier shall procure and install the required upgrade or replacement in accordance with the Technology Refresh Plan, but no later than
the date upon which the applicable item of Equipment or Software has been in service for the period of time set forth on the Refresh Schedule. Company shall direct Supplier, in accordance with the Change Control Procedure, as to any changes to the
strategy or schedule pursuant to which particular items or types of Equipment and Software shall be replaced or upgraded during any Renewal Term.      Section 13.5  Procurement Responsibilities . With respect to Equipment procured by Supplier pursuant to the provisions of this Article 13, Supplier s responsibilities shall include: (A) evaluating the Equipment and the
qualifications of the Equipment vendor; (B) negotiating commercially reasonable pricing and terms; (C) ordering, receiving, configuring, installing, testing, maintaining and distributing all new Equipment; (D) performing tracking and
asset management for all such Equipment; and (E) tracking license counts, informing Company of any discrepancies with applicable license count restrictions, and assisting Company in restoring compliance with applicable license count
restrictions. With respect to any new Equipment leased by Supplier that may be assumed by Company upon termination of this Agreement, (i) Supplier shall structure its leasing arrangements so that the applicable leases may be assigned to Company
upon the termination or expiration of this Agreement and so that any ongoing payments under those leases payable by Company after such assignment are consistent with, and no higher than, the payments payable by Supplier prior to such assignment, and
(ii) such leases shall be subject to prior review and approval by Company.      Section 13.6  Equipment Disposal . Unless otherwise set forth in
 Exhibit 4  (Pricing), Supplier shall be responsible for the disposal of Supplier Equipment and Company Provided Equipment that are no longer required by Supplier for the provision of the Services. Supplier shall dispose of all such
Equipment in a manner consistent with the requirements of Law and Company s IT and information security and privacy standards, including those set forth in this Agreement, and including any Company Policies applicable to the destruction of
stored information and charitable donations (in the case of Company Provided Equipment). Supplier shall be responsible for all costs, charges or fees associated with the disposal of Supplier Equipment and Company Provided Equipment.         

Section 13.7  Supplier Data Connections . Supplier shall provide data connections among the Supplier Service
Locations and between Company-designated points of access to the Company data network and secure firewalls to be provided by Supplier and located at Supplier Service Locations (the   Supplier Data Connections  ), all as necessary to
provide the Services in accordance with the Service Levels. Supplier shall use the Supplier Data Connections to and between the Company data network only for the purpose of delivering the Services. Supplier shall be responsible for procuring any
upgrades and replacements with respect to the Supplier Data Connections as necessary to provide the Services in accordance with the Service Levels. Supplier shall be responsible for managing and maintaining (A) the Supplier Data Connections,
(B) the firewalls at its end of the Supplier Data Connections and (C) all of Supplier s networks and Equipment beyond such firewall Equipment.      Section 13.8  Data Connection Security . Supplier shall ensure that all Supplier Data Connections conform to the data and network security requirements contained in  Exhibit 16  (Safety and Security Requirements).
     Section 13.9  Equipment and Software Verification . Within thirty (30) days after the Effective Date, Supplier shall verify that all
Software and Equipment that shall be used by Supplier to provide the Services, and all Supplier Data Connections, operate in accordance with their specifications and intended functions in a reliable manner. In the event that during verification
Supplier finds any nonconformities, Supplier shall provide to Company by the end of such 30-day period an action plan to eliminate such nonconformities within ninety (90) days after the Effective Date. Prior to using any other software or
equipment to provide the Services or creating new connections with Company systems and networks, Supplier shall verify that such software, equipment and connection operates in accordance with applicable specifications and intended functions in a
reliable manner. Prior to testing any such software, equipment and connections, Supplier shall document the testing protocols to be used and submit such testing protocols to Company to obtain written approval thereof.       ARTICLE 14        SOFTWARE AND
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS       Section 14.1  Company Software . As between Company and Supplier, and except as expressly set forth in this
Section, all right, title and interest in and to the Company Software shall remain the exclusive property of Company. Company hereby grants to Supplier (to the extent permitted under and subject to the restrictions set forth in applicable
third-party agreements) a non-exclusive, non-transferable, limited right to access and use, solely for the purposes of providing the Services, the Company Software; provided that the rights granted to Supplier hereunder shall automatically expire
effective as of the date upon which Supplier ceases, for any reason, to provide the Services.      Section 14.2  Supplier Software .       

(A)  
  General        As of the Effective Date, Supplier shall be
responsible in all respects for the Supplier Software. Supplier shall install, operate and maintain at its expense any Supplier Software needed to provide the Services. Before using any Supplier Software on Company s production or development
systems infrastructure or any Company Equipment, Supplier shall notify Company of its intent to use such Supplier Software and obtain Company s advance, written approval of such use. Upon Company s request, Supplier shall provide Company
with a list of all Supplier Software being used in connection with the Services on Company s production or development systems infrastructure or any Company Equipment as of the date of such request. In addition to the foregoing Supplier shall
notify Company in the event that it shall install, operate or maintain any Software within Supplier s systems that could have a material impact on the Services.         

(B)  
  Supplier Proprietary Software        All right, title and
interest in and to the Supplier Proprietary Software shall remain the exclusive property of Supplier, except as expressly set forth in this Section. Any modifications or enhancements owned by Supplier that are made to Supplier Proprietary Software
in the course of the Services shall be deemed Supplier Proprietary Software. To the extent necessary to receive the Services, Supplier hereby grants to Company a non-exclusive, royalty free license to Use (and to allow third parties to Use solely
for the benefit of Company) the Supplier Proprietary Software.       

(C)  
  Supplier Third Party Software         

(1)  
  Rights of Use During Term        As between Supplier and
Company, and except as expressly set forth in this  Section 14.2(C)(1) , all right, title and interest in and to the Supplier Third Party Software shall remain the exclusive property of Supplier. To the extent necessary to receive the
Services, Supplier hereby grants to Company (to the extent permitted under and subject to the restrictions set forth in applicable third-party agreements) a non-exclusive, non-transferable, limited right to Use (and to allow third parties to Use
solely for the benefit of Company) during the Term the Supplier Third Party Software.       

(2)  
  Post-Termination and Expiration Rights        Effective as of
the date upon which Supplier ceases, for any reason, to provide the Services to Company, and to the extent necessary to continue to receive services similar to the Services, Supplier shall either (i) assign the license for such Supplier Third
Party Software to Company upon Company s payment to Supplier in an amount equal to the remaining unamortized initial license or purchase charges for such Supplier Third Party Software, if any, and subject to the terms and conditions of the
license for such Supplier Third Party Software, or (ii) if Supplier is unable to assign the license for any such Supplier Third Party Software, provide reasonable assistance to Company for Company to obtain a license for such Supplier Third
Party Software; provided that, in the case of Supplier Third Party Software assigned pursuant to clause (i), Company shall be solely responsible for the procurement of post-expiration or post-termination support and maintenance services with respect
to such Supplier Third Party Software. To the extent that third-party restrictions prevent Company from obtaining such a license, Supplier shall recommend, and subject to the written consent of Company, obtain functionally-equivalent alternative
Software or Tools; provided that Company shall be solely responsible for the procurement of post-expiration or post-termination support and maintenance services with respect to such functionally-equivalent Software or Tools.      Section 14.3  Software Deliverables .       

(A)  
  Incorporated Supplier Software        To the extent any Supplier
Software is incorporated into a Software Deliverable, Supplier grants to Company a non-exclusive, perpetual, irrevocable, worldwide, fully paid up, royalty-free license to Use (and to allow third parties to Use solely for the benefit of Company)
such Supplier Software in its incorporated form and solely to the extent necessary to use the Software Deliverable.         

(B)  
  Software Deliverables        Company shall own all worldwide
right, title and interest in all Core Software Deliverables, including all Intellectual Property rights therein. Company shall own all worldwide right, title and interest in copyrights in Non-Core Software Deliverables. To the extent that applicable
rights in any Software Deliverables are not deemed owned by Company by operation of law, Supplier hereby irrevocably assigns, and shall cause Supplier Personnel to assign, to Company without further consideration, all right, title and interest in
all (i) Intellectual Property rights in Core Software Deliverables, and (ii) all copyrights in Non-Core Software Deliverables. Supplier shall execute any documents and take any other actions as may reasonably be necessary, or as Company
may reasonably request, to perfect Company s ownership of rights in Software Deliverables and applicable Intellectual Property rights herein. At any time, Company may request and Supplier shall promptly provide Company with copies on industry
standard media of all executable code, object code, source code and documentation for any and all Software Deliverables, whether completed or works-in-progress. Supplier hereby grants to Company a global, fully paid-up, perpetual, irrevocable,
nonexclusive license under all Intellectual Property rights owned by Supplier, whether now existing or hereinafter developed, to Use and modify the Non-Core Software Deliverables in connection with the business of Company.      Section 14.4  Non-Software Deliverables . Non-Software Deliverables shall be owned by (i) Supplier in the case of Non-Software Deliverables that are
customarily prepared by a Supplier that is providing services similar to the Services with the expectation that such Non-Software Deliverables or derivative works thereof will be used at multiple customers and provided that such Non-Software
Deliverable shall not contain any Company Confidential Information (  Supplier Non-Software Deliverables  ), and (ii) Company in the case of all other Non-Software Deliverables including the Policies and Procedures Manual
(collectively,   Company Non-Software Deliverables  ). Company shall own all right, title and interest in all Company Non-Software Deliverables, including all Intellectual Property rights therein. To the extent that any Company
Non-Software Deliverables are not deemed owned by Company by operation of Law, Supplier hereby irrevocably assigns, and shall cause Supplier Personnel to assign, to Company without further consideration all right, title and interest in such Company
Non-Software Deliverables, including all Intellectual Property rights therein. Supplier shall execute, and shall cause Supplier Personnel to execute, any documents or take any other actions as may reasonably be necessary, or as Company may
reasonably request, to perfect Company s ownership of Non-Software Deliverables. Company hereby grants to Supplier, solely to provide the Services, a non-exclusive, non-transferable, limited right to have access to and Use, modify, maintain,
enhance and create derivative works of Company Non-Software Deliverables. Supplier may sublicense to Subcontractors that are to provide any of the Services the right to have access to and Use, modify, maintain, enhance and create derivative works of
Non-Software Deliverables solely to provide those Services that Supplier and Subcontractors are responsible for providing and as may otherwise be agreed to by the Parties. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this  Section 14.4 , as
between Supplier and Company, all of Pre-Existing Rights of Supplier shall remain owned by Supplier and Supplier hereby grants to Company a non-exclusive limited license thereunder to use and exploit the Non-Software Deliverables as permitted
hereunder.      Section 14.5  License to Supplier Non-Software Deliverables . Supplier hereby grants to Company a global, fully paid-up, perpetual,
irrevocable, nonexclusive license to (a) Use the Supplier Non-Software Deliverables to receive the benefit of the Services during the Term and (b) Use, modify, maintain, enhance and create derivative works (and to engage third parties to
do the foregoing on behalf of Company) of such Supplier Non-Software Deliverables for use in providing services that are similar to the Services to Company and Company Service Recipients after the Term. Company may sublicense any of the foregoing
rights to third parties for their use in providing services to Company that are similar to the Services.         

Section 14.6  Residual Knowledge . Supplier will be free to use  Residuals  resulting from access to
or work with Confidential Information of Company, and Company will be free to use  Residuals  resulting from access to or work with Confidential Information of Supplier, provided: (i) in no case will the Supplier disclose Company Data
or the source of Residuals; and (ii) this section does not grant either Party a license under the other Party s copyrights or patents. The term  Residuals  means information in intangible form (e.g., ideas, concepts, know-how,
techniques, etc.), which is unintentionally retained in the unaided memory by persons who had rightful access to Confidential Information or Supplier s Information, as the case may be.      Section 14.7  Export .       

(A)  
  The Parties acknowledge that certain Systems, Deliverables and associated technical data to be provided under this Agreement and certain transactions under this Agreement may be
subject to export controls under the Laws of the United States and other countries. Neither Party shall export or re-export any such items or any direct product thereof or undertake any transaction in violation of any such Laws. To the extent within
Supplier s control, Supplier shall be responsible for, and shall coordinate and oversee, compliance with such export Laws in respect of the System, Deliverables or other items provided by Supplier under this Agreement. In the event Supplier
determines that it needs to export, with Company approval, any material supplied by Company, then upon request of Supplier, Company shall provide all information in its possession that is necessary to determine the ECCN or equivalent classification
and reasonably to assist Supplier with making any required filings and obtaining necessary export authorizations.         

(B)  
  If, in the course of performing the Services, Supplier requires, with Company approval, a change in the use, export, release, or transfer of a material supplied by Company not
otherwise specified in or contemplated by this Agreement, then upon request by Supplier Company shall provide all information in its possession that is necessary to determine export authorizations and licenses, including the ECCN and subheadings or
munitions list category number (if known to Company), and reasonably to assist Supplier with making any required filings and obtaining necessary export authorizations. Company is responsible for ensuring that any information knowingly provided to
Supplier for submission to such agencies with respect to such material supplied by Company is accurate.         ARTICLE 15  
      FACILITIES       Section 15.1
 Service Locations . The Services shall be provided (A) to the Company Service Locations and (B) from the Supplier Service Locations and Company Facilities. The provision of the Services from any other location must be approved by
Company, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, in accordance with the Change Control Procedure. Any incremental expenses incurred by Company or Supplier as a result of a relocation to, or use of, any other location at the request of
Company shall be paid by Company or reimbursed to Supplier by Company. Any incremental expenses incurred by Company or Supplier as a result of a relocation to, or use of, any other location at the request of Supplier shall be paid by Supplier or
reimbursed to Company by Supplier.      Section 15.2  Offshore Resources . Prior to providing any component of the Services from a location not
located in the country to which such Services are being provided (each, an   Offshore Location  ), except where otherwise previously approved in writing by Company, Supplier shall obtain Company s written approval, such approval
not to be unreasonably withheld. Before providing any Services from an Offshore Location not set forth in this Agreement or otherwise previously approved in writing by Company, Supplier shall provide Company with (1) at least ninety
(90) days  prior written notice specifying the components of the Services affected, the city and country from where the Services shall be provided, (2) a description of the facility (including the address) from where the Services
shall be provided, (3) a description of how Company Data and intellectual property shall be protected, including a description of  

the logical and physical data safeguards that Supplier shall use to protect the Company Data, (4) a report that fully examines and evaluates the impact
of such relocation on the delivery and receipt of the Services, including any operational, technical, security and regulatory impacts, (5) a copy of the transition plan that details how and when the relocation to the new Offshore Location shall
occur, and (6) any other information requested by Company relating to the offshoring of such Services. All Supplier subcontracts involving Offshore Locations shall be subject to  Section 17.7(A)(1) .      Section 15.3  Safety and Security Requirements .       

(A)  
  Safety and Security Procedures        Supplier shall maintain
and enforce at the Supplier Service Locations (and any Company Facilities under Supplier s control) safety and security procedures including: (1) the procedures applicable to Supplier Service Locations that shall be at least equal to
industry standards for locations similar to the Supplier Service Locations; (2) the procedures applicable to the Company Facilities, including as such may be updated by Company from time to time during the Term, provided that, subject to the
Change Control Procedure, Company shall be responsible for any additional costs incurred by Supplier in complying with the updated procedures; and (3) the procedures set forth in  Exhibit 16  (Safety   Security Requirements);
and (4) any higher standard otherwise agreed upon by the Parties. Supplier shall comply with the safety and security procedures that are applicable to the Company Service Locations, including the safety and security procedures set forth in
 Exhibit 16  (Safety   Security Requirements), as well as the business practices, hours, working conditions, and Company Policies related to the Company Facilities and Supplier s performance under this Agreement. Supplier
shall be responsible to inquire, inspect and acquaint itself with all conditions as required to perform the Services at Company Facilities. In the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, Supplier shall at all times: (a) ensure the
presence of competent supervisory Personnel, when appropriate; (b) keep the Company Facilities clean and safe, including keeping the at Company Facilities free from debris and hazards; (c) be responsible for the safe and orderly
performance of such obligations in accordance with all Applicable Laws; and (d) upon completion of such performance, remove all of Supplier Equipment and unused material from Company Facilities, thoroughly clean up all refuse and debris, and
leave the at Company Facilities neat, orderly and in good condition.       

(B)  
  Access to Company Service Locations        Any Supplier
Personnel who require access to Company Service Locations may be required to complete forms relevant to security and confidentiality, and shall adhere to all security requirements of Company s security manager. Such Supplier Personnel may also
have restricted access to Company Service Locations for business purposes only from 8:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. Monday through Friday, unless otherwise pre-approved by Company. Supplier shall (and shall cause Supplier Personnel to) return all badges to
Company s Security Department promptly upon the completion of such individuals  assignment at Company Service Locations or their resignation or termination.       

(C)  
  Physical Security Requirements        The physical portion of
the Supplier Service Locations that shall be used by Supplier to provide the Services shall be physically segregated from the remainder of such facilities. Access to facilities used by Supplier to provide the Services, including applicable portions
of the Supplier Service Locations, shall be controlled by swipe card access or other security controls that are at least consistent with industry best practices. Access to such facilities shall be restricted to Supplier Personnel (and other Supplier
employees and contractors or third parties shall not be permitted to access such facilities). Supplier shall not provide any Services to Company from a site or facility of any Company Competitor  

without Company s prior written consent. If Supplier is to provide Company with Services from a Supplier Service Location that has a shared storage
environment or that is otherwise shared with a Company Competitor, Supplier shall develop a process, subject to Company s approval, to restrict access in any such shared storage environment so that such Company Competitor, and any other Third
Party, shall have no access to Confidential Information of Company.      Section 15.4  Right of Access to the Company IT Environment . Subject to the
terms and conditions of this Agreement, including the security requirements of  Section 15.1  and  Article 21 , and the security procedures set forth in  Exhibit 16  (Safety and Security Requirements), Supplier shall have
the right to access the Company IT environment to the limited extent necessary to perform the Services.      Section 15.5  Company Obligations With
Respect to Facilities .       

(A)  
  Company shall provide to Supplier during the Term, for Supplier s use in providing the Services, the space, Equipment, furnishings and fixtures as specified in
 Exhibit 7  (Sites), or comparable facilities designated by Company (collectively, the   Company Facilities  ). The Company Facilities shall include, for Supplier Personnel working at Company Service Locations, the provision
of phone and network resources and office services support (e.g., copy and fax) at the same levels offered to Company employees in such location. Supplier shall be responsible for providing all other facilities and support it needs to provide the
Services. Company shall retain the costs of applicable facilities leases and related leasehold improvements with respect to the Company Facilities. The Company Facilities shall be made available to Supplier on an  as is, where is  basis,
with no warranties whatsoever. If any Supplier Personnel require access to any Company Facilities outside of normal working hours (or otherwise outside the access permitted under this Agreement), Supplier shall request permission for such access
from Company.         

(B)  
  Company shall inform Supplier of any plans or determination to relocate Company Service Locations and Company Facilities so that Supplier shall have a reasonable amount of time to
prepare for and implement such change or relocation as it impacts Supplier, with Company reimbursing Supplier for Supplier s Out-of-Pocket Expenses incurred in such relocation.        Section 15.6  Supplier Obligations With Respect to Facilities .       

(A)  
  Supplier shall use the Company Facilities for the sole and exclusive purpose of providing the Services, subject to Company s approval in its discretion of another use. Company
grants Supplier a license for all such approved use of the Company Facilities. The use of Company Facilities by Supplier does not constitute a leasehold or other property interest in favor of Supplier.         

(B)  
  Supplier shall use the Company Facilities in an efficient manner and in a manner that is coordinated, and does not interfere, with Company s IT or business operations. To the
extent that Supplier operates the space in a manner that unnecessarily increases facility or other costs incurred by Company, Company reserves the right to deduct such excess costs pursuant to  Section 20.7 . Supplier shall be responsible
for any damage to the Company Facilities resulting from the abuse, misuse, neglect or negligence of Supplier or other failure to comply with its obligations respecting the Company Facilities.         

(C)  
  Supplier shall keep the Company Facilities in good order, not commit or permit waste or damage to Company Facilities or use Company Facilities for any unlawful purpose or act, and
shall comply with Company s standard policies and procedures and applicable leases as these are made available to Supplier regarding access to and use of the Company Facilities, including procedures for the physical security of the Company
Facilities.           

(D)  
  Supplier shall permit Company Personnel and representatives to enter into those portions of the Company Facilities occupied by Supplier Personnel at any time.

(E)  
  Supplier shall not make improvements or changes involving structural, mechanical or electrical alterations to the Company Facilities without Company s prior written approval.
Any improvements to the Company Facilities shall become the property of Company.         

(F)  
  When the Company Facilities are no longer required for performance of the Services, Supplier shall return them to Company in substantially the same condition as when Supplier began
use of them, subject to reasonable wear and tear.         ARTICLE 16        COMPANY RESPONSIBILITIES       Section 16.1  Responsibilities . In addition to
Company s responsibilities as expressly set forth elsewhere in this Agreement, Company shall be responsible for the following:       

(A)  
  Company shall designate one individual to whom Supplier operational communications concerning this Agreement may be addressed (the   Company Contract Executive  ).

(B)  
  Company shall cooperate with Supplier, including by making available management decisions, information, approvals and acceptances, as reasonably requested by Supplier so that
Supplier may accomplish its obligations and responsibilities under this Agreement. The Company Contract Executive or his designee shall be the principal point of contact for obtaining such decisions, information and approvals.
       Section 16.2  Savings Clause . Company s failure to perform its responsibilities set forth in this Agreement (other than as
provided in Section 29.1(B).) shall not be deemed to be grounds for termination by Supplier. Supplier s nonperformance of its obligations under this Agreement shall be excused if and to the extent (A) such Supplier nonperformance results
from Company s acts, omissions or failure to perform any responsibilities of Company that are set forth in this Agreement; and (B) Supplier provides Company with reasonable notice of such acts, omissions or nonperformance and uses
commercially reasonable efforts to perform notwithstanding Company s acts, omissions or failure to perform (with Company reimbursing Supplier for its additional Out-of-Pocket Expenses incurred in connection with such efforts).       ARTICLE 17        MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL
      Section 17.1  Governance Organizations .       

(A)  
  Steering Committee        Within thirty (30) days of the
Effective Date, the Company Contract Executive and the Supplier Project Executive shall appoint an equal number of representatives to serve on a steering committee (the   Steering Committee  ). Company shall designate one of its
representatives on the Steering Committee to act as the chairperson. The Steering Committee shall be authorized and responsible for (1) advising with respect to Company s strategic and tactical decisions regarding the establishment,
budgeting and implementation of Company s priorities and plans for the Services, and (2) monitoring and resolving disagreements regarding the provision of the Services and the Service Levels. A Party may change any of its representatives
on the Steering Committee upon notice to the other Party. Subject to approval of Company, the Steering Committee may include representatives from Third Party Vendors.         

(B)  
  Other Governance Bodies        In addition to the Steering
Committee, Company and Supplier shall establish the governance organizations (e.g., committees and positions) as set forth in  Exhibit 6  (Governance) in accordance with the time frames set forth in  Exhibit 6  (Governance).

(C)  
  Governance Procedures and Processes        In addition to the
processes and procedures specifically identified in this Agreement, Company and Supplier shall establish the governance processes and procedures described in  Exhibit 6  (Governance) in accordance with the time frames set forth in
 Exhibit 6  (Governance).       

(D)  
  Technology Planning        Supplier shall participate, at
Company s request, in Company s annual financial, operational and technology planning process, as further set forth in  Exhibit 8  (Technical Architecture and Product Standards). Such technology planning process shall include
(1) the identification of the least cost/highest benefit methods to implement technology changes and improvements in architecture, platforms, processes and methodologies, and (2) the creation of a comprehensive, integrated, technology
refresh and total lifecycle management plan for each Tower, platform, Software type, Equipment type and technology, on each of a one-year, three-year and five-year planning horizon (  Technology Refresh Plan  ), which plan shall meet
the minimum requirements specified in  Exhibit 8  (Technical Architecture and Product Standards). In addition, such plan shall address any technology requirements associated with any expansion of or changes in Company Service Locations
and/or facility requirements of Company.      Section 17.2  Reports, Meetings and Site Visits .       

(A)  
  Reports        In addition to the Monthly Service Level Report,
Supplier shall provide the reports described in  Exhibit 12  (Reports). Such reports shall (1) be no less comprehensive than the reporting provided to Company prior to the Effective Date and (2) be issued at the frequency
specified in the applicable Exhibit.       

(B)  
  Meetings        Supplier shall participate in the meetings
described in  Exhibit 6  (Governance) and any other meetings requested by Company in connection with this Agreement. Supplier shall prepare and circulate an agenda sufficiently in advance of each such meeting to give participants an
opportunity to prepare for the meeting. Supplier shall incorporate into such agenda items that Company desires to discuss. At Company s request, Supplier shall prepare and circulate minutes promptly after a meeting.       

(C)  
  Site Visits        In addition to Company s rights under
 Article 18 , Company may at any time during the Term, at Company s expense and upon reasonable notice to Supplier, visit Supplier Service Locations, and Supplier shall make available specialists, as reasonably requested or designated by
Company, to discuss the Services and to provide requested information, as needed.         

Section 17.3  Policies and Procedures Manual .       

(A)  
  Supplier shall be responsible for developing and maintaining a policies and procedures manual (the   Policies and Procedures Manual  ) that describes how Supplier
shall perform and deliver the Services under this Agreement, the Equipment and Software being used, and the documentation (e.g., operations manuals, user guides, specifications) which provide further details of such activities. The Policies and
Procedures Manual shall describe the activities Supplier proposes to undertake in order to provide the Services, including the direction, supervision, monitoring, staffing, reporting, planning and oversight activities normally undertaken to provide
services of the type Supplier is to provide under this Agreement. The Policies and Procedures Manual also shall include descriptions of the acceptance testing and quality assurance procedures approved by Company, Supplier s problem management
and escalation procedures, and the other standards and procedures of Supplier pertinent to Company s interaction with Supplier in obtaining the Services. The Policies and Procedures Manual shall be suitable for use by Company to understand the
Services.         

(B)  
  In accordance with the Transition Plan, Supplier shall deliver an initial draft Policies and Procedures Manual to Company for Company s review, comment and approval. Company
shall provide its approval or comments and suggestions in accordance with the timeframes set forth in the Transition Plan. Within thirty (30) days of receiving Company s comments or suggestions, Supplier shall incorporate such comments or
suggestions and re-submit the Policies and Procedures Manual for Company s approval. Throughout the Term, Supplier shall be responsible for updating the Policies and Procedures Manual to ensure that it remains current and reflects any changes
to the Services, Company s IT environment, operations and business processes, and any changes or updates to the Policies and Procedures Manual shall be provided to Company for review, comment and approval.         

(C)  
  Supplier shall perform the Services in accordance with the Policies and Procedures Manual; provided, however, that until such time as the Policies and Procedures Manual is approved
by Company pursuant to  Section 17.3(B) , Supplier shall provide the Services in accordance with the policies and procedures being followed by Company immediately prior to the Effective Date.         

(D)  
  In the event of a conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and the Policies and Procedures Manual, the provisions of this Agreement shall control.     
  Section 17.4  Change Control Procedure . As part of the Policies and Procedures Manual, Supplier shall prepare and provide to Company a change control
procedure (the   Change Control Procedure  ) detailing how Supplier shall comply with, manage and implement: (A) the requirements set forth in  Section 17.5  with respect to change control, (B) the requirements set
forth in  Section 17.6  and  Exhibit 2  (Statement of Work) with respect to change management, (C) the requirements set forth in  Exhibit 6  (Governance), and (D) any other requirements under this Agreement
(or pursuant to Applicable Laws) dealing with changes to Systems or the Services. The Change Control Procedure shall not be used to amend the terms of this Agreement. The Change Control Procedure shall be provided to Company for review, comment and
approval (reasonable comments or suggestions of Company shall be incorporated into the Change Control Procedure). All changes to the Services shall be made in accordance with the Change Control Procedure.         

Section 17.5  Change Control . Company may from time to time during the Term request that Supplier remove or
change a Service or perform a new service (a   New Service  ) (each, a   Change Request  ). Change Requests shall be addressed and implemented in accordance with the provisions of this Article, the Change Control
Procedure and, where applicable, Company s change management requirements.       

(A)  
  Upon receipt of a Change Request from Company, Supplier shall (within ten (10) days, or such other period of time agreed by Company) provide Company with a written response to
the Change Request (each, a   Change Request Authorization  ), containing the following information:         

(1)  
  a written description of any changes in the services, functions, responsibilities and Deliverables of Supplier in connection with the Change Request and any Service Levels or other
performance standards, or changes in any Service Levels or other performance standards, that shall apply in connection with the Change Request;         

(2)  
  a schedule for commencing and completing the Change Request;         

(3)  
  when appropriate, a list and description of any existing and new Software or Equipment to be used or provided by Supplier in connection with the Change Request;

(4)  
  a written description of the Supplier Personnel necessary to complete and implement the Change Request, including the location of such Personnel;         

(5)  
  when appropriate, acceptance test criteria and procedures for any Software or any products or services to be provided to Company in connection with the Change Request;

(6)  
  any changes or amendments to the Transition Plan (or, if applicable, the Transformation Plan) relating to the New Services requested in the Change Request or any effects that any
such New Services or any other aspect of the Change Request would have on the Transition Plan and the Transformation Plan;         

(7)  
  if the Change Request would require Supplier to expend or commit material additional resources, or permit Supplier to expend materially fewer resources, a quotation for any increase
or decrease in the Charges, as applicable, to implement or perform the Change Request. In the event of a quotation for increased Charges, such quotation shall be no more than the charge Supplier provides to customers similar to Company for similar
services under similar circumstances. Such quote shall be reduced, as applicable, to take into account resources and expenses of Supplier for then-existing Services that would no longer be required as a result of the Change Request.

(B)  
  No Change Request Authorization shall be effective until approved in writing by an authorized representative of Company s Global Sourcing Services (GSS) department. Upon
Company s written approval of any such proposed Change Request Authorization, Supplier shall implement and perform the Change Request Authorization in accordance with its terms, the Charges under this Agreement shall be adjusted as agreed upon
in the Change Request Authorization, the Services shall be considered changed as set forth therein, and any New Services agreed upon therein shall thereafter be deemed   Services   and shall be subject to the provisions of this
Agreement. Supplier shall not unreasonably withhold consent to any Change Request proposed by Company.           

(C)  
  Each Party shall bear its own costs in connection with preparation of any Change Requests and Change Request Authorizations. Supplier shall not commence performing any services,
functions or responsibilities under a Change Request Authorization until the Company Contract Executive has provided Supplier with written approval of the Change Request Authorization.         

(D)  
  Supplier acknowledges that Supplier is expected to provide the Services on the terms and conditions agreed by Supplier, including the costs agreed to by Supplier, and that Company
is under no obligation to agree to any Change Request Authorization requested by Supplier.         

(E)  
  Changes to the Services necessary for Supplier to comply with changes to the IT architecture, standards and strategic direction as specified by Company during the Term shall be
implemented as a Change Request.        Section 17.6  Change Management .       

(A)  
  In addition to Company s requirements with respect to change management as set forth in  Exhibit 2  (Statement of Work), Supplier shall comply with the following
change control requirements:         

(1)  
  Prior to using any new Software or new Equipment to provide the Services, Supplier shall have verified that the item is consistent with the IT architecture, standards and strategic
direction specified by Company, has been properly installed, is operating in accordance with its specifications and is performing its intended functions in a reliable manner.         

(2)  
  Supplier shall not make the following changes, including implementing a change in technology, without first obtaining Company s approval, which approval Company may withhold in
its discretion: (a) a change adversely affecting the function or performance of, or decreasing to any significant degree the resource efficiency of, the Services; (b) a change increasing the Charges or other costs to Company; (c) a
change affecting Company that is inconsistent with the IT architecture, standards or strategic direction specified by Company; or (d) a change impacting the way in which Company conducts its business or operations that Company considers to be
adverse.         

(3)  
  Supplier shall assist Company in moving programs from development and test environments to production environments in a controlled and documented manner, so that no changes are
introduced into the programs by Supplier during such activity.        Section 17.7  Use of Subcontractors .       

(A)  
  Subcontractors         

(1)  
    Company shall have the right to approve or reject the subcontracting of Supplier s performance under this Agreement at any time during the Term. Furthermore,
Company shall have the right to specify the use by Supplier of certain Subcontractors. Such approval or specification by Company shall not create any liability for Company to any Subcontractors or privity of contract between Company and any such
Subcontractors. Furthermore, such approval or specification shall not relieve Supplier of its obligations under this Agreement or constitute a representation or endorsement by Company that such Subcontractor is qualified or capable to perform.
Supplier shall not substitute or replace any  

Subcontractor approved or specified by Company if Company objects to such substitution or replacement. Subcontractors approved or specified as of the
Effective Date, including Affiliates of Supplier, are set forth in  Exhibit 28  (Approved Supplier Subcontractors).          

(2)  
  Notwithstanding the provisions of  Section 17.7(A)(1)  above, Supplier may, in the ordinary course of business without the approval of Company, enter into subcontracts
(A) for Third Party products that are used by Supplier to perform its internal functions, or (B) with a total estimated value of less than [  *  ] per year for (i) for Third Party services that are not exclusively dedicated
to Company and that do not include regular direct contact with Company Personnel or the performance of Services at Company Facilities, (ii) with temporary personnel firms for the provision of temporary contract labor, or (iii) product
vendor specialists who Supplier engages on a temporary basis to address urgent problems (collectively,   Shared Subcontractors   provided that such Shared Subcontractors (i) shall not have access to Company Facilities,
(ii) possess the training and experience, competence and skill to perform the work in a skilled and professional manner, (iii) do not have access to Company Data, and (iv) do not perform, in the aggregate, a material portion of the
Services in any Tower.         

(3)  
  Any performance by approved Subcontractors in connection with this Agreement shall be pursuant to an appropriate written agreement between Supplier and such Subcontractors and shall
contain a provision requiring that such performance be in accordance with the applicable requirements of this Agreement and identify Company as an intended third-party beneficiary that may enforce any applicable warranty and similar rights under
such agreement. At a minimum, each subcontract shall require the Subcontractors, at no cost to Company, to correct such Subcontractors  performance not meeting the requirements of this Agreement, shall require such Subcontractors to comply with
the obligations and restrictions applicable to Supplier under this Agreement, shall contain applicable obligations and restrictions substantially similar to the following:  Article 7 ,  Article 9 ,  Section 11.3 ,  Article
14 ,  Section 15.1 ,  Section 15.5 ,  Section 15.6 ,  Article 18 ,  Article 21 ,  Article 22 ,  Section 23.1 ,  Section 23.10 ,  Section 23.11  and
 Section 23.12 , and shall be submitted to Company (in redacted form necessary to verify compliance with the foregoing requirements), together with such other relevant information necessary to verify compliance with the foregoing
requirements as Company may request prior to commencement of the Subcontractor s performance. In no event shall Supplier be required to disclose its costs for services performed by Subcontractor except to the extent that such services are
charged to Company on a pass-through or cost-plus basis. Company shall have the right, at any time, to negotiate and contract directly with any Subcontractors for any goods or services, including those to be provided under this Agreement. No
agreement between Supplier and any Subcontractor shall relieve Supplier from any of its obligations or liabilities under this Agreement. Nothing in this Agreement or any subcontract shall create any contractual relationship, with the exception of
the above-mentioned third-party beneficiary, between Company and any Subcontractor including any obligation on Company s part to pay, or be responsible for the payment of, any sums to any Subcontractor.         

(4)  
  Supplier shall properly direct and control Subcontractor and inspect Subcontractor s performance for defects and deficiencies. Supplier shall be responsible for (a) all
conduct, actions and omissions of Subcontractor; (b) compliance by each Subcontractor with the requirements of this Agreement to at least the extent that Supplier would be responsible if it were performing directly; and (c) management and
coordination of the performance of all such Subcontractors.           

    Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential
treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission.   

(B)  
  Affiliates        Supplier shall give Company written notice
regarding any subcontracting of any portion of the Services to Supplier s Affiliates prior to entering into any agreement with such Affiliate for such Services. Any agreement with an Affiliate of Supplier for performance of Services shall be
subject to Company s prior written consent. Any subcontract or supply agreement with an Affiliate shall not exceed market prices. Company may elect, in its sole discretion, to cause any subcontract or supply agreement which Supplier proposes to
award to an Affiliate to be competitively bid to a minimum of three qualified bidders which are not Supplier s Affiliates.       

(C)  
  Payments to Subcontractors        Supplier shall promptly pay
each Subcontractor the amount to which such Subcontractor is entitled no later than the due date for payment under the applicable subcontract unless Supplier has a good faith dispute regarding the Charges of such Subcontractor and the terms of the
subcontract between Supplier and such Subcontractor permit Supplier to withhold payment in the event of a good faith dispute. With respect to subcontract Services for which the costs for such Services are invoiced by Supplier to Company on a
Pass-Through Expense basis (  Pass-through Subcontracts  ), upon request, Supplier shall submit to Company copies of all checks and payments to Subcontractors in connection with such Pass-through Subcontracts. With respect to other
subcontracts, Supplier shall provide Company with reasonable evidence of payment to the applicable Subcontractor on the request of Company. Should Supplier neglect or refuse to cause to be paid promptly any bill or charge legitimately incurred by
Supplier in support of the Services, Company shall have the right, but not the obligation, to pay such bill or charge directly, and Supplier shall immediately reimburse Company for the same. If Supplier does not so reimburse Company, Company may
offset the amount of such bill or charge pursuant to  Section 20.8(B) .       

(D)  
  Notice of Subcontractor Breach        Supplier shall provide
Company with prompt written notice of all actual or potential disputes with Subcontractor that have or are likely to have a material adverse impact on the Services, including, without limitation, breaches, defaults, insolvencies, defects in
Subcontractor s goods or services, and work stoppages. Such notice shall include the reasons and circumstances giving rise to such disputes in such detail so as to enable Company, in its sole discretion, to exercise any of its rights or
remedies against such Subcontractor. Notwithstanding the foregoing, neither the provisions of this Section nor the exercise by Company of any of its rights or remedies shall relieve Supplier of any of its obligations or liabilities under this
Agreement.      Section 17.8  Quality Assurance and Improvement Programs . Supplier, as part of its total quality management process, shall provide
continuous quality assurance and quality improvement through: (A) the identification and application of proven techniques and Tools from other installations within its operations (i.e.,  best practices  and (B) the
implementation of concrete programs, practices and measures designed to improve Service Levels. Such procedures shall include checkpoint reviews, testing, acceptance, and other procedures for Company to confirm the quality of Supplier s
performance, and shall be included in the Policies and Procedures Manual. Supplier shall utilize project management Tools, including productivity aids and project management Systems, as appropriate, in performing the Services. All documentation and
certifications pertaining to such procedures and programs, including reports and data related to performance and quality testing, shall be provided to Company upon request at no additional cost.         

ARTICLE 18        AUDITS AND RECORDS RETENTION       Section 18.1  Audit Rights .       

(A)  
  Supplier shall maintain a complete audit trail of all financial transactions and non-financial activities resulting from this Agreement sufficient to document its performance of the
Services and the fees paid or payable by Company under this Agreement. Supplier shall provide to Company, its auditors (including internal audit staff and external auditors), inspectors, regulators and other representatives as Company may from time
to time designate in writing (who are neither competitors of Supplier or hired on a contingency-fee basis), access at all reasonable times (and in the case of regulators at any time required by such regulators) to any facility or part of a facility
at which either Supplier or any Supplier Personnel is providing the Services, to Supplier Personnel, and to data and records relating to the Services for the purpose of performing audits and inspections of either Supplier or any Supplier Personnel
during the Term and for the period Supplier is required to maintain records under this Agreement to:         

(1)  
  verify the accuracy of Charges and invoices;         

(2)  
  verify the integrity of Company Data and examine the Systems that process, store, secure, support and transmit that data;         

(3)  
  examine Supplier s performance of the Services and conformance to the terms of this Agreement including, to the extent applicable to the Services and to the Charges therefor,
performing audits: (a) of practices and procedures; (b) of Systems, Equipment and Software; (c) of supporting information and calculations regarding compliance with Service Levels; (d) of general controls and security practices
and procedures; (e) of disaster recovery and back-up procedures; (f) of the efficiency and costs of Supplier in performing the Services (but only to the extent affecting  time-and-materials  or  cost-plus  Charges for,
or timing of, Services); and (g) as necessary to enable Company to meet, or to confirm that Supplier is meeting, applicable requirements of Law, including Company s compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Except as expressly set
forth herein, in no event shall Supplier be required to provide information relating to its costs or other customers; and         

(4)  
  verify the net book value of Equipment to be purchased by Company under this Agreement.         

(B)  
  Supplier shall provide to such auditors, inspectors, regulators and other representatives (1) such assistance as they require, including installing and operating audit Software
and (2) on Supplier s premises (or, if the audit is being performed of a Supplier Personnel, such Supplier Personnel s or agent s premises if necessary), space, office furnishings (including lockable cabinets), telephone and
facsimile services, utilities and office-related Equipment and duplicating services as such auditors, inspectors, regulators and other representatives may reasonably require to perform the audits described in this Article. Supplier shall cooperate
fully with Company or its designees in connection with audit functions and with regard to examinations by regulatory authorities. Company s auditors and other representatives shall comply with Supplier s reasonable security requirements.

(C)  
  Supplier shall conduct audits of or pertaining to the Services in such manner and at such times as is consistent with the audit practices of well-managed operations performing
services similar to the Services.           

(D)  
  Supplier shall perform a security audit at least annually in accordance with the security audit requirements set forth in  Exhibit 16  (Safety and Security Requirements),
including Company s right to participate in testing.        Section 18.2  Audit Follow-up .       

(A)  
  Following an audit or examination, Company shall conduct, or request its external auditors or examiners to conduct, an exit conference with Supplier to obtain factual concurrence
with issues identified in the review. If any review or audit of Supplier s operating practices and procedures relating to the Services conducted by Supplier or its Affiliates (including by internal audit staff or external auditors), or by
inspectors, regulators or other representatives (including internal and external auditors) reveals a risk to the Services or Company, or nonconformance with the terms of this Agreement, Supplier shall promptly review such issues with Company.

(B)  
  Supplier and Company shall meet to review each audit report promptly after the issuance thereof and agree upon the appropriate manner, if any, in which to respond to the changes
suggested by the audit report. Company and Supplier agree to develop operating procedures for the sharing of audit and regulatory findings and reports related to Supplier s operating practices and procedures produced by auditors or regulators
of either Party.        Section 18.3  SAS 70 Type II Report .       

(A)  
  Each year during the Term (and the Termination/Expiration Assistance Period) or on the request of Company from time-to-time such that there is no gap in coverage, commencing no
earlier than six (6) months after the completion of the Transition, Supplier shall obtain a SAS 70 Type 2 Report. Supplier shall provide Company with a copy of the SAS 70 Type 2 Report within fifteen (15) days of Supplier s receipt
thereof from the service auditor. Supplier shall bear all costs and expenses associated with obtaining and delivering each SAS 70 Type 2 Report.         

(B)  
  If any Services are provided or related Systems are operated by a Supplier Personnel, and if such Services or Systems (or any controls or other aspects of such Services or Systems)
would fall within the scope of the SAS 70 Type 2 Report had such Services or Systems been provided directly by Supplier, then Supplier shall cause each such Supplier Personnel to comply with the requirements of  Section 18.3(A)  and, if
applicable,  Section 18.3(C) .         

(C)  
  As requested by Company, Supplier shall either (1) certify to Company in writing that during the applicable SAS 70 Gap Period no changes have been made to the Services or the
Systems, the manner in which the Services or Systems are provided or operated, applicable controls, or the Control Objectives that could reasonably be expected to have any impact on the contents of, or opinions set forth in, the applicable
SAS 70 Type 2 Report; or (2) provide Company with a written description of any such changes.         

(D)  
  The SAS 70 Type 2 Report shall be Confidential Information of Supplier (or the applicable Supplier Personnel); provided, however, that notwithstanding the foregoing or the
confidentiality provisions of this Agreement, Company (and Company s independent auditors) shall be permitted to disclose the SAS 70 Type 2 Report (or any of the content thereof) to any person, entity or Governmental Authority as necessary
for Company to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 or any other Applicable Laws.           

(E)  
  As of the Effective Date, the Control Objectives include those set forth in  Exhibit 24  (Compliance Requirements and Control Objectives). Company may update the Control
Objectives set forth in  Exhibit 24  (Compliance Requirements and Control Objectives) at any time during the Term (or the Termination/Expiration Assistance Period) provided that, subject to the Change Control Procedure, Company shall be
responsible for any additional costs incurred by Supplier in complying with the updated Control Objectives to the extent that such updated Control Objectives apply only to Company and not to any other customer of Supplier. To the extent that such
updated Control Objectives apply to other customers of Supplier, then the costs associated with compliance with such updated Control Objectives shall be, subject to the Change Control Procedure, equitably allocated among Company and such customers.
       Section 18.4  Sarbanes-Oxley Requirements . Supplier recognizes that Company shall be subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
In addition to those requirements set forth in  Exhibit 2  (Statement of Work) and  Exhibit 24  (Compliance Requirements and Control Objectives), Supplier shall provide whatever assistance is necessary to enable Company to comply
with such requirements with respect to its outsourced information technology functions. Supplier s performance of the Services and other obligations under this Agreement shall comply with Company s financial reporting and control processes
as set forth in the Policies and Procedures Manual (and as such processes are revised from time to time by Company) and provide Company with copies of all related records, reports and data as necessary for Company to satisfy the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
of 2002. Supplier shall recommend and, subject to Company approval, implement compliance measures to satisfy the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.      Section 18.5  Records Retention . Until the later of (A) seven years after expiration or termination of this Agreement; (B) all pending matters relating to this Agreement (e.g., disputes) are closed; or (C) the
information is no longer required to meet Company s records retention policy as disclosed by Company to Supplier and as such policy may be adjusted from time to time, Supplier shall maintain and provide access upon request to the records,
documents and other information required to meet Company s audit rights under this Agreement. Before destroying or otherwise disposing of such information, Supplier shall provide Company with ninety (90) days prior notice and offer Company
the opportunity to recover such information or to request Supplier to deliver such information to Company, with Company paying Supplier s Out-of-Pocket Expenses associated with such delivery.      Section 18.6  Inspections and Government Contact . To the extent that Supplier is, or becomes, aware of meetings with or inspections by Governmental
Authorities regarding Supplier s obligations under this Agreement, Supplier shall notify Company within one business day of becoming aware of any such meeting or inspection with any such Governmental Authority. Company shall have the right to
be present at all such meetings and inspections that are (A) of general nature; or (B) specific to Supplier s performance of the Services. Supplier shall provide Company with an opportunity to comment on drafts of documents Supplier
is required to submit to Governmental Authorities. Supplier shall submit to Company copies of documents to be submitted to Governmental Authorities or insurance companies relating to Supplier s obligations under this Agreement, including
reports of accidents or injuries occurring at Company Service Locations. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary, Supplier shall not initiate or participate in any communications with any Governmental Authorities
concerning the subject matter hereof unless required by Applicable Laws or requested to do so by Company and, then, only upon prior consultation with Company.       ARTICLE 19        PAYMENT       Section 19.1  General . All Charges for the Services are set forth in this Article or in  Exhibit 4  (Pricing). Company shall not be required to pay Supplier any amounts for the Services in
addition to those that are payable to Supplier pursuant to  Exhibit 4  (Pricing).      Section 19.2  Efforts to Reduce Costs and Charges .
From time to time during the Term, Company may request that Supplier (with Company s cooperation) identify ways to achieve reductions in the cost of  

providing the Services and corresponding reductions in the applicable Charges, including by modifying or reducing the nature or scope of the Services to be
performed by Supplier, the applicable Service Levels or other contract requirements. If requested by Company, Supplier shall promptly prepare a proposal at such a level of detail as Company may reasonably request identifying all viable means of
achieving the desired reductions without adversely impacting Company s IT or business operations. In preparing such a proposal, Supplier shall give due consideration to any means of achieving such reductions proposed by Company, negotiate in
good faith with Company about each requested reduction in Charges and identify for Company if, and to what extent, the Charges for the Services may be reduced by implementing various changes in the contract requirements. Company shall not be
obligated to accept or implement any proposal, and Supplier shall not be obligated to implement any change that affects the terms of this Agreement unless and until such change is agreed upon pursuant to the Change Control Procedure.      Section 19.3  Pass-Through Expenses .       

(A)  
  All Pass-Through Expenses are listed in  Exhibit 4  (Pricing). Supplier shall arrange for delivery by third parties to Supplier of invoices for Pass-Through Expenses, and
Supplier promptly shall review such invoices and provide Company with the original invoice together with a statement identifying which Charges are proper and valid and should be paid by Company.         

(B)  
  Supplier shall use commercially reasonable efforts to minimize the amount of Pass-Through Expenses. With respect to services or materials paid for on a Pass-Through Expenses basis,
Company reserves the right to: (1) obtain such services or materials directly from a Third Party; (2) designate the third-party source for such services or materials; (3) designate the particular services or materials (e.g., Equipment
make and model) Supplier shall obtain, provided that if Supplier demonstrates to Company that such designation shall have an adverse impact on Supplier s ability to provide the Services in accordance with the Service Levels or on
Supplier s costs for providing the Services, such designation shall be subject to Supplier s approval; (4) designate the terms for obtaining such services or materials (e.g., purchase or lease and lump sum payment or payment over
time); (5) require Supplier to identify and consider multiple sources for such services or materials or to conduct a competitive procurement; and (6) review and approve the applicable Pass-Through Expenses before entering into a contract
for particular services or materials.        Section 19.4  Taxes . The Parties  respective responsibilities for taxes arising under
or in connection with this Agreement shall be as follows:       

(A)  
  Each Party shall be responsible for any personal property taxes on property it owns or leases, for franchise and privilege taxes on its business, and for taxes based on its net
income or gross receipts.         

(B)  
  Supplier shall be responsible for any sales, use, excise, value-added, services, consumption and other taxes and duties payable by Supplier that is assessed on or in connection with
the purchase of goods and services used by Supplier in the provision of the Services as a whole, or on any particular Service.         

(C)  
  Company shall be responsible for any sales, use, excise, value-added, services, consumption or other tax, whether existing as of the Effective Date or increased or becoming
applicable during the Term, that is assessed on or in connection with the consumption of the Services as a whole, or on any particular Service; provided, however, that with respect to Services performed from any Offshore Locations (each an
  Offshore Tax Jurisdiction  ), the applicable local tax Laws will determine which Party shall be responsible for the fulfillment of any sales, use, excise, value-added, services, consumption, withholding or other tax, whether
existing as of the Effective Date or increased or becoming applicable during the Term, that is assessed on or in connection with the provision of such Services from such Offshore Tax Jurisdiction.           

(D)  
  In the event that a sales, use, excise, value added, services, consumption or other tax is assessed on the provision of any of the Services, the Parties shall work together to
segregate the payments under this Agreement into three payment streams:         

(1)  
  those for taxable Services;         

(2)  
  those for which Supplier functions merely as a payment agent for Company in receiving goods, supplies, or services (including leasing and licensing arrangements); and

(3)  
  those for other nontaxable Services.        Supplier is
obligated to issue and provide to Company invoices that, if applicable, at all occasions qualify for a valued added tax reimbursement for Company (each a   Qualifying Invoice  ). If necessary, Supplier shall issue multiple Qualifying
Invoices to meet its obligations       

(E)  
  The Parties agree to cooperate with each other to enable each to more accurately determine its own tax liability and to minimize such liability to the extent legally permissible.
Such cooperation shall include Supplier s provision of reports, asset lists and similar information requested by Company (e.g., lists of Equipment leased by Company (or in Company s name) and managed by Supplier). Supplier s invoices
(which shall comply with all requirements of Law and the requirements of this Section) shall separately state the amounts of any sales, use, excise, value added, services, consumption or other taxes Supplier is collecting from Company, and Supplier
shall remit such taxes to the appropriate authorities. Supplier s invoices shall be sufficiently detailed and documented so as to enable Company to, where applicable, deduct input VAT. Each Party shall provide and make available to the other
any resale certificates, information regarding out-of-state or out-of-country sales or use of Equipment, materials or services, and other exemption certificates or information reasonably requested by the other Party.         

(F)  
  Supplier shall promptly notify Company of any claim for taxes asserted by applicable taxing authorities for which Company is responsible hereunder. It being understood that with
respect to any claim arising out of a form or return signed by a Party to this Agreement, such Party shall have the responsibility to elect to control the response to and settlement of the claim, but the other Party shall have the right to review
and comment on the responses and settlements to the extent such responses or settlements would have an adverse impact on such other Party s potential responsibilities or liabilities and the input provided through such review and comment shall
be considered in good faith by the Party responding to and settling the claim. If Company requests Supplier to challenge the imposition of any tax which imposition is new or a material change to a previous position, interpretation, or application of
such tax to the Services, Supplier shall cooperate with Company and so challenge such tax. Company shall reimburse Supplier for the reasonable legal fees and expenses Supplier incurs with respect to such challenge and Company may elect to control
such challenge. Company shall be entitled to any tax refunds or rebates granted to the extent such refunds or rebates are of taxes that were paid by Company.         

Section 19.5  Benchmarks . Company shall have the right during the Term, [  *  ] to benchmark the
Charges and quality for the Services of one or more of the Sub-Towers, provided that benchmarking of Charges for each Sub-Tower cannot be undertaken more than [  *  ] during the Term. The purpose of any benchmarking exercise is to verify
that Company is receiving competitive market pricing and service level quality with respect to the management, delivery and receipt of the Services.       

(A)  
  A benchmarking under this Section shall be conducted by an independent industry-recognized benchmarking service provider designated by Company and approved by Supplier (the
  Benchmarker  ). Supplier agrees that Gartner and Nautilus are acceptable as a Benchmarker as of the Effective Date. The Benchmarker shall be engaged by Company on a non-contingent fee basis. The fees and costs of the Benchmarker
shall be paid by Company. The Parties shall cooperate with the Benchmarker, including, as appropriate, making available knowledgeable personnel and pertinent documents and records, subject to the Benchmarker s execution of a confidentiality
agreement with Company and Supplier (or separate confidentiality agreements if the Parties so agree) containing obligations of confidentiality approved by the Parties, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. All information provided to or
obtained from the Benchmarker will be provided to both Parties. Supplier shall not be required to make available cost data or data with respect to Supplier s other customers.         

(B)  
  The Benchmarker shall perform the benchmarking in accordance with Benchmarker s documented procedures which shall be provided to and subject to review by the Parties prior to
the start of the benchmarking process. The Benchmarker shall compare the Charges [  *  ] under this Agreement for the Services of the Sub-Tower being benchmarked to the costs [  *  ] being incurred in a representative sample of
IT operations for other entities (the   Benchmarked Representative Sample  ). The Benchmarker shall select the Benchmarked Representative Sample from entities (1) identified and approved by the Benchmarker, and
(2) identified by a Party and approved by the Benchmarker, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. The following conditions apply to the Benchmarked Representative Sample: (a) it shall include only entities that have outsourced
similar services, (b) it may include entities that are outsourcing customers of Supplier, and [  *  ] If the Benchmarker-proposed Benchmarked Representative Sample consists of [  *  ], such selection shall be subject to the
Parties  approval, which shall not be unreasonably withheld.     If the Benchmarker-proposed Benchmarked Representative Sample consists of [  *   ] .         

(C)  
  The Benchmarker shall commence the benchmarking exercise within thirty (30) days of receipt of Company s request and issue its initial report to the Parties within
one-hundred-and-twenty (120) days of receipt of Company s request. In conducting the benchmarking, the Benchmarker shall normalize the data used to perform the benchmarking to accommodate, as appropriate, differences in volume of services,
scope of services, quality of services, including the service levels, financing or payment streams, and other pertinent factors. If the Benchmarked Representative Sample consists of [  *  ]  .   Each Party shall be provided a
reasonable opportunity (but no more than thirty (30) days) to review, comment on and request changes in the Benchmarker s proposed findings. Within ten (10) days of receiving any comments from the Parties, the Benchmarker shall issue
a final report of its findings and conclusions.         

(D)  
  If in the Benchmarker s final report the aggregate of the then-applicable Charges under this Agreement for a benchmarked Sub-Tower are [*], then no adjustments to Charges
hereunder for such Sub-Tower shall be made as a result of the Benchmark. However, if in the final report of the Benchmarker, the aggregate of the then-applicable Charges under this Agreement for a benchmarked Sub-Tower are [*] the following shall
apply:         

(1)  
  If in the Benchmarker s final report the aggregate of the then-applicable Charges under this Agreement for the benchmarked Sub-Tower are [*]           

    Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential
treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission.   

(2)  
  If in the Benchmarker s final report the aggregate of the then-applicable Charges under this Agreement for the benchmarked Sub-Tower are [*]         

(3)  
  [*] Supplier shall, within 30 days after issuance of the Benchmarker s final report, [*] If Supplier does not [*], Company may [*]         

(4)  
  For each benchmarked Sub-Tower, if (A) Supplier fails to [*] (B) fails to [* ] , or (C) Company does not [*], then Company may [*] Provided, however, that in the
event of [* ] , Company shall [*] In the case of termination by Company of Services in accordance with this Section, the Charges payable under this Agreement for the continuing Services shall be equitably adjusted to reflect the services that
are terminated.         

(5)  
  Attachment 4-A to  Exhibit 4  (Pricing) sets forth the Charges for each of the Sub-Towers for each year of the Term [  *  ]  .   The Attachment 4-A to
 Exhibit 4  (Pricing) included as part of this Agreement at the commencement of each benchmarking exercise shall be referred to as  Exhibit 4-Pre-Benchmark Charges Schedule . After a reduction in Charges pursuant to
 Section 19.5(D)(1)  or  Section 19.5(D)(2) , such reduced Charges for the Sub-Tower shall remain in effect and apply, and such Sub-Tower shall not be subject to subsequent benchmarking, [  *  ]     The
foregoing shall have no effect on adjustments to the Charges because of ARCs and RRCs.         ARTICLE 20        INVOICING       Section 20.1  Invoicing .

(A)  
  Supplier shall act in good faith in its issuance of invoices hereunder and invoice Company pursuant to the terms of this Agreement. Supplier shall invoice Company for Charges due
and owing for the Monthly Base Charges and Transition Charges for each month at any time prior to the fifteenth (15th) day of such month. ARCs/RRCs and any other variable charges shall be invoiced in arrears at any time after the beginning of a
month for Charges due and owing for the prior month.         

(B)  
  Invoicing and payment will be by and between the Parties in the United States in U.S. dollars except where material services are performed by Supplier and used by Company in a
country outside of the United States.         

(C)  
  Supplier shall have the right upon notice to Company to render either a single consolidated invoice for each month s Charges or an invoice for each Tower, in each case in the
form specified by Company, including in electronic format. The approved form as of the Effective Date is attached to  Exhibit 4  (Pricing). Each invoice shall (1) meet all requirements of Applicable Laws, including tax requirements,
(2) contain all information necessary to enable Company to deduct input value added taxes when applicable, (3) include all tax information required by  Section 19.4(E)  (including any GST or VAT on-charged to Company), and
(4) contain information specified by Company to satisfy Company s internal accounting requirements. Supplier shall maintain appropriate documentation, measurement and reporting Systems as necessary to satisfy such Company internal
accounting requirements.         

(D)  
  All Out-of-Pocket Expenses shall be invoiced pursuant to the requirements for invoicing under this Agreement, accompanied by documentation in form and detail sufficient for Company
to recognize such expenses for Company s tax reporting purposes.           

    Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential
treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission.   

(E)  
  All amounts listed in an invoice shall specify the amounts actually incurred in the currency in which such amounts were incurred. Company may require additional information for any
amounts stated on an invoice, including without limitation evidence that all parties furnishing labor or materials to Supplier in connection with the performance of Supplier s obligations under this Agreement that are related to Pass-Through
Expenses that have been paid. Supplier shall respond to Company s reasonable request for additional information in connection with an invoice promptly, but in no event any later than two (2) business days after delivery of Company s
request, provided, however, if Supplier reasonably requires additional time to respond to Company s request for information, Supplier may request Company to agree to an extension of the above deadline.         

(F)  
  Company may request that Supplier submit at times other than those specified herein an invoice for portions of Charges that have not yet been invoiced but represent amounts payable
for actual performance of Supplier s obligations under this Agreement. When Company makes such a request, Supplier shall deliver to Company a complete invoice reflecting such portions of Charges, if any, believed by Supplier to be payable.
Supplier shall deliver such invoice by the deadline identified in Company s request therefore and, if no deadline is specified in Company s request, then no later than thirty (30) days following the date of Company s request.

(G)  
  To the extent a credit may be due Company pursuant to this Agreement, Supplier shall provide Company with an appropriate credit against amounts then due and owing; if no further
payments are due to Supplier, Supplier shall pay such amounts to Company within thirty (30) days.        Section 20.2  Payment Due .
Subject to the other provisions of this Article, invoices provided for under  Section 20.1  and properly submitted to Company pursuant to this Agreement shall be due and payable by Company within [  *  ] after receipt thereof.
Any amount due under this Agreement for which a time for payment is not otherwise specified shall be due and payable within [  *  ] after receipt of a proper invoice for such amount. All payments shall be made by electronic funds transfer.
     Section 20.3  [*] . Subject to Company s right to withhold amounts pursuant to Section 20.8, in the event that Company [*]   
  Section 20.4  Accounting . Supplier shall maintain complete and accurate records of and supporting documentation for the amounts billable to and payments
made by Company under this Agreement in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles applied on a consistent basis. Supplier agrees to provide Company with documentation and other information with respect to each invoice as may be
reasonably requested by Company to verify accuracy and compliance with the provisions of this Agreement.      Section 20.5  Proration . Periodic
Charges under this Agreement are to be computed on a calendar month basis, and shall be prorated for any partial month.      Section 20.6  Refundable
Items .       

(A)  
  Prepaid Amounts        Where Company has prepaid for a service
or function for which Supplier is assuming financial responsibility under this Agreement, Supplier shall refund to Company, upon either Party identifying the prepayment, that portion of such prepaid expense that is attributable to periods on and
after the Effective Date.         

    Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential
treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission.   

(B)  
  Refunds and Credits        If Supplier should receive a refund,
credit or other rebate for goods or services previously paid for by Company, Supplier shall promptly notify Company of such refund, credit or rebate and shall promptly pay the full amount of such refund, credit or rebate, as the case may be, to
Company.      Section 20.7  Deductions . With respect to any amount to be paid by Company under this Agreement, Company may deduct from such amount
any amount that Supplier is obligated to pay Company under this Agreement.      Section 20.8  Disputed Charges .       

(A)  
  Disputes Regarding Invoices        If Company disputes in good
faith an amount stated in an invoice, Company shall notify Supplier in writing of the dispute promptly upon becoming aware of the dispute, but no later than the day before the due date, and the basis therefore. Upon receipt of such notification,
Supplier shall submit a revised invoice stating only undisputed amounts. Upon receipt of a revised invoice stating only undisputed amounts, Company shall pay such invoice by the later of (i) the due date for the original invoice, or
(ii) five (5) business days following receipt of the revised invoice. Upon resolution of disputed amounts, Supplier shall submit an invoice pursuant to this Article for the amounts that the Parties mutually agree are no longer in dispute.
In the event Company in good faith disputes an invoice submitted by Supplier, Company may, at its option, withhold payment of the disputed amount and (1) Company shall continue to pay all undisputed amounts in accordance with the terms hereof,
and (2) Supplier shall continue to perform its obligations under this Agreement. In the event of a dispute regarding any amount on any invoice, the Parties shall resolve the dispute pursuant to  Article 28 . Both Parties shall provide full
supporting documentation concerning any disputed amount or invoice within thirty (30) days after written notification of the dispute. [  *  ]. If the amount disputed by Company exceeds an aggregate amount at any point in time greater
than [*], then Company shall [  *  ].       

(B)  
  Withholding Payment        Notwithstanding
 Section 20.8(A) , if, through subsequently discovered evidence or subsequent observations, Company becomes aware that it could have withheld approval and payment (but did not) of an amount previously invoiced by Supplier and paid by
Company, Company reserves the right, subject to  Section 20.8 , to deduct the applicable disputed amount from later invoices or request a credit from Supplier for the applicable amount. The provisions of this Section shall not lessen or
diminish, but shall be in addition to, the right or duty of Company to withhold payments under the provisions of this Agreement and Laws respecting the withholding of sums due to Supplier.       

(C)  
  Invoice Dispute Escalation        If the Parties are not able to
resolve a dispute regarding Charges within thirty (30) days of Company s notice of a disputed amount, the Parties shall attempt to resolve their dispute informally pursuant to  Section 28.1  (Informal Dispute Resolution).

Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential
treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission.   

ARTICLE 21        PROTECTION OF COMPANY DATA       Section 21.1  Company Data .       

(A)  
  Company Data shall be and remain, as between the Parties, the property of Company. Supplier shall not possess or assert any lien or other right against or to Company Data. No
Company Data, or any part thereof, shall be sold, assigned, leased or otherwise disposed of or disclosed to third parties by Supplier or commercially exploited by or on behalf of Supplier.         

(B)  
  Upon Company s request, the termination or expiration of this Agreement for any reason (including termination for cause) or, with respect to any particular Company Data, on
such earlier date that the same shall be no longer required by Supplier in order to render the Services, such Company Data (including copies thereof) shall be promptly returned to Company by Supplier in a form reasonably requested by Company or, if
Company so elects, shall be destroyed by Supplier, all at no additional charge to Company.         

(C)  
  Company Data shall not be utilized by Supplier for any purpose other than that of rendering the Services under this Agreement.         

(D)  
  Supplier shall use commercially reasonable efforts to correct any errors occurring in any Company Data and restore any losses of any Company Data to the extent that such errors or
losses result from Supplier s failure to comply with the terms of this Agreement.         

(E)  
  Regardless of whether Company approves the provision of certain Services from an Offshore Location, except as expressly provided in  Exhibit 28  (Approved Supplier
Subcontractors), in no event shall Supplier physically install Software owned or licensed by Company (or electronically install such Software, if the media is in electronic form) on any server or other Equipment located at an Offshore Location or
store any Company Data on any server or other Equipment located at an Offshore Location.        Section 21.2  Protection of Company
Data .       

(A)  
  Supplier shall establish and maintain safeguards against the disclosure, destruction, loss or alteration of Company Data in the possession or control of Supplier that are no less
rigorous than those maintained by Company as of the Effective Date. During the Term, Supplier shall make recommendations to Company on additional safeguards that may be implemented, including recommendations based on the safeguards maintained by
Supplier for its own information of a similar nature. Company shall have the right to establish backup security for Company Data and to keep backup Company Data and Company Data files in its possession if it chooses.         

(B)  
  Without limiting the generality of  Section 21.2(A) :         

(1)  
  Supplier Personnel shall not attempt to access, or allow access to, any Company Data which they are not permitted to access under this Agreement. If such access is attained,
Supplier shall immediately report such incident to Company, describe in detail the accessed Company Data and return to Company any copied or removed Company Data.         

(2)  
    Supplier shall utilize commercially reasonable efforts, including through Systems security measures, to guard against the unauthorized access, disclosure, loss,
alteration or destruction of Software and Company Data. Such measures shall include the installation of Software that: (a) requires all users to enter a user  

identification and password prior to gaining access to the information Systems; (b) controls and tracks the addition and deletion of Authorized Users;
and (c) controls and tracks user access to areas and features of the information Systems.          

(3)  
  Supplier shall at all times protect such Company Systems through procedures and Tools deemed satisfactory by Company. Such procedures and Tools in connection with remote access to
Company Systems shall include:         

(a)  
  a mechanism to determine and immediately report to Company possible security breaches;         

(b)  
  controls to ensure the return or destruction, at Company s direction, of information transmitted through Company Systems;         

(c)  
  a process for maintaining the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information transmitted through Company Systems; and         

(d)  
  methods for controlling access to Company Systems, which shall include (i) permitted access methods; (ii) an authorization process for users  access and privileges;
and (iii) maintenance of a list of authorized users.         

(4)  
  Prior to Supplier remotely accessing Company Systems, in order for Company to determine its satisfaction with the procedures and Tools required by this Section, Supplier shall
submit to Company:         

(a)  
  a list of established connections that Supplier has with the electronic information systems of third parties from Supplier systems that will also be used to remotely access Company
Systems in order for Company to evaluate security issues associated with such connection and Company Systems;         

(b)  
  a copy of Supplier s security policies applicable to electronic information systems; and         

(c)  
  a copy of Supplier s most recent external penetration test or network audit of its electronic information systems that will be used to remotely access Company Systems.

(5)  
  All Supplier interconnectivity to Company Systems and all attempts at such interconnectivity shall be only through Company s security gateways and firewalls. Supplier shall not
access, and shall not permit unauthorized persons or entities to access, Company Systems without Company s express written authorization, and any such actual or attempted access shall be consistent with any such authorization.

(6)  
  Without limiting any rights and remedies set forth elsewhere in this Agreement, Company shall have the right to audit and monitor the procedures and Tools required pursuant to this
Section to ensure Supplier s compliance with such requirements. Company shall have the right to revoke or limit Supplier s access to Company Systems at any time, including in the event Supplier is deemed by Company, in its sole discretion,
to have failed to comply with the requirements of this Article.           

(C)  
  In the event of an attack or threatened or suspected intrusion or other breach of security against any Systems, Equipment and/or Software, Supplier shall, at its expense, and
without limiting the Service Level obligations under this Agreement, take whatever steps are necessary to immediately protect such Systems, Equipment and/or Software and prevent any further breaches, including: (1) preventing further access to
the Systems, Equipment and Software from the source of the attack, (2) immediately backing up the affected Systems, Equipment, Software and Company Data, (3) enhancing defensive systems to prevent any similar breaches in the future,
(4) contacting the ISP where the threat or attack originated and relevant law enforcement authorities, (5) investigating the extent of the damage, if any, (6) producing an incident report detailing Supplier s findings and
providing such report to Company, (7) providing supplemental monitor traffic from the attack source until risk of further attacks is deemed to be eliminated, and (8) temporarily disabling affected components of the Services, if warranted
by the circumstances and with prior approval of Company, provided that such Services are reinstated as soon as the risk of further breaches is deemed to have been eliminated or adequate additional security measures have been implemented. Supplier
shall immediately contact Company upon discovering such an attack or threatened or suspected intrusion or breach of security and provide to Company all information reasonably requested, and the Parties shall mutually agree on appropriate measures to
be taken with respect thereto.        Section 21.3  Privacy Requirements .       

(A)  
  Privacy Laws and Regulations         

(1)  
  Supplier expressly understands and acknowledges that Confidential Information of Company may include information that can be used to identify a specific individual and/or is subject
to applicable privacy Laws (collectively,   Personally Identifiable Information  ), and agrees to comply with all such Applicable Laws, including the Federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and any state statutes adopted to comply therewith,
the FTC regulations promulgated pursuant thereto (including 16 CFR   313, 16 CFR   314, 12 CFR   332 and 12 CFR   364), and any state regulations promulgated under state privacy statutes or in compliance with the
Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act; the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (45 CFR parts 160 and 164) and regulations, including Laws and regulations related to medical records and patient privacy, confidentiality, and consumer
protection; and the European Union s Directive 95/46/EC on the Protection of Individuals with Regard to the Processing of Personal Data and on the Free Movement of Such Data and implementing legislation of EU Member States, and similar
legislation of other countries, including Canada, Australia, New Zealand and Switzerland (collectively, the   Privacy Laws and Regulations  ). Supplier acknowledges and agrees that, as part of the Personally Identifiable Information,
it shall receive  non-public personal information  regarding Company s customers, employees, vendors and other individuals, as that information is defined in Title V of the Federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act,  protected health
information,  regarding Company s employees and other agents, and their beneficiaries and other individuals, as that term is defined in 45 CFR   164.501, and  personal data  and  sensitive personal data  regarding
Company s employees and other agents, as that term is defined under the European Union s Directive 95/46/EC on the Protection of Individuals with Regard to the Processing of Personal Data and on the Free Movement of Such Data and
implementing legislation of EU Member States, and similar legislation of other countries to which Services are provided under this Agreement.         

(2)  
    Without limiting the generality of part (1) of this Section, in accordance with Supplier shall adhere to all current and future Applicable Laws pertaining to
privacy or confidentiality of patient information, including without limitation, the  

Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (45 CFR parts 160 and 164) (  HIPAA  ), including Applicable Laws related to
medical records and patient privacy, confidentiality, and consumer protection. Supplier shall not provide or otherwise disclose to Company any information that could be used to identify individual patients, including  protected health
information  (  PHI  ) as defined by HIPAA. Supplier shall properly screen and de-identify PHI in any and all documents, material, or other information prior to delivering or making them available to Company to ensure that
Company does not receive PHI or individually identifiable health information.          

(B)  
  Data Controller/Data Processor        Company, in its capacity
as a data controller, hereby appoints Supplier as a data processor in each case where Supplier needs to process the Personally Identifiable Information.       

(C)  
  Compliance with Data Protection Laws        Notwithstanding any
other term of this Agreement, Company and Supplier shall each be responsible for complying with their respective obligations under the applicable Privacy Laws and Regulations with respect to the Personally Identifiable Information. Company remains
solely responsible for determining the purposes of Supplier s processing of Personally Identifiable Information under this Agreement, and Supplier confirms that it shall act only on Company s instructions in relation to its processing of
any Personally Identifiable Information; provided, however, that nothing in this Agreement shall prevent Supplier or Company from doing what it reasonably considers necessary to comply with all applicable Privacy Laws and Regulations. Supplier shall
not subcontract its processing of Personally Identifiable Information without Company s prior approval. Where any subcontract is entered into by Supplier, Supplier shall ensure that it is in accordance with all applicable Privacy Laws and
Regulations.       

(D)  
  Transborder Data Flows        Supplier shall not transfer any
Personally Identifiable Information originating in the European Economic Area to outside the European Economic Area unless Supplier obtains Company s prior consent and Supplier implements such arrangements as are necessary to ensure that such
transfers of Personally Identifiable Information are made in accordance with all Privacy Laws and Regulations and as may be requested by Company.       

(E)  
  Information        If under Applicable Laws, Company is required
to provide information to an individual regarding Personally Identifiable Information, Supplier shall reasonably cooperate with Company in providing such information. Upon Company s reasonable written request, Supplier shall provide Company
with such information that it has regarding Personally Identifiable Information and the processing of such data that is necessary to enable Company to comply with its obligations under this Section and all applicable Privacy Laws and Regulations.

(F)  
  Supplier Obligations        Supplier understands and
acknowledges the following:       

(1)  
  Without exception, Supplier shall not use any Personally Identifiable Information it receives for purposes other than carrying out the Services and shall not disclose any Personally
Identifiable Information to any Third Party (including any Affiliates of Supplier) without Company s prior written consent and subject to all applicable Privacy Laws and Regulations.         

(2)  
  Supplier shall implement and maintain technical, physical and administrative safeguards for the Personally Identifiable Information it receives consistent with the Company s
requirements as they relate to all applicable Privacy Laws and Regulations, including as set forth at 45 CFR   164.500 et seq., in order to: (a) ensure the security and confidentiality of the Personally Identifiable Information;
(b) protect against anticipated threats or hazards to the security or integrity of such information; and (c) protect against unauthorized access to or use of such information.         

(3)  
  In the event Supplier breaches any Applicable Laws governing Personally Identifiable Information, Supplier shall: (a) give Company prompt notice of such a violation, including
all notices required by Law; and (b) take all remedial or other actions required by Law and as reasonably requested by Company, including notifying all affected individuals and entities.         ARTICLE 22        PROTECTION OF
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION       Section 22.1  Confidentiality . Each Party shall maintain in confidence all Confidential Information of the other
Party, and shall not disclose such Confidential Information to any Third Party except to those of its Personnel as are necessary in connection with such Party s activities as contemplated by this Agreement. In maintaining the confidentiality of
Confidential Information, each Party shall exercise the same degree of care that it exercises with its own confidential information, and in no event less than a reasonable degree of care. Supplier shall ensure that each of the Supplier Personnel
holds in confidence and makes no use of the Confidential Information of Company for any purpose other than those permitted under this Agreement or otherwise required by law. Supplier shall clearly and completely convey the requirements of this
 Article 22  to all Supplier Personnel to ensure such requirements are understood and followed. If requested by Company, Supplier shall secure written commitments from Supplier s Personnel to comply with the confidentiality
requirements of this Agreement.      Section 22.2  Obligations .       

(A)  
  As requested by the other Party during the Term and upon expiration or any termination of this Agreement and completion of Supplier s obligations under this Agreement, each
party shall return or destroy, as the other Party may direct, all material in any medium that contains, refers to, or relates to Confidential Information of such Party, and retain no copies.         

(B)  
  In the event of any disclosure or loss of, or inability to account for, any Confidential Information of the furnishing Party, the receiving Party promptly shall (1) notify the
furnishing Party upon becoming aware thereof; (2) take such actions as may be necessary or reasonably requested by the furnishing Party to minimize the violation; and (3) cooperate in all reasonable respects with the furnishing Party to
minimize the violation and any damage resulting therefrom.           

(C)  
  The Parties  obligations respecting Confidential Information shall survive any expiration or termination of this Agreement [  *  ].        Section 22.3  Exclusions .  Section 22.2  shall not apply to any particular information that Supplier or Company can demonstrate: (A) was, at
the time of disclosure to it, in the public domain; (B) after disclosure to it, is published or otherwise becomes part of the public domain through no fault of the receiving Party; (C) was in the possession of the receiving Party without
any obligation of confidentiality at the time of disclosure to it; (D) was received after disclosure to it from a Third Party who had a lawful right to disclose such information to it without any obligation to restrict its further use or
disclosure; or (E) was independently developed by the receiving Party without reference to Confidential Information of the furnishing Party. The foregoing exclusions shall in no event apply to Personally Identifiable Information or PHI, which
shall always be deemed to be Confidential Information of Company. In addition, a Party shall not be considered to have breached its obligations by disclosing Confidential Information of the other Party as required to satisfy any legal requirement of
a competent government body to the minimum extent necessary as advised by counsel; provided that, immediately upon receiving any such request and to the extent that it may legally do so, such Party promptly advises the other Party of the request and
prior to making such disclosure in order that the other Party may interpose an objection to such disclosure, take action to assure confidential handling of the Confidential Information, or take such other action as it deems appropriate to protect
the Confidential Information.      Section 22.4  Disclosure of Confidential Information Based on Governmental Request . In the event that Supplier
receives a request from a Third Party, pursuant to a valid subpoena, legally valid governmental authority request, or other valid legal request, that requires it to disclose Company s Confidential Information, Supplier shall (i) give
Company prompt (but in no event later than twenty-four (24) hours after receipt of the request) prior written notice of the requested disclosure which notice shall include a copy of such subpoena or request, (ii) use reasonable efforts to
resist disclosing the Confidential Information, (iii) cooperate with Company on request to obtain a protective order or otherwise limit the disclosure of the Confidential Information, (iv) consent to an injunction or protective order and
not oppose Company s request to intervene, and (v) prior to such disclosure, provide a letter from its counsel confirming that the Confidential Information is, in fact, required to be disclosed. A disclosure of Confidential Information in
accordance with this  Section 22.4  shall not be deemed a breach of the confidentiality obligations hereunder.      Section 22.5  No Implied
Rights . Subject to the provisions of  Article 14 , each Party s Confidential Information shall remain the property of that Party. Nothing contained in this Section shall be construed as obligating a Party to disclose its Confidential
Information to the other Party, or as granting to or conferring on a Party, expressly or impliedly, any rights or license to the Confidential Information of the other Party, and any such obligation or grant shall only be as provided by other
provisions of this Agreement.      Section 22.6  Unauthorized Disclosure . Each Party acknowledges and confirms that the Confidential Information of
the other Party constitutes proprietary information or trade secrets valuable to the other Party, and that the unauthorized use, loss or outside disclosure of such Confidential Information shall be presumed to cause irreparable injury to the other
Party. Each Party acknowledges that monetary damages may not be a sufficient remedy for unauthorized disclosure of Confidential Information of the other Party and that the other Party may be entitled, without waiving other rights or remedies, to
such injunctive or equitable relief as may be deemed proper by a court of competent jurisdiction. If a court of competent jurisdiction should find that a Party s acts or omissions have, or could, lead to an unauthorized use, loss or outside
disclosure of the other Party s Confidential Information, then each Party agrees that, without any additional findings of irreparable injury or other conditions precedent to injunctive relief, it shall not oppose the entry of an order
restraining it from any further acts or omissions which have or could have lead to an unauthorized use, loss or outside disclosure of the other Party s Confidential Information.         

    Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential
treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission.   

ARTICLE 23        REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES       Section 23.1  Work Standards . Supplier represents, warrants and covenants
that the Services shall be rendered with promptness and diligence and shall be executed in a workmanlike manner, in accordance with the practices and high professional standards used in well-managed operations performing services similar to the
Services. Supplier represents, warrants and covenants that it shall use adequate numbers of qualified individuals with suitable training, education, experience and skill to perform the Services.      Section 23.2  Maintenance . Supplier represents, warrants and covenants that it shall maintain the Systems, Supplier Equipment and Supplier Software so that
they operate in accordance with their specifications, including (A) maintaining Supplier Equipment in good operating condition, subject to normal wear and tear; (B) undertaking repairs and preventive maintenance on Supplier Equipment in
accordance with the applicable Equipment manufacturer s recommendations; and (C) performing Software maintenance in accordance with the applicable Software provider s documentation and recommendations.      Section 23.3  Efficiency and Cost Effectiveness . Supplier represents, warrants and covenants that it shall use commercially reasonable efforts to use
efficiently the resources or services necessary to provide the Services. Supplier represents and warrants that it shall use commercially reasonable efforts to perform the Services in the most cost-effective manner consistent with the required level
of quality and performance.      Section 23.4  Technology and Equipment .       

(A)  
  Supplier represents, warrants and covenants that it shall provide the Services using proven, current technology, Equipment and Software that shall enable Company to take advantage
of technological advancements in their industry, subject to the Change Control Procedure, and support Company s efforts to maintain competitiveness in the markets in which it competes.         

(B)  
  Supplier represents, warrants and covenants that (1) all Equipment provided by Supplier pursuant to Supplier s technology refresh obligations under this Agreement shall be
new, not refurbished or reconditioned, except to the extent agreed to by Company in writing and (2) Supplier is either the owner of, or authorized to use, the Equipment provided by Supplier pursuant to this Agreement.     

(C)  
  Supplier shall ensure that if Company is to, or it is foreseeable under this Agreement that Company will, hold title or a license to any of the Equipment or Software, either during
or after the Term, Supplier shall (i) obtain warranties for such Equipment and Software corresponding to the Refresh lifecycle applicable to such Equipment or Software as set forth in this Agreement, or if such Equipment or Software is not
covered under the Refresh lifecycle then it shall obtain such warranties as are commercially reasonable, and (ii) ensure that such warranties may be passed through or assigned to Company upon the granting or transfer of title or license to
Company. Supplier warrants that it shall perform its obligations in such manner so as to preserve any such third-party warranties. Supplier shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to assist Company in enforcing such third-party warranties. If
this Agreement obligates Supplier to obtain the warranties and Supplier fails to do so without the written agreement of Company, then, without additional cost to Company and without waiving any other rights or remedies available to Company, Supplier
shall either perform, or cause another to perform, the warranty obligations that Supplier should have obtained or secure a warranty to cover such all for the benefit of Company.        Section 23.5  Non-Infringement . Each Party represents, warrants and covenants that it shall perform its responsibilities under this Agreement in a manner that
does not infringe, or constitute an infringement or misappropriation of, any patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret or other proprietary rights of any Third Party.       

Section 23.6  Software Ownership or Use . Supplier represents and warrants that it is either the owner of, or
authorized to Use, the Supplier Software.      Section 23.7  Authorization and Other Contracts . Each Party represents and warrants to the other
that:       

(A)  
  It has the requisite corporate power and authority to enter into this Agreement and to carry out the transactions contemplated by this Agreement;         

(B)  
  The execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement have been duly authorized by the requisite
corporate action on the part of such Party; and         

(C)  
  The execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and the consummation of this Agreement shall not constitute a material default under any material contract by which it or
any of its material assets is bound; or an event that would, with notice or lapse of time, or both, constitute such a default.        Section 23.8  Inducements . Supplier represents and warrants to Company that neither Supplier nor any employee, agent or representative of Supplier has knowingly violated any Applicable Laws or any Company Policies regarding the
offering of unlawful inducements in connection with this Agreement.      Section 23.9  Ethics and Conflict of Interest . In its performance of its
obligations under this Agreement, Supplier shall adhere to business practices that meet and are in the spirit of Applicable Laws and ethical principles, including the following:       

(A)  
  All transactions undertaken in connection with Supplier s obligations under this Agreement shall be accurately reflected in Supplier s records;     

(B)  
  Supplier shall perform its obligations under this Agreement and conduct itself with respect to Supplier Personnel and third parties so as to avoid loss or embarrassment to Company,
including loss or embarrassment due to any real or apparent conflict of interest; and         

(C)  
  Supplier shall not enter into any other agreement, whether written or oral, that would conflict with the performance of Supplier s obligations under this Agreement.
       Section 23.10  No Debarment . Supplier represents and warrants that neither Supplier nor any Supplier Personnel rendering Services
is presently: (A) the subject of a debarment action or is debarred pursuant to the Generic Drug Enforcement Act of 1992, (B) the subject of a disqualification proceeding or is disqualified as a clinical investigator pursuant to 21 CFR
 312.70, (C) the subject of an exclusion proceeding or excluded from participation in any federal health care program under 42 CFR Part 1001 et seq., or (D) listed on the United States Department of Health   Human Services,
Office of Research Integrity s Administrative Actions Listing. Supplier shall notify Company immediately upon any inquiry concerning, or the commencement of any such proceeding concerning, Supplier or any Supplier Personnel.      Section 23.11  Viruses . Supplier represents, warrants and covenants that it shall use commercially reasonable efforts so that no Viruses are coded or
introduced into the Systems or Software Deliverables. Supplier agrees that, in the event a Virus is found to have been introduced into the Systems or Software Deliverables, Supplier shall use commercially reasonable efforts at no additional charge
to assist Company in reducing the effects of the Virus and, if the Virus causes a loss of operational efficiency or loss of data, to assist Company to the same extent to mitigate and restore such losses.         

Section 23.12  Disabling Code . Supplier represents, warrants and covenants that, without the prior written
consent of Company, Supplier shall not knowingly insert into the Systems or Software Deliverables any code that would have the effect of disabling or otherwise shutting down all or any portion of Systems, Software Deliverables or the Services, other
than code that is inserted into commercially available products to ensure that the purchaser or licensee uses the product in accordance with the applicable license. Supplier further represents and warrants that, with respect to any disabling code
that may be part of the Systems or Software Deliverables, Supplier shall not knowingly invoke such disabling code at any time resulting in a material impact on the business of Company, including upon expiration or termination of this Agreement for
any reason, without Company s prior written consent.      Section 23.13  Deliverables . Supplier represents, warrants and covenants that, for a
period of one (1) year after (i) in the case of Transition or Transformation Deliverables used by Supplier to perform the Services, the expiration or termination of this Agreement, whichever is earlier, or (ii) in the case of all
other Deliverables, final acceptance of such Deliverable by Company, each such Deliverable (1) shall conform to the Acceptance Criteria for such Deliverable and shall not deviate from the specifications and requirements for such Deliverable
agreed upon by the Parties, including as set forth or referred to in  Exhibit 2  (Statement of Work), and (2) shall comply with cGMP, as applicable. Supplier further represents, warrants and covenants that the use of each Deliverable
by Company shall not infringe, or constitute an infringement or misappropriation of, any patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret or other proprietary rights of any Third Party provided, however, this representation, warranty and covenant shall
not apply to the extent the infringement results from (a) a modification of or to, or the misuse of, such Supplier Provided Items other than according to or in compliance with the specifications or designs of the applicable Deliverable, or
(b) the combination, operation or use of such Supplier Provided Items with Software or Equipment not furnished or approved by Supplier or not contemplated by the specifications of documentation for such Supplier Provided Items.      Section 23.14  Compliance with Laws and Regulations .       

(A)  
  Supplier represents, warrants and covenants that (1) it has a high level of expertise and significant experience in providing services of the kind contemplated by this
Agreement, and (2) it is familiar with Applicable Laws, including, but not limited to, HIPAA, [  *  ] and the regulations promulgated pursuant thereto, and current good clinical practices and current good laboratory practices (each as
defined under Applicable Laws).         

(B)  
  Supplier represents, warrants and covenants that (1) it is as of the Effective Date and will at all times be fully and properly licensed, qualified, experienced, equipped,
organized and financed to perform its obligations under this Agreement, (2) it is as of the Effective Date and will at all times be in compliance with all Applicable Laws, and (3) all Services and Deliverables provided under this Agreement
will be in material compliance with all Applicable Laws.         

(C)  
  To the extent Supplier creates, uses or modifies Software or Systems, Supplier represents, warrants and covenants that all such Software and Systems (1) shall be maintained in
accordance with this Agreement and (2) shall comply with, through electronic and/or manual (e.g., paper copies, personnel access controls), the standards contained in this Agreement that are related to all applicable U.S. and international
regulations governing software or information systems relating to the conduct of clinical trials, including, but not limited to, Title 21 of the United States Code of Federal Regulations Part 11 (electronic document and data management).
       Section 23.15  Solvency . Supplier represents and warrants that Supplier is financially solvent, able to pay its debts as they
mature, and possesses sufficient working capital to complete its obligations hereunder.      Section 23.16  Disability Claims . Company represents
that as of the date of their hiring by Supplier, none of the Transitioned Employees are receiving or are due to receive payments under any disability or  

Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential
treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission.   

permanent health or any similar insurance scheme and to Company s knowledge there are no claims pending or threatened which may give rise to such a
claim by any of the Transitioned Employees against Company in respect of any accident, injury, disability or ill-health.      Section 23.17
 Disclaimer . OTHER THAN AS PROVIDED IN THIS AGREEMENT, THERE ARE NO EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES MADE BY EITHER PARTY, INCLUDING IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.       ARTICLE 24        INSURANCE
      Supplier shall during the Term have and maintain in force at least the insurance coverage set forth in  Exhibit 25  (Insurance
Requirements), in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in such Exhibit.       ARTICLE 25        INDEMNITIES       Section 25.1  Supplier
Indemnification . Supplier shall defend, indemnify and hold harmless Company, its Affiliates, and their respective officers, directors and Personnel (the   Company Indemnified Parties  ) from and against any and all
(i) damages, liabilities, losses, costs, fees, penalties, and fines awarded to a Third Party by a court, in arbitration, by any judicial, regulatory or governmental authority or agreed to in a settlement approved by Supplier, and
(ii) expenses (including without limitation reasonable attorneys  fees and expenses (both in-house and outside attorneys), and costs of investigation, litigation, settlement, and judgment associated therewith ((i) and
(ii) collectively,   Losses  ) in connection with Third Party suits, actions, legal or administrative proceedings, claims, liens or demands (  Third Party Claims  ) arising out of or related to:       

(A)  
  Breach of Supplier s representations, warranties and covenants [  *  ] of this Agreement;         

(B)  
  Supplier s misappropriation of Confidential Information of Company;         

(C)  
  any breach of Supplier s obligations under this Agreement that results in a [  *  ]; provided, however, that (i)     [  *  ];

(D)  
  Any and all acts or omissions of Supplier or its Personnel resulting in any death, bodily injury or damage to real or tangible personal property in connection with the Services
[  *  ];         

(E)  
  Any and all breaches by Supplier of its obligations to its Subcontractors providing the Services;         

(F)  
  Any and all breaches by Supplier of Supplier Laws provided that [  *  ];         

(G)  
  Any and all breaches by Supplier of its obligations under [   *   ];         

(H)  
  Relating to Supplier s failure to observe or perform any duties or obligations to be observed or performed on or after the Effective Date by Supplier under any contracts,
including Software licenses, Equipment leases, Assigned Contracts and Managed Contracts, in each case, that are assigned to Supplier or for which Supplier has assumed financial, administrative or operational responsibility;     

(I)  
    Claims that the performance or use of the Services, or that the Deliverables, Supplier Software, Supplier Equipment, any other enhancements or modifications to any
Company Software or other works prepared or provided by Supplier or any other resources or items provided to Company by Supplier (collectively,   Supplier Provided   

Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential
treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission.   

Items  ) infringe the patent, copyright, trademark, service mark, trade name or other similar proprietary rights of such Third Party,
[  *  ]. Further, Supplier and its subsidiaries shall not be liable to Company or indemnify Company for any claims of patent infringement, including contributory infringement or inducement to infringe, of any patents owned or licensable
now or hereafter by Ronald A. Katz or Ronald A. Katz Technology Licensing, L.P. or by his or its successors or assigns, but only if and to the extent any such claim of infringement is based on the fact that the Services are not being provided from
facilities owned or leased by Supplier or that Supplier is not providing substantially all automated call processing and updating all databases associated with the Services;          

(J)  
  Any claims for Supplier s tax liabilities arising out of provision of Services, as set forth in  Section 19.4 ;         

(K)  
  Any claim by [  *  ] against any Company Indemnified Party alleging [  *  ]     Notwithstanding any other language in this  Article 25 , Supplier
shall defend, indemnify and hold any Company Indemnified Parties harmless with respect to all [  *  ];         

(L)  
  Any claim or action by, on behalf of, or related to, Affected Personnel arising on or after the Effective Date, including claims relating to employment or engagement, termination of
employment or engagement, occupational health and safety, worker s compensation, ERISA or arising under other Applicable Laws, and any representations, oral or written, made by Supplier to Company s employees [*];     

(M)  
  Any claims relating to any Transitioned Personnel arising before, on or after the Effective Date arising from the acts or omissions of Supplier, or one of its Affiliates or in
connection with a failure by Supplier to comply with ARD Laws or other Laws [  *  ];         

(N)  
  Any claim by or on behalf of any Personnel of Supplier engaged in the provision of Services by Supplier or any Supplier Personnel relating to the employment by Supplier or a claim
of co-employment by Company [*];         

(O)  
  Failure by Supplier to [  *  ].        Section 25.2  Company
Indemnification . Company shall defend, indemnify and hold harmless Supplier, its Affiliates, and their respective officers, directors and Personnel (the   Supplier Indemnified Parties  ) from and against any and all Losses in
connection with Third Party Claims arising out of or related to:       

(A)  
  Breach of Company s representations, warranties and covenants set forth in  Article 23 ;         

(B)  
  The acts or omissions of Company or its Personnel resulting in any death, bodily injury or damage to real or tangible personal property in connection with this Agreement
[  *  ];         

(C)  
  Claims that the use of the Company Provided Materials in connection with the Services infringes the Intellectual Property or other proprietary rights of such Third Party, except as
may have been caused by (i) a modification or misuse of such Company Software other than according to or in compliance with the specifications or designs thereof, or (ii) the combination, operation or use of such Company Software with
Software or Equipment not furnished or approved by Company or not contemplated by the documentation for or expected use of such Company Software;         

(D)  
  Any claim or action by, or on behalf of, or related to the Transitioned Personnel arising from the acts or omissions of the Company, or one of its Affiliates, prior to the Effective
Date, including claims relating to employment or engagement, occupational health and safety, worker s compensation, ERISA or arising under other Applicable Laws[*];           

    Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential
treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission.   

(E)  
  Any claim or action relating to Company s failure to observe or perform any duties or obligations to be observed or performed prior to the Effective Date by Company under any
of the contracts, including Software licenses, Equipment leases, Assigned Contracts and Managed Contracts;         

(F)  
  Any claim or action commenced against Supplier by a Company Service Recipient that directly and solely arises out of the Services under this Agreement, provided, however, that
(i) Company shall not be obligated to defend, indemnify or hold harmless Supplier under this  Section 25.1(F)  if such Company Services Recipient has a direct contractual relationship with Supplier or one of its Affiliates for the
provision of the Services that are the subject of the Losses, and (ii) indemnification hereunder shall not limit any rights Company may have against Supplier based on the events giving rise to the claim by Company Service Recipient; and

(G)  
  Any claim or action by an Affected Employee or Affected Contractor arising before, on or after the Effective Date to the extent arising out of or in connection with a failure by a
Company Indemnified Party to comply with ARD Law.        Section 25.3  Infringement . If any Supplier Provided Item becomes, or in
Supplier s reasonable opinion is likely to become, the subject of an infringement, including misappropriation, claim or proceeding, Supplier shall, in addition to indemnifying Company as provided in this Article and to the other rights Company
may have under this Agreement, (A) promptly at Supplier s expense secure the right to continue using the Supplier Provided Item, or (B) if this cannot be accomplished with commercially reasonable efforts, then at Supplier s
expense, replace or modify the Supplier Provided Item to make it non-infringing, provided that any such replacement or modification shall not degrade the performance or quality of the Supplier Provided Item or any affected component of the Services,
or (C) if neither of the foregoing can be accomplished by Supplier with commercially reasonable efforts, and only in such event, then remove the Supplier Provided Item from the Services, in which case the Charges shall be equitably adjusted to
reflect such removal.      Section 25.4  Indemnification Procedures . With respect to third-party claims for which a Party is seeking indemnification
hereunder, the following procedures shall apply:       

(A)  
  Promptly after receipt by any entity entitled to indemnification under  Section 25.1  and  Section 25.2  of notice of the assertion or the commencement of any
action, proceeding or other claim by a Third Party in respect of which the indemnitee shall seek indemnification pursuant to any such Section, the indemnitee shall notify the indemnitor of such claim in writing. No failure to so notify an indemnitor
shall relieve it of its obligations under this Agreement except to the extent that it can demonstrate actual damages attributable to such failure. Within fifteen (15) days following receipt of written notice from the indemnitee relating to any
claim, but no later than ten (10) days before the date on which any response to a complaint or summons is due, the indemnitor shall notify the indemnitee in writing if the indemnitor acknowledges its indemnification obligation and elects to
assume control of the defense and settlement of that claim (a   Notice of Election  ).         

(B)  
    If the indemnitor delivers a Notice of Election relating to any claim within the required notice period, the indemnitor shall be entitled to have sole control over
the defense and settlement of such claim; provided that (1) the indemnitee shall be entitled to participate in the defense of such claim and to employ counsel at its own expense to assist in the handling of such claim; and (2) the
indemnitor shall obtain the prior written approval of the indemnitee before entering into any settlement of such claim or ceasing to defend against such claim. After the indemnitor has delivered a Notice of Election relating to any claim in
accordance with the preceding paragraph, the indemnitor shall not be liable to the indemnitee for any legal or other expenses incurred by the indemnitee in connection with the defense of that claim. In addition, the indemnitor shall not be required
to  

indemnify the indemnitee for any amount paid or payable by the indemnitee in the settlement of any claim for which the indemnitor has delivered a timely
Notice of Election if such amount was agreed to without the written consent of the indemnitor. The indemnitee and the indemnitor shall [  *  ].          

(C)  
  If the indemnitor does not deliver a Notice of Election relating to a claim, or otherwise fails to acknowledge its indemnification obligation or to assume the defense of a claim,
within the required notice period, the indemnitee shall have the right to defend the claim in such manner as it may deem appropriate, at the cost and expense of the indemnitor, including payment of any judgment or award and the costs of settlement
or compromise of the claim. The indemnitor shall promptly reimburse the indemnitee for all such costs and expenses, including payment of any judgment or award and the costs of settlement or compromise of the claim.         

(D)  
  [  *  ].        Section 25.5  Subrogation . In the event
that an indemnitor shall be obligated to indemnify an indemnitee pursuant to this Article, the indemnitor shall, upon fulfillment of its obligations with respect to indemnification, including payment in full of all amounts due pursuant to its
indemnification obligations, be subrogated to the rights of the indemnitee with respect to the claims to which such indemnification relates.       ARTICLE 26        LIABILITY       Section 26.1  General Intent . Subject to the specific provisions of this Article, it is the intent of the Parties that each Party shall be liable to the other Party for any actual damages incurred by the non-breaching Party as a
result of the breaching Party s failure to perform its obligations in the manner required by this Agreement.      Section 26.2  Liability
Restrictions .       

(A)  
  SUBJECT TO  SECTION 26.2(D)  AND  SECTION 26.2(E) , IN NO EVENT, WHETHER IN CONTRACT OR IN TORT (INCLUDING BREACH OF WARRANTY, NEGLIGENCE AND STRICT LIABILITY IN TORT),
SHALL A PARTY BE LIABLE FOR INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL, EXEMPLARY, PUNITIVE OR SPECIAL DAMAGES EVEN IF SUCH PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES IN ADVANCE.         

(B)  
  Subject to  Section 26.2(C) , each Party s total liability to the other for Direct Damages, whether in contract or in tort (including breach of warranty, negligence
and strict liability in tort) shall be limited in the aggregate for all claims and causes of action to an amount equal to the total Charges payable to Supplier pursuant to this Agreement for proper performance of the Services for the
[  *  ] prior to the month in which the most recent event giving rise to liability occurred; provided that if such event giving rise to liability occurs during the first [  *  ] after the Effective Date, liability shall be the
limited to an amount equal to the greater of (i) the total Charges that would be payable to Supplier pursuant to this Agreement for proper performance for the Services during such [  *  ] period, and (ii) the total Charges
payable to Supplier pursuant to this Agreement for proper performance of the Services since the Effective Date. The following do not count against and do not reduce the amounts available under the foregoing limitations: (i) Service Level
Credits; (ii) payments of taxes; and (iii)     [  *  ].         

(C)  
  The limitations set forth in  Section 26.2(B)  shall not apply with respect to:         

(1)  
  Company s payment obligations under this Agreement;           

    Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential
treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission.   

(2)  
  the failure of Supplier to issue credits or otherwise make payments due to Company under this Agreement;         

(3)  
  claims based on the acts or omissions of Company or its Personnel resulting in any death, bodily injury or damage to real or tangible personal property to the extent arising out of
or related to Company s or its Personnel s breach of this Agreement, negligence, or willful misconduct;         

(4)  
  claims based on the acts or omissions of Supplier resulting in any death, bodily injury or damage to real or tangible personal property to the extent arising out of or related to
Supplier s breach of this Agreement, negligence, or willful misconduct;         

(5)  
  misappropriation by Supplier of Company s Confidential Information;         

(6)  
  misappropriation by Company of Supplier s Confidential Information;         

(7)  
  breach of Supplier s obligations under this Agreement that results in a [  *  ];         

(8)  
  damages occasioned by the [  *  ] of a Party;         

(9)  
  damages occasioned by the [  *  ] of a Party, for which each Party s total liability to the other for Direct Damages shall be limited in the aggregate to an amount
equal to the total Charges payable to Supplier pursuant to this Agreement for proper performance of the Services for the [  *  ] prior to the month in which the most recent event giving rise to liability occurred; provided that if such
event giving rise to liability occurs during the first [  *  ] after the Effective Date, liability shall be the limited to an amount equal to the greater of (i) the total Charges that would be payable to Supplier pursuant to this
Agreement for proper performance for the Services during [  *  ] period, and (ii) the total Charges payable to Supplier pursuant to this Agreement for proper performance of the Services [  *  ];         

(10)  
  for clarity, Losses that are the subject of indemnification hereunder; and         

(D)  
  The limitations set forth in  Section 26.2(A)  shall not apply with respect to:         

(1)  
  Company s payment obligations under this Agreement;         

(2)  
  the failure of Supplier to issue credits or otherwise make payments due to Company under this Agreement;         

(3)  
  misappropriation by Supplier of Company s Confidential Information;         

(4)  
  misappropriation by Company of Supplier s Confidential Information; and         

(5)  
  Losses that are the subject of indemnification hereunder, subject to any limitations contained therein and in  Section 26.2(E)(3)  and  Section 26.2(E)(4) .

(E)  
  The limitations set forth in  Section 26.2(A)  shall not apply with respect to the following, provided that Supplier s and, as the case may be, Company s
liability for indirect, consequential, exemplary, punitive or special damages for the items listed in this  Section 26.2(E)  shall not exceed the following amounts:         

(1)  
  [  *  ], for breach of Supplier s obligations under this Agreement that results in [*] a total liability limited in the aggregate to an amount equal to [*]; provided,
however, to the extent that [  *  ];           

    Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential
treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission.   

(2)  
  provided that Company has met its payment obligations under this Agreement, for damages occasioned by [  *   ] , in each case, that [  *  ], Supplier s
total liability shall be limited in the aggregate to an amount equal to [*];         

(3)  
  for damages occasioned by the [  *  ], (i) a total liability limited in the aggregate to an amount equal to [*]; (ii) except, [  *  ]; and

(4)  
  for damages occasioned by the [*], (i) a total liability limited in the aggregate to an amount equal to [*]; (ii) except, [*].         

(F)  
  Each Party shall have a duty to mitigate damages for which the other Party is responsible.         

(G)  
  Recovery of amounts under  Section 26.2(C)(9)  (Direct Damages occasioned by [  *  ]) and amounts under  Section 26.2(E)(3)  (indirect or
consequential, exemplary, punitive or special damages occasioned by [  *  ]) that are in excess of [  *  ], the Direct Damages liability cap in  Section 26.2(B) .         ARTICLE 27        CONTINUED PROVISION OF
SERVICES       Section 27.1  Force Majeure .       

(A)  
  No Party shall be liable for any default or delay in the performance of its obligations under this Agreement (1) if and to the extent such default or delay is caused, directly
or indirectly, by fire, flood, earthquake, elements of nature or acts of God, riots, civil disorders, or any other cause beyond the reasonable control of such Party, (2) provided the non-performing Party is without fault in causing such default
or delay, and such default or delay could not have been prevented by reasonable precautions and could not reasonably be circumvented by the non-performing Party through the use of alternate sources, workaround plans or other means (including with
respect to Supplier by Supplier meeting its obligations for performing disaster recovery services as described in this Agreement) (a   Force Majeure Event  ). In the event of the occurrence of an event covered by the DRP, the terms of
the DRP shall prevail, and this  Section 27.1  shall be of no effect as to the performance of Services covered by the DRP.         

(B)  
  In the case of a Force Majeure Event, the non-performing Party shall be excused from further performance or observance of the obligation(s) so affected for as long as such
circumstances prevail and such Party continues to use commercially reasonable efforts to recommence performance or observance whenever and to whatever extent possible without delay. Any Party so delayed in its performance shall immediately notify
the Party to whom performance is due by telephone (to be confirmed in writing within two (2) days of the inception of such delay) and describe at a reasonable level of detail the circumstances causing such delay.         

(C)  
  If any event under  Section 27.1(A)  substantially prevents, hinders or delays performance of (1) the Services necessary for the performance of functions reasonably
identified by Company as critical for the lesser of (i) the applicable RTO set forth in the DRP or (ii) seventy two (72) consecutive hours, or (2) any other Services for more than the lesser of the applicable RTO or ten
(10) consecutive days, then at Company s option:         

(1)  
  Company may procure such Services from an alternate source, and Supplier shall be liable for payment of the reasonable fees for such Services from the alternate source for the
lesser of (i) so long as the delay in performance shall continue, or (ii) one hundred eighty (180) days;           

    Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential
treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission.   

(2)  
  Company may, thirty (30) calendar days after [  *  ]; or         

(3)  
  Company may, thirty (30) calendar days after [  *  ].         

(D)  
  Supplier shall not have the right to any additional payments from Company for costs or expenses incurred by Supplier as a result of any Force Majeure Event.
       Section 27.2  Disaster Recovery .       

(A)  
   Disaster Recovery Plan . Supplier shall, in accordance with the schedule set forth in the Transition Plan:         

(1)  
  develop, submit to Company for Company s review, and implement a disaster recovery plan (  DRP  ) Accepted by Company, which DRP shall contain recovery time
objectives (  RTOs  ) after the occurrence of any disaster during which the Services shall be fully restored in accordance with the Service Levels which RTOs shall be in accordance with the Service Levels and other requirements set
forth in this Agreement, consistent with industry best practices for Company s industry and the Services, and no longer in duration or less protective of Company than those established by Company as of the Effective Date;

(2)  
  update and test (with Company s cooperation, at Company s option, allow Company to participate in such updates and tests) every six (6) months the operability of the
DRP to ensure that the DRP is fully operational;         

(3)  
  certify to Company at least once during every six (6) month period during the Term and the Termination/Expiration Assistance Period that the DRP is fully operational; and

(4)  
  implement the DRP upon the occurrence of a disaster.        Prior to implementation of the DRP, Supplier shall implement Company s existing DRP.       

(B)  
   Disaster Recovery Testing . Supplier shall cooperate with Company in joint disaster recovery planning and testing activities, subject to the Parties  respective safety
and security policies and procedures. Supplier shall provide to Company a copy of the results of all disaster recovery tests conducted by or for Supplier to the extent relevant to the Services.         

(C)  
   Disaster Occurrence . In the event of a disaster covered by the DRP, Supplier shall reinstate the Services within the applicable RTOs. In the event the applicable Services are
not reinstated within the applicable RTOs or the Services are not returned to their state of delivery prior to the subject disaster within the time specified in the DRP, then at its option:         

(1)  
  Unless Supplier has notified Company that Supplier has already done so, Company may procure the affected Services from an alternate source, and Supplier shall be liable for payment
of the reasonable fees for such Services from the alternate source until the Services are restored;           

    Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential
treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission.   

(2)  
  Company may, after [  *  ]; or         

(3)  
  Company may, after [  *  ].        Supplier shall not
have the right to any additional payments from Company for costs or expenses incurred by Supplier as a result of a disaster covered by the DRP, and Supplier shall be liable for the actual Direct Damages of Company resulting from the failure of
Supplier to meet the requirements of the DRP, including, but not limited to (i) engaging an alternate source of Services, and (ii) transitioning the Services to a new service provider or insourcing the Services.       

(D)  
  In the event of a disaster in which Supplier is required under this Agreement, including but not limited to the DRP, to implement an interim workaround to restore the Services to
the Service Levels, Supplier shall implement the interim workaround to the extent it satisfies the requirements set forth in the DRP and shall eliminate the interim workaround and return the Services to their state of delivery prior to the subject
disaster within (i) the applicable RTO for such restoration, if any, or (ii) if no such RTO exists, within thirty (30) days of restoration of the Services to within the Service Levels.         ARTICLE 28        DISPUTE RESOLUTION  
     Any dispute between the Parties arising out of or relating to this Agreement, including with respect to the interpretation of any provision of this
Agreement and with respect to the performance by Supplier or Company, shall be resolved as provided in this Article.      Section 28.1  Informal Dispute
Resolution . Subject to  Section 28.4 , the Parties initially shall attempt to resolve their dispute informally, in accordance with the following:       

(A)  
  Upon the written request by a Party (  Dispute Notice  ), each Party shall appoint a designated representative who does not devote substantially all of his or her
time to performance under this Agreement, whose task it shall be to meet for the purpose of endeavoring to resolve such dispute.         

(B)  
  The designated representatives shall meet as often as the Parties reasonably deem necessary in order to gather and furnish to the other all information with respect to the matter in
issue which the Parties believe to be appropriate and germane in connection with its resolution. The representatives shall discuss the problem and attempt to resolve the dispute without the necessity of any formal proceeding.

(C)  
  The specific format for the discussions shall be left to the discretion of the designated representatives.        Section 28.2  Litigation . Litigation of a dispute may be commenced by either Party upon the earliest to occur of any of the following:       

(A)  
  the designated representatives conclude in good faith that amicable resolution through continued negotiation of the matter does not appear likely;         

(B)  
  thirty-five (35) days have elapsed from the date of the Dispute Notice (this period shall be deemed to run notwithstanding any claim that the process described in this Section
was not followed or completed); or           

    Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential
treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission.   

(C)  
  commencement of litigation is appropriate to avoid the expiration of an applicable limitations period or to preserve a superior position with respect to other creditors, or a Party
makes a good faith determination, including as provided in  Section 28.4  with respect to Company, that a breach of this Agreement by the other Party is such that a temporary restraining order or other injunctive relief is necessary.
       Section 28.3  Governing Law, Jurisdiction and Venue . This Agreement and performance under it shall be governed by and construed
in accordance with the Laws of the State of California without regard to its choice of law principles. For all actions that may arise with respect to this Agreement, the Parties irrevocably and unconditionally submit (A) to the non-exclusive
jurisdiction and venue (and waive any claim of forum non conveniens) of the United States District Court for the Central District of California or (B) if such court does not have jurisdiction, to the Superior Court of the State of California,
Ventura County. The Parties further consent to the jurisdiction of any court located within a district which encompasses assets of a Party against which a judgment has been rendered for the enforcement of such judgment or award against the assets of
such Party. NOTWITHSTANDING THE FOREGOING AND ONLY WITH RESPECT TO [  *  ].      Section 28.4  Specific Performance . In the event a court
determines that Supplier has or is reasonably likely to have (i)     [  *  ], or (ii) breached Supplier s obligations to [  *  ].      Section 28.5  Continued Performance . Subject to Company continuing to comply with its obligations under  Article 19  and  Article 20  (including  Section 20.8 ), each Party agrees to
continue performing its obligations under this Agreement while a dispute is being resolved except to the extent the issue in dispute precludes performance (dispute over payment shall not be deemed to preclude performance) and without limiting either
Party s right to terminate this Agreement as provided in  Article 29 .       ARTICLE 29        TERMINATION       Section 29.1  Termination for
Cause .       

(A)  
  In the event that Supplier:         

(1)  
  commits a material breach of this Agreement, which breach is capable of being cured within thirty (30) days after notice of breach from Company to Supplier, but is not cured in
such 30-day period;         

(2)  
  commits a material breach of this Agreement that is not capable of being cured within thirty (30) days but is capable of being cured within sixty (60) days and fails to
(a) proceed promptly and diligently to correct the breach, (b) develop within thirty (30) days following written notice of breach from Company a complete plan for curing the breach, and (c) cure the breach within sixty
(60) days of notice thereof;         

(3)  
  commits a material breach of this Agreement that is not subject to cure with due diligence within sixty (60) days of written notice thereof; or         

(4)  
  commits numerous breaches of its duties or obligations which collectively constitute a material breach of this Agreement;        then Company may, by giving written notice to Supplier, terminate this Agreement, in whole or in part, as of a date specified in the notice of
termination. If Company chooses to terminate this Agreement in part, the Charges payable under this Agreement shall be equitably adjusted to reflect those services that are terminated. Termination under this section shall be without penalty and
without the payment of any termination fees or Wind-down Expenses.         

    Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential
treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission.   

Without limiting the rights of Company to terminate this Agreement for cause based on other acts or
omissions of Supplier hereunder, [  *  ].       

(B)  
  [*]        Any notice required or permitted hereunder shall be
in writing and shall be deemed given as of the date it is (i) delivered by hand; or (ii) received by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested; or (iii) confirmed as received if by facsimile; or
(iv) received by nationally recognized, overnight courier, and addressed to the party to receive such notice at the address set forth below, and such other address as is identified in  Section 30.3  in writing:      Vice President, Information Systems Infrastructure      Amgen Inc.      Mailstop: 81-1-B      One Amgen Center Drive      Thousand Oaks, CA 91320-1799      Fax Number: [*]      And      Executive Director, Information Systems Infrastructure, Sourcing Management      and Governance      Amgen Inc.      Mailstop: 35-2-A      One Amgen Center Drive
     Thousand Oaks, CA 91320-1799      Fax Number: [*]      Section 29.2  Termination for Convenience . Company may terminate this Agreement for convenience and without cause at
any time after the first anniversary of Effective Date by giving Supplier at least six (6) months prior written notice designating the termination date [  *  ]. In the event that a purported termination for cause by Company under
 Section 29.1(A)  is determined by a competent authority not to be properly a termination for cause, then such termination by Company shall be deemed to be a termination for convenience under this Section.      Section 29.3  [  *   ].      Section 29.4
 Termination Upon Change of Control . Subject to the following sentence, in the event (A) another entity, directly or indirectly, in a single transaction or series of related transactions, acquires either Control of Supplier or all or
substantially all of the assets of Supplier, or (B) Supplier is merged with or into another entity to form a new entity, Company shall have the right to terminate this Agreement on written notice to Supplier and payment of the applicable
termination fee set forth in  Exhibit 4  (Pricing). [  *  ].      Section 29.5  [  *  ] .      Section 29.6  Extension of Termination/Expiration Effective Date . Company may extend the effective date of the termination or expiration of this Agreement one
or more times as it elects, at its discretion, by notice to Supplier at least sixty (60) days prior to the then-current effective date of termination or expiration, provided that the total of all such extensions shall not exceed one hundred and
eighty (180) days following the original effective date of termination or expiration.         

    Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential
treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission.   

Section 29.7  Termination/Expiration Assistance .       

(A)  
  Commencing six (6) months prior to expiration of this Agreement or on such earlier date as Company may reasonably request, or commencing upon a notice of termination (including
notice based upon default by Company) or of non-renewal of this Agreement, and continuing for a period of twelve (12) months following the effective date of termination or expiration of this Agreement (the   Termination/Expiration
Assistance Period  ) (as such effective date may be extended pursuant to  Section 29.5 ), Supplier shall continue to provide to Company, or at Company s request to one or more Company designees, the Services that were provided
prior thereto and any reasonable cooperation requested by Company that may be required from Supplier to facilitate the transfer of the affected Services to Company or a third-party service Supplier, as applicable, or Company s designee
(  Termination/Expiration Assistance  ). The quality and level of performance during the Termination/Expiration Assistance Period shall not be degraded. After the expiration of the Termination/Expiration Assistance Period, Supplier
shall (1) use commercially reasonable efforts to answer questions from Company regarding the Services on an  as needed  basis on a time-and-materials basis and (2) deliver to Company any remaining Company-owned reports and
documentation still in Supplier s possession.        Charges for Termination/Expiration Assistance by Supplier shall be at the
rates specified in  Exhibit 4  (Pricing). Without limiting the foregoing, Supplier agrees there shall be no additional charges for Termination/Expiration Assistance to the extent that Supplier can perform Termination/Expiration Assistance
using its then-existing resources dedicated to providing the Services under this Agreement. If Termination/Expiration Assistance will require the use of different or additional services or resources beyond that which Supplier is then using to
provide the Services in accordance with  Exhibit 4-D  (Resource Units) and Service Levels, then such request for Termination/Expiration Assistance shall be considered a New Service and shall be subject to the Change Control Procedure. If
Supplier terminates this Agreement for Company s material breach, Supplier may require that Company pays for such Termination/Expiration Assistance in advance.       

(B)  
    Termination/Expiration Assistance   shall include the obligation to continue to provide the Services, the assistance described in  Exhibit 26 
(Termination/Expiration Assistance) and the following:         

(1)  
  Company or its designee shall be permitted to undertake, without interference from Supplier, to hire any Supplier Personnel primarily performing the Services as of the date Supplier
receives notice of termination, or, in the case of expiration, within the six (6) month period (or longer period requested by Company) prior to expiration. Supplier shall waive, and shall use commercially reasonable efforts to cause its
Supplier Personnel to waive, their rights, if any, under contracts with such Personnel restricting the ability of such Personnel to be recruited or hired by Company or its designee. Company or its designees shall have reasonable access to such
Personnel for interviews and recruitment. Unless otherwise agreed, the hire date for any such Supplier Personnel hired by Company or Company s designee under this Section shall be after the expiration of the Termination/Expiration Assistance.

(2)  
  If Company is entitled pursuant to this Agreement to a sublicense or other right to Use any Software owned or licensed by Supplier, Supplier shall provide such sublicense or other
right.         

(3)  
    At Company s request and expense for any related consent or assignment fees, Supplier shall (a) obtain any Required Consents from third parties and
thereafter assign to Company or its designees leases for some or all of the Equipment that  

was necessary as of the date of termination/expiration of this Agreement primarily for providing the Services, and Company shall assume the obligations under
such leases that relate to periods after such date; and (b) sell to Company or its designees Supplier s then-current net book value (using straight-line depreciation method), some or all of the Equipment owned by Supplier that was
necessary as of the date of termination/expiration of this Agreement primarily for providing the Services. Supplier shall also provide all user s manuals and other documentation relevant to such Equipment that is in Supplier s possession.
Upon Company s review and approval of any maintenance agreements for such Equipment, Company shall assume responsibility under any such maintenance agreements to the extent such responsibilities relate to periods after the date of
termination/expiration of this Agreement.          

(4)  
  Supplier shall use commercially reasonable efforts to obtain any necessary rights and thereafter make available to Company or its designee, pursuant to reasonable terms and
conditions, any third-party services then being utilized by Supplier primarily in the performance of the Services including services being provided through third-party service or maintenance contracts on Equipment and Software. Supplier shall be
entitled to retain the right to utilize any such third-party services in connection with the performance of services for any other Supplier customer.         

(5)  
  Supplier shall provide reasonable training to Company s or its designee s personnel for the purpose of transferring Supplier s know-how used to perform the Services.
Such knowledge transfer shall be sufficient to enable Company or its designee to perform the services using qualified Personnel following the effective date of termination of this Agreement.         

(6)  
  To the extent that Supplier has incorporated Company s network into a Supplier-proprietary network, Supplier shall provide up to two years of continued network services at the
then-current contract rates for such service, in order to permit Company to establish its own network in an orderly manner.         

(C)  
  During the Termination/Expiration Assistance Period Supplier shall continue to provide, at Company s request, Termination/Expiration Assistance. Actions by Supplier under this
Section shall be subject to the other provisions of this Agreement.         

(D)  
  In the process of evaluating whether to undertake or allow termination, expiration or renewal of this Agreement, Company may consider obtaining, or determine to obtain, offers for
performance of services similar to the Services following termination or expiration of this Agreement. As and when reasonably requested by Company for use in this process, Supplier shall provide to Company such information and other cooperation
regarding performance of the Services as would be reasonably necessary for a Third Party to prepare an informed, non-qualified offer for such services, and for a Third Party not to be unreasonably disadvantaged compared to Supplier if Supplier were
to be invited by Company to submit a proposal. The types of information and level of cooperation to be provided by Supplier pursuant to this Section shall be no less than those initially provided by Company to Supplier prior to commencement of this
Agreement. Supplier s support in this respect shall include providing information regarding Equipment, Software, staffing and other matters described in  Exhibit 26  (Termination/Expiration Assistance) as applicable to this Section.
In no event shall Supplier be required to provide information relating to its costs or other customers.         

(E)  
    Supplier acknowledges that, in the event it breaches (or attempts or threatens to breach) its obligations provided in this  Section 29.7 , Company may be
irreparably harmed. In such a circumstance, Company may proceed directly to court. If a court of competent  

jurisdiction should find that Supplier has breached any such obligations, Supplier agrees that, without any additional findings of irreparable injury or
other conditions to injunctive relief, it shall not oppose the entry of an order compelling specific performance by Supplier and restraining it from any further breaches.         Section 29.8  Immediate Obligations of Supplier Upon Termination . Upon receipt of Company s notice of termination, Supplier shall (1) immediately
discontinue the Services on the date and to the extent specified in the notice; (2) incur no further obligations, including placement of orders for material, services or facilities, with respect to the terminated Services; (3) protect and
maintain any materials and supplies utilized in providing the Services and any work completed or in progress; (4) mitigate costs associated with such termination; and (5) take such other actions as Company may direct.      Section 29.9  Suspension by Company . Company may, at any time, by notice to Supplier, suspend all or any portion of the Services. Within thirty (30) days
of any such suspension designated representatives of Company and Supplier shall meet to discuss the suspension and an equitable adjustment to the schedule of Services and the associated Charges as necessary. Unless otherwise agreed, during such
discussions the then-current Charges for the Services proposed to be suspended shall remain in effect.      Section 29.10  Notice of Deteriorating
Financial Condition . In the event of the occurrence of an Event of Deteriorating Supplier Condition, Supplier shall immediately provide notification of such event to Company and Supplier shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to
(i) at the expense of Company, cooperate with Company and any third-party service providers selected by Company, to establish a contingency plan to avoid disruption of Services in the event that Supplier is unable to meet its obligations under
this Agreement, which contingency plan may provide for securing from all relevant third parties, including equipment providers and service providers, all rights reasonably required for Company to continue to receive the Services, and (ii) in
the event Company has a good faith belief that the delivery of Services may be impacted by the Event of Deteriorating Supplier Condition, implement such contingency plan. In the event that Company becomes aware of an Event of Deteriorating Supplier
Condition for which Supplier has not provided such notification to Company, Company shall have the immediate right, subject to the terms of this Agreement, to take all reasonable actions to ensure continued availability of the Services, either by
Supplier, Company or its third-party designee. Supplier acknowledges that (a) interruption of the Services will have a material adverse impact on the operation of the business of Company, and (b) implementation of the contingency plan may
result in reduction of performance of Services by Supplier and duplicative charges to Company. Supplier shall fully cooperate with Company in minimizing the impact of an Event of Deteriorating Supplier Condition on the business Company and in
mitigating applicable Charges associated with implementing the contingency plan.      Section 29.11  Upon Termination . Subject to any rights
hereunder to withhold payment, upon expiration or termination of this Agreement, Company shall remain obligated to pay Supplier amounts due and owing hereunder for Supplier s performance of Services pursuant to the terms of this Agreement prior
to the date of expiration or the effective date of termination, including for Services under  Section 29.7 .       ARTICLE 30  
      GENERAL       Section 30.1  Binding
Nature and Assignment . This Agreement shall be binding on the Parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. Company has specifically contracted with Supplier because of its unique experience, expertise and qualifications; and,
therefore, Supplier may not assign or delegate Supplier s obligations under this Agreement, either in whole or in part, without the prior written consent of Company. Any attempt by Supplier to assign or delegate this Agreement, in whole or in
part, and any assignment of Supplier s obligations under this Agreement by operation of law, order of any court, or pursuant to any plan of merger, spin-off, consolidation or liquidation, in either case without Company s prior written
consent, shall be deemed a default under this Agreement and such assignment or delegation shall be void. Company may assign this Agreement at any time without the consent of Supplier.         

Section 30.2  Entire Agreement; Amendment . This Agreement, including any Exhibits referred to herein and
attached hereto, each of which is incorporated herein for all purposes, constitutes the entire agreement between the Parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior agreements, whether written or oral, with respect to the
subject matter contained in this Agreement. No change, waiver, or discharge hereof shall be valid unless in writing and signed by an authorized representative of the Party against which such change, waiver or discharge is sought to be enforced.
     Section 30.3  Notices . Any notice required or permitted hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed given as of the date it is
(i) delivered by hand; or (ii) received by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested; or (iii) confirmed as received if by facsimile; or (iv) received by nationally recognized, overnight courier, and
addressed to the party to receive such notice at the address set forth below, or such other address as is subsequently specified in writing:       
    Section 30.4  Counterparts . This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, all of which taken
together shall constitute one single agreement between the Parties.      Section 30.5  Relationship of Parties . Supplier is engaged in an
independent business and not as an agent, employee, partner or joint employer of Company. Supplier represents and warrants that it is an employer subject to, and shall comply with, all Supplier Laws, including without limitation applicable wage and
hour statutes, unemployment compensation statutes and occupational safety and health statutes, and shall be responsible for withholding and payment of any and all payroll taxes and contributions, including without limitation federal, state,
provincial, commonwealth and local income taxes; Federal Insurance Contributions Act, Federal Unemployment Tax Act and state unemployment contributions; and workers  compensation and disability insurance payments. Each Party shall be
responsible for the acts, errors, omissions and conduct of any of its Personnel. Supplier acknowledges and agrees that Company shall have no responsibility or liability for treating Supplier Personnel as employees of Company for any purpose. Neither
Supplier nor any Supplier Personnel shall be eligible for coverage or to receive any benefit under any Company-provided workers  compensation, employee plans or programs or employee compensation arrangement, including without limitation any and
all medical and dental plans, bonus or incentive plans, retirement benefit plans, stock plans, disability benefit plans, life insurance and any and all other such plans or benefits. Supplier shall have no authority to contract for or to bind Company
in any manner and shall not represent itself as an agent of Company or as otherwise authorized to act for or on behalf of Company, except as expressly authorized in this Agreement.      Section 30.6  Severability . In the event that any provision of this Agreement conflicts with the Law under which this Agreement is to be construed or if any such provision is held invalid by a competent
authority, such provision shall be deemed to be restated to reflect as nearly as possible the original intentions of the Parties in accordance with Laws. The remainder of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.         

    Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential
treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission.   

Section 30.7  Consents and Approval . Except where expressly provided as being in the discretion of a Party,
where agreement, approval, consent, or similar action by either Party is required under this Agreement, such action shall not be unreasonably delayed or withheld. An approval or consent given by a Party under this Agreement shall not relieve the
other Party from responsibility for complying with the requirements of this Agreement, nor shall it be construed as a waiver of any rights under this Agreement, except as and to the extent otherwise expressly provided in such approval or consent.
Each Party shall, at the request of the other Party, perform those actions, including executing additional documents and instruments, reasonably necessary to give full effect to the terms of this Agreement.      Section 30.8  Waiver of Default; Cumulative Remedies .       

(A)  
  A delay or omission by either Party to exercise any right or power under this Agreement shall not be construed to be a waiver thereof. A waiver by either of the Parties of any of
the covenants to be performed by the other or any breach thereof shall not be construed to be a waiver of any succeeding breach thereof or of any other covenant herein contained.         

(B)  
  Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all remedies provided for in this Agreement shall be cumulative and in addition to and not in lieu of any other remedies available to
either Party at law or in equity. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, upon the occurrence of an event or series of events giving rise to (i) termination hereunder under more than one provision hereof, (ii) a right of
indemnification under more than one provision hereof, or (iii) one or more rights to seek greater liability for Direct Damages, indirect or consequential, exemplary, punitive or special damages, the affected Party shall have the right to
termination, indemnification, or to seek greater liability, as the case may be, under any or all such provisions.        Section 30.9
 Survival . The provisions of this Agreement that by their very nature survive termination or expiration of this Agreement shall so survive. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing sentence,  Section 2.3 ,
 Section 3.5 ,  Section 5.6 ,  Section 8.5 ,  Section 9.6 ,  Section 11.5(D) ,  Section 12.2  (last sentence),  Section 13.6 ,  Section 14.1 ,
 Section 14.2(C)(2) ,  Section 14.3  through  Section 14.6 ,  Section 14.7(A)  (first two sentences),  Section 17.7(D) ,  Section 19.4 , and  Section 29.1  through
 Section 29.8 , and  Article 18 ,  Article 20 ,  Article 21 ,  Article 22 ,  Article 25 ,  Article 26 ,  Article 27 ,  Article 28  and  Article 30  shall also survive termination of this
Agreement.      Section 30.10  Public Disclosures . All media releases, public announcements and public disclosures by either Party relating to this
Agreement or the subject matter of this Agreement, including promotional or marketing material, but not including announcements intended solely for internal distribution or disclosures to the extent required to meet legal or regulatory requirements
beyond the reasonable control of the disclosing Party, shall be coordinated with and approved by the other Party prior to release.      Section 30.11
 Trademarks . Supplier agrees that, except for the purposes of performance under this Agreement, it shall not use or allow Supplier Personnel to use, without Company s prior written consent, Company s name (or the names of
Company s subsidiaries or parent (if any), or any derivatives thereof), or any service marks or trademarks of Company. This prohibition of use shall include use in any publicity or advertising, including media releases, public announcements, or
public disclosures. Supplier shall immediately provide notice to Company in the event it becomes aware of any violation of this prohibition and, at Supplier s sole expense, take such steps necessary to cease and cure such violation to
Company s satisfaction.         

Section 30.12  Third Party Beneficiaries .       

(A)  
  This Agreement is entered into solely between, and except as provided below, may be enforced only by, Company and Supplier. The Parties do not intend to create any third party
beneficiary rights for any person or entity other than each member of Company Group, each of which shall be a third party beneficiary under this Agreement for all purposes.         

(B)  
  [  *  ]        Section 30.13  Non-Solicitation of
Employees . Subject to  Section 11.5  and  Section 29.7(B)(1) , from the Effective Date until [  *  ] a Party shall not directly or indirectly solicit or seek to procure (other than by general advertising), without
the prior written consent of the other Party, the employment of (A) [  *  ]      Section 30.14  Covenant of Good Faith . Each Party
agrees that, in its respective dealings with the other Party under or in connection with this Agreement, it shall act in good faith.      Section 30.15
 Freedom of Action . Supplier may enter into similar agreements with others and develop and provide hardware, software, or services that are similar to or competitive with the hardware, software, and Services provided under this Agreement,
except to the extent that such hardware, software, or services infringe Company s patent rights or copyrights under Applicable Laws.       [Remainder of Page Intentionally Left Blank; Signature Page Follows]          

    Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential
treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission.   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused their duly authorized representatives to execute this Agreement.

AMGEN INC.   

INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES       CORPORATION     

/s/ Tom Flanagan   

/s/ Chris Nicoletti    
 
    (signature)   

(signature)    

By:  
     
  Tom Flanagan  

By:  
     
  Chris Nicoletti   
 
  Title:  
     
    Senior Vice President and Chief     Information
Officer   

Title:  
     
    Vice President, Healthcare and Life     Sciences Industry

</EX-10.71>

<EX-10.72>
 6
 dex1072.htm
 INTEGRATED FACILITIES MANAGENENT SERVICES AGREEMENT

Integrated Facilities Managenent Services Agreement 

Exhibit 10.72        INTEGRATED FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES AGREEMENT       This Integrated Facilities Management Services Agreement (this
  Agreement   as such term is defined in  Article 33 ), is made and entered into as of February 4, 2009 (the   Effective Date  ), by and between Amgen Inc., a Delaware corporation having a place of business at
One Amgen Center Drive, Thousand Oaks, California 91320 (  Company  ), and Jones Lang LaSalle Americas, Inc., a Maryland corporation having a place of business at 200 E. Randolph Drive, Chicago, IL 60601 (  Provider  )
(each a   Party  , and collectively, the   Parties  ).       RECITALS       WHEREAS, Company is engaged in the business of the research, development and commercialization of human therapeutics;      WHEREAS, Provider is in the business of, among other things, performing integrated facilities services with respect to facilities  operations and maintenance and
general services; and      WHEREAS, pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, Company wishes to engage Provider to provide services to Company, and Provider
wishes to provide services to Company.      NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the promises and mutual covenants set forth herein, and for other good and
valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Parties agree as follows:       

1.   
   DEFINED TERMS         1.1  Definitions for Certain Defined Terms .
The definitions of certain defined terms used in this Agreement are set forth in  Article 33 .      1.2  Defined Terms Defined in Agreement . An
index of certain defined terms defined in the body of this Agreement or the exhibits to this Agreement also is set forth in  Article 33 .       
    2.1  General . Commencing on the Effective Date and
continuing throughout the Term and Termination Assistance Period, Provider shall provide to Company pursuant to the terms of this Agreement the following services, functions and responsibilities, as they may evolve or be supplemented, amended,
enhanced, improved, modified or replaced in accordance with this Agreement (collectively, the   Services  ):       

(i)  
  the services, functions and responsibilities described in this Agreement, including (a) the services, functions, responsibilities and Deliverables described in  Exhibit A 
(Description of Services), (b) the services, functions and responsibilities relating to the Transition, including Transition Deliverables, and (c) the Termination Assistance Services;         

(ii)  
  any services, functions, tasks or responsibilities not specifically described in the Agreement but that are necessary or required for the proper function or provision of the
foregoing consistent with the purposes hereunder;         

(iii)  
  the services, functions and responsibilities described in any Order approved in writing by Company;         

(iv)  
  the services, functions and responsibilities described in any Changes approved in writing by Company pursuant to the Change Control Process; and           

Confidential   
     
  1  

(v)  
  the facilities-related services, functions and responsibilities performed in the ordinary course during the twelve (12) month period preceding the Effective Date by Affected
Personnel (i) that are suppliers under Assigned Contracts that were transitioned to Provider or displaced, or (ii) whose functions were displaced or replaced, in each case as a result of this Agreement, even if such services, functions and
responsibilities are not specifically described in this Agreement.        2.2  Evolution and Improvement of Services . It is anticipated that
the Services will evolve and be supplemented, modified, improved, enhanced or replaced by Provider over time to keep pace with advancements and improvements in the means and methods of delivering Services. These changes will modify the Services and
will not require an Order except to the extent that a change results in Services that are materially different from and materially in addition to those then being provided by Provider. Without limiting the foregoing:      (i) Provider shall offer Company a first priority right to participate in any Provider pilot programs for any new processes, best practices or technology;
and      (ii) Provider shall identify and propose the implementation of any technology or process related to the Services that is likely to:
     (1) improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the Services (including cost savings);      (2) result in cost savings or revenue increases to Company in areas of its business outside of the Services;      (3) enhance Company s ability to conduct its business or serve its customers; or      (4) achieve Company s objectives set out in this Agreement faster or more efficiently than the then current strategies.      2.3  New Service Request . The Parties acknowledge and agree that this Agreement is intended to provide the framework for a global relationship for the Services to
be provided by Provider and its Affiliates pursuant to this Agreement. During the Term of this Agreement, Company or an Affiliate of Company may from time-to-time initiate a request for Provider or an Affiliate of Provider to perform new services on
its behalf, including new categories of services or services at new buildings or Company sites (  New Services  ) to the extent the New Services are similar to the Services or services provided by Provider to other customers or
consistent with Provider s integrated facilities management services business generally. In engaging Provider to perform New Services, Company or its Affiliate shall enter into one or more written Orders (each an   Order  )
pursuant to which such New Services shall be performed. A template form of Order is attached hereto as  Exhibit K  (Example Form of Order). Upon execution thereof by each Party, each Order will incorporate the terms of this Agreement and will
form a distinct contract between the Parties (or Affiliates of the Parties, as specified in the Order) in relation to the relevant Services being provided under that Order; provided, however, any Order where an Affiliate of Provider is proposed to
be the  Provider  with respect to such New Services also shall be executed by Provider as shown on the example form of Order attached hereto as  Exhibit K  (Example Form of Order). Any Services performed pursuant to an Order shall be
governed by the terms and conditions of this Agreement; provided, however, that (i) if an Affiliate of Provider is the  Provider  under the Order, such Provider and such Affiliate shall be deemed jointly and severally to be the
Provider under the terms and provisions of this Agreement with respect to the New Services under such Order and (ii)   if any of the provisions of this Agreement would conflict with or otherwise violate any Applicable Laws of the
jurisdiction where the Services under such Order will be performed or Company s facilities governed by such Order are located, then such Order may modify the provisions of this Agreement to the extent of such conflict or violation if both
Company and Provider each have consented to such modifications in writing. If an Order is to be executed with an Affiliate of Company, Provider shall have the right to approve such Affiliate, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld or
delayed.         

Confidential   
     
  2  

2.4  Scope . Provider shall furnish and be responsible for all materials, equipment and activities that are
necessary or required for its performance of the Services, including without limitation all supervision, administration, coordination, labor, inspection, testing and other services, equipment, supplies and other goods, means, methods, techniques,
sequences, licenses, permits, approvals and documents.      2.5  Non-Exclusivity of Services .       

(i)  
  Nothing in this Agreement requires Company to acquire from Provider the Services. Company may, in its sole discretion, acquire additional services similar to the Services from any
Third Party Suppliers or perform such services internally.         

(ii)  
  During the Term and the Termination Assistance Period, Company may increase or decrease the volume of the Services as a result of Company electing to provide such volumes internally
or obtain such volumes from a Third Party Supplier.         

(iii)  
  Company shall not be obligated to acquire any of the Services from Provider with respect to any additional business unit, site or entity including pursuant to an acquisition.
However, subject to  Section 2.3  above, Company will have the option pursuant to an Order for New Services to direct Provider to provide Services under and in accordance with the terms of this Agreement to service any additional entity or
business unit, and, if such additional entity or business unit has an agreement with Provider for facilities management related services at the time of such acquisition, Provider will not impose any termination fees on Company or such entity or
business unit in connection with termination of such agreement and replacement with such agreement with the new Order hereunder[*].         

(iv)  
  After giving notice to Provider, as provided in the following sentence, Company may insource or obtain from a third party any portion of the Services. Before insourcing or obtaining
from a third party any portion of the Services, Company shall (i) give prior written notice to Provider that Company is contemplating such insourcing or alternative sourcing, including a description of the affected Services and allow the
Provider at least fifteen (15) days to discuss such proposed changes prior to Company making any proposed commitments with respect to such insourcing or third party engagement and (ii) not terminate the Services proposed to be insourced or
serviced by an alternative provider prior to the date thirty (30) days after such fifteen-day discussion period. In the event Company insources or obtains from a third party a portion of the Services, but not the entire scope of Service,
Provider shall notify Company during the fifteen-day discussion period whether there are any [  *  ] that Provider will incur pursuant to any Subcontracts and Supply Contracts related to the Services proposed to be terminated, and Company
will have the option of assuming the applicable Subcontracts and Supply Contracts [  *  ]. Any termination of Services pursuant to this  Section 2.5  shall be evidenced by a Change in accordance with the Change Control Process.
[  *  ]        2.6  Standard of Care . Provider shall meet the Standard of Care in the performance of its obligations hereunder.
     2.7  Interpretation of Documents . In the event of a conflict or inconsistency between the terms of the main body of this Agreement and the Orders
(if any), Exhibits, Schedules, Attachments or Appendices, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. However, (i) a term or terms of an Order shall control to the extent the Order expressly provides that such term(s) supersede and control over
the terms of the Agreement and, (ii) to the extent that a conflict is with respect to the quality of the Services, the  Exhibit A  (Description of Services) and  Exhibit C  (Key Performance Indicators/Service Level Agreements) shall
prevail. No other terms, including without limitation any terms or conditions set forth in any document issued by Provider, are effective unless accepted by Company in writing.         

Confidential   
     
  3  

Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange
Commission.   

2.8  Affiliates . When an Order is entered into by one or more Affiliates of Provider, both the applicable Affiliate
and Provider shall be jointly and severally liable and responsible to Company and its Affiliates for all obligations to be undertaken by such Affiliate(s) of Provider under the Order. In the event that any of Provider s Affiliates fail to
perform any of their obligations under any Order issued hereunder, Provider shall cause such obligations to be discharged in accordance with the requirements of this Agreement and the applicable Order. Provider acknowledges and agrees that Company
may seek recourse directly against Provider for the failure of any of Provider s Affiliates to perform any obligations under any Order without seeking or exhausting remedies against such Provider Affiliates. Provider s liability to Company
under this  Section 2.8  shall not be reduced or otherwise modified by any full or partial discharge or reduction of a Provider Affiliate s liability to Company under any bankruptcy, insolvency or other proceeding. If an Order is
executed by an Affiliate of Company (subject to Provider s approval right pursuant to  Section 2.3  above), the obligations of the Affiliate under the Order shall be independent obligations of such Affiliate and Company shall  not
 have joint and several liability with respect to the Order unless otherwise expressly agreed by Company in writing.      2.9  Non-Solicitation of
Employees . Except as provided in  Section 12.8  or  Section 18.8 , during the Term and Termination Assistance Period and for a period of [*] months thereafter, neither Party shall directly or indirectly solicit for hire any
personnel or employees of the other Party [  *  ] unless such Party has consulted with the other Party and obtained permission to solicit such employee of the other Party for employment. This  Section 2.9  shall not apply in the
event that any employee of a Party seeks employment with the other Party in response to a general advertisement or recruiting effort not directed at such employee or Party, or any employee of either Party who is terminated or otherwise released from
employment by Party or its Affiliates.       

3.   
   SERVICE LEVELS AND CUSTOMER SATISFACTION         3.1  General .
Provider shall perform the Services at least (i) at the level of the Service Levels (including applicable SLA Targets and KPI Targets) set forth in  Exhibit C  (Key Performance Indicators/Service Level Agreements) or in the applicable
Order and (ii) where no KPI Target or SLA Target is set forth in  Exhibit C  (Key Performance Indicators/Service Level Agreements) or the applicable Order, at the same level and with at least the same degree of accuracy, quality,
completeness, timeliness, responsiveness, security and efficiency as was provided prior to the Effective Date by or for Company. At all times Provider s level of performance shall be at least equal to the Service Levels or, in cases where
Service Levels do not exist, to accepted industry standards of first tier providers of services similar to the Services.      3.2  Service Level Failure .
Provider shall inform Company immediately if Provider is unable, or is reasonably likely to be unable, to provide the Services in accordance with the Service Levels (including applicable SLA Targets and KPI Targets) or this Agreement or if any
organizational, security-related or other changes will materially affect, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the provision of the Services. Without limiting the remedies available to Company hereunder, upon Provider s failure to
provide any of the Services in accordance with the Service Levels required with respect thereto, whether or not the cause of such failure is immediately identified and cured by Provider, Provider shall immediately: (i) perform an analysis to
identify the root cause of such failure; (ii) identify the procedures necessary for correcting the failure and implementing such procedures to effectuate such correction; (iii) provide Company with a report detailing the findings and
procedures identified and implemented under (i) and (ii) above; and (iv) take appropriate preventive measures so that the problem does not recur.      3.3  Cooperation with Third Parties . In order for Provider to provide the Services in accordance with the Service Levels, Provider may be required to coordinate its efforts with Third Party Suppliers. With respect to Service Level
failures caused by Third Party Suppliers, except as set forth in  Section 3.4 , Provider s failure to meet such Service Levels shall not be excused and Provider shall remain responsible for the performance of the Services in
accordance with the Service Levels.         

Confidential   
     
  4  

Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange
Commission.   

3.4  Excused Service Level Failure . To the extent Provider demonstrates to Company s reasonable satisfaction
that any SLA Failure or KPI Failure is directly attributable to: (A) a breach of this Agreement by Company that prevents Provider from meeting the applicable SLA Target or KPI Target; or (B) acts or omissions of Company or a Third Party
Supplier, provided that (1) Provider was unable to notify Company in writing of the consequences of such acts or omissions or Company disregarded any notice made by Provider as to the consequences of such acts or omissions, (2) Provider
complied with the requirements of any applicable BC Plan, and (3) Provider was unable to take other reasonable steps to avert such consequences, then the measurement of such SLA Target or KPI Target shall be adjusted to account for the
abovementioned factors during the period that such factors were in effect.      3.5  Periodic Reviews . At least annually or more often as set forth in
each Order or the service metrics specified in this Agreement, Company and Provider shall review the Service Levels and make adjustments to them as appropriate to reflect improved performance capabilities associated with advances in the technology
and methods used to perform the Services. The Parties expect and understand that the Service Levels shall be optimized over time.      3.6  Measurement and
Monitoring Tools . Provider shall, with respect to each Service Level, prior to the date that such Service Level takes effect, implement and/or test measurement and monitoring tools and procedures acceptable to Company to measure and report
Provider s performance of the Services against the applicable Service Levels. Such measurement and monitoring tools and procedures shall permit reporting at a level of detail sufficient to verify Provider s compliance with the Service
Levels. Without limiting Provider s responsibility to develop and maintain such measurement and monitoring tools and procedures, if at any time such measurement and monitoring tools are temporarily inoperable or unavailable, Provider may
manually prepare the applicable studies and reports. Provider shall also provide Company with on-line access to the most current data used by Provider to calculate its performance against the Service Levels and the measurement and monitoring tools
and procedures utilized by Provider to generate such data. Given the nature of Company s multi-vendor environment, any such data may be shared by Company with third party providers, provided that such third party providers have executed
appropriate non-disclosure agreements or are otherwise bound by confidentiality obligations. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Company shall not disclose any KPI Scorecard and SLA Scorecard to any Provider Competitors. The use of any such data by the
third party providers shall be limited to managing the provision and delivery of services, products and resources to Company and resolving any issues or problems relating to the provision and delivery of any such services, products or resources.
Company shall not be required to pay any amount in addition to the Services Costs for (i) such measurement and monitoring tools or (ii) any resources utilized in connection with such measurement and monitoring tools.      3.7  Third Party Provider Performance Data . Provider acknowledges and agrees that it may receive performance data from third party providers and such performance
data shall be Confidential Information of Company. Provider further agrees that it shall use such performance data only for managing the provision and delivery of services, products and resources and resolving any problems or issues that relate to
such services, products and resources. Provider shall not use any such performance data for any other purpose, except as otherwise agreed by Company.      3.8
 Service Level Reporting . No later than the first business day falling on or after the fifteenth (15th) day of each calendar month (or as otherwise specified in  Exhibit C ) during the Term and Termination Assistance Period, Provider
shall provide Company with a monthly (or as otherwise specified in  Exhibit C ) performance report describing Provider s performance of the Services in the preceding month (or other time frame specified in  Exhibit C ), which report
shall be made available to Company in an online, electronic form. Each such report shall:       

(i)  
  for each area of the Services, assess the degree to which Provider has attained or failed to attain the Service Levels;         

(ii)  
  explain any Service Level failures and include a plan for corrective action where appropriate;           

Confidential   
     
  5  

(iii)  
  identify any problems or issues of which Provider becomes aware that are being caused by the acts or omissions of any Third Party Suppliers and agree with the proposed steps
necessary to resolve any such problems or issues;         

(iv)  
  include such documentation and other information as Company may reasonably request to verify compliance with the Service Levels; and         

(v)  
  include a quarter-to-date and year-to-date analysis and report identifying service trends in Provider s performance of the Services. Such analysis and report shall provide
observations and suggestions for the continuous improvement and enhancement of the Services in accordance with  Section 2.2 .        The
foregoing information shall be updated on a monthly basis unless a different reporting period is set forth in  Exhibit C  (Key Performance Indicators/Service Level Agreements). Any failure by Provider to report on Provider s success or
failure to meet any Service Level, including if such failure results from Provider s failure to implement, or delay in implementing, appropriate measurement and monitoring tools pursuant to  Section 3.6 , shall be deemed to be a
Service Level failure with respect to the applicable Service Level for the applicable Measurement Period[  *  ].      3.9  Customer Satisfaction
Surveys .       

(i)  
  As set forth in  Exhibit N  (Customer Satisfaction), Provider shall, on a periodic basis throughout the Term and Termination Assistance Period, survey a representative
sample of users of the Services to ascertain their level of satisfaction with Provider s management and provision of the Services. The representative sample, survey format and questions shall be as described in  Exhibit N  (Customer
Satisfaction) and shall be subject to Company s review and approval.         

(ii)  
  Provider shall continuously monitor customer satisfaction surveys. If such surveys show any material or recurring dissatisfaction, Provider shall, within thirty (30) days of
the completion of the applicable customer satisfaction survey, (a) conduct a root cause analysis as to the cause of such dissatisfaction; (b) develop an action plan to address and improve the level of satisfaction; (c) present such
plan to Company for its review, comment and approval; and (d) take action in accordance with the approved plan and as necessary to improve the level of satisfaction. Provider s action plan developed hereunder shall set forth the specific
measures to be taken by Provider and the dates by which each such measure shall be completed. Following implementation of such action plan, Provider shall conduct a follow-up survey with the affected management to confirm that the cause of any
dissatisfaction has been addressed and that the level of satisfaction has improved.         

4.   
   COVENANTS OF PROVIDER         4.1  Maintenance . Provider shall
maintain all Company Provided Equipment and Provider Equipment so that they operate in accordance with their specifications, including (A) maintaining such Equipment in good operating condition, subject to normal wear and tear; and
(B) undertaking repairs and preventive maintenance on such Equipment in accordance with the applicable Equipment manufacturer s recommendations.      4.2  Completion of Milestones and Deliverables . Provider shall complete each milestone and Deliverable on the Schedule set forth in each Order. Provider shall promptly notify Company upon completion of each milestone or Deliverable
and promptly deliver all relevant Work Product to Company.      4.3  Facilities and Space . Provider shall provide the initial Services under this
Agreement from the Agreed Service Locations and New Services from the locations specified in the applicable Order.  

Confidential   
     
  6  

Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange
Commission.   

Provider shall ensure that the relevant Provider Personnel comply with the security requirements of Company in relation to their access to their dedicated
area and that each Provider Personnel will operate a  clean desk  policy.      4.4  Dedicated Personnel . If specified in  Exhibit A 
(Description of Services) or an applicable Order, certain Provider Personnel assigned to perform Services shall be dedicated to performance of the Services. Provider shall ensure that all Personnel so identified are dedicated solely to performance
of such Services and shall not assign such Personnel to any other project unless otherwise agreed in writing by the Parties.      4.5  Quality Assurance .
Provider shall establish, implement and enforce quality assurance programs and procedures commensurate with the Services to be provided hereunder. Provider shall identify those Provider Personnel responsible for and authorized to act as
Provider s designated representative(s) with respect to such quality assurance programs and procedures and such Provider Personnel shall be considered Key Provider Personnel hereunder. Company shall have the right to review and audit
Provider s quality assurance programs and procedures.      4.6  Compliance . Provider shall (i) comply with all Company Policies that apply to
the Services or Provider s obligations hereunder of which Provider is aware or Company has notified Provider, (ii) assist Company to ensure that such Services are in compliance with Company s legal, regulatory and compliance
obligations, and (iii) ensure that the provision of the Services will be in compliance with Applicable Law. Unless otherwise agreed in  Exhibit A  (Description of Services) or an applicable Order, Provider shall obtain and maintain all
necessary governmental or regulatory licenses, authorizations, permits or consents required to provide the Services. Company shall have the right to modify the Company Policies from time to time with notice to Provider. Provider shall comply with
all such revised Company Policies. In the event Provider is required to implement revised Company Policies as a result of changes in law or changes otherwise generally affecting Provider or other customers of Provider, Provider shall not be entitled
to any additional Management Fees as a result thereof, but Reimbursable Costs may be modified in accordance with the Change Control Process. In the event Provider is required to implement changes solely because of changes to Company Policies,
Provider shall be entitled to recover reasonable incremental Service Costs associated therewith in accordance with the Change Control Process.      4.7
 Conflicts . Provider shall not enter into any agreement, whether written or oral, that would materially adversely affect Provider s ability to fulfill its obligations or that would constitute a default hereunder.      4.8  Use of Third Party Intellectual Property . Company understands that Provider will use software that is Third Party Intellectual Property to provide the
Services. Upon the request of Company, Provider shall provide Company with an updated list of the foregoing being used in connection with the Services, and upon request from Company shall provide a copy of the license for such Third Party
Intellectual Property. Upon reasonable prior notice, Company may conduct supervised reviews within Provider s offices of any aspects of Provider s software and discuss any issues with Provider. During any such reviews Company shall not
have access to any software or software customizations constituting Provider Intellectual Property Rights and made for or exclusively used by other clients and not used to provide the Services. In addition to the foregoing prior to Provider using or
entering into any agreements to license or use any Third Party Intellectual Property that will be used to provide the Services or create any Work Product, Provider shall provide a copy of such agreement to Company. Provider shall not use any such
Intellectual Property, including computer software, to provide the Services unless Company has approved in advance in writing the applicable agreement to license or use such software. Without limiting the foregoing, unless otherwise approved by
Company in writing, any such license for Third Party Intellectual Property shall expressly permit the license to be assigned or sub-licensed to Company without further approval of the licensor.      4.9  Evidence of Compliance . Upon Company s written request, Provider shall furnish any evidence Company reasonably requests relating to Provider s
obligations hereunder and its ability to fulfill such  

Confidential   
     
  7  

obligations or substantiate its representations hereunder at any time during the Term and Termination Assistance Period, and to the extent related to
obligations that survive the termination or expiration of this Agreement, the period of such survival. The substance, form and timing of such evidence shall be subject to Company s reasonable satisfaction.      4.10  Competitors . Provider shall not provide any Services to Company from a site or facility of any Competitor without Company s prior written consent. If
Provider is to provide Company with Services from a shared environment where such Services either are provided from a Provider site that is shared with a Competitor or such Services are provided to a Competitor from the same site or location,
Provider shall develop a process, subject to Company s approval, to restrict access in any such shared environment so that such Competitor, and any other third party, shall have no access to Company s Work Product or Confidential
Information.       

5.   
   ESTABLISHING ORDERS AND CHANGE CONTROL         5.1  Requests for Change
or New Services . Commencing on the Effective Date and from time-to-time during the Term and Termination Assistance Period, Company may (i) request in writing (each, a   Change Request  ) that Provider terminate, remove,
replace or change a Service or Service Level (a   Change  ) or (ii) request that Provider perform a New Service pursuant to an Order as provided in  Section 2.3  above. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing,
a Change requested by Company may involve (a) the deletion of buildings or facilities from the scope of Services under this Agreement; (b) the augmentation of work and Services to be performed by Provider with respect to one or more
Company buildings or facilities; and/or (c) the elimination or modification of one or more Services Categories, Service Levels or scopes of Service. Change Requests and Orders for New Services shall be addressed and implemented in accordance
with the provisions of this  Article 5 , the Change Control Process and, where applicable, Company s change management requirements. Any actions taken or not taken by Provider in anticipation of execution of this Agreement, any
modification, any Order or any Change Request are taken at its sole risk and expense. Any estimate or forecast by Company of services that may be furnished by Provider before or during the Term or Termination Assistance Period does not constitute a
commitment of any kind.      5.2  Order Placement for New Services and Acceptance . In the event Company notifies Provider that it intends to proceed with
Provider on the basis of a project proposal, Company and Provider shall diligently negotiate in good faith to mutually agree upon an Order. Unless and until the Parties have executed an Order, neither Party shall have any obligations with respect to
the services proposed in a project proposal. Provider shall perform Services pursuant to each executed Order issued during the Term and Termination Assistance Period. Each Order shall define the specific scope of Services that Provider shall
undertake, as well as any special terms and conditions associated therewith. All Orders issued hereunder shall be subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement. Provider shall promptly execute and return any Order issued by Company and
approved by Provider hereunder to evidence Provider s acceptance of such Order and the terms set forth therein. Without limiting Company s remedies, Company may withdraw an Order or defer the commencement of performance under such Order
and/or the payment of Services Costs thereunder unless and until Provider has executed and delivered a counterpart original of the Order to Company. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, Provider s acknowledgment, receipt, or commencement
of performance of any obligations under an Order is deemed an acceptance of that Order in accordance with the terms contained in that Order and this Agreement.      5.3  Response to Request for New Services . Upon receipt of a request to add a New Service, Provider shall, within ten (10) days or such other longer time as specified in the project request, provide Company with a written
proposal for the performance of such additional Service, which proposal shall include: (i) a description of the services, functions and responsibilities to be performed in connection with such additional Service; (ii) a Schedule for
commencing performance of such additional Service; (iii) Provider s prospective Services Costs for such additional Service; (iv) the impact of such additional Service on the calculation of Provider s Shared Savings and Management
Fee at Risk under the applicable Order; and (v) such other information as may be reasonably requested by Company. On the  

Confidential   
     
  8  

request of Company, Provider shall provide Company with any other information that Company may reasonably require to assess the project proposal. Provider
shall not begin performing any such additional Service until Company has provided written authorization for such additional Service. In performing additional Services pursuant to a Change, Provider shall perform such Services in a manner that does
not adversely impact Company s business operations.      5.4  Request for Change .       

(i)  
  If Company desires to propose a Change Request, it shall deliver a written notice to Provider describing the proposed Change and establishing a reasonable period for Provider to
respond. For each proposed Change, Provider shall, within the period of time specified by Company, prepare a written response indicating: (i) the effect of the proposal, if any, on the amounts payable by Company under the relevant Order and
this Agreement, and the manner in which such effect was calculated; (ii) the effect of the proposal, if any, on Provider s performance of the Services, including the effect on Service Levels; (iii) the anticipated time schedule for
implementing the Change; and (iv) any other information reasonably necessary for, or requested by, Company to make an informed decision regarding the proposed change.         

(ii)  
  If Provider desires to propose a Change, including any Change proposed by Provider by right pursuant to other provisions of this Agreement, it shall deliver a written notice to
Company setting forth the information described in the previous sentence. In the event that a Change will result in a Material Change in Provider s recurring costs in connection with its performance hereunder, Provider and Company shall
negotiate in good faith to modify the Service Costs payable hereunder or under the applicable Order to reflect such changed costs.        5.5
 Costs . Provider may use Direct Provider Labor to prepare proposals, responses and documentation in connection with proposed Orders and Changes. Each Party shall otherwise bear its own costs in connection with proposals, responses and
documentation in connection with any proposed Orders and Changes.      5.6  Effect of Acceptance . No Change shall become effective without the written
approval of Company and Provider. If approved by Company and Provider, any such Change shall thereafter be deemed part of Provider s obligations under this Agreement and the relevant Order. Under no circumstances shall Provider be entitled to
payment for any Change in Services that has not been approved by Company in accordance with this  Article 5 .      5.7  No Obligation . Provider
acknowledges that Provider is expected to accomplish the Services on the terms and conditions specified in this Agreement, including the Service Costs agreed to by Provider, and that Company is under no obligation to agree to any Changes requested
by Provider except as expressly provided in this Agreement.      5.8  Effect on Service Levels and Key Performance Indicators . In the event that
(i) either Party proposes a Change that will affect any Service Level for the Services affected by such Change, (ii) such Change constitutes a Material Change; (iii) Provider identifies the effect of such Change on any applicable
Service Level pursuant to  Section 5.4 , and (iv) Company accepts such Change in writing, then, upon implementation of such Change by Provider, the affected Service Level shall be reduced solely to the extent of the effect of such
Change identified by Provider;  provided that , (a) the implemented Change shall have no effect on any other Service Levels, and (b) Provider and Company shall cooperate to attempt to restore such affected Service Level through future
Changes. Except as provided in the previous sentence, no Change shall have any effect on Provider s obligation to perform the Services at the Service Levels. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, Provider acknowledges and
agrees that, unless a Change Request constitutes a Material Change, there shall be no adjustment or modification to any Services Costs (other than Reimbursable Costs), [  *  ] Provider s Shared Savings metrics,  not to
exceed  amount or other incentives under the applicable Order.         

Confidential   
     
  9  

Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange
Commission.   

5.9  Effect on Services Costs . To the extent that a proposed Change can be accommodated within the existing level
of resources then being used by Provider in performing the Services hereunder and those resources are appropriate for the proposed New Service or changed Service without degradation to Provider s compliance with all applicable performance
requirements under this Agreement, the Services Costs payable by Company under this Agreement and the Cost Baseline shall not be increased as a result of such Change.      5.10  Emergency Changes . In the event of an Emergency, Provider shall be permitted to suspend, remove, replace or change a Service (a   Provider Emergency Change  ) without Company s prior
written approval to the extent reasonably necessary to deal with such Emergency,  provided  that (i) Provider exercises reasonable efforts to secure Company s prior approval of such Provider Emergency Change, (ii) such Provider
Emergency Change is necessary to respond to such Emergency, and (iii) Provider gives Company notice of such Provider Emergency Change immediately upon implementing such Provider Emergency Change. Any expenditures proposed to be made by Provider
in connection with such Emergency shall be subject to the provisions of  Exhibit D  (Pricing). Company may, without first complying with the foregoing provisions of this  Article 5 , require that Provider terminate, remove, replace or
change a Service or perform a New Service in the event of any Emergency (a   Company Emergency Change ,  and a Provider Emergency Change and a Company Emergency Change may be referred to herein as an   Emergency
Change  ), and Provider shall implement such Company Emergency Change promptly following Company s request to Provider. As soon as possible following any Emergency Change, but in any event no later than fourteen (14) days following
such Emergency Change, the Parties shall negotiate in good faith any modifications to Services Costs, Provider s Shared Savings and/or the [  *  ] which are necessitated by such Emergency Change. Provider shall meet the Standard of
Care in implementing any Emergency Change, and except as specifically necessary to deal with the Emergency Change nothing contained in this  Section 5.10  shall operate or be construed to relieve Provider of its obligations to perform, or
limit Provider s liability for the performance of, the Services in accordance with this Agreement.       

6.   
   TRANSITION         6.1  Transition Plan . Commencing on the Effective
Date, Provider shall plan, prepare for and conduct activities to transition the applicable Services to Provider (the   Transition  ). The Transition shall be conducted in accordance with a written plan (the   Transition
Plan  ) which, at a minimum, shall include:       

(i)  
  a detailed description of the Services being transitioned to Provider;         

(ii)  
  a detailed description of the Transition activities and responsibilities to be performed by Provider in order for Provider to properly complete the Transition, including a detailed
description of each Transition milestone and timeline, operational reviews, strategic planning, and training;         

(iii)  
  a detailed description of the Deliverables to be completed by Provider (  Transition Deliverables           

(iv)  
  a detailed description of any tasks that Company is required to complete or information the Company is required to provide in connection with the Transition;

(v)  
  a proposed plan for transitioning all Assigned Contracts to Provider;         

(vi)  
  a plan for dealing with systems and security access;         

(vii)  
  a detailed description of the technology, methods, procedures, Personnel and organization that Provider shall use to perform the Transition, and a process to address labor
transition and any labor-related issues;           

Confidential   
     
  10  

Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange
Commission.   

(viii)  
  a detailed schedule and workplan of all Transition activities to be completed in connection with the Transition, including the dates on which each such activity and any Transition
milestone shall be completed;         

(ix)  
  a schedule of Transition milestones (each a   Transition Milestone  ), together with an allocation of the Transition Cost installments to be paid upon satisfaction of
such Transition Milestone [  *  ];         

(x)  
  a detailed description of the potential risks associated with the Transition and the risk mitigation strategies that shall be employed by Provider to eliminate or minimize such
risks;         

(xi)  
  a process and set of standards and completion criteria acceptable to Company to which Provider shall adhere in the performance of the Transition and that shall enable Company to
determine whether Provider has successfully completed the Transition activities and Transition Deliverables associated with each Transition milestone; and         

(xii)  
  any other information and planning necessary to ensure that the Transition takes place on schedule and without disruption to Company s business or operations.
       6.2  Final Transition Plan . A preliminary Transition Plan is set forth in  Schedule 4  of  Exhibit A  (Transition). Within
thirty (30) days after the Effective Date, Provider shall prepare and deliver to Company a more detailed final Transition Plan, which shall be consistent with the preliminary Transition Plan and shall meet the requirements set forth in
 Section 6.1  above. The Transition Milestones and the payments and credits allocated to such Transition Milestones shall not be changed from the preliminary Transition Plan unless approved in writing by Company. The final Transition Plan
and any subsequent changes to the Transition Plan shall be subject to written approval by Company, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, delayed or conditioned.      6.3  Transition Costs . The Transition Costs are payable by Company to Provider up to the amount shown in  Attachment D.4  of  Exhibit D  and will be paid in installments upon achievement of Transition
Milestones as set forth in the Transition Plan. Transition Milestones will be extended on a day-for-day basis for any critical path delays in achieving such Transition Milestones due to any Force Majeure Events or Excused Company-Related Delays.
     6.4  Implementation . Provider shall perform the Transition in accordance with the Transition Plan and in such a manner so as to minimize any
disruption to Company s business or operations (except to the extent that Provider has provided Company with reasonable advance written notice of such disruption and Company has agreed in writing that such disruption is acceptable). Provider
shall provide all cooperation and assistance reasonably required and requested by Company in connection with Company s evaluation and testing of the Transition Deliverables.      6.5  Transition Manager . Each Party shall designate an individual to manage the Transition (each a   Transition Manager  ) during the Transition Period. The Provider Transition Manager shall
manage the Transition on a dedicated, full-time basis during the Transition period. The Provider Transition Manager shall (i) report to the Provider Program Manager, (ii) serve as the single point of accountability for Provider for the
Transition and (iii) have day-to-day authority for ensuring that the Transition is completed in accordance with the Transition Plan. The Provider Transition Manager shall be one of Provider s Key Provider Personnel.      6.6  Meeting and Reporting Requirements . The Provider Transition Manager shall meet at least once each week with the Company Transition Manager to report on
Provider s progress in performing the Transition and meeting the requirements of the Transition Plan. As part of each weekly meeting, Provider shall provide Company with a written status report that shall include (i) an updated status
chart detailing the then-current status of all Transition activities, including the Transition Deliverables, against the  

Confidential   
     
  11  

Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange
Commission.   

Transition Plan, and (ii) any issues or problems that Provider is experiencing in connection with the Transition and any efforts or remedial actions
that Provider is undertaking to resolve such issues or problems. The meetings described in this  Section 6.6  shall take place at the time and place reasonably designated by Company, and with agendas specified by Company.      6.7  Company s Right to Participate in the Transition . Company reserves the right to monitor, test and otherwise participate in the Transition. Provider shall
immediately notify Company if such monitoring, testing or participation has caused (or in Provider s reasonable opinion may cause) a problem or delay in the Transition and work with Company to prevent or circumvent such problem or delay.
     6.8  Completion of Transition . The Transition shall not be considered to be complete until all Transition Deliverables have been accepted by
Company. [  *  ]      6.9  Termination by Company . In the event that (i) Provider fails to achieve acceptance of a Transition deliverable
within thirty (30) days of the applicable Transition Milestone (provided that for purposes of this  Section 6.9 , such milestone deadline will be extended by the period of critical path delay caused by a Force Majeure Event or by the
fault or negligence of Company, up to a maximum extension of sixty (60) days), or [*] Company may, upon notice to Provider, terminate this Agreement, in whole or in part, as of the termination date specified in the notice, without cost or
penalty and without the payment of any termination charges.       

7.   
   STEP-IN RIGHTS         7.1  Step-In . If any Service Disruption
occurs, Company may, at its option and without prejudice to any other rights or remedies under this Agreement or the relevant Order, undertake one or more of the following (each a   Step-In  ):       

(i)  
  Where Company considers it necessary to do so, in its reasonable business judgment, suspend Provider s right and obligation to provide any or all of the Services; and/or

(ii)  
  Itself provide, and/or engage a replacement service provider to provide any or all of the disrupted Services; and/or         

(iii)  
  Locate one or more Company Personnel in any Agreed Service Location to work with the relevant Provider Personnel and to oversee and manage the provision of all or any Services.
       7.2  Obligations During Step-In . For the period in which the Step-In continues, Services Costs will not be payable in respect of those
Services that are subject to the Step-In.      7.3  Resumption of Services . After a Step-In, unless Company has terminated the relevant Services pursuant
to the terms of this Agreement or any Order, Company shall allow Provider to resume the provision of the Services that are the subject of the Step-In as soon as reasonably practicable after both of the following are satisfied:       

(i)  
  The relevant Service Disruption has ceased; and         

(ii)  
  Provider has demonstrated through the submission and execution of a corrective action plan to Company s reasonable satisfaction that it will be able to meet the relevant
Service Levels (if applicable) and otherwise provide the relevant Services in accordance with the relevant Order and this Agreement if it resumes provision of those Services.        Provider shall use diligent, commercially reasonably efforts to resume Services subject to a Step-In as soon as reasonably possible.         

Confidential   
     
  12  

Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange
Commission.   

7.4  Termination During Step-In . Without limiting any rights or remedies of Company hereunder, if the requirements
for ending a Step-In set forth in  Section 7.3  have not been met within thirty (30) days of commencement of the Step-In (provided that for purposes of this  Section 7.4 , such period will be extended by the period of
critical path delay caused by any Force Majeure Event or by the fault or negligence of Company, up to a maximum extension of sixty (60) days), then Company may immediately terminate for cause all or any part of this Agreement. Upon such
termination, Provider shall be entitled to Services Costs in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and the applicable Order up to the date of the last provision of the Services.      7.5  Upon Termination . If Company elects to terminate any Services pursuant to  Section 7.4 , it may, in its discretion, require Provider to complete any partially-completed Deliverables, provided that
Provider may invoice Company for the relevant Services Costs for the work involved.      7.6  Rights and Remedies . For the avoidance of doubt, the rights
and remedies of Company under this  Article 7  are in addition to and not in substitution for any other rights or remedies available to Company under any other Section of this Agreement, under any Order, or at common law or in equity.

8.   
   BUSINESS CONTINUITY AND DISASTER RECOVERY         8.1  BC Plan .
Provider shall, as part of the Services, in accordance with Company s BC Policies, develop, maintain, test and implement a business continuity plan in respect of the Services that provides for the emergency response and management, recovery,
restoration and ongoing performance of the Services following any Disaster or any other discontinuation of business that disrupts such performance (  BC Plan  ). Provider and Company shall cooperate to jointly develop and mutually
approve the initial BC Plan within sixty (60) days after the Effective Date. If, as the result of the occurrence of a Disaster and subsequent implementation of the BC Plan by Provider, the volume and/or scope of Services or the cost of
providing the Services is materially increased, the Provider may, within thirty (30) days after the occurrence of the Disaster, submit a Change Request to Company with respect to Provider s implementation of the BC Plan, in which case
Provider shall submit a proposal with respect to the proposed Change and the Change Request shall be resolved in accordance with the provisions of  Section 5.5 . Provider s failure to submit a Change Request prior to the expiration of
such thirty-day period shall constitute a waiver of any right to seek a modification of the Services Costs and Provider s Shared Savings metrics under this Agreement in connection with implementation of the BC Plan or any schedule obligations
under this Agreement and the applicable Order impacted by the implementation of such BC Plan.      8.2  BC Principles . The BC Plan shall be sufficient to
ensure that Provider is able to continue providing the Services if there is a Disaster (i) affecting Company or (ii) affecting only Provider and not Company. Without detracting from the general principles set forth above, each BC Plan
shall:       

(i)  
  Provide for the prompt and efficient handling of incidents, disruptions, interruptions or Disasters that impair Provider s ability to perform the obligations of Provider under
this Agreement and the relevant Order;         

(ii)  
  Consider the following assumptions in the planning process: single building failure; wide-scale disruption; loss of data center and information systems; loss of critical staff; and
the ability to access pre-staged supplies and equipment under most likely circumstances;         

(iii)  
  Comply with the BC Policies;         

(iv)  
  Provide and replenish supplies and equipment necessary for response and recovery; and         

(v)  
  Provide for notification procedures (24X7, 365), including home phone numbers to include key contact information for purposes that the Company can notify/activate Provider s
response.           

8.3  Content of BC Plan . The BC Plan shall be set forth in  Exhibit P  (Business Continuity Policies) or the
relevant Order and Provider shall specifically include in such BC Plan the following:       

(i)  
  Procedures whereby Provider shall test the effectiveness of the BC Plan and Provider s ability to restore the Services, as documented in the BC Plan;     

(ii)  
  Procedures whereby Provider shall deliver to Company the appropriate periodic reports confirming Provider s ongoing compliance with the BC Policies and other Company Policies;
and         

(iii)  
  Identification of a person or persons to be responsible for the BC Plan to serve as a liaison point between Company and Provider.        8.4  Modification of BC Plan . Provider acknowledges that the BC Plan may require modification during the Term or Termination Assistance Period or the term of any
relevant Order as a result of changes in law applicable to Company, and/or changes in the BC Policies. Provider shall cooperate with Company and promptly implement such changes in order to permit Company to comply with such changes. If any change is
required to a BC Plan as a result of a change in any of the BC Policies, such change will be implemented by Provider through the Change Control Process.      8.5  Compliance and Maintenance of BC Plan . Once a BC Plan is deemed appropriate, Provider shall comply with the requirements set forth in such BC Plan as it relates to this Agreement or the relevant Order. Provider shall maintain the
BC Plan throughout the Term or the term of the relevant Order and Termination Assistance Period and implement the relevant BC Plan in accordance with its terms as part of the Services in order to minimize the effect of a Disaster or other incident
affecting the provision of the Services to Company.      8.6  Periodic Review . Provider shall periodically review (at least every twelve
(12) months) each BC Plan and discuss with Company any such review so as to confirm that it meets Company s requirements from time to time. Company shall have the option at any time to have the BC Plan reviewed by an independent third
party at Company s cost. The results of such review shall be discussed with Provider and, where appropriate, implemented by Provider.      8.7  Periodic
Testing . Provider shall periodically test (at least every twelve (12) months) all recovery strategies and critical systems and infrastructure as identified in the BC Plan. Provider shall discuss and agree to such testing with Company and
allow Company the opportunity to participate, observe and monitor the testing. After the testing has been concluded, Provider shall provide Company with a detailed summary of the results applicable to the Services and with an action plan to remedy
any inadequacies highlighted by the testing. This may be required to be accomplished through participation in Company-directed exercises (including without limitation call tree, table top or full scale disaster walkthrough exercises).      8.8  Crisis Management Procedures . Provider shall maintain current documented crisis management procedures and shall inform Company immediately upon becoming aware
that a Disaster has occurred or is likely to occur. Following the occurrence or knowledge of the likely occurrence of a Disaster, Provider shall immediately invoke its crisis management procedures implementing the BC Plan while fully communicating
the status to Company throughout its implementation of the BC Plan.       

9.   
   ACQUISITION AND DIVESTMENT SUPPORT         9.1  Rights Upon
Divestiture . In the event that Company divests an entity or business unit, Provider shall, at Company s request, continue to provide the Services to Company and such divested entity or business unit at the Services Costs and on the terms
and conditions then in effect if appropriate to the scale of Services, provided that such divested entity will agree to comply with the terms and conditions of this Agreement. At Company s request, Provider shall separately invoice such
divested entity. To the  

extent applicable, Services and Deliverables for Company and its divested entity shall be combined for purposes of determining Services Costs. Provider shall
not unreasonably withhold, delay or condition its consent to novation of this Agreement in parts as relates to the divested entity or business unit and the Services remaining to be provided to Company. In the event the Parties are not able to reach
agreement regarding such a novation and Company elects to terminate some or all of the Services as they relate to the acquired or divested entity, Provider shall provide Termination Assistance Services as requested by Company or to the acquired or
divested entity in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.      9.2  Ongoing Support . Subject to Section 9.4, Provider shall provide to
Company, and Company shall pay the costs of, the following support in relation to any actual or potential divestments:       

(i)  
  Assist Company in planning, preparing and implementing any transition or changes related to the Services as a result of such divestment;         

(ii)  
  Perform infrastructure changes as a result of such divestment;         

(iii)  
  Perform increased data and physical security as a result of such divestment; and         

(iv)  
  Perform increased disaster recovery planning.        9.3  Potential
Acquisitions . Subject to Section 9.4, in relation to potential business acquisitions by Company of a business or entity that may have requirements for Services, Provider shall provide Company, and Company shall pay the incremental costs,
with the following support:       

(i)  
  Assist Company in planning, preparing and implementing any transition or changes related to the Services as a result of an acquisition;         

(ii)  
  As part of these activities, perform an analysis of the acquired business  (or to-be-acquired business ) current facilities management and related services and the impacts
to the acquired business and Company;         

(iii)  
  Taking into account economies of scale and other synergies between the acquired business and Company, use reasonable efforts to reduce Services Costs associated with the Services;

(iv)  
  Perform infrastructure changes due to an acquisition;         

(v)  
  Perform increased data and physical security as required;         

(vi)  
  Provide temporary staffing as required ensuring uninterrupted Services; and         

(vii)  
  Perform increased disaster recovery planning, as may be required.        9.4
 Support Fees . Provider shall provide acquisition and divestment support as described in this  Article 9  as part of the Services to the extent that such acquisition support may appropriately be provided using Direct Provider Labor and
applicable resources then primarily assigned to the performance of the Services without adversely impacting Service Levels or Provider s ability or costs to perform such Services. If acquisition or divestment support will require the use of
different or additional resources beyond that which Provider is then using to provide the Services in accordance with the Service Levels, then Provider may request that Company execute an Order with respect to such acquisition or divestment support
services and pay Provider s reasonable incremental costs in accordance with  Article 5  above.         

10.1  Generally . Company shall have the right
to conduct benchmarking exercises in accordance with this  Article 10  to measure Provider s performance in relation to the Services and the Services Costs associated with the Services to determine if the Provider s performance
matches, and the Services Costs, are in line with Best Practices. A benchmarking exercise may be initiated by the Company by giving not less than thirty (30) days notice to Provider. Company may elect to have benchmarking conducted in relation
to any or all of the Services, including any particular Services Categories, Subcontracts and/or Supply Contracts (a   Benchmark Category  ). The Benchmarker shall not be a Provider Competitor. Each Party shall provide cooperation and
assistance to facilitate the benchmarking process, including making staff and all relevant information and materials available to the Benchmarker. Provider shall have the right to give input into the selection of the Benchmarker.      10.2  Process . Unless agreed otherwise by the Parties, the Benchmarker shall base its assessment on the data from the twelve (12) month period immediately
proceeding initiation of the benchmarking process, provided that for Subcontracts and Supply Contracts, the Benchmarker also can take into account the then prevailing market terms and practices for similar types of contracts. The Parties shall
ensure that benchmarking exercises are carried out in a way that causes no disturbance to the performance of the Services or to the Company s underlying business.      10.3  Tasks . For each Benchmark Category that is the subject of benchmarking, the Benchmarker shall perform at least the tasks described below. The Benchmarker may decide in its reasonable discretion how those
tasks are to be carried out. The Benchmarker shall:       

(i)  
  Compare the price of Comparable Services with the then-current Services Costs for each Benchmark Category against which benchmarking is undertaken;         

(ii)  
  Form a view on whether Provider has reasonably availed itself of all cost effective productivity improvements available through technology advances or otherwise since the Effective
Date (or Order Effective Date, as applicable) or the last preceding benchmarking exercise involving the relevant Benchmark Category, whichever is later;         

(iii)  
  Recommend appropriate practices for adoption by the Parties for the conduct of the Services;         

(iv)  
  Present a full report of its findings to Provider and the Company jointly; and         

(v)  
  Be required to comply with the reasonable confidentiality requirements of both Parties.        10.4  Fees . [  *  ] shall pay the Benchmarker s fees and other out of pocket expenses incurred by the Benchmarker in connection with the benchmarking process. Provider may utilize Direct Provider
Labor in connection with its coordination and cooperation with the Benchmarker, and otherwise each Party shall bear its own internal costs and expenses associated with the benchmarking.      10.5  Findings . The Benchmarker shall issue its initial report to the Parties within one-hundred-and-twenty (120) days of commencement of the requested benchmarking exercise. In conducting the benchmarking,
the Benchmarker shall normalize the data used to perform the benchmarking to accommodate, as appropriate, differences in volume of services, scope of services, service levels, financing or payment streams, and other pertinent factors. Each Party
shall be provided a reasonable opportunity (but no more than thirty (30) days) to review, comment on and request changes in the Benchmarker s proposed findings. Within ten (10) days of receiving any comments from the Parties, the
Benchmarker shall issue a final report of its findings and conclusions.   The Parties shall promptly meet to discuss the Benchmarker s findings.         

Confidential   
     
  16  

Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange
Commission.   

10.6  Adjustment of Services Costs . If the benchmarking shows that the Services Costs for the relevant Benchmark
Category are higher than the prevailing general market rate of charges for Comparable Services, [  *  ]. Provider shall not be entitled to any increase in Services Costs or any reduction in the Service Levels, scope or standards of the
Services in connection with the benchmarking unless otherwise agreed in writing by Company.         10.7  Service Levels . If the benchmarking shows
that Provider s performance of the Services is at a level below Best Practice and without prejudice to any other right or remedy of Company, Company shall reasonably assist Provider in determining the causes of the variance, and
[  *  ]. The action plan may include, where appropriate, providing additional staffing, increasing levels of training, upgrading equipment and software, introducing new and improved tools and improving processes, and rebidding and/or
replacing Subcontracts or Supply Contracts (including, without limitation, any Subcontracts or Supply Contracts that are performed by an Affiliate of Provider). To the extent that the causes of the variance arise as a result of technology decisions
reached jointly by the Parties and Provider is using such technology as intended by the Parties, Provider shall not be obliged to mitigate or reduce the variance.      10.8  Termination . If Provider fails to improve deficient Service Levels to meet Best Practices or reduce Services Costs to eliminate any above-market variance in accordance with this  Article 10 , and without prejudice to any
other rights or remedy of Company, Company shall be entitled to terminate this Agreement or all or some of the Services with respect to the deficient or above-market Benchmark Category, and no termination fee or charge shall apply with respect to
such termination.      10.9  Market Reviews . Independently from the benchmarking process set forth in this  Article 10 , Company may, from time
to time, at its costs and expense, carry out market review exercises with the objective of assessing whether Company is obtaining the best value in respect of the Services Costs for some or all of the Services. Company, at its cost and expense, may
appoint third parties to assist with such market reviews exercises on its behalf.      10.10  Access . Provider agrees that the relevant third parties
shall have the right to access all materials and information that Company is entitled pursuant to this Agreement and any relevant Order solely for the purposes set forth in this  Article 10  provided that such relevant third parties will agree
in writing to be bound by confidentiality obligations substantially similar to those contained in  Article 27  of this Agreement. Provider shall, on request, provide Company and such third parties with such assistance and information as
they may reasonably require to facilitate the conduct of the benchmarking and/or market review exercise and the achievement of the market review objectives.       

11.   
   DELIVERABLES AND OWNERSHIP         11.1  Deliverables . Provider
shall furnish to Company any Deliverables set forth in this Agreement and any Orders, and shall ensure that any such Deliverables meet the requirements and specifications set forth in this Agreement or the applicable Order. Unless otherwise set
forth herein or in an Order, all Deliverables that use units of measurement shall use standard English units, and all Deliverables shall be written in the English language. Originals and copies of Deliverables shall be of the highest quality,
legible, clear, full form and readable.      11.2  Ownership of Work Product . Company shall be the exclusive owner of all right, title, and interest in
and to all Work Product and all Intellectual Property rights therein (excluding Provider Intellectual Property Rights), and Provider hereby assigns to Company all right, title, and interest therein. Provider shall, at request of Company, perform any
acts that Company may reasonably deem necessary or desirable to evidence or confirm Company s ownership interest in the Work Product and Intellectual Property rights therein, including but not limited to making further written assignments in a
form determined by Company.      11.3  Transfer of Work Product . Unless otherwise requested by Company, Provider shall transfer to Company all Work
Product and any reproductions thereof immediately upon (i) completion of the  

Confidential   
     
  17  

Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange
Commission.   

Services to be performed under each Order or earlier termination of such Order, (ii) termination of this Agreement, or
(iii) five (5) business days after Company s written request. Provider shall not use Work Product for any purposes other than fulfilling Provider s obligations hereunder without Company s prior written consent.
     11.4  Review of Deliverables . Concurrent with furnishing the Deliverables (in either draft or final form) to Company, Provider shall provide Company
with such information as may be required or necessary and in such degree of detail to allow Company to review and approve such Deliverables on a fully informed basis. Such review and approval of Deliverables by Company shall not relieve Provider of
any of its obligations or liabilities hereunder. No Deliverables, the final forms of which have been approved by Company, shall be changed or revised by the Provider without the written consent of Company.      11.5  Inspection and Testing . Unless expressly provided otherwise in an Order, the procedure provided under this  Section 11.5  shall apply to the
acceptance of all Deliverables (i) that include computer software or Equipment, or (ii) for which the applicable Order specifies inspection and testing. Company shall test all Deliverables against the acceptance criteria set forth herein
or in the applicable Order. If, in Company s reasonable judgment, a Deliverable does not meet such criteria, Company shall notify Provider in writing of the deficiency in such Deliverable, and Provider shall promptly, at its expense and in no
event more than twenty (20) days after receiving notice of such deficiency, cure any such deficiencies and provide a corrected Deliverable to Company, or in the event that no cure is possible within such twenty (20) day period, Provider
shall provide to Company a plan and schedule for curing such deficiencies. Any corrected Deliverable shall be subject to the same acceptance criteria and be evaluated for acceptance by Company as if it were the original Deliverable, provided that
Provider shall have no more than two (2) opportunities to correct the defects in any Deliverable. After such two (2) opportunities to correct the defects, Company shall have the option (i) of having Provider continue to correct such
defect under the terms of this  Section 11.5 , or (ii) to finally reject such Deliverable, to receive its money back for such Deliverable, and to terminate, at its option, the applicable portion or the entire Agreement or the relevant
Order related to the defective Deliverable, [  *  ]. The foregoing remedy is in addition to Company s other rights and remedies at law and under this Agreement.      11.6  Obligations of Provider Personnel . Provider shall ensure, at no cost to Company, that all of Provider Personnel who contribute to any Work Product have agreed in advance in writing that such contributions
are assigned to Company or Provider. If any agreements with any of Provider Personnel provide such rights to Provider rather than to Company, Company shall acquire all ownership rights therein pursuant to  Section 11.2 .      11.7  Provider Intellectual Property Rights; License of Provider Intellectual Property Rights . Company acknowledges and agrees that Provider is the exclusive owner
of all right, title and interest in and to all Provider Intellectual Property Rights, and except as otherwise provided herein, no rights in or to the Provider Intellectual Property Rights are granted, transferred or conveyed to Company on account of
this Agreement. During the Term of this Agreement and thereafter as provided in  Section 18.6 , Provider hereby grants to Company an irrevocable, non-exclusive, worldwide (if applicable), royalty-free license under all Provider
Intellectual Property Rights included in or necessary to utilize the Work Product, to prepare, compile, install, make, use, execute, access, reproduce, modify and/or adapt the Provider Intellectual Property Rights in order for Company to utilize the
Work Product as contemplated by this Agreement. The license granted hereunder shall include the right of Company to grant to Company Affiliates, agents and representatives the right to do any of the foregoing, provided that such Affiliates, agents
and representatives use the Provider Intellectual Property Rights solely in connection with the use of the Work Product as contemplated by this Agreement.      11.8 [Intentionally Omitted]      11.9  License Rights in Bankruptcy . All rights and licenses granted under this  Section 11.9  by
Provider to Company are, and shall otherwise be deemed to be, for purposes of Section 365(n) of the United States Bankruptcy Code (  Code  ), licenses to rights to   intellectual property   as defined under the
Code. The Parties agree that Company shall retain and may fully exercise all of its rights and elections under  

Confidential   
     
  18  

Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange
Commission.   

the Code. The Parties further agree that, in the event of the commencement of bankruptcy proceedings by or against Provider under the Code, Company shall be
entitled to retain all of its rights under this  Section 11.9 , including any licenses granted hereunder.       

12.   
   RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN COMPANY AND PROVIDER         12.1  Account
Executives . Each Party shall designate an account executive (each an   Account Executive  ) who shall serve as the primary representative to the other Party with respect to performance of such Party under this Agreement and who
shall be considered Key Provider Personnel hereunder. The Account Executive for each Party shall (i) have overall responsibility for managing and coordinating the performance of such Party s obligations under this Agreement, and
(ii) be authorized to act for and on behalf of such Party with respect to all matters relating to this Agreement in coordination with such Party s other relevant Personnel. Before designating an employee as an Account Executive, Provider
shall notify Company of the proposed assignment, shall introduce the individual to appropriate representatives of Company, and shall provide Company with a resume and such other information regarding the individual that may be reasonably requested
by Company. Provider s appointment or replacement of any Account Executive shall be subject to Company s prior consent. The Account Executives of each Party and other Key Provider Personnel as of the Effective Date are as set forth in
 Schedule 7  (Key Provider Personnel) of  Exhibit A  (Description of Services) or in the applicable Order. [  *  ]      12.2
 Program Managers . Each Party shall designate a project manager for the Services to be performed under this Agreement and each Order (each a   Program Manager  ). Each Program Manager shall be deemed to have authority to issue,
execute, grant or provide any approvals, requests, notices or other communications required hereunder or requested by the other Party in connection with the Services under this Agreement or such Order.      12.3 [Intentionally Omitted]      12.4  Policies and Procedures Guide .
Provider shall develop within 90 days after the Effective Date and maintain a policies and procedures guide (the   Policies and Procedures Guide  ) that describes how Provider shall perform and deliver the Services under this
Agreement and each Order, the Equipment and software being used, and the documentation (e.g., operations manuals, user guides, specifications) that provides further details of such activities. The Policies and Procedures Guide shall describe the
activities Provider proposes to undertake in order to provide the Services, including the direction, supervision, monitoring, staffing, response times, controls, reporting, communications, planning and oversight activities normally undertaken to
provide services of the type Provider is to provide under this Agreement. The Policies and Procedures Guide also shall include descriptions of the acceptance testing and quality assurance procedures approved by Company, Provider s problem
management and escalation procedures, process for the delivery of all applicable Services, prioritization procedures and any specific reporting requirements for the particular Services, and the other standards and procedures of Provider pertinent to
Company s interaction with Provider in obtaining the Services. The Policies and Procedures Guide shall be suitable for use by Company to understand the Services.      12.5  Development of Guide . Within sixty (60) days after the Effective Date and each Order Effective Date, Provider shall deliver an initial draft Policies and Procedures Guide to Company for Company s
review, comment and approval. Company shall provide its approval or comments and suggestions within thirty (30) days of receipt of the draft Policies and Procedures Guide. Within thirty (30) days of receiving Company s comments or
suggestions, Provider shall incorporate such comments or suggestions and re-submit the Policies and Procedures Guide for Company s approval. Throughout the Term and Termination Assistance Period, Provider shall be responsible for updating the
Policies and Procedures Guide to ensure that it remains current and reflects any changes to the Services, operations and business processes, and any changes or updates to the Policies and Procedures Guide shall be provided to Company for review,
comment and approval.      12.6  Conflicts . Provider shall perform the Services in accordance with the Policies and Procedures Guide, provided however
that until such time as the Policies and Procedures Guide is developed,  

Confidential   
     
  19  

Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange
Commission.   

Provider shall provide the Services in accordance with the policies and procedures being followed by Company immediately prior to the Effective Date and each
applicable Order Effective Date. In the event of a conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and the Policies and Procedures Guide, the provisions of this Agreement shall control.      12.7  Knowledge Transfer . Upon the request of Company, Provider shall provide Company, at no additional cost, with training of its Personnel on Provider s
premises for the purpose of transferring to Company the know-how of Provider used to perform the Services. Such knowledge transfer may be accomplished using Direct Provider Labor and available resources dedicated to the Services provided that the
use of such persons and resources does not adversely affect the performance of the Services. The knowledge transfer shall be sufficient to enable Company to perform the Services in the event of a Step-In or other event resulting in transfer of the
Services to Company. Any such transfer of knowledge shall not act as a transfer of any Provider Intellectual Property Rights except as described in  Article 11  of this Agreement; provided that such transfer shall include all know-how for
purposes of using the licenses granted pursuant to  Article 11 .      12.8  Transferred Employees . In the event the Transition Plan or an Order
provides for the transfer of Company employees to Provider, Provider shall comply with the provisions thereof with respect to providing offers of employment to such Company employees that Provider intends to hire for the purposes of providing the
Services after the Effective Date or the applicable Order Effective Date (  Transferred Employees  ). Such Transferred Employees will be covered by the provisions of  Section 13.11  of this Agreement. Accordingly, Provider
shall treat the Transferred Employees as its employees for all purposes, including tax reporting and employee benefits, and that Provider will obtain from each Transferred Employee a signed statement in a form acceptable to Company
[ * ]. Furthermore, Provider agrees that it will supervise, pay, evaluate, and set the hours of work of the Transferred Employees pursuant to the terms hereof or of the Order, provide the Transferred Employees with all necessary tools,
supplies, offices and equipment, and provide training to the Transferred Employees on how to perform their services.      12.9 [Intentionally Omitted]
     12.10  Qualified Personnel . Provider shall hire, train, assign and retain an adequate number of Personnel, including without limitation supervisory
and administrative staff, to perform its obligations under this Agreement and each Order at all times, including periods during which Personnel actively deployed in the provision of Services are unable to provide the Services due to sickness,
holiday or any other such absence. All Provider Personnel shall be competent, qualified, trained, honest, trustworthy, reliable and non-violent, and shall not pose a risk of serious harm to others.      12.11  Designation of Key Provider Personnel . Company and Provider may designate certain employees of Provider as key employees (  Key Provider
Personnel  ), who shall be dedicated to Company s account (and stationed at locations approved by Company) as regards the Services to be performed under this Agreement and an applicable Order, which Key Provider Personnel shall be named
in  Schedule 7  (Key Provider Personnel) of  Exhibit A  (Description of Services) or the relevant Order, if known. Provider shall cause each of the Key Provider Personnel to devote substantially full time and effort to the provision
of the Services for at least [  *  ] from the date that each such Key Provider Personnel assumes the respective responsibilities. Before designating an employee as, or replacing, a Key Provider Personnel, Provider shall notify Company of
the proposed assignment within at least thirty (30) days prior to such planned designation, shall introduce the individual to appropriate representatives of Company, and shall provide Company with a r sum  and other information
regarding the individual that may be reasonably requested by Company. Provider s appointment of any Key Provider Personnel shall be subject to Company s prior written consent. If Company objects in good faith to the proposed designation of
any Key Provider Personnel, the Parties shall attempt to resolve Company s concerns to the reasonable satisfaction of Company. If the Parties have not been able to resolve Company s concerns within five (5) business days, Provider
shall (1) not assign the individual to that position and (2) propose to Company the assignment of another individual of suitable ability and qualifications.         

Confidential   
     
  20  

Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange
Commission.   

12.12  Replacement or Reassignment of Key Provider Personnel . Except as a result of voluntary resignation or a
termination For Cause (as used in this Agreement with respect to termination of Personnel   For Cause   shall mean theft, fraud, violence, harassment, discrimination, gross misconduct, or the like), Provider shall not, without
obtaining a prior written approval from Company, reassign or replace any Key Provider Personnel for the shorter of (i) the duration of the Services to be performed under this Agreement or the relevant Order, or (ii) [  *  ] after
designation as a Key Provider Personnel. Thereafter, Provider may only replace or reassign a Key Provider Personnel after [  *  ] notice to Company, except: (i) upon written consent of Company, not to be unreasonably withheld;
(ii) upon a Key Provider Personnel s voluntary resignation from Provider; (iii) upon the dismissal of a Key Provider Personnel by Provider; or (iv) upon the inability of a Key Provider Personnel to work due to sickness or
disability.      In the event that any Key Provider Personnel is reassigned or otherwise removed from performing certain Services before such Services are
completed, Provider shall as soon as practicable, and subject to the approval of Company, assign an appropriate replacement who shall thereafter be designated as a Key Provider Personnel. In order to ensure a smooth transition between such Key
Provider Personnel, Company and Provider shall jointly agree (such agreement not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed by either Party) upon an appropriate overlap period during which both the Key Provider Personnel being reassigned or
removed and the replacement Key Provider Personnel are assigned to support the provision of Services under this Agreement or the relevant Order(s). Unless otherwise agreed by the Parties, under no circumstances shall Provider transfer or remove more
than ten percent (10%) of the Key Provider Personnel in any given six (6) month period other than terminations For Cause.      12.13  Special
Replacement or Reassignment . In the event that Provider desires to replace or reassign a Key Provider Personnel for reasons other than those set forth in  Section 12.12 , Provider may make a written request to the Company Program
Manager, who shall review such request on a case-by-case basis. In the event that the Company Program Manager reasonably declines Provider s request, Provider shall have the right to request that the issue be considered by representatives
nominated by Company and Provider, who shall meet in good faith to discuss the request and resolve the matter, taking into account such factors as project impact, availability of alternate resources, and costs. In the event that such representatives
are unable to resolve the matter, the determination of Company shall govern.      12.14  Staffing Issues . During the first twelve (12) months after
the Effective Date, Provider shall give written notice to Company (a   Staffing Notice  ) within ten (10) days of the occurrence of either of the following: (i) more than ten percent (10%) of the employees (including
all full-time and part-time employees) of Provider that have performed, or are scheduled to perform, Services either have (a) resigned their positions with Provider, (b) had their employment or engagement with Provider terminated by
Provider, or (c) been assigned or proposed to be assigned by Provider to work for or on behalf of other clients of Provider; or (ii) Provider does not reasonably anticipate that it will have a sufficient number of qualified employees to
complete the Services in a timely manner and consistent with the requirements of this Agreement. In the event such staffing issue occurs, Provider shall not be relieved from its obligations to provide the Services hereunder, and no later than ten
(10) days after Provider provides such Staffing Notice, Provider shall develop and submit to Company for Company s approval an action plan (a   Staffing Action Plan  ) pursuant to which Provider shall retain a sufficient
number of new employees, or otherwise assign employees from other divisions or Affiliates of Provider, to perform Services and to cause the Services to be completed in a timely manner and consistent with the requirements of this Agreement. Upon
Company s approval of a Staffing Action Plan, Provider shall promptly and diligently implement such Company-approved Staffing Action Plan. Upon Company s request and otherwise on a monthly basis after Company s approval of a Staffing
Action Plan, Provider shall provide Company with a written report describing any changes in Provider s staffing of the Services and any other facts and circumstances which may impact Provider s ability to provide adequate staffing to
timely perform the Services in a manner consistent with the requirements of this Agreement.      12.15  Assignment to Company Competitors . Provider shall
not assign an individual filling a Key Provider Personnel to the account of any Company Competitor without Company s prior written consent (1) while such individual is assigned to Company s account, and (2) for a period of
[  *  ] following the date that such individual is removed from or ceases to provide services in connection with Company s account.  

Confidential   
     
  21  

Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange
Commission.   

In the event an individual filling a Key Provider Personnel position voluntarily resigns from the employ of, or is involuntarily terminated by, Provider,
Provider shall not be obligated to actively prevent such individual from becoming employed by a Company Competitor at any period of time thereafter. Should this  Section 12.15  be declared unenforceable or invalid by a court with
jurisdiction, on the basis that it exceeds statutorily required territorial or time limits on extensions of obligation not to compete, such a declaration will render this provision invalid only as it relates to the excess over what is allowed under
Applicable Law. The provision will be deemed amended to comply with statutorily required limits.      12.16  Project Staff . Provider shall provide
Company with notice prior to replacing any member of Provider Personnel assigned to perform the Services (  Project Staff  ), and shall provide Company with immediate notice in the event any member of the Project Staff is replaced.
Company reserves the right to review the qualifications of Project Staff. Provider shall use commercially reasonable efforts to maintain a stable Project Staff and shall replace Project Staff in a manner to prevent any material impact on the
provision of Services. Provider acknowledges that all Personnel assigned to perform Services shall be required to execute all documents required under the Company Policies, including, but not limited to, the documents listed in  Exhibit I 
(Company Standard Operating Procedures) and  Exhibit J  (Company Standard Policies). In addition, prior to performing Services, Provider shall cause its Provider Personnel to execute Company s Temporary Worker/Contractor Orientation
Materials, including, but not limited to, the Assignment Guidelines, Non-Employee Information Security Agreement; Proprietary Information and Inventions Agreement for Non-Employees; List of Inventions and Works; Mutual Agreement to Arbitrate Claims;
and Harassment/Discrimination Policy, set forth as  Exhibit B  (Company s Temporary Worker/Contractor Orientation Materials).      12.17
 Company Request for Replacement . Company shall have the right to request in good faith that Provider remove any Key Provider Personnel or other Project Staff for any reason that does not violate Law. Such request shall be in writing, state
Company s basis for requesting the removal of the Key Provider Personnel or other Project Staff, and be reviewed by Provider s Program Manager and Company s Program Manager to develop a mutually agreeable resolution. With respect to
Key Provider Personnel, other Personnel or other Project Staff working on Company premises, (i) if requested by Company, Provider shall immediately remove such individual from Company premises pending resolution of the request and (ii) in
the event that the parties are unable to develop a mutually agreeable resolution, Provider shall permanently remove such Key Provider Personnel or other Project Staff from the performance of the Services on Company premises in accordance with the
Company s direction. Provider shall replace any Key Provider Personnel or Project Staff removed hereunder as soon as reasonably possible, with replacement Personnel approved by Company, which approval will not be unreasonably withheld or
delayed. Nothing in this  Section 12.17  shall operate or be construed to limit Provider s responsibility for the acts or omissions of Provider Personnel, or be construed as joint employment.      12.18  Review Meetings and Progress Reports . Upon the request of Company s Program Manager, each Party s Program Manager, as well as appropriate
additional Personnel involved in the performance of Services, shall meet at a location designated by Company, or at Company s option, conduct a telephone conference call or web conference meeting, to discuss the Services. Unless otherwise
agreed by Company, in order to facilitate proper management of Services under this Agreement and the applicable Order, Provider shall, at each such meeting (or if no meeting is solicited by Company, at least once each month during the Term and
Termination Assistance Period), provide Company with a written status report in which Provider identifies any problem or circumstance encountered by Provider, or which Provider gained knowledge of during the period since the last such status report,
that (i) may prevent or tend to prevent Provider from completing any of its obligations hereunder or under such Order, or (ii) may cause or tend to cause Provider to generate Services Costs in excess of those previously agreed by the
Parties. If applicable, Provider shall identify the amount of excess Services Costs, if any, and the cause of any identified problem or circumstance and steps taken or proposed to be taken by Provider to remedy the problem or circumstance; provided,
however, that Company shall not be billed or liable for any such excess Services Costs incurred by Provider without the prior written approval of Company in accordance with the Change Control Process.         

12.19  Visits . Provider Personnel, including, but not limited to, Provider s Program Managers as requested by
Company, shall, to the extent deemed necessary by Provider to provide direct support of the existing Services, at the expense of Company, visit any of Company s locations or the sites of third-party consultants or service providers of Company
to discuss the Services. Company shall be obligated to reimburse travel expenses incurred in connection with such visits only to the extent such expenses are reimbursable under Provider s travel policies and Company s travel policies, and
then only to the extent of the lesser of the aggregate amounts reimbursable under each policy. Company or its representative may at any time elect, at Company s expense and upon reasonable notice to Provider, to visit Provider s facilities
at which Services are being performed. Provider shall make available specialists as designated by Company and Provider to discuss the Services.      12.20
 Cooperation with Third Party Suppliers . Provider has been advised and acknowledges that, under separate agreements, Company may retain other providers or suppliers to perform certain services related to those Services to be performed
hereunder by Provider (individually, a   Third Party Supplier   and collectively,   Third Party Suppliers  ). Provider shall coordinate its performance hereunder with the services of Third Party Suppliers so as to
facilitate successful completion of each project or performance of the Services, including without limitation providing cooperation and information to and attending meetings with such other suppliers to enable the successful implementation of their
services. To the extent expressly included in Provider s obligations hereunder or under an Order or reasonably inferable therefrom, Provider shall (i) coordinate the Services with such other services as though such other services were
performed by Provider, (ii) cooperate with Company and Third Party Suppliers so as to allow such Third Party Suppliers to provide any services (including services similar to the Services) or products in an integrated and seamless manner without
disruption to Company s business or the Company Facilities, and (iii) to the extent included as part of the Services, manage the performance of Third Party Suppliers under the applicable agreements with Third Party Suppliers. Provider
shall immediately notify Company when an act or omission of a Third Party Supplier may cause a problem or delay in Provider providing the Services and Provider shall cooperate with Company to prevent or circumvent such problem or delay.   
  12.21  Software and Hardware Verification . Unless otherwise set forth in an Order, (i) within thirty (30) days of the Effective Date or an Order
Effective Date, or (ii) for new software or hardware used to provide Services, prior to implementing use of such new software or hardware, Provider shall verify that all software and hardware of Provider that will be used by Provider to provide
the Services, and all interconnections to Company systems and networks, operate in accordance with their specifications and intended functions in a reliable manner. In the event that during such verification Provider finds any nonconformities,
Provider shall provide to Company within the respective period specified in clause (i) or (ii) above, an action plan to eliminate such nonconformities within ninety (90) days. Prior to using any other software or hardware to provide
the Services or creating new interconnections with Company systems and networks, Provider shall verify that such software, hardware or interconnection operates in accordance with its specifications and intended functions in a reliable manner. Prior
to testing any such software, hardware or interconnections, Provider shall document the testing protocols to be used and submit such testing protocols to Company to obtain written approval thereof.      12.22  Continuous Improvement and Best Practices . Provider shall: (i) on a continuous basis, as part of its total quality management process, seek to improve
the quality, pricing and technology available to Company in connection with the Services; (ii) seek to identify and apply proven techniques and tools from other installations within its operations that Provider and Company agree would benefit
Company either operationally or financially; (iii) use commercially reasonable efforts to advise Company of any new developments relating to the Services; and (iv) upon Company s request, at a mutually agreeable price, assist in the
evaluation and testing of such developments in connection with the performance of the Services. Without limiting the foregoing, on the request of Company, Provider shall (i) report to Company on any of the foregoing, and (ii) inform
Company of any new products, processes, trends and directions of which Provider is aware, that may be relevant to Company s business.         

12.23  Transitioned Personnel .       

(i)  
   Affected Employees .        Provider shall offer
employment to those Affected Employees who Provider intends to hire and who are not in ARD Countries. The terms for such offers of employment and for employment of the Affected Employees shall be as set forth in  Schedule 8  (Affected
Personnel) to  Exhibit A  (Description of Services) or the applicable Order and shall comply with the requirements set forth in  Exhibit F  (Human Resources Provisions). Provider shall treat the Transferred Employees as its employees for
all purposes, including tax reporting and employee benefits, and that Provider will obtain from each Transferred Employee a signed statement in a form acceptable to Company [*]. Provider shall supervise, pay, evaluate, discipline and set the
hours of work of the Transitioned Employees, provide the Transitioned Employees with all necessary tools, supplies, offices and equipment, and provide training to the Transitioned Employees on how to perform their services.       

(ii)  
   Affected Contractors .        The Company contractor
agreements identified in  Schedule 10  (Assigned and Managed Contracts; Company Contractor Agreements) to  Exhibit A  (Description of Services) or the applicable Order (the   Company Contractor Agreements  ) shall be either
assumed by Provider or terminated or allowed to expire as provided in the Transition Plan. Company shall be responsible for the costs, charges and fees associated with such actions. If requested by Company, Provider shall use commercially reasonable
efforts to continue to use those Personnel of Affected Contractors identified in  Schedule 8  (Affected Personnel) to  Exhibit A  (Description of Services) or the applicable Order as  Key Company Contractor Personnel  to perform
the Services for the period specified therein.       

(iii)  
   Critical Affected Personnel/Key Transferred Employees .        Provider acknowledges that certain of the Affected Personnel are Affected Personnel who Company believes are critical to Provider in providing the Services (  Critical Affected Personnel  ). The Critical Affected Personnel
shall be identified by Company pursuant to the timing specified in  Exhibit F  (Human Resources Provisions) or, if applicable, for those Critical Affected Personnel identified in an Order, specified in that Order. Provider shall provide offers
of employment to the Critical Affected Personnel and use good faith efforts to retain the Critical Affect Personnel in accordance with the terms and requirements of  Exhibit F  (Human Resources Provisions). During the first [  *  ]
following the commencement of this Agreement or the applicable Order, Provider shall use the Critical Affected Personnel who become Transferred Employees (the   Key Transferred Employees   )  to provide Services and shall not,
without meeting the terms of this  Section 12.23(iii) , do the following: (A) terminate, except For Cause, the employment of any Critical Affected Personnel who become employees of Provider or (B) transfer, relocate or reassign
any Key Transferred Employees unless such transfer, relocation or reassignment is initially requested by such Key Transferred Employee. In the event Provider intends to terminate, transfer, or reassign any Key Transferred Employees during the
initial [  *  ] following the applicable employment effective date, Provider will (1) provide timely notice to Company of this termination, transfer, or reassignment, and (2) give due consideration to Company s concerns with
respect to the impact of terminating, transferring, or reassigning unless such relocation, transfer or reassignment is initially requested by such Key Transferred Employee prior to so terminating, transferring, or reassigning any such person.

Confidential   
     
  24  

Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange
Commission.   

(iv)  
   Acquired Rights Directive .        In accordance with its
obligations under local legislation implementing ARD Laws, any relevant collective bargaining agreements and other Applicable Laws, Provider shall provide to Company in writing such information as is necessary so as to enable Company to carry out in
good time its obligations to inform and consult under ARD Laws, and any other Applicable Laws. It is the Parties  intention that ARD Laws shall apply to each of the Affected Employees in ARD Countries (  ARD Affected
Employees  ), that the time of transfer under ARD Laws be the date of hire by Provider, and that the contract of employment between Company and each of the ARD Affected Employees shall have effect on and from the date of hire by Provider as
if originally made between each such ARD Affected Employee and Provider. Provider shall comply with ARD Laws (and other Applicable Laws) with respect to the ARD Affected Employees before, on and after the date of hire by Provider. To the extent that
any entitlement under a ARD Affected Employee s contract of employment or ancillary employment rights is not automatically transferred to Provider under ARD Laws (e.g., certain occupational pension rights in the United Kingdom), then
[  *  ].       

(v)  
  Provider may not transfer the employment of the Transitioned Employees to any third party who is not performing any of the Services and shall during the Term remain the employer of
the Transitioned Employees except only to the extent: (1) that ARD Laws shall apply to transfer the employment of any Transitioned Employees to any third party, Subcontractor or Supplier which, subject to the terms of this Agreement, Provider
engages to perform any of the Services; or (2) that Provider shall terminate the employment of any Transitioned Employees for misconduct, incapability, or economic reasons.         

(vi)  
  If ARD Laws do not operate to transfer to Provider any ARD Affected Employee who is working in an ARD Country, Provider shall within fourteen (14) days of becoming aware that
such ARD Affected Employee has not transferred make to the ARD Affected Employee an offer of employment on such terms that would have applied had the ARD Affected Employee transferred to Provider under ARD Laws, such offer to remain open for a
period of twenty-eight (28) days. Provider shall reimburse Company for all costs of employing such ARD Affected Employee during the period up to and including the earlier of the date on which he or she commences employment with Provider and the
date on which the offer of employment to be made by Provider expires.         

(vii)  
  The parties will set forth additional applicable provisions related to ARD Countries, ARD Laws, or ARD Affected Employees in an Order, including without limitation Service Costs and
costs associated with the transfer or non-transfer of ARD Affected Employees.         

13.   
   SUBCONTRACTING AND RESPONSIBILITY FOR PERSONNEL         13.1
 Subcontractors . Any subcontracting in connection with this Agreement shall be pursuant to an appropriate written agreement (a   Subcontract  ) between Provider and such subcontractor (each, a   Subcontractor  )
and shall include provisions that meet or exceed the requirements of this Agreement and that are relevant to the Services subject to such Subcontract. Provider shall not enter into any Major Subcontract except in compliance with
 Section 13.8  below. Additionally, Provider must obtain Company s prior written consent, not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed, if Provider plans to self-perform or have Provider s Affiliate perform any of the Services
including without limitation Services that have previously been performed by Provider s Subcontractors or Third Party Suppliers. Each Subcontract shall identify Company as an intended third party beneficiary that may enforce any
confidentiality, warranty and similar rights under such Subcontract. Each Subcontract shall require the Subcontractor, at no cost to Company, to correct such Subcontractor s performance not meeting the requirements of the Subcontract. All
Subcontracts shall be for a term not to exceed the period for which Services are to be provided to Company and shall be terminable without cause at Provider s election upon no more than ninety (90) 

Confidential   
     
  25  

Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange
Commission.   

days notice without termination penalty or charge. Company shall not be obligated to reimburse Provider for any termination penalty or charge incurred by
Provider under a Subcontract except to the extent that, prior to entering into such Subcontract, Provider disclosed to and Company agreed in writing to reimburse therefor (any termination fees so agreed by Company, an   Approved Subcontract
Termination Fee  ). Company shall only be obligated to reimburse Provider for Approved Subcontract Termination Fees to the extent such are actually incurred and paid by Provider. Company shall have the right, at any time, to negotiate and
contract directly with any subcontractor for any goods or services, including without limitation those to be provided hereunder, provided that any actual modification of the Services shall be made in accordance with the Change Control Process. If
requested by Company, Provider shall promptly provide a copy of any Major Subcontracts or Subcontracts for amounts in excess of $20,000 to Company within ten (10) days after such request.      13.2  Certain Subcontractors . Company shall have the right to pre-approve Subcontractors for Major Subcontracts, and Company may reject such proposed
Subcontractors in Company s good faith business judgment. The Subcontractors listed on  Schedule 13  to  Exhibit A  (Approved Major Subcontracts) are approved for the initial Services indicated on such Schedule, provided that Company
may modify such pre-approved list of Subcontractors from time to time with respect to future Subcontracts. Company shall have the right to specify the use by Provider of certain Subcontractors. Such specification by Company shall not (i) create
any liability for Company to any Subcontractor or privity of contract between Company and any such Subcontractor, or (ii) relieve Provider of its obligations hereunder or constitute a representation or endorsement by Company that such
Subcontractor is qualified or capable to perform. Provider shall not substitute or replace any Subcontractor approved or specified by Company if Company objects in good faith to such substitution or replacement. If (A) Provider determines that
Company s specification of a Subcontractor materially increases the costs of the Services or (B) such Subcontractor does not agree to Subcontract terms and conditions required by this Agreement, then a Change shall be determined in
accordance with the Change Control Process set forth in  Article 5 . Provider s failure to request a Change prior execution of the applicable Subcontract shall constitute a waiver of any right to seek a modification of the Services
Costs or Provider s Shared Savings payable under this Agreement in connection with the applicable Subcontract.      13.3  Supply Contracts/Equipment
Leases . Provider shall identify to Company Supply Contracts that are required to perform the Services in accordance with this Agreement or the applicable Order and the Service Levels. Such Supply Contracts shall be entered into by Company or
Provider as determined by Company in its reasonable discretion. Company shall have the right to specify the use by Provider of certain Third Party Suppliers. Such specification by Company shall not (i) create any liability for Company to any
Third Party Suppliers or privity of contract between Company and any such Supplier unless Company is a party to the applicable Supply Contract, or (ii) relieve Provider of its obligations hereunder or constitute a representation or endorsement
by Company that such Supplier is qualified or capable to perform. Provider shall not substitute or replace any Supplier approved or specified by Company if Company objects in good faith to such substitution or replacement. If Provider determines
that (i) Company s specification of a Supplier materially and adversely increases the costs of the Services or (ii) a designated Subcontractor does not agree to Subcontract terms and conditions required by this Agreement, then a
Change shall be determined in accordance with the Change Control Process set forth in  Article 5 . Provider s failure to request a Change prior execution of the applicable Supply Contract shall constitute a waiver of any right to seek
a modification of the Services Costs or Provider s Shared Savings payable under this Agreement in connection with the applicable Supply Contract. Company shall not be obligated to reimburse Provider for any termination penalty or charge
incurred by Provider under a Supply Contract except to the extent that, prior to entering into such Supply Contract, Provider disclosed to and Company agreed in writing to reimburse such (any termination fees so agreed by Company, an
  Approved Supply Contract Termination Fee  ). Company shall only be obligated to reimburse Provider Approved Supply Contract Termination Fees to the extent such are actually incurred and paid by Provider. Provider shall provide a
notice and, if requested by Company, copy of each Major Supply Contract and other Supply Contract in excess of $20,000 to Company within ten (10) days after execution of such Supply Contract. With respect to any Provider Equipment procured or
leased by Provider as a Reimbursable Cost in connection with the Services, Provider s responsibilities shall include: (A) evaluating the Provider Equipment and the qualifications of the Provider Equipment vendor; (B) 

negotiating commercially reasonable pricing and terms; (C) ordering, receiving, configuring, installing, testing, maintaining and distributing all new
Provider Equipment; (D) performing tracking and asset management for all such Provider Equipment; and (E) tracking license counts, informing Company of any discrepancies with applicable license count restrictions, and assisting Company in
restoring compliance with applicable license count restrictions. With respect to any new Provider Equipment leased by Provider that may be assumed by Company upon termination of this Agreement, (1) Supplier shall structure its leasing
arrangements so that the applicable leases may be assigned to Company upon the termination or expiration of this Agreement and so that any ongoing payments under those leases payable by Company after such assignment are consistent with, and no
greater than, the payments payable by Provider prior to such assignment, and (2) such leases shall be subject to prior review and approval by Company.      13.4  Supplier Diversity . Company desires to use small business entities that qualify as small (disadvantaged, veteran, service disabled veteran, women owned, and HUBZone) businesses (as defined by the United States Small Business
Administration). In recognition thereof, Provider will work to develop additional suppliers, use reasonable efforts to employ qualified vendors and subcontractors where appropriate and feasible in providing the Services. Provider shall keep records
of small business subcontracts and shall be able to produce a report, upon Company s request, of Provider s small business spend percentages along with any examples of good faith efforts to subcontract with small businesses. Those
spend percentages and other requirements are listed in  Attachment 2  to  Exhibit J  (Provider Diversity Plan).      13.5  Assignability .
Provider shall structure its arrangements with Subcontractors and Third Party Suppliers that will be primarily dedicated to the performance of the Services so that the relevant contracts may be assigned to Company (or upon Company s request
replaced with a novation of the Subcontract or Supply Agreement between Company and the applicable Subcontractor or Supplier) upon the termination of this Agreement as to the applicable Services covered by such Subcontract or Supply Agreement and so
that there are no assignment or termination fees and the ongoing fees under those arrangements payable by Company after such assignment (or novation) are consistent with and no higher than the fees payable by Provider prior to such assignment (or
novation). If Provider is not able to accomplish the foregoing after using commercially reasonable efforts, Provider shall notify Company and discuss with Company the consequences (including any impact on the Services and Service Levels) of Provider
not being able to use the services from the provider who shall not allow the assignment sought by Company. If, following that discussion, Company directs Provider to not use such services, and Provider is not able to find a suitable work-around,
Provider shall be relieved of its obligations under the Agreement to the extent its ability to perform is adversely impacted by the inability to use such third party services.      13.6  Control and Risk . Provider shall properly direct and control Subcontractors and Third Party Suppliers, and inspect Subcontractors  and Third Party Suppliers  performance for defects and
deficiencies. No agreement between Provider and any Subcontractor or Supplier shall relieve Provider from any of its obligations or liabilities hereunder. Nothing in this Agreement or any Subcontract shall create any contractual relationship, with
the exception of the above-mentioned third party beneficiary right, between Company and any Subcontractor including without limitation any obligation on Company s part to pay, or be responsible for the payment of, any sums to any Subcontractor.
     13.7  Affiliates . Provider shall provide Company written notice regarding any Subcontractors or Third Party Suppliers that are Provider s
Affiliates prior to entering into any agreement with an Affiliate in connection with the Services. Any such agreement shall be subject to Company s prior written consent. Any Subcontract or Supply Contract with an Affiliate that is considered a
Reimbursable Cost shall not exceed market prices and shall not result in the payment of any profit to Provider or its Affiliate Subcontractor or Supplier. Company may elect, in its sole and absolute discretion, to cause any Subcontract or Supply
Contract that is considered a Reimbursable Cost and that Provider proposes to award to an Affiliate to be competitively bid in accordance with  Section 13.13  to bidders that are not Provider s Affiliates.      13.8  Payments to Subcontractors and Third Party Suppliers . Except to the extent Company has either withheld payment or not timely made a properly invoiced payment
with respect to such Subcontractor or  

Supplier, Provider shall promptly pay each Subcontractor and Supplier the amount to which such Subcontractor or Supplier is entitled no later than the due
date for payment under the applicable Subcontract or Supply Contract unless (i) Provider has a good faith dispute regarding the charges of such Provider Personnel, (ii) the terms of the Subcontract or Supply Contract between Provider and
Provider Personnel permit Provider to withhold payment in the event of a good faith dispute and (iii) Provider has not billed Company and been paid by Company for the contested amounts. Provider shall, by appropriate agreement with each
Subcontractor, require each Subcontractor to make payments to its own approved sub-subcontractors in a similar manner. Upon request, Provider shall submit to Company copies of all checks and payments to Subcontractors. Should Provider neglect or
refuse to cause to be paid promptly any bill or charge legitimately incurred by Provider in support of the Services, Company shall have the right, but not the obligation to, pay such bill or charge directly, and Provider shall immediately reimburse
Company for the same. If Provider does not so reimburse Company, Company may offset the amount of such bill or charge pursuant to  Section 21.4 . With respect to any Subcontracts or Supply Contracts being paid for by Company as
Reimbursable Costs or which costs otherwise directly affect the Services Costs, Provider shall exercise reasonable efforts to qualify for early payment, cash and trade discounts, refunds, rebates, credits, and concessions, and Company shall be
credited with the full amount of any such discount, commission, or compensation obtained or received by Provider, directly or indirectly, in connection with any such contracts.      13.9  Notice of Breach . Provider shall provide Company with prompt written notice of all actual or potential disputes with Subcontractors and Third Party Suppliers, including, without limitation, breaches,
defaults, insolvencies, defects in Subcontractor s and Supplier s services, and work stoppages. Such notice shall include the reasons and circumstances giving rise to such disputes in such detail so as to enable Company, in its sole
discretion, to exercise any of its rights or remedies against such Subcontractor or Supplier, or to require Provider to obtain Company s prior written approval of any settlement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, neither the provisions of this
 Section 13.9  nor the exercise by Company of any of its rights or remedies shall relieve Provider of any of its obligations or liabilities under this Agreement.      13.10  Control of Subcontractors and Other Personnel . Provider shall be responsible for (i) [*] management and coordination of the performance of all such Personnel and Affiliates. [  *  ]
Subject to  Section 13.8  above, Provider shall be responsible for all payments to, and claims by, Provider Personnel and Provider s Affiliates relating to this Agreement and to the Services performed hereunder.      13.11  Not Company Employees . Provider acknowledges and agrees that Company shall have no responsibility or liability for treating Provider Personnel (including
without limitation Transferred Employees and Key Transferred Employees) as employees of Company for any purpose. Neither Provider nor any of Provider Personnel shall be eligible for coverage or to receive any benefit under any Company provided
worker s compensation plans, employee plans or programs or employee benefits arrangement, including without limitation any and all medical and dental plans, bonus or incentive plans, retirement benefit plans, stock plans, disability benefit
plans, life insurance and any and all other such plans or benefits.      13.12  Co-Employment; Joint Employer; Common Law Employee . Provider acknowledges
that some or all of its Personnel may be assigned or deployed to work within Company Facilities. Provider further acknowledges that some or all of its Personnel may be former Company employees. Finally, Provider acknowledges, with respect to the
Personnel referenced in this  Section 13.12 , in particular, but inclusive of all of Provider s Personnel, there is a risk that such Personnel may attempt to assert claims predicated on the allegation (i) that Company and
Provider are their joint employers; (ii) that Company and Provider are their co-employers; and/or (iii) that they are the common law employees of Company. Provider shall use its best efforts to provide its Personnel adequate supervision,
evaluations and feedback, and shall, as appropriate, monitor and evaluate each of Provider s Personnel s functioning in the workplace while assigned to work at a Company Facility, and shall use its best efforts to ensure that none of
Provider s Personnel are, either directly or indirectly, supervised by, directed by or controlled by Company Personnel. In the event that Provider or any of its Personnel determine that said Personnel are, either directly or indirectly, being
supervised, directed or controlled by Company Personnel, Provider shall immediately notify Company of same and shall take all necessary steps, including, but not limited to, coordinating with Company management Personnel to terminate such
supervision, direction or control.         

Confidential   
     
  28  

Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange
Commission.   

13.13  Competitive Bidding . Unless otherwise permitted in this  Section 13.13 , all Major Subcontracts
and Major Supply Contracts shall be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, solicited in the following manner:       

(i)  
  A minimum of three (3) written bids shall be obtained from qualified vendors. Company shall have the right to pre-approve bidders for Major Subcontracts.

(ii)  
  Company reserves the right to review and amend bid specifications prior to solicitation;         

(iii)  
  Provider shall disclose to Company any relationship Provider may have with any prospective bidder, including if such is an Affiliate.         

(iv)  
  All bids in excess of [*] are subject to the approval of Company. Company reserves the right to accept or reject any and all bids.         

(v)  
  Provider must obtain the prior written approval of Company prior to accepting any bid that (A) is not the lowest bid, or (B) is from an Affiliate.

(vi)  
  If Provider recommends acceptance of any bid other than the lowest bid, Provider shall adequately support, in writing, its recommendation to Company. Company shall be free to accept
or reject, in its sole discretion, any and all such bids.         

(vii)  
  Provider shall obtain proof of insurance from the selected vendor prior to commencement of services.        Subject to Company s prior written approval, certain Major Subcontracts and Major Supply Contracts may be entered into without competitive bidding, which may include Provider use of national or global contracts
or sole-source direct negotiation. In this case Provider shall prove the economic or qualitative benefit of this approach to Company s reasonable satisfaction.      13.14  Labor Management . Provider shall meet the Standard of Care in its efforts to prevent and avoid labor-related disputes or other human resources issues which may disrupt or interfere with the performance of
the Services or the activities of Company or Third Party Suppliers. To the extent that Company has requested or Provider has communicated to Company plans with respect to labor usage for a portion of the Services, Provider shall manage the award and
performance of the affected Services consistent with such plan. Whenever Provider has knowledge of any actual or potential labor dispute or disruption involving Provider s Personnel that may materially affect the Services or operations of
Company or Third Party Suppliers, Provider shall promptly notify Company of such and the Parties shall cooperate to minimize the effect of such dispute or disruption on the provision of Services, Company s operations and Third Party
Suppliers  performance, whether or not such labor dispute or disruption occurs at a Company Facility. With respect to all labor disputes, jurisdictional or other shutdowns, slowdowns, strikes, or other work stoppages or actions affecting the
Services or the operations of Company (collectively,   Labor Disputes  ) of which Provider or a union with which Provider has a collective bargaining agreement is a target, Provider shall promptly take all commercially reasonable
necessary action toward elimination and/or settlement of such Labor Disputes; provided, however, that the cost of Labor Disputes of which Provider is a target shall be borne by Provider except to the extent any such Labor Dispute is the direct
result of an act or omission of Company or arises directly out of the decision by Company to enter into this Agreement and reasonably near in time to the date of transition of the Transferred Employees to Provider. With respect to Labor Disputes in
which Company, one of its Affiliates, or a union with which it or they have a CBA is a target, Provider shall exert its best efforts to continue providing Services. Notwithstanding the foregoing, neither the provisions of this
 Section 13.14  nor the exercise by Company of any of its rights and remedies hereunder shall relieve Provider of any of its obligations or liabilities hereunder.         

Confidential   
     
  29  

Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange
Commission.   

14.   
   ASSIGNED AND MANAGED CONTRACTS         14.1  Assigned Contracts . In
accordance with the Transition Plan or the applicable Order, and subject to Provider having obtained any applicable Required Consents, Company shall assign to Provider, and Provider shall assume from Company, the Assigned Contracts set forth in
Schedule 10 to  Exhibit A  (Assigned and Managed Contracts/Company Contractor Agreements) or the applicable Order. Provider shall pay directly, or reimburse Company if Company has paid, the charges and other amounts under the Assigned
Contracts, where such charges are attributable to the periods on or after the Effective Date or the Order Effective Date, subject to reimbursement of such charges that are considered Reimbursable Costs. Provider shall comply with the duties imposed
on Company under such contracts. Company shall pay any costs, expenses and fees (including license, re-licensing, transfer or upgrade fees or termination charges) as may be required to obtain the Parties  respective Required Consents.
     14.2  Managed Contracts . In accordance with this Agreement and the applicable Order, and subject to Provider having obtained any applicable Required
Consents, Provider shall manage, administer and maintain the Managed Contracts. Provider shall provide Company with no less than 90 days notice of any renewal, termination or cancellation dates and fees with respect to the Managed Contracts.
Provider shall not renew, modify, terminate or cancel, or request or grant any consents or waivers under any Managed Contracts without the consent of Company. Any fees or charges or other liabilities or obligations imposed upon Company in connection
with any such renewal, modification, termination or cancellation of, or consent or waiver under, the Managed Contracts that is obtained or given without Company s consent, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed, shall be
paid or discharged, as applicable, by Provider.      14.3  Managed Contract Invoices . Provider shall (i) receive all Managed Contract invoices,
(ii) review and correct any errors in any such Managed Contract invoices in a timely manner, and (iii) submit to Company for payment.      14.4
 Performance Under Managed Contracts . At all times Provider shall remain responsible for the management, administration and maintenance of the Managed Contracts. With respect to the performance of contractors under Managed Contracts, Provider
shall promptly notify Company of any breach of, or misuse or fraud in connection with, any Managed Contracts of which Provider becomes aware or receives written notification, and shall cooperate with Company to prevent or stay any such breach,
misuse or fraud. Provider shall not be liable for (i) any breach of, or misuse or fraud in connection with, by a contractor under any Managed Contract or (ii) for Provider s failure to provide the Services or to meet the Services
Levels as a result of any breach, misuse, or fraud by a contractor under a Managed Contract except to the extent such breach, misuse or fraud resulted from Provider s failure to prudently manage, administer and maintain the Managed Contract.
     14.5  Provider Required Consents . Provider, with the necessary cooperation of Company, shall obtain and maintain any consents, authorizations or
approvals that are necessary for Provider to provide the Services (collectively, the   Provider Required Consents  ), including those consents that are necessary to allow:       

(i)  
  Provider to assign to Company any of its interests in Work Product as described in  Article 11 ;         

(ii)  
  Company to use any Provider Equipment during the Term and the Termination Assistance Period;         

(iii)  
  Company to take an assignment to any Provider Equipment leases pursuant to  Article 31 ; and           

(iv)  
  Provider to take an assignment to any Assigned Contracts pursuant to this  Article 14 .        14.6  Company Required Consents . Company, with the cooperation of Provider, shall obtain and maintain all consents, authorizations or approvals that are necessary to allow Provider to use any of the Company
Provided Equipment as permitted in the Agreement.      14.7  Compliance with Required Consents . Provider and Company shall comply with the requirements
of each of the required consents.      14.8 [Intentionally Omitted]      14.9  Alternative Approaches . If either Party is unable to obtain a required consent, then, unless and until such required consent is obtained, Provider and Company shall determine and adopt such mutually agreeable alternative
approaches as are necessary and sufficient to provide the Services without such required consent. If such alternative approaches are required for a period longer than sixty (60) days following the Effective Date or an Order Effective Date, the
Parties shall equitably adjust the terms of the Agreement and reduce the Services Costs to reflect any additional costs and expenses being incurred by Company and any Services not being received by Company. In addition, if Provider fails to obtain a
Provider Required Consent within sixty (60) days of the Effective Date or an Order Effective Date and such failure has a material adverse impact on Company s receipt of the Services, Company may, upon notice to Provider, terminate the
Agreement, in whole or in part, as of the termination date specified in the notice, without cost or penalty and without the payment of any termination charges. The failure to obtain any Provider Required Consent shall not relieve Provider of its
obligations under the Agreement and Provider shall not be entitled to any additional compensation or reimbursement of any amounts in connection with obtaining or failing to obtain any Provider Required Consent or implementing any alternative
approach required by such failure.       

15.   
   AUDITS AND RECORDKEEPING         15.1  Fee Audits . All books and
records relating to the performance of Provider s obligations hereunder, any amounts payable to Provider hereunder, all Services that are self-performed by Provider and all Subcontracts and Supply Contracts with Affiliates of Provider shall be
maintained by Provider and made available to Company and Company s Personnel for copy, review, audit and other business purposes related to the performance of Provider s and the Services hereunder at such reasonable times, upon reasonable
notice and during normal business hours at reasonable locations. Except for self-performed Services and Subcontracts and Supply Contracts with Affiliates of Provider, Company s audit rights shall not include the right to audit the makeup of
fixed price costs or fixed rates agreed upon by Company. Should Provider fail to maintain such books and records as required hereunder and under  Section 15.5  below, Provider shall provide its good faith assistance and reimburse Company
for its reasonable costs in recreating such books and records. In the event that any audit by Company reveals any overpayment by Company (which overpayment may include without limitation Provider s inability to produce adequate supporting
documentation for any Service Costs paid by Company), then Provider shall repay to Company the overpaid amount upon Company s written demand therefor and if such audit reveals underpayment by Company, then Company shall pay such underpaid
amount upon written demand therefor and an invoice in accordance with  Exhibit Q  (Invoicing and Accounting Requirements). Company s performance of an audit and Provider s repayment of any overpaid amounts shall not limit any of
Company s rights and remedies with respect to such overpaid amounts or Provider s performance of its obligations under this Agreement, all of which rights and remedies are reserved by Company. Provider shall cause the provisions of this
 Article 15  to be incorporated in the provisions of each Subcontractor agreement.      15.2  Records Retention . Provider shall maintain
complete and correct books and records relating to the performance of all of its obligations hereunder and all costs, liabilities and obligations incurred hereunder, including without limitation those relating to the Services Costs and
Provider s Shared Savings. All records and accounts relating to financial matters must be in a format consistent with Generally Accepted Accounting Practices (  GAAP  ). Upon Company s request, Provider shall disclose to

and discuss with Company, Provider s accounting principles and practices. Any modification or addition to Provider s accounting practices during
the Term or Termination Assistance Period (other than in accordance with GAAP) shall be disclosed to Company prior to its implementation. Further, such modification of Provider s accounting practice shall be subject to the prior written
approval of Company. Such books and records shall be maintained for a period of no less than seven (7) years after the Term and Termination Assistance Period, if any.      15.3  Processing Audits . Upon reasonable advance notice from Company, and provided that such audits do not interfere with Provider s ability to perform the Services, Provider shall, at Company s
expense, provide such auditors and inspectors as Company may designate with access during normal working hours to any site, facility, or performance documentation for the purpose of performing audits or inspections of security, internal and external
compliance, legally required audits, audits in connection with government investigations, and audits required under Company s corporate policies, including normal IT and business audits.      15.4  Facilities . Provider shall provide to Company and such auditors and inspectors as Company may designate in writing, on Provider s premises (or if the
audit is being performed of a Subcontractor, the Subcontractor s premises if necessary) office space, office furnishings, telephone and facsimile services, utilities and office-related equipment and duplicating services as Company or such
auditors and inspectors may reasonably require to perform the audits described in this  Article 15 .      15.5  SAS 70 Type II Report . During the
Term (and the Termination Assistance Period), on the request of Company from time-to-time in addition to the schedule Provider may itself establish, Provider shall obtain a SAS 70 Type II Report. Provider shall provide Company with a copy of the SAS
70 Type II Report within fifteen (15) days of Provider s receipt thereof from the Service Auditor. [*] If Provider obtains reports or conducts reviews that provide evaluations of Provider s control objectives and control activities,
Provider shall notify Company of such and provide copies of such reports or reviews to Company at no cost to Company. If the reports or reviews in the preceding sentence contain any confidential third party data or information, Provider may redact
such confidential data or information from the copies provided to Company.      15.6  Provider Personnel Reports . If any Services are provided by
Subcontractors, and if such Services (or any controls or other aspects of such Services) would fall within the scope of the SAS 70 Type II Report had such Services been provided directly by Provider, then Provider shall cause each such Subcontractor
to comply with the requirements of  Section 15.5  and  Section 15.7 .      15.7  Certification . As requested by Company, Provider
shall either (i) certify to Company in writing that during the applicable SAS 70 Gap Period no changes have been made to the Services, the manner in which the Services are provided or operated, applicable controls, or the Control Objectives
that could reasonably be expected to have any impact on the contents of, or opinions set forth in, the applicable SAS 70 Type II Report; or (ii) provide Company with a written description of any such changes.      15.8  Disclosure . The SAS 70 Type II Report shall be Confidential Information of Provider (or the applicable Provider Personnel); provided, however, that
notwithstanding the foregoing or the confidentiality provisions of this Agreement, Company (and Company s independent auditors) shall be permitted to disclose the SAS 70 Type II Report (or any of the content thereof) to any person, entity or
Governmental Authority as necessary for Company to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 or any other Applicable Laws.      15.9  Control
Objectives . Company may establish compliance and control objectives applicable to the Services by delivering such objectives in writing to Provider (  Control Objectives  ). Company may update the Control Objectives at any time
during the Term (or the Termination Assistance Period) provided that, subject to the Change Control Process, Company shall be responsible for any additional costs incurred by Provider in complying with the updated Control Objectives to the extent
that such updated Control Objectives apply only to Company and not to any other customer of Provider. To the extent that such updated Control Objectives apply to other customers of Provider, then the costs associated with compliance with such
updated Control Objectives shall be, subject to the Change Control Process, equitably allocated among Company and such customers.         

Confidential   
     
  32  

Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange
Commission.   

15.10  Sarbanes-Oxley Requirements . Provider recognizes that Company is subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
In addition to the Control Objectives, Provider shall provide whatever assistance is necessary to assist Company in complying with such requirements with respect to its outsourced functions. Provider shall comply with Company s financial
reporting and control processes as set forth in the Policies and Procedures Guide (and as such processes are revised from time to time by Company) and provide Company with copies of all related records, reports and data as necessary for Company to
satisfy the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Provider shall recommend and, subject to Company approval, implement compliance measures to satisfy the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 with respect to the Services. Provider may use Direct Provider Labor in
complying with the requirements of this  Section 15.10 .       

16.   
   TIMELINES FOR PERFORMANCE         16.1  Time of the Essence . Time is
of the essence with respect to this Agreement. Execution of this Agreement and any Order shall constitute Provider s representation and warranty that Provider is fully capable of performing, and will perform the applicable obligations in
accordance with the Schedule set forth herein or in each Order. In the event Provider fails to so perform, Company may seek to recover damages, costs and expenses from Provider by reason of such failure of performance.      16.2  Schedule . If applicable to the Services set forth in an Order, Provider shall develop and submit to Company within ten (10) days of each Order Effective
Date a detailed schedule for that Order based on Company s requirements and Provider s obligations thereunder (a   Schedule  ). The Schedule shall indicate the timing of the performance of such obligations, including without
limitation commencement, submission of Deliverables, milestones, meeting dates and completion. The Schedule shall include without limitation time for necessary bidding (if any), reviews, revisions, applications to Governmental Authorities, and
required approvals. Provider shall not exceed the dates set forth in such Schedule.      16.3  Suspension . Company may, at any time, by written notice to
Provider, suspend all or any portion of Provider s performance hereunder. Upon receipt of such notice, Provider shall do the following, unless the notice requires otherwise:       

(i)  
  Immediately discontinue such performance on the date and to the extent specified in the notice;         

(ii)  
  Incur no further obligations, including without limitation placement of orders, Subcontracts or Supply Contracts for material, services or facilities, with respect to the suspended
performance;         

(iii)  
  Promptly make every reasonable effort to obtain suspension or assignment to Company or Company s designee, upon terms satisfactory to Company, of all obligations, including
without limitation orders, Subcontracts or Supply Contracts, to the extent such relate to the performance of such suspended performance;         

(iv)  
  Protect and maintain any materials and supplies utilized in such performance, and any work completed or in progress; and         

(v)  
  Mitigate costs associated with any such suspension.        16.4  Costs of
Suspension . Within thirty (30) days of the effective date of any suspension by Company, Provider shall submit an itemization of expenses and time expended through the effective date of the suspension, together with cost, pricing, or other
documents or data required by Company. Suspensions may only be withdrawn by written notice from Company, specifying the effective date and scope of the withdrawal. Provider shall immediately resume performance unless otherwise specified in such
notice. If  

Provider believes that an adjustment to the Services Costs or the Schedule hereunder or under an Order is justified as a result of the suspension or
withdrawal of suspension, such suspension or withdrawal of suspension shall constitute a Change and Provider shall request such adjustment in accordance with the Change Control Process provisions hereunder. The Annual Budget and Cost Baseline for
determining Provider s Shared Savings shall be equitably modified to take into account any period of suspension hereunder.      16.5  Acceleration of
Performance . Provider shall notify Company immediately upon determining that it may be unable to meet the Schedule in whole or in part. Additionally, Company may inform Provider that Company has determined, in its reasonable judgment, that
Provider may be unable to meet the Schedule in whole or in part. Within five (5) days of such notice or information, Provider shall submit to Company a proposed action plan to ensure compliance with the Schedule. If Company determines in its
reasonable judgment that such action plan will not ensure compliance with the Schedule, Company may direct Provider to take steps necessary to accelerate its performance. If Provider believes that an adjustment to the Services Costs is justified as
a result of such acceleration and that such acceleration constitutes a Change, Provider shall request such adjustment in accordance with the Change Control Process. Any incremental costs incurred by Provider as a result of such acceleration shall
constitute a Change and shall be subject to the Change Control Process. Except to the extent provided for in any approved Change, Company shall have no liability to Provider for or arising out of the acceleration. If, within a reasonable period as
determined by Company, Provider fails (i) to provide an action plan for accelerating and improving performance to meet the Schedule, or (ii) to diligently proceed to accelerate performance in accordance with such action plan, Company may
take whatever actions it deems appropriate to meet the Schedule. The reasonable costs of any such actions shall be borne by Provider. No actions taken by Company under this  Section 16.5  shall relieve Provider of its obligations under
this Agreement, including without limitation meeting the Schedule.      16.6  Remedies for Failure to Timely Perform . Provider acknowledges that in the
event Provider fails to timely perform under this Agreement, Company will suffer substantial damages, costs and expenses by reason of such failure of performance. The Parties may provide in this Agreement or in any Order for Service Costs credits to
apply with respect to Provider s failure to meet prescribed Schedule requirements, in which event the terms of such Service Costs credit provision shall apply with respect to failure to meet such Schedule requirements. Notwithstanding the
availability of Service Costs Credits, Company shall be entitled to enforce any and all remedies available under this Agreement, at law and/or in equity with respect to any failure of Provider to timely perform its obligations in accordance with the
terms of this Agreement, including the recovery of actual damages.       

17.   
   TERM AND TERMINATION         17.1  Term . The term of this Agreement
shall commence on the Effective Date and shall continue for a period of five (5) years (  Initial Term  ) unless earlier terminated in accordance with this  Article 17 . This Agreement shall automatically renew for
additional one (1) year periods (each a   Renewal Term ,  and together with the Initial Term, the   Term  ) unless Company provides written notice of non-renewal no later than three (3) months prior to the
expiration of the Initial Term or then-current Renewal Term.      17.2  Effect on Orders . Upon expiration or termination of this Agreement in accordance
with this  Article 17 , this Agreement shall remain in effect with respect to any then-open Order(s) issued under this Agreement until completion of Provider s performance thereunder unless terminated by Company for cause or convenience as
provided below. Upon termination of this Agreement by Company for cause, Company shall have the right to terminate any and all Orders entered into hereunder.      17.3  Termination for Convenience . Company shall have the right to terminate this Agreement or any Order in whole or in part at any time, with or without cause, by giving Provider written notice specifying the extent of termination at
least [  *  ] months prior to the designated termination date.      17.4  Remedies Upon Termination for Convenience . In the event of
termination under  Section 17.3 , Provider shall be entitled to Services Costs in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and the  

Confidential   
     
  34  

Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange
Commission.   

applicable Order up to the date of termination, as well as for Termination Assistance Services to the extent requested by Company. [  *  ] In no
event shall Company be liable to Provider for any direct, indirect, special or consequential damages, lost profits, penalties or costs arising out of any termination for convenience.       

17.5  
   Termination for Cause by Company . In the event that:         

(i)  
  Provider commits a material breach of this Agreement or an Order, which breach is capable of being cured within thirty (30) days after notice of breach from Company to
Provider, but is not cured in such 30-day period;         

(ii)  
  Provider commits a material breach of this Agreement or an Order that is not capable of being cured within thirty (30) days but is capable of being cured within sixty
(60) days and fails to (a) proceed promptly and diligently to correct the breach, (b) develop within thirty (30) days following written notice of breach from Company a complete plan for curing the breach, and (c) cure the
breach within sixty (60) days of notice thereof;         

(iii)  
  Provider commits a material breach of this Agreement or an Order that is not subject to cure with due diligence within sixty (60) days of written notice thereof;

(iv)  
  Provider commits numerous breaches of its duties or obligations which collectively constitute a material breach of this Agreement or the applicable Order;     

(v)  
  Provider fails to furnish Company, upon Company s reasonable request, with assurances satisfactory to Company evidencing Provider s ability to complete its obligations
hereunder in compliance with all of the requirements of this Agreement;         

(vi)  
  Provider makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors, or a petition in bankruptcy is filed by or against Provider, or a receiver shall be appointed on account of
Provider s insolvency;         

(vii)  
  an Event of Deteriorating Provider Condition (other than the events described in  Section 17.7  below) occurs;         

(viii)  
  a KPI Default occurs; or         

(ix)  
  Provider otherwise persistently fails to meet the Service Levels;        then
Company may, by giving written notice to Provider, terminate this Agreement, in whole or in part, or the applicable Order as of the date specified in the notice of termination. If Company chooses to terminate this Agreement in part, the Service
Costs payable under this Agreement shall be equitably adjusted to reflect those services that are terminated. Termination under this  Section 17.5  shall be without cost or penalty and without the payment of any termination charges.
     17.6  Termination for Cause by Provider . [  *  ] Any notice required pursuant to this  Section 17.6  shall be sent in accordance
with the requirements of  Section 32.3  to the addresses set forth therein and a copy shall also be concurrently sent to the address set forth below:      Vice President, Engineering      Amgen Inc.      Mailstop: 38-4-B      One Amgen Center Drive
     Thousand Oaks, CA 91320-1799      Fax Number: [*]         

Confidential   
     
  35  

Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange
Commission.   

17.7  Other Termination by Company . In the event:       

(i)  
  Provider transfers, sells, assigns or otherwise disposes of (a) all or substantially all of its assets or (b) any controlling interest in its business (whether in the form
of stock or otherwise); or         

(ii)  
  Provider consolidates with or merges into another corporation or entity, or permits the consolidation with or merger into another entity;        then Company may, by giving written notice to Provider, terminate this Agreement, in whole or in part, or the applicable Order as of the date specified in the notice of
termination. If Company chooses to terminate this Agreement in part, the Services Costs payable under this Agreement shall be equitably adjusted to reflect those services that are terminated. Termination under this  Section 17.7  shall be
without cost or penalty and without the payment of any termination charges.      17.8  Remedies Upon Termination for Cause . In the event of termination
of this Agreement or any Order, without prejudice to other rights or remedies, Company may complete performance of Provider s obligations by whatever method Company deems appropriate.      17.9  No Actual Default . If, after termination for cause under this  Article 17 , it is determined for any reason that a Party was not in default, the rights
and obligations of the Parties shall be the same as if the notice of termination had been issued as a termination for convenience.      17.10  Upon
Termination . Without limiting the obligations of Provider under  Article 18 , upon receipt of notice of termination, Provider shall do the following unless otherwise specified by Company:       

(i)  
  Incur no further obligations, including without limitation placement of orders, Subcontracts or Supply Contracts for material, services or facilities;         

(ii)  
  Mitigate costs associated with such termination;         

(iii)  
  Preserve any Work Product or other performance that is in progress or completed until Company or Company s designee takes possession thereof; and         

(iv)  
  Deliver all Work Product to Company in accordance with Company s reasonable instructions.        17.11  Discontinuance . On the date of termination, Provider shall discontinue, and cause any of Provider Personnel to discontinue, performance hereunder to the extent specified in the termination notice from
Company; provided, however, the provisions of this  Section 17.11  shall not operate to excuse Provider s performance of Termination Assistance Services during the Termination Assistance Period, in accordance with  Article 18  of
this Agreement.      17.12  Termination of Dependent Orders . In the event that an Order is terminated for cause, Company shall have the option to
terminate any other Orders identified therein as being dependent on the terminated Order.      17.13  Notice of Deteriorating Financial Condition . In the
event of the occurrence of any fact or circumstance relating to an Event of Deteriorating Provider Condition, Provider shall immediately provide notification of such event to Company (except to the extent Provider is precluded from making such
disclosure pursuant to applicable securities laws) and Provider shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to (i) secure from all relevant third parties, including Third Party Suppliers and Subcontractors, all rights reasonably required for
Company to continue to receive the Services and to exercise its rights under this Agreement, and (ii) at the expense of Company, cooperate with Company and any third party service Providers selected by Company, to establish and implement a
contingency plan to avoid  

disruption of Services in the event that Provider is unable to meet its obligations under this Agreement. At any time that Provider is not a publicly
reporting company under the securities Laws of the United States, Provider shall, within forty-five (45) days of the end of each calendar quarter, provide Company with sufficient financial information to enable Company to determine whether an
Event of Deteriorating Provider Condition has occurred during such calendar quarter. In the event that Company becomes aware of an Event of Deteriorating Provider Condition for which Provider has not provided such notification to Company, Company
shall have the immediate right to take all reasonable actions to ensure continued availability of the Services, either by the Provider, Company or its third party designee, including, but not limited to, pursuant to a Step-in in accordance with
 Article 7 .      17.14  Survival . All provisions of this Agreement that by their nature would apply to the Termination Assistance Services shall
continue in effect during the Termination Assistance Period. In addition, the provisions of Sections 2.9, 4.9, 7.5, 9.1, 11.2, 11.3, 11.7, 12.15, 12.23(iv), 14.5, 14.7, 15.1, 15.2, 15.3, 15.4, 16.6, 18.6, 18.9, 20.2, 22.3, 23.3, 25.2, 25.3, 28.3,
28.4, 28.5, 28.6, 32.5, and 32.7 and Articles 17, 18, 27, 29, 30 and 32 shall survive termination of this Agreement (and expiration of the Termination Assistance Period), together with any other obligations of Provider that by their nature would
survive such termination.       

18.   
   TERMINATION ASSISTANCE SERVICES         18.1  Termination Assistance
Services . Upon expiration or termination of all or part of the Services or this Agreement for any reason, Provider shall for a period of twelve (12) months (the   Termination Assistance Period  ), upon Company s request
and at Company s expense, continue to provide the Services that were provided prior thereto and any reasonable cooperation requested by Company that may be required from Provider to facilitate the efficient and orderly transfer of the affected
Services to Company or a third-party service provider, as applicable, or Company s designee (  Termination Assistance Services  ). The rights of Company under this  Article 18  shall be without prejudice to the Parties 
rights to pursue legal remedies for breach of this Agreement, either for breaches prior to termination or during the period this Agreement is continued in force post-termination. Ongoing Services during the Termination Assistance Period shall be
provided at the prevailing Services Costs in effect immediately prior to such termination. Any material incremental costs incurred by Provider in providing the Termination Assistance Services shall constitute a Change and shall be subject to the
Change Control Process. In the event Provider exercises its termination rights pursuant to  Section 17.6 , then, [  *  ].      18.2
 Development of Termination Plan . If and to the extent requested by Company, whether prior to or upon expiration or termination of this Agreement or during any Termination Assistance Period, Provider shall assist Company in developing a
termination plan which shall specify the tasks to be performed by the Parties in connection with the Termination Assistance Services and the schedule for the performance of such tasks. The plan shall include descriptions of the Services, Service
Levels, fees, documentation (such as operating manuals) and access requirements that will promote an orderly transition of the Services, and a list of all assets, software, licenses, personnel and other contracts to be transitioned to Company or its
designee.      18.3  Absolute Obligation . [  *  ] Provider acknowledges and agrees that it shall have an absolute and unconditional obligation
to provide Company with Termination Assistance Services. Provider s quality and level of performance during the Termination Assistance Period shall continue to comply with the Standard of Care and all requirements of this Agreement unless
otherwise expressly approved in the Termination Plan.      18.4  Post-Termination Assistance . For a period of six (6) months following the
Termination Assistance Period, Provider shall: (i) at Company s expense, answer all reasonable and pertinent verbal or written questions from Company regarding the Services; and (ii) deliver to Company any remaining Company-owned
reports and documentation still in Provider s possession.      18.5  Transfer of Agreements . With respect to, Subcontracts, Supplier Contracts, and
contracts for any other third-party services applicable to the terminated Services, Company shall have the right to have  

Confidential   
     
  37  

Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange
Commission.   

such contracts assigned to Company provided that Company assumes all ongoing obligations under such contracts from and after the effective date of such
assignment. With respect to Third Party Intellectual Property used by Provider in connection with the performance of the Services that are subject to Termination Assistance Services, during the Termination Assistance Period, Provider shall, at the
request of Company, assign the licenses of such Third Party Intellectual Property to Company or its designee, provided that: (i) Provider shall have the right to assign such licenses or contracts, and (ii) Company shall assume all future
contractual responsibility and liability under such licenses and contracts, including payment of future license fees, maintenance fees and other charges. In connection with any license or contract transfer under this Paragraph, Company shall pay any
transfer fees that the Parties were unable to avoid through reasonable good faith efforts, unless otherwise set forth in an Order.      18.6  Transfer of
Software . No Provider Intellectual Property Rights will transfer to Company upon expiration or termination of the Services except as specifically permitted pursuant to this  Section 18.6 . [  *  ] Provider shall not be liable
for any changes made to the data by Company.      18.7  Transfer of Equipment . For any Provider Equipment that was used to provide Services at the time
of notice of termination or expiration of this Agreement and/or to provide to Termination Assistance Services, Provider shall allow Company or its designee to (a) purchase, at fair market value at the time of Company s purchase, any
equipment supplies, tools or equipment owned by Provider that is used primarily or exclusively to provide the terminated Services; and/or (b) assume the lease of any equipment leased by Provider. Following the Termination Assistance Services
period, each Party shall return to the other Party any assets owned by such other Party to which it is not given ongoing rights as part of the termination plan.      18.8  Transfer of Personnel . Notwithstanding  Section 2.9  above, Company or its Affiliates or designees shall have the right to extend offers of employment to any and all Provider Personnel, including Key Provider
Personnel, primarily assigned to or working on the applicable terminated Services at the time of notice of termination or expiration of this Agreement and/or to provide to Termination Assistance Services. Provider shall provide reasonable access to
these employees. Provider [  *  ] shall not [  *  ] interfere with Company s employment efforts.      18.9  Other Transfer . Upon
expiration or termination of this Agreement, or at the end of the Termination Assistance Period, Provider shall transfer to Company or its designees (except as provided below) (i) copies of all software transferred or licensed to Company
pursuant to this  Article 18 , (ii) all equipment transferred or licensed to Company pursuant to this  Article 18 , (iii) to the extent available or requested by Company to be so documented, copies of all applicable requirements,
standards, policies, reports and report formats, user manuals, technical manuals, system architecture, processes, operating procedures and other documentation relating to the terminated Services, and (iv) all know-how of Provider reasonably
required to perform the Services.       
    19.1  Contract Price and Pricing Schedule .
Pricing structures for the Services are set forth in  Exhibit D  (Pricing) of this Agreement and each Order shall set forth one or more pricing structures under which the applicable Services shall be performed, which may include the pricing
structures set forth in  Exhibit D  (Pricing). Company shall pay Provider all fees and compensation due to Provider in connection with such Services in accordance with the terms of  Exhibit D  (Pricing) and other applicable terms of this
Agreement and the applicable Order (  Services Costs  ), which Services Costs shall include the Management Fees, Reimbursable Costs, Incentive Compensation and any Provider s Shared Savings payable to Provider pursuant to
 Exhibit D  (Pricing) or any Order. With respect to all Services subject to acceptance testing, Company shall have no obligation to pay Provider for any Services unless and until such Services have successfully met the acceptance testing
requirements and all other requirements prerequisite to payment in accordance with this Agreement and any relevant Order. Company shall not be billed for any charges or expenses other than those Services Costs or Reimbursable Costs stated and
expressly authorized in this Agreement or an Order.         

Confidential   
     
  38  

Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange
Commission.   

19.2  Reimbursable Costs . Company may agree to pay or reimburse Provider for some or all Reimbursable Costs
incurred by Provider in connection with its performance under this Agreement or an Order. Such Reimbursable Costs shall be subject to the pricing structures set forth in  Exhibit D  (Pricing), including a [  *  ]. In no event shall
Company be obligated to reimburse Provider for any Reimbursable Costs (i) that are not authorized in writing by Company, (ii) that are not Reimbursable Costs in accordance with this Agreement or the applicable Order, or (iii) that are
incurred in excess of the Company-approved amount or [  *  ].      19.3  Charge Increases and Decreases . Unless otherwise agreed in writing by
Company or as otherwise provided in this Agreement or an Order, Provider shall not increase the Service Costs above the prices for such Services specified in this Agreement or the applicable Order. On mutual agreement of the Parties, Provider may
decrease the Services Costs payable for any Services to reflect changed market conditions and/or improvements in technology.      19.4  No Services Costs for
Errors or Defective Performance . In no event shall Provider be entitled to receive Services Costs for charges to the extent arising out of or resulting from (i) any costs or expenses incurred by the Provider or its Affiliates or payable by
Company to remedy any error, omission or mistake of Provider, its Affiliates or their respective Personnel or breach of this Agreement or any Order by Provider, its Affiliates or their respective Personnel, or (ii) any incremental or additional
costs or expenses incurred by Provider or its Affiliates or payable by Company to remedy any error, omission or mistake of Provider, its Affiliates or their respective Personnel or breach of this Agreement or any Order by Provider, its Affiliates or
their respective Personnel.       
    20.1  Taxes, Exemptions and Reductions . Company
reserves the right to modify this Agreement, as necessary, to receive the benefits of any available tax exemptions or reductions. Provider shall cooperate with Company s efforts to realize the benefits of any tax exemptions or tax structures
that may be available to Company in connection with any Order issued pursuant to this Agreement or any element(s) of the Services.      20.2  Tax Claims .
If any Governmental Authority makes any claim with respect to any taxes for which Company may be responsible, Provider shall notify Company regarding such claim immediately after Provider s discovery of such claim. Further, Provider shall
reasonably assist Company with the investigation and assessment of such claim. If required by Company, Provider shall challenge the imposition of any taxes for which Company may be responsible or request a refund of such taxes. In accordance with
the requirements of  Exhibit Q  (Invoicing and Accounting Requirements), Company shall reimburse Provider for reasonable attorneys  fees incurred in challenging any imposition of taxes or requesting a refund of such taxes pursuant to the
preceding sentence.      20.3  Government Tax Filings . Provider shall file with the Internal Revenue Service and provide to all Subcontractors any Form
1099 or other report required by relevant sections of Applicable Law, including the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or any successor provisions. Provider shall withhold from payments to such Subcontractors and remit promptly to the
Internal Revenue Service, all amounts necessary to insure compliance with relevant sections of Applicable Law, including the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 as amended, or any successor provisions. Provider shall provide copies of all such reports to
Company promptly after filing the same with the Internal Revenue Service or other Governmental Authority.       

21.   
   INVOICING AND PAYMENT         21.1  Invoicing . Provider shall
invoice Company for the Services in accordance with the requirements of  Exhibit Q  (Invoicing and Accounting Requirements) to this Agreement.         

Confidential   
     
  39  

Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange
Commission.   

21.2  Timing of Payments; Disputes . Company may dispute Provider invoices in accordance with the provisions of
 Exhibit Q  (Invoicing and Accounting Requirements) to this Agreement. Company shall pay all undisputed invoice amounts in accordance with the provisions of  Exhibit Q  (Invoicing and Accounting Requirements) to this Agreement.
     21.3  Security Interest . To the extent of any progress payments made by Company arising from or related to this Agreement, Provider grants to
Company a security interest in all raw materials and components committed by or on behalf of Provider for use in connection with this Agreement or any Order, wherever located. Upon Company s request, Provider shall execute a written security
agreement and financing statement that grants the foregoing security interest to Company in form and content satisfactory to Company.      21.4  Right of
Off-Set . With respect to any amount that (i) should be reimbursed to a Party under this Agreement or an Order, or (ii) is otherwise payable to a Party under this Agreement or an Order, such Party may, upon notice to the other Party,
deduct the entire amount owed to such Party from the Services Costs otherwise payable or expenses owed to the other Party pursuant to this Agreement or the applicable Order. The rights granted under this Paragraph shall not apply to amounts relating
to services provided by third parties relative to Provider s provision of Services. Any credits due Company that are not applied against Provider s invoices or that are due to Provider by Company shall be paid to within thirty
(30) days after receipt of written request for such payment.      21.5  Withholding Payment . Company may, in whole or in part, decline to approve
any request for payment hereunder, withhold or offset against any payment or, due to subsequently discovered evidence or inspection, nullify any payment previously made to such extent as may be necessary, in Company s reasonable opinion, to
protect Company from loss due to Provider s failure to meet its obligations hereunder. The conditions or occurrences for which Company may withhold or offset against any payment include without limitation Provider s failure to properly
make payments to Subcontractors in accordance with  Section 13.8 . If, through subsequently discovered evidence or subsequent observations, Company becomes aware that it could have withheld approval and payment (but did not), Company
reserves the right to deduct the applicable amount from later invoices or obtain a credit from Provider for the applicable amount. The provisions of this  Section 21.5  shall not lessen or diminish, but shall be in addition to, the right
or duty of Company to withhold payments under the provisions of Applicable Law respecting the withholding of sums due to Provider.       
    22.1  Changes to Applicable Laws . Provider shall
notify Company of (i) any changes or anticipated changes in Applicable Laws of which Provider is aware or should be aware that may impact performance of the Services, (ii) the impact of such changes on performance of Provider s
obligations hereunder and the intent of this Agreement, and (iii) recommendations for modifications to such performance to comply with such changes, subject to Company s approval pursuant to the Change Control Process.      22.2  Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action . For any performance required under this Agreement (i) between two business entities based in the United States of
America and (ii) being performed in the United States of America and/or its territories, Provider agrees that, unless otherwise specifically exempted, this Agreement shall be performed in full compliance with all Applicable Laws, including
without limitation applicable equal opportunity/affirmative action requirements; of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964; Executive Orders No. 11141 and 11246, as amended; Sections (1) and (3) of Executive Order No. 11625
relating to the promotion of Minority Business Enterprises; Americans with Disabilities Act; Age Discrimination in Employment Act; Fair Labor Standards Act; Family Medical Leave Act; the Vietnam Era Veterans  Readjustment Assistance Act of
1974; Rehabilitation Act of 1973; and all corresponding implementing rules and regulations, all of which, including without limitation the contract clauses required and regulations promulgated thereunder, are incorporated herein by reference.
     22.3  Inspections and Government Contacts . To the extent that Provider is or becomes aware of meetings with or inspections by Governmental
Authorities regarding Provider s obligations hereunder,  

Provider shall notify Company within one (1) business day of becoming aware of any such meeting or inspection with any such Governmental Authority.
Company shall have the right to be present at all such meetings and inspections that are (i) of general nature; or (ii) specific to Provider s conduct of Services under this Agreement or any applicable Order. Provider shall provide
Company with an opportunity to comment on drafts of documents Provider is required to submit to Governmental Authorities pursuant to its obligations hereunder. Provider shall submit to Company copies of documents to be submitted to Governmental
Authorities or insurance companies relating to Provider s obligations hereunder, including, without limitation, reports of accidents or injuries occurring on Company s premises. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the
contrary, Provider shall not initiate or participate in any communications with any Governmental Authorities concerning the subject matter hereof unless required by law or requested to do so by Company and, then, only upon prior consultation with
Company.      22.4  Ethics and Conflict of Interest . In its performance of its obligations hereunder, Provider shall adhere to business practices that
meet and are in the spirit of Applicable Laws and ethical principles, including, without limitation the following:       

(i)  
  All transactions undertaken in connection with Provider s obligations hereunder shall be accurately reflected in Provider s records; and         

(ii)  
  Provider shall perform its obligations hereunder and conduct itself with respect to Subcontractors and third parties so as to avoid loss or embarrassment to Company including loss
or embarrassment due to any real or apparent conflict of interest.         
    23.1  Safety Obligations . Provider and Provider
Personnel shall comply with the business practices, hours, working conditions and Company Policies related to Provider s performance hereunder, including, but not limited to, Company Policies regarding safety attached or listed in  Exhibit
I  (Company Standard Operating Procedures) and Exhibit J (Company Standard Policies). Provider shall be solely responsible to inquire, inspect and acquaint itself with all conditions at Company Facilities, subject to Company s obligation to
disclose pertinent information. In the performance of its obligations hereunder, Provider shall at all times: (i) require the presence, as appropriate, of competent supervisory personnel; (ii) keep the Company Facilities clean and safe,
including without limitation keeping the Company Facilities free from debris and hazards; and (iii) be responsible for the safe and orderly performance of such obligations in accordance with this Agreement, any Orders and all Applicable Laws.
Upon expiration or termination of this Agreement or, if applicable, expiration of the Termination Assistance Period, Provider shall remove all of Provider s equipment and unused material from the Company Facilities, thoroughly clean up all
refuse and debris, and leave the site neat, orderly and in good condition, normal wear and tear excepted. In addition, to the extent Provider performs such obligations on Company Facilities, Provider shall (i) cooperate with Company and comply
with Company s hours, working conditions and Company Facilities  policies; and (ii) repair or replace to Company s satisfaction any property that is damaged or destroyed by Provider or Provider Personnel. Provider shall notify
Company as promptly as possible upon becoming aware of an inspection under, or any alleged violation of the Occupational Safety and Health Act or similar Applicable Laws in connection with the Services. Provider shall be responsible for removing or
disposing of any hazardous materials that it uses in providing Services and for the remediation of any areas impacted by the release of such hazardous materials.      23.2  Safety Exhibit . Provider shall meet the obligations set forth in the Safety Appendix attached hereto as Exhibit L (Safety Appendix), as may be revised by Company from time to time (subject to  Section 4.6 ), and any
additional safety requirements specified in an Order.      23.3  Hazardous Materials .       

(i)  
    To the extent that Company has actual knowledge of the presence of hazardous chemical substances on a Company Facility at the commencement of Provider s
performance of activities on such Company Facility that could in Company s opinion (i) 

pose hazards to human health or safety of Provider s or Provider s Personnel working on the Company Facility given the scope of Provider s
Services to be performed or (ii) significantly affect Provider s performance hereunder on such Company Facility, if requested in writing by Provider prior to commencement of its performance on such Company Facility, Company shall disclose
such pre-existing conditions to Provider. Conditions, including the presence of any hazardous chemical substance, described or referenced in any reports or studies given to or made available to Provider, or in any studies or investigations by
Provider, shall be deemed to have been disclosed upon receipt by Provider of such information. If Company provides any such disclosure(s) of pre-existing conditions to Provider, Provider shall fully review and familiarize itself with such
disclosure(s) and shall (A) exercise the Standard of Care in dealing with the disclosed pre-existing conditions; (B) conform to, and otherwise not interfere with any existing programs, controls, limitations or activities which are in place
as a result of the presence of such substances, and (C) take such steps (and require all contractors to take such steps) in accordance with the Standard of Care, including but not limited to workplace controls, required use of personal
protective equipment, or limitations on location and scope of Services to address any hazard to human health or safety.          

(ii)  
  Provider must comply with all Applicable Laws in the performance of its obligations hereunder including without limitation those regarding hazardous and toxic substances and
associated disclosure requirements. Additionally, Provider must comply with Company s chemical release and hazardous and toxic substances disclosure and notification requirements, including those specified in the Chemical Release/Hazardous and
Toxic Substances Disclosure Requirements Appendix attached hereto. For Services performed in California or Company s Facilities, Provider shall comply with the requirements of the Safe Drinking Water and Toxic Enforcement Act of 1986 and
amendments thereto (commonly referred to as   Proposition 65  ). Such compliance may require the posting of notices on the Company Facility to warn people on the Company Facility of the potential for exposure to products which contain
certain levels of chemicals known to the State of California to cause cancer, birth defects or other reproductive harm, as identified and listed by the Governor or the Health and Welfare Agency of the State of California pursuant to the requirements
of Proposition 65. Provider shall inquire of its Subcontractors whether they have received any such warning notices from product manufacturers for products being used on the Company Facility, and shall ensure that any such notice, or a general
warning sign, is posted conspicuously on the Company Facility so that it is likely to be read and understood by those who may be affected. Provider shall maintain records of any inquiries of its Subcontractors, and any responses received from them,
and shall make these records available to any individual who inquires about potential exposures. If Provider causes or discovers (i) a reportable release of a hazardous substance or extremely hazardous substance; or (ii) a discharge or
release, or potential discharge or release, of a regulated quantity of a listed chemical into a source of drinking water, which includes discharges or releases onto or into land, or into air, so long as the chemical will be deposited directly and
immediately into a source of drinking water, then Provider shall immediately stop the activities causing or threatening such discharge or release, prevent or limit human, environmental, or natural resource exposure to the discharge or release, and
take reasonable steps to stop any continuing discharge or release. Provider shall immediately notify Company that such a discharge or release has occurred or is threatened. Company will then determine whether the substances that gave rise to the
actual or threatened discharge or release may be used at the Company Facility or need to be removed from the Company Facility in order to comply with the requirements of Proposition 65.         

(iii)  
    In the event that the removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances (other than a Provider Substance Release, as defined below) located on the Company
Facility is required under any Applicable Law (a   Company Substance Condition  ), then Company shall be responsible for the removal or remediation of such Company  

Substance Condition, and Provider shall give full cooperation to persons authorized to conduct such removal or remedial actions and take all reasonable steps
related to the Services to prevent any future or additional discharge or release with respect to such Company Substance Condition. Company shall indemnify, defend and hold Provider harmless from and against any and all third-party claims directly
arising from a Company Substance Condition. The immediately foregoing indemnity, defense and hold harmless obligations expressly exclude any claims in connection with the exacerbation of any Company Substance Condition arising from the negligence or
willful misconduct of Provider or its Personnel.          

(iv)  
  In the event that hazardous or toxic substances were brought onto and released on the Company Facility by Provider or its Personnel in violation of this Agreement, an Order or
Applicable Law, then Provider at its sole cost and expense shall be responsible for and cause the removal and remediation of such hazardous or toxic substances to the fullest extent required to restore the affected property to the condition required
by Company for its intended use of such property (the   Remediation Standard  ). At a minimum, the Remediation Standard shall comply with Applicable Laws. Provider s removal and remediation activities pursuant to the preceding
sentence shall comply with the guidance and direction of Company s EHS department. If a hazardous or toxic substance present at the Company Facility prior to the commencement of the Services hereunder or under an Order, or subsequently brought
to the Company Facility by Company, is released or otherwise exacerbated as a result of the negligence or willful misconduct of Provider or Provider s Personnel, then Company, at Provider s sole cost and expense, shall cause such hazardous
or toxic substance to be removed or otherwise remediated to the Remediation Standard. Provider shall immediately reimburse Company for the costs incurred by Company in performing the remediation described in the preceding sentence. For the purpose
of this Agreement, the releases of hazardous substances described in this paragraph individually shall be referred to in this Agreement as, a   Provider Substance Release.   Provider shall indemnify, defend and hold the Company
Indemnified Parties harmless from and against any and all third-party claims arising from or related to a Provider Substance Release and Provider s failure to perform the removal or remediation of a Provider Substance Release when required by
this  Section 23.3(iv) .        23.4  Company Facilities .       

(i)  
  Provider shall use the Company Facilities for the sole and exclusive purpose of providing the Services, subject to Company s approval in its discretion of another use. Company
grants Provider a license for all such approved use of the Company Facilities. The use of Company Facilities by Provider does not constitute a leasehold or other property interest in favor of Provider.         

(ii)  
  Provider shall use the Company Facilities in an efficient manner and in a manner that is coordinated, and does not interfere, with Company s business or operations. To the
extent that Provider operates the space in a manner that unnecessarily increases facility or other costs incurred by Company, Company reserves the right to deduct such excess costs from the Services Costs payable hereunder. Provider shall be
responsible for any damage to the Company Facilities resulting from the abuse, misuse, neglect or negligence of Provider or other failure to comply with its obligations respecting the Company Facilities.         

(iii)  
  Provider shall keep the Company Facilities in good order, not commit or permit waste or damage to Company Facilities or use Company Facilities for any unlawful purpose or act, and
shall comply with Company s standard policies and procedures and applicable leases as these are made available to Provider regarding access to and use of the Company Facilities.           

(iv)  
  Provider shall permit Company Personnel to enter into those portions of the Company Facilities occupied by Provider Personnel at any time.         

(v)  
  Provider shall not make improvements or changes involving structural, mechanical or electrical alterations to the Company Facilities without Company s prior written approval.
Any improvements to the Company Facilities shall become the property of Company.         

(vi)  
  When the Company Facilities are no longer required for performance of the Services, Provider shall return them to Company in substantially the same condition as when Provider began
use of them, subject to normal wear and tear.         
    24.1  Access . Company shall provide the Project
Staff with access to Company Facilities during normal working hours as reasonably required to perform the Services. If any Provider Personnel require access to a Company site or facility outside of normal working hours, Provider shall request the
necessary permission from Company, which permission shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed.      24.2  Security Obligations on
Company s Premises . At all times when present at Company s premises, Provider and Provider Personnel shall comply with Company Policies, including those related to security.      24.3  Access to Provider s Premises . If requested by Company in connection with Provider s performance of this Agreement, Provider shall provide safe and
convenient access for Company to Provider s premises.      24.4  Restrictions on Access . Any Provider Personnel who are required to enter any of
Company s premises may be required to complete a badge request form and must adhere to all security requirements of Company s security manager. Such Personnel of Provider may also be required to sign Company s Confidential Disclosure
and Information Security Agreements and will have restricted access to Company s Facilities for business purposes only from 8:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. Monday through Friday, unless otherwise pre-approved by Company. Upon completion of such
Personnel s assignment at Company s Facilities and/or in the event of termination of this Agreement, all badges shall be returned immediately to Company s Security Department.      24.5  Background Checks . No Personnel of Provider will (i) perform Services at a Company site, (ii) receive an access badge from Company,
(iii) drive Company-owned or leased vehicles or (iv) routinely transport Company Personnel, without Provider, first providing to Company s Security Department the Background Check Certification Form attached hereto as  Exhibit M 
(Background Check Certification Form) for the applicable Personnel. For all Provider Personnel (including Transitioned Employees), Provider shall perform, or shall use an outside agency to perform, the background check and all legally required
notifications to Provider Personnel set forth in the Background Check Certification Form. Failure or refusal to provide the requisite Background Check Certification Form, or submission of a Background Check Certification Form without having
performed the requisite background check, shall constitute a breach hereunder for which Company may terminate this Agreement immediately for cause, notwithstanding any right of Provider to cure. Provider shall return the appropriate Background Check
Certification Form for Provider s representatives to the address set forth below the applicable Company site listed at the bottom of such form, prior to the Provider representative beginning his/her assignment at or for Company. In addition,
Provider will provide verification to Company that it performed similar background investigations for all existing Provider Personnel regularly involved in the provision of Services at the time such employees were hired by Provider or at some
subsequent time that is prior to their regular involvement in the provision of Services to Company.      24.6  Information Systems Security . In the event
this Agreement or an Order provides for remote access to Company s electronic information systems (  CIS  ) by Provider, Provider shall at all times protect CIS through procedures and tools deemed satisfactory to Company. Such
procedures and tools shall include without limitation:       

(i)  
  A mechanism to determine and immediately report to Company possible security breaches;         

(ii)  
  Controls to ensure the return or destruction, at Company s direction, of information transmitted through CIS;         

(iii)  
  A process for maintaining the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information transmitted through CIS; and         

(iv)  
  Methods for controlling access to CIS, which shall include without limitation (i) permitted access methods; (ii) an authorization process for users  access and
privileges; and (iii) maintenance of a list of authorized users.        24.7  Access to CIS . Prior to Provider remotely accessing CIS,
in order for Company to determine its satisfaction with the foregoing procedures and tools, Provider shall submit to Company:       

(i)  
  A list of established connections that Provider has with the electronic information systems of third parties in order for Company to evaluate security issues associated with such
connections and CIS;         

(ii)  
  A copy of Provider s security policies applicable to electronic information systems; and         

(iii)  
  A copy of Provider s most recent external penetration test or network audit of its electronic information systems.        24.8  CIS Audit . Without limiting any rights and remedies hereunder, Company shall have the right to audit and monitor the procedures and tools required pursuant
to  Sections 24.6  and  24.7  to ensure compliance with the requirements hereunder. Company shall have the right to revoke or limit Provider s access to CIS at any time, including without limitation in the event Provider is deemed by
Company, in its sole discretion, to have failed to comply with the requirements of this  Article 24 . In addition to its other obligations hereunder, Provider shall return to Company immediately upon any such revocation any hardware and
software provided to Provider by or on behalf of Company for use with CIS.      24.9  Access Protections . All Provider interconnectivity to Company
computing systems and/or networks and all attempts at such interconnectivity shall be only through Company s security gateways/firewalls. Provider will not access, and will not permit unauthorized persons or entities to access, Company
computing systems and/or networks without Company s express written authorization, and any such actual or attempted access shall be consistent with any such authorization.      24.10  Viruses . Provider shall use the latest version available of a mutually agreed virus detection/scanning program (i) prior to any attempt to access any of Company s computing systems and/or
networks, (ii) prior to use of any software in connection with the Services, and (iii) prior to delivery or transfer of any software to Company. Upon detecting a virus, all attempts to access Company s computing systems and/or
networks shall immediately cease and shall not resume until any such virus has been eliminated. Without limiting the foregoing, each Party shall use commercially reasonable efforts to avoid the transmission of any virus from its own systems to the
other Party s systems.      24.11  Information Systems . To the extent Provider creates, uses or modifies software or information systems in
connection with providing the Services, Provider represents and warrants that all such software or information systems shall be maintained in a fully validated state.         

24.12  Security Breaches . In the event of an attack or threatened or suspected intrusion or other breach of
security against any computing systems and/or networks, hardware and/or software used to provide the Services, Provider shall, at its expense, and without limiting the Service Level obligations hereunder, take whatever steps are necessary to
immediately protect such systems, networks, hardware and/or software and prevent any further breaches, including, without limitation: (i) preventing further access to the systems, networks, hardware and software from the source of the attack,
(ii) immediately backing up the affected systems and any related systems, (iii) enhancing defensive systems to prevent any similar breaches in the future, (iv) contacting the ISP where the threat or attack originated and/or law
enforcement authorities; (v) investigating the extent of the damage, if any, (vi) producing an incident report detailing Provider s findings and providing such report to Company, (vii) providing supplemental monitor traffic from
the attack source until risk of further attacks is deemed to be eliminated, and (viii) temporarily disabling the Services, if warranted by the circumstances and with prior approval of Company, provided that such Services are reinstated as soon
as the risk of further breaches is deemed to have been eliminated or adequate additional security measures have been implemented. Provider shall immediately contact Company upon discovering such an attack or threatened or suspected intrusion or
breach of security and provide to Company all information reasonably requested, and the Parties shall mutually agree on appropriate measures to be taken with respect thereto.      24.13  Company Disabling Access . In the event that Company shall disable Provider s access to Company s computing systems and/or networks, Provider shall be excused from failure to meet any Service
Levels only to the extent such failure is a direct result of such disabled access, provided that such disabled access is not caused by Provider or is initiated to protect Company s computing systems and/or networks from a virus or disabling
device on Provider s computing systems and/or networks.      24.14  Office Space . To the extent Company agrees to provide office space to Provider,
Company shall provide Project Staff with reasonable office space, office furnishings, janitorial services and utilities (including air conditioning) consistent with that which Company provides to its own similarly situated Personnel. Provider may
not provide services to other customers of Provider from space provided by Company without Company s prior written consent. Company shall have the option during the Term to relocate Provider Personnel located on Company s premises to other
comparable locations or facilities within the same metropolitan area.      24.15  Equipment Space . In the event that Provider shall be required to house
Equipment on Company premises in connection with the Services, Company shall provide Provider with adequate space, air conditioning, and security for such Equipment. Such space shall meet the reasonable operating specifications and environmental
conditions specified by Provider.      24.16  Company Assets . All assets owned, leased or otherwise held by Company during the Term or Termination
Assistance Period (  Company Assets  ) shall at all times remain the sole property of Company; provided, however, Provider shall operate, repair, maintain and replace Company Assets as specified in this Agreement. Company Assets
required by Provider to perform its obligations hereunder are set forth in detail in  Exhibit R , (Company Assets) or the relevant Order. Provider shall have access to and use of such Company Assets as set forth herein or in the relevant
Order(s) and may manage such assets as required or appropriate to enable Provider to properly perform the Services.       

25.   
   REGULATORY COMPLIANCE         25.1  Compliance with Regulatory
Requirements . Provider understands and agrees that the Services provided hereunder may be in support of an IND or NDA submissions to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (  FDA  ) and/or similar regulatory submissions to any
Governmental Authority and Provider shall provide such Services and conduct its activities hereunder in compliance with all Applicable Laws related to such submissions.      25.2  Information and Support Involving Governmental Authorities . Provider shall provide Company with all cooperation and assistance reasonably required by Company in connection with informal presentations,
administrative hearings or court proceedings involving any Governmental Authority or other U.S. or international agency, and in private party litigation, to the extent such may be related to a project initiated hereunder.         

25.3  Documentation . Provider will prepare, maintain, and safeguard complete and accurate documentation regarding
the Services provided hereunder in compliance with all Applicable Laws, and the terms of this Agreement.      25.4  Additional Warranties and Covenants
Relating to Regulatory Compliance . Provider represents, warrants and covenants that (i) it has significant expertise and experience in providing services of the kind contemplated by this Agreement, and (ii) it is familiar with
Applicable Laws relating to the Services, including, but not limited to, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 and its implementing regulations set forth at 45 Code of Federal Regulations (  C.F.R.  ) Parts
160 and 164, the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and the regulations promulgated pursuant thereto, and current good clinical practices and current good laboratory practices (each as defined under Applicable Laws).      25.5  Deliverables . Provider represents, warrants and covenants that each Deliverable (1) shall conform to the specifications and requirements for such
Deliverable agreed upon by the Parties, and (2) shall comply with cGMP, as applicable.      25.6  No Debarment . Provider represents and warrants
that neither Provider nor any of Provider Personnel rendering services in connection with this Agreement is presently: (i) the subject of a debarment action or is debarred pursuant to the Generic Drug Enforcement Act of 1992, (ii) the
subject of a disqualification proceeding or is disqualified as a clinical investigator pursuant to 21 C.F.R.  312.70, (iii) the subject of an exclusion proceeding or excluded from participation in any federal health care program under 42
C.F.R. Part 1001 et seq., or (iv) listed on the United States Department of Health   Human Services, Office of Research Integrity s Administrative Actions Listing. Provider shall notify Company immediately upon any inquiry
concerning, or the commencement of any such proceeding concerning Provider or any of its Personnel.      25.7  HIPAA . To the extent that Provider
requires access in order to provide the Services or is otherwise provided access, Provider shall adhere to all current and future laws pertaining to privacy or confidentiality of patient information, including without limitation, the Health
Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (45 C.F.R. parts 160 and 164)(  HIPAA  ), and regulations, including without limitation, laws and regulations related to medical records and patient privacy, confidentiality, and
consumer protection.       

26.   
   REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES         26.1  Mutual Representations .
Each Party hereby represents and warrants to the other Party as follows:       

(i)  
   Due Authorization . Such Party is a corporation duly organized and in good standing as of the Effective Date, and the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement by
such Party have been duly authorized by all necessary action on the part of such Party.         

(ii)  
   Due Execution . This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by such Party and, with due authorization, execution and delivery by the other Party, constitutes a legal,
valid and binding obligation of such Party, enforceable against such Party in accordance with its terms.         

(iii)  
   No Conflict . Such Party s execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement do not: (i) violate, conflict with or result in the breach of any provision of the
charter or by-laws (or similar organizational documents) of the Party; or (ii) conflict with or violate any law or governmental order applicable to the Party or any of its assets, properties or businesses.           

(iv)  
   Duly Licensed . Such Party is duly licensed, authorized or qualified to do business and is in good standing in every jurisdiction in which a license, authorization or
qualification is required for the ownership or leasing of its assets or the transaction of business of the character transacted by it except where the failure to be so licensed, authorized or qualified would not have a material adverse effect on
such Party s ability to fulfill its obligations hereunder.        26.2  Provider Representations . Provider hereby represents, warrants
and covenants to Company as follows:       

(i)  
   Infringement . The performance of the Services, the use of the Work Product, Provider Intellectual Property Rights and Third Party Intellectual Property, and Company s
exercise of the rights granted to Company under this Agreement, do not and will not infringe, misappropriate or conflict with any Intellectual Property right of any third party. No confidential, proprietary or trade secret information that will be
used in performing the Services has been misappropriated from any third party.         

(ii)  
   Quality . In performing the Services, Provider shall meet the professional standard of diligence, care, timeliness, trust and skill exercised by experienced members of
Provider s profession with expertise in performing services similar to those to be provided hereunder. Provider possesses a high level of expertise in the business, administration, management and supervision required to undertake its
obligations contemplated hereunder and is fully and properly licensed, qualified, experienced, equipped, organized and financed to perform hereunder.         

(iii)  
   Compliance with Laws . In performing under this Agreement, Provider shall comply with all Applicable Laws.         

(iv)  
   Kickbacks . No employee, agent or representative of Provider has been offered, shall be offered, has received, or shall receive, directly or indirectly, from Company, any
gratuities, merchandise, cash, services benefit, fee, commission, dividend, gift, or other inducements or consideration of any kind in connection with this Agreement.         

(v)  
   Title . Provider shall have good, free and clear title to all Work Product that Provider may deliver to Company under this Agreement, free and clear of any liens, claims or
encumbrances.         

(vi)  
   Deliverables . At the time of delivery thereof to Company, the Work Product shall (i) function in accordance to any written specifications and requirements for such Work
Product, (ii) be free from defects, errors and deficiencies, (iii) be fit for the purposes and uses communicated by Company to Provider, its Affiliates and their respective Personnel or expected by a person receiving services similar to
this provided by the Provider under this Agreement and the applicable Order, (iv) meet the timelines set forth herein or in the applicable Order, and (v) comply with all Applicable Laws.         

(vii)  
   Required Consents . Provider has obtained and possesses any and all necessary rights and consents to perform the Services and its obligations under this Agreement, including
the right to grant Company the rights granted hereunder.         

(viii)  
   Capability to Perform . Provider is capable of and will perform its obligations hereunder and under each Order within the time limits and periods applicable thereto.

(ix)  
   Financial Condition . Provider is financially solvent, able to pay its debts as they mature, and possesses sufficient working capital to complete its obligations hereunder.

(x)  
   Employment Issues . Provider is an employer subject to, and shall comply with, all Applicable Laws, including without limitation applicable wage and hour statutes,
unemployment compensation statutes and occupational safety and health statutes, and shall be responsible for withholding and payment of any and all payroll taxes and contributions, including without limitation federal, state, provincial,
commonwealth and local income taxes; Federal Insurance Contributions Act, Federal Unemployment Tax Act and state unemployment contributions; and workers  compensation and disability insurance payments.         

(xi)  
   Third Party Intellectual Property . No Work Product provided hereunder shall incorporate or require use of any Third Party Intellectual Property for which Company would be
liable for royalty or other payments separate and apart from the Service Costs unless specifically agreed to in writing by Company.         

(xii)  
   No Conflict . Provider s execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement do not conflict with, result in any breach of, constitute a default (or event which with
the giving of notice or lapse of time, or both, would become a default) under, require any consent under, or give to others any rights of termination, amendment, acceleration, suspension, revocation or cancellation of any note, bond, mortgage or
indenture, contract, agreement, lease, sublease, license, permit, franchise or other instrument or arrangement to which Provider is a party.         

(xiii)  
   Personnel . Provider shall use an adequate number of qualified individuals who possess the requisite training, education, licensing, experience and skill to perform its
obligations hereunder.         

(xiv)  
   Technology and Equipment . Provider shall provide the Services using proven, current technology, Equipment and software that shall enable Company to take advantage of
technological advancements in Provider s industry. All Equipment provided by Provider pursuant to this Agreement shall be new, not refurbished or reconditioned, except to the extent agreed to by Company in writing, and Provider is either the
owner of, or authorized to use, the Equipment provided by Provider pursuant to this Agreement.         

(xv)  
   Provider Due Diligence . Prior to entering into this Agreement, Provider has undertaken all inspections, investigations and analysis as Provider deems necessary and
appropriate in connection with entering into this Agreement and committing to provide the Services upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement. Provider hereby acknowledges that Company has delivered or made available to Provider all
information and documents Provider has deemed necessary, including all information and documents requested by Provider (collectively, the   Due Diligence Information  ) for Provider to enter into this Agreement and perform its
obligations under this Agreement in accordance with its terms. Provider shall not be relieved of any of its obligations under this Agreement, as a result of (i) its failure to review the Due Diligence Information or any documents referred to
therein, or (ii) its failure to request any other information or documents from Company.        26.3  Warranties Not Exclusive . The
warranties provided hereunder are not sole or exclusive, shall not be construed to modify or limit in any way any rights or remedies which Company may otherwise have against Provider, and are in addition to any other express or implied warranties
set forth in this Agreement or provided by law. The warranties set forth herein do not extend to any Equipment or Services that have been intentionally misused by Company contrary to clear, documented instructions without the supervision of and
prior written approval of Provider, or if Company removes or renders illegible the relevant Provider serial numbers or warranty date decals.      26.4  Third
Party Warranties . Provider shall secure on the Company s behalf the maximum warranty period available for all goods and services provided by third parties; which period, unless expressly  

agreed to by Company in writing and on a case-by-case basis, shall be for a period of no less than eighteen (18) months after completion of the subject
Services. Without limiting the other provisions of this  Article 26 , Provider shall assign to Company all warranties provided by Subcontractors or other third parties who furnish goods and/or services in connection with Provider s
performance hereunder. Provider warrants that it shall perform its obligations in such manner so as to preserve any such third party warranties. Provider shall use commercially reasonable efforts to assist Company in enforcing such third party
warranties. In the event that Provider s best efforts are unsuccessful, Provider shall perform all obligations under such third party warranties at Provider s expense.      26.5  Warranty Corrective Actions . In the event Provider fails to meet a warranted condition under this Agreement, Provider shall promptly identify an action plan for (i) correcting such warranted
condition; and (ii) correcting any damages arising out of or resulting from Provider s failure to meet such warranted condition. Such action plan shall be subject to Company s approval and be promptly implemented by Provider to
Company s satisfaction. The implementation of such action plan and all actions taken in furtherance thereof shall be governed by the terms of this Agreement. Provider shall bear all costs associated with and incidental to such implementation.
If Provider refuses or is not able to promptly identify or implement an action plan satisfactory to Company, Company may take corrective actions as it sees fit, all at Provider s expense.       
    27.1  Confidentiality . Each Party shall
maintain in confidence all Confidential Information of the other Party, and shall not disclose such Confidential Information to any third party except to those of its Personnel as are necessary in connection with the receiving Party s
activities as contemplated by this Agreement, and shall not use Confidential Information of the other Party for any purpose other than the performance of its obligations hereunder. In maintaining the confidentiality of Confidential Information of
the other Party, each Party shall exercise the same degree of care that it exercises with its own confidential information, and in no event less than a reasonable degree of care. Each Party shall ensure that each of its Personnel holds in confidence
and makes no use of the Confidential Information of the other Party for any purpose other than those permitted under this Agreement or otherwise required by law. Each Party shall clearly and completely convey the requirements of this  Article 27
 to all of its Personnel to ensure such requirements are understood and followed. [  *  ]      27.2  Exceptions . The obligation of
confidentiality contained in this Agreement shall not apply to the extent that a Party can demonstrate that (a) the disclosed information was at the time of such disclosure to such Party already in (or thereafter enters) the public domain other
than as a result of actions of such Party or its Personnel in violation hereof; (b) the disclosed information was rightfully known to such Party without any obligation of confidentiality prior to the date of disclosure to such Party;
(c) the disclosed information was received by such Party on an unrestricted basis from a source unrelated to any Party to this Agreement and not under a duty of confidentiality; or (d) the information was independently developed by such
Party without use of or reference to Company s Confidential Information. In the event that the Party receiving Confidential Information receives a request from a third party, pursuant to a valid subpoena, legally valid governmental authority
request, or other valid legal request, that requires it to disclose Company s Confidential Information, prior to disclosing such Confidential Information or Company Data, such Party shall (i) give the other Party prompt (but in no event
later than forty eight (48) hours after receipt of the request) prior written notice of the requested disclosure which notice shall include a copy of such subpoena or request, (ii) use reasonable efforts to resist disclosing the
Confidential Information, (iii) cooperate with the other Party on request to obtain a protective order or otherwise limit the disclosure of the Confidential Information, (iv) consent to an injunction or protective order and not oppose the
other Party s request to intervene, and (v) prior to such disclosure, provide a letter from its counsel confirming that the Confidential Information is, in fact, required to be disclosed. A disclosure of Confidential Information in
accordance with the preceding sentence of this  Section 27.2  shall not be deemed a breach of the confidentiality obligations hereunder.      27.3
 Unauthorized Disclosure . Each Party acknowledges and confirms that the Confidential Information of the other Party constitutes proprietary information or trade secrets valuable to the other  

Confidential   
     
  50  

Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange
Commission.   

Party, and that the unauthorized use, loss or outside disclosure of such Confidential Information may cause irreparable injury to the other Party. Each Party
shall notify the other Party immediately upon discovery of any unauthorized use or disclosure of Confidential Information, and will cooperate with the other Party in every reasonable way to help regain possession of such Confidential Information and
to prevent its further unauthorized use.      27.4  Injunctive Relief . Each Party acknowledges that monetary damages is not a sufficient remedy for
unauthorized disclosure of Confidential Information of the other Party and that the other Party shall be entitled, without waiving other rights or remedies, to such injunctive or equitable relief as may be deemed proper by a court of competent
jurisdiction.      27.5  Return of Information . Upon the earlier of (i) completion of the Services to be performed under each Order,
(ii) expiration or termination of an Order or this Agreement, or (iii) a written request by the other Party, each Party shall return to the other Party all Confidential Information in its possession or control, including any copies,
reproductions, or derivative works thereof.      27.6  Company Data . All Company Data is and shall remain the property of Company and shall be deemed
Confidential Information of Company. Except with the prior written consent of Company, Company Data shall not be (i) used by Provider other than in connection with providing the Services, (ii) disclosed, sold, assigned, leased or otherwise
provided to third parties by Provider, (iii) commercially exploited by or on behalf of Provider, or (iv) allowed by Provider to be used or disclosed for any such purpose by third parties. Upon the request of Company, Provider shall
(i) at Company s expense, promptly return to Company, in the format and on the media requested by Company, all Company Data, and (ii) erase or destroy all Company Data in Provider s possession. Any archival tapes or other media
containing Company Data shall be used by Provider solely for back-up purposes.      27.7  No Implied Rights . Subject to the provisions of
 Article 11 , each Party s Confidential Information shall remain the property of that Party. Nothing contained in this  Section 27.7  shall be construed as obligating a Party to disclose its Confidential Information to the
other Party, or as granting to or conferring on a Party, expressly or impliedly, any rights or license to the Confidential Information of the other Party, and any such obligation or grant shall only be as provided by other provisions of this
Agreement .        
    28.1  Insurance Coverage . Provider shall at
all times during the Term and Termination Assistance Period maintain the insurance coverage set forth in  Exhibit O  (Insurance Provisions). The insurance obligations hereunder shall be in addition to and in no way be construed to limit the
indemnification obligations set forth herein.      28.2  Force Majeure . A   Force Majeure Event   shall be an event, occurrence or
circumstance that (a) directly impacts the Company Facilities; (b) directly impacts the Party s performance of its obligations that must be performed on the Company Facilities; and (c) is caused, directly or indirectly, by acts
of God, war, riots, terrorism, embargos, industry-wide strikes and boycotts, acts of public enemy, acts of military authority, earthquake, fire or flood; provided that (i) such Party is without fault or negligence in causing such delay;
(ii) such delay could not have been prevented by reasonable precautions taken by such Party, including without limitation the use of alternate sources or workaround plans; (iii) such Party uses commercially reasonable efforts to recommence
performance of such obligations whenever and to whatever extent possible following the Force Majeure Event; and (iv) such Party immediately notifies the other Party by the most expedient method possible (to be confirmed in writing) and
describes at a reasonable level of detail the circumstances causing the delay. A Party shall not be liable for any delay in performance of its obligations hereunder if and to the extent such delay is caused by a Force Majeure Event. During the
duration of the Force Majeure Event, the Party so affected shall use its reasonable commercial efforts to avoid or remove such Force Majeure Event and shall take reasonable steps to resume its performance under this Agreement with the least possible
delay. Whenever a Force Majeure Event causes Provider to allocate limited resources between or among Provider s customers, Company shall receive priority allocation of such resources. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this  

Paragraph, in the event Provider s performance under this Agreement or any Order(s) is delayed for a period of thirty (30) days or more due to a
delay excusable under this  Section 28.2 , Company may terminate this Agreement and/or such Order(s) immediately upon notice to Provider.      28.3
 Consequential Damages . SUBJECT TO  SECTION 28.5 , NEITHER PARTY SHALL BE LIABLE TO THE OTHER PARTY FOR ANY INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, EXEMPLARY, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT, EVEN IF
SUCH PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.      28.4  Limitation of Liability . Subject to  Section 28.5 , each
Party s total liability to the other per calendar year, whether in contract or in tort (including breach of warranty, negligence and strict liability in tort) shall be limited to an amount equal to [  *  ].      28.5  Exceptions . The limitations set forth in  Section 28.3  and  Section 28.4  shall not apply with respect to: (1) damages occasioned
by the unlawful acts or omissions, willful misconduct or gross negligence of a Party; (2) claims that are the subject of indemnification hereunder; (3) breach of  Article 27 ; and (4) damages occasioned by improper or wrongful
termination of this Agreement or abandonment of the Services by Provider; (5) Service Costs payable to Provider by Company in accordance with this Agreement or payable by Provider to its Personnel; and (6) any [  *  ].
     28.6  Mitigation . Each Party shall have a duty to mitigate damages for which the other Party is responsible.       
    29.1  Provider Indemnification . Provider
shall defend, indemnify and hold harmless Company, its Affiliates, and their respective officers, directors and Personnel (the   Company Indemnified Parties  ) from and against any and all third party (for purposes of this Section,
 third party  shall include Provider Personnel) suits, actions, legal or administrative proceedings, claims, liens, demands, damages, liabilities, losses, costs, fees, penalties, fines and expenses (including without limitation
attorneys  fees and expenses (both Company s in-house and outside attorneys), and costs of investigation, litigation, settlement, and judgment) (  Losses  ) arising out of or related to:       

(i)  
  Claims arising out of or related to breach of Provider s representations, warranties and covenants set forth in this Agreement;         

(ii)  
  Breaches of  Article 27 ;         

(iii)  
  Any and all acts or omissions of Provider or its Personnel (unless performed under the specific instructions of Company) resulting in any death, bodily injury or damage to real or
tangible personal property in connection with the Services, or any intentional, fraudulent, tortious or negligent act or omission of Provider or Provider Personnel;         

(iv)  
  Any and all acts or omissions of Provider that results in the breach by a Company Indemnified Party of (A) its contractual obligations to a third party or (B) any legal or
regulatory requirement applicable to such Company Indemnified Party, which contractual obligation or legal or regulatory requirement is within the scope of the Services or is being managed by or the responsibility of Provider in connection with the
Services;         

(v)  
  Relating to Provider s failure to observe or perform any duties or obligations to be observed or performed on or after the Effective Date by Provider under any contracts,
including software licenses, Equipment leases, Assigned Contracts and Managed Contracts, in each case, that are within the scope of Services or being managed by or the responsibility of Provider in connection with the Services, except to the extent
Company has either withheld or not timely made a properly invoiced payment with respect to such Subcontractor or Supplier;           

Confidential   
     
  52  

Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange
Commission.   

(vi)  
  Claims that the performance or use of the Services, or that the Deliverables, Provider Equipment, any other enhancements or modifications to any works prepared or provided by
Provider or any other resources or items provided to Company by Provider (collectively,   Provider Provided Items  ) infringe the Intellectual Property or other proprietary rights of such third party, except as may have been caused by
(A) a modification or misuse of such Provider Provided Items other than according to or in compliance with the specifications or designs of such Provider Provided Items, or (B) the combination, operation or use of such Provider Provided
Items with Equipment not furnished or approved by Provider or not contemplated by the documentation for or expected use of such Provider Provided Items;         

(vii)  
  Any claim by Provider Personnel against any Company Indemnified Party [  *  ];         

(viii)  
  Any claim or action by, on behalf of, or related to, Affected Personnel to the extent accruing on or after the Effective Date[  *  ];         

(ix)  
  Any claims relating to any Transitioned Personnel arising before, on or after the Effective Date arising from the acts or omissions of Provider, or one of its Affiliates
[  *  ];         

(x)  
  [  *  ]; and         

(xi)  
  Claims arising from a breach of  Article 18 .        29.2  Company
Indemnification . Company shall indemnify and hold harmless Provider, its Affiliates, and their respective officers, directors and Personnel (the   Provider Indemnified Parties  ) from and against any and all Losses arising out of
or related to:       

(i)  
  Claims arising out of or related to breach of Company s representations, warranties and covenants set forth in this Agreement;         

(ii)  
  The acts or omissions of Company or its Personnel resulting in any death, bodily injury or damage to real or tangible personal property, or any intentional, fraudulent, tortious or
negligent act or omission of Company or Company Personnel;         

(iii)  
  Any claims by, or on behalf of, or related to the Transferred Employee arising from the acts or omissions of the Company, or one of its Affiliates, prior to the Effective Date,
including claims relating to employment or engagement, occupational health and safety, worker s compensation, ERISA or arising under other Applicable Laws[*];         

(iv)  
  Any claims relating to the termination by Company of Affected Employees or Affected Contractors who either refuse, for whatever reason, to accept Provider s offer of employment
or engagement in accordance with  Section 12.23(i) ,  Section 12.23(ii)  or  Section 12.23(iv) , or who object to the transfer of their employment to Provider with or without good reason;         

(v)  
  [  *  ]; and         

(vi)  
  Claims by or on behalf of Transitioned Employees that the transfer of their employment to Provider or the terms on which Provider proposes to employ them is [  *  ] in
breach of their contract of employment.           

Confidential   
     
  53  

Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange
Commission.   

29.3  Infringement . If any Provider Provided Item becomes, or in Provider s reasonable opinion is likely to
become, the subject of an infringement, including misappropriation, claim or proceeding, Provider shall, in addition to indemnifying Company as provided in this  Article 29  and to the other rights Company may have under this Agreement,
(i) promptly at Provider s expense secure the right to continue using the Provider Provided Item, or (ii) if this cannot be accomplished with commercially reasonable efforts, then at Provider s expense, replace or modify the
Provider Provided Item to make it non-infringing, provided that any such replacement or modification shall not degrade the performance or quality of the Provider Provided Item or any affected component of the Services, or (C) if neither of the
foregoing can be accomplished by Provider with commercially reasonable efforts, and only in such event, then remove the Provider Provided Item from the Services, in which case the Services Costs shall be equitably adjusted to reflect such removal.
     29.4  Indemnification Procedures . With respect to third-party claims for which a Party is seeking indemnification hereunder, the following
procedures shall apply:       

(i)  
  Promptly after receipt by any entity entitled to indemnification under  Section 29.1  and  Section 29.2  of notice of the assertion or the commencement of any
action, proceeding or other claim by a third party in respect of which the indemnitee shall seek indemnification pursuant to any such Section, the indemnitee shall notify the indemnitor of such claim in writing. No failure to so notify an indemnitor
shall relieve it of its obligations under this Agreement except to the extent that it can demonstrate actual damages attributable to such failure. Within fifteen (15) days following receipt of written notice from the indemnitee relating to any
claim, but no later than ten (10) days before the date on which any response to a complaint or summons is due, the indemnitor shall notify the indemnitee in writing if the indemnitor acknowledges its indemnification obligation and elects to
assume control of the defense and settlement of that claim (a   Notice of Election  ).         

(ii)  
  If the indemnitor delivers a Notice of Election relating to any claim within the required notice period, the indemnitor shall be entitled to have sole control over the defense and
settlement of such claim; provided that (1) the indemnitee shall be entitled to participate in the defense of such claim and to employ counsel at its own expense to assist in the handling of such claim; and (2) the indemnitor shall obtain
the prior written approval of the indemnitee before entering into any settlement of such claim or ceasing to defend against such claim. After the indemnitor has delivered a Notice of Election relating to any claim in accordance with the preceding
paragraph, the indemnitor shall not be liable to the indemnitee for any legal expenses incurred by the indemnitee in connection with the defense of that claim. In addition, the indemnitor shall not be required to indemnify the indemnitee for any
amount paid or payable by the indemnitee in the settlement of any claim for which the indemnitor has delivered a timely Notice of Election if such amount was agreed to without the written consent of the indemnitor.         

(iii)  
  If the indemnitor does not deliver a Notice of Election relating to a claim, or otherwise fails to acknowledge its indemnification obligation or to assume the defense of a claim,
within the required notice period, the indemnitee shall have the right to defend the claim in such manner as it may deem appropriate, at the cost and expense of the indemnitor, including payment of any judgment or award and the costs of settlement
or compromise of the claim. The indemnitor shall promptly reimburse the indemnitee for all such costs and expenses, including payment of any judgment or award and the costs of settlement or compromise of the claim.        29.5  Subrogation . In the event that an indemnitor shall be obligated to indemnify an indemnitee pursuant to this  Article 29 , the indemnitor shall,
upon fulfillment of its obligations with respect to indemnification, including payment in full of all amounts due pursuant to its indemnification obligations, be subrogated to the rights of the indemnitee with respect to the claims to which such
indemnification relates.         

29.6  Liens by Provider . To the extent permitted by Applicable Law, Provider hereby waives and releases any and all
lien rights and similar rights for payment for services, labor, equipment or materials furnished by Provider in performance of its obligations hereunder and granted by law to persons supplying materials, equipment, services and other items of value
to improve or modify land or the structures thereon, which Provider may have against Company s or Company s landlord s premises, property or funds payable to Company.      29.7  Third-Party Liens . Except to the extent Company has either withheld or not timely made a properly invoiced payment with respect to such Subcontractor or Supplier, if a lien affecting any of Company s
rights is filed by any Supplier or Subcontractor, Provider must remove the lien within ten (10) days of notice of lien or of written demand from Company, whichever is earlier. If Provider fails to remove the lien, Company may (i) pay the
amount of the lien, (ii) bond the removal of the lien, or (iii) take any other step necessary to remove the lien. Provider shall immediately reimburse Company for the cost of removal of any such lien, including without limitation all
attorneys  fees and costs, upon receipt of written demand from Company. If Provider fails to reimburse Company, Company may back charge or withhold the cost of removal, including without limitation all attorneys  fees and costs, from any
amount that Company may be required to pay to Provider for performance of its obligations hereunder.       
    30.1  Identification of Problems . During
the Term and Termination Assistance Period, each Party shall bring to the attention of the other Party any issues that may reasonably be expected to prevent such Party from completing, or that may delay or otherwise affect the performance of, its
obligations under this Agreement.      30.2  Dispute Resolution Procedures . Should a dispute arise that, in the opinion of either Party, threatens to
impair the continued performance of this Agreement by either or both of the Parties, the aggrieved Party shall provide the other Party with written notice setting forth the nature of such dispute. The dispute shall be referred to a committee of
four, comprised of two senior executives of each Party. The committee shall convene as promptly as possible, and in no event more than two (2) business days after receipt of such notice, to attempt to resolve the problem as promptly as
possible. The committee shall continue to meet in accordance with a schedule that it shall determine until the problem shall be resolved. If the problem is not resolved within five (5) business days after the first meeting of the committee
(  Resolution Period  ), either Party shall be free to pursue all available remedies, at law or in equity, consistent with the terms of this Agreement, unless the Parties shall agree in writing to extend the Resolution Period.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, either Party may, before, during, or after the Resolution Period, apply to a court of competent jurisdiction for a temporary restraining order, preliminary injunction of other equitable relief, where such relief is
necessary to protect its interests. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, in the event that any Party believes in good faith a dispute or potential dispute to be  urgent,  such Party shall have no obligations to utilize
the dispute resolution mechanism set forth in this Paragraph, and such Party may immediately seek any remedies available to such Party at law or in equity.       
    31.1  Company Provided Equipment . Company shall
retain ownership of all Equipment that is owned by Company as of the Effective Date, or that is subsequently acquired in the name of the Company during the Term or Termination Assistance Period, and supplied by Company to Provider and used to
provide the Services (  Company Provided Equipment  ). Company will retain the lease agreements for all Equipment that is leased in Company s name as of the Effective Date, or that is subsequently leased in the name of the
Company during the Term or Termination Assistance Period. Company shall provide Provider with access to such Company Provided Equipment on an  as is, where is  basis for use by Provider in delivering the Services. Company s and
Provider s respective responsibilities with respect to the upgrade, replacement and refreshing of Company Provided Equipment may vary by Equipment type and shall be as set forth in  Exhibit G  (Equipment List) or the applicable Order.
Company shall be responsible for procuring any upgrades with respect to such Company Provided Equipment. Unless  

otherwise set forth herein or in the applicable Order, Provider shall manage and maintain all of the Company Provided Equipment in accordance with the
maintenance schedules recommended by the applicable Equipment manufacturer.      31.2  Provider Equipment . Provider shall be responsible for providing
any Equipment other than the Company Provided Equipment that is necessary or required to provide the Services (collectively, the   Provider Equipment  ). Provider shall install, operate, manage and maintain all of the Provider
Equipment, in accordance with the maintenance schedules recommended by the applicable Equipment manufacturer. All Provider Equipment shall be currently supported by the applicable Equipment manufacturer. Notwithstanding the location of Provider
Equipment at a Company Facility, all right, title and interest in and to any such Provider Equipment shall be and remain in Provider, and Company shall not have any title or ownership interest in the Provider Equipment; provided, however, by the
delivery of written notice to Provider, Company may elect to cause Provider to transfer to Company or its designee ownership of any Provider Equipment designated by Company in such notice that is no longer used in the performance of Services under
this Agreement or any Order issued pursuant to this Agreement.      31.3  New Equipment . Provider shall acquire new Equipment in addition to, or in
replacement of, existing Provider Equipment and Company Provided Equipment that is necessary or appropriate to provide the Services in accordance with the Service Levels. Unless otherwise set forth herein or in the applicable Order, such new
Equipment shall be purchased or leased in the name of Provider, except for purchases or leases of upgrades or replacements for Company Provided Equipment, which shall be purchased or leased in the name of Company.      31.4  Procurement Responsibilities . With respect to Equipment procured by Provider to meet its obligations hereunder, Provider s responsibilities shall
include: (i) evaluating the Equipment and the qualifications of the Equipment vendor; (ii) negotiating the most favorable pricing and terms; and (iii) ordering, receiving, configuring, installing, testing, maintaining and distributing
all new Equipment.      31.5  Asset Tracking . Company shall perform tracking and asset management for all Company Provided Equipment and Provider
Equipment, and ensure compliance with applicable contractual restrictions. With respect to any Provider Equipment leased by Provider, Provider shall structure its leasing arrangements so that the applicable leases may be assigned to Company upon the
termination of this Agreement and so that any ongoing payments under those leases payable by Company after such assignment are consistent with, and no higher than, the payments payable by Provider prior to such assignment.      31.6  Equipment Disposal . Provider shall be responsible for the disposal of Provider Equipment and Company Provided Equipment no longer required by Provider for
the provision of the Services. Provider shall dispose of all such Equipment in a manner consistent with the requirements of Applicable Law and Company Policies.       
    32.1  Consents . Unless otherwise specified in
this Agreement, all consents, approvals, acceptances or similar actions to be given by either Party under this Agreement shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed and each Party shall make only reasonable requests under this
Agreement.      32.2  Assignment . Company has specifically contracted with Provider because of its unique experience, expertise and qualifications; and,
therefore, Provider may not assign or delegate Provider s obligations under this Agreement, either in whole or in part, without the prior written consent of Company. Any attempt by Provider to assign or delegate this Agreement, in whole or in
part, without Company s prior written consent, shall be deemed a default hereunder and such assignment or delegation shall be voidable at the option of Company. Company may assign this Agreement at any time without the prior consent of
Provider. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any assignment of Provider s obligations hereunder by operation of law, or pursuant to any plan of merger or consolidation, shall be deemed an assignment for which prior written consent of Company is not
required; provided, however, that in any such event  

Provider shall provide prompt prior written notice of such event and Company may terminate this Agreement pursuant to  Section 17.7 . This
Agreement shall be binding on the Parties and their respective successors and permitted assigns.      32.3  Notices . Any notice required or permitted
hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed given as of the date it is (i) delivered by hand; or (ii) received by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested; or (iii) confirmed as received if by
facsimile; or (iv) received by nationally recognized, overnight courier, and addressed to the party to receive such notice at the address set forth below, or such other address as is subsequently specified in writing:       

If to Company:  
      
  If to Provider:   

Vice President, Global Strategic Sourcing   
      
    CEO, Corporate Solutions    
 
    Amgen Inc.   
      
    Jones Lang LaSalle Americas, Inc.    
 
    Mailstop: 91-2-C   
      
    200 East Randolph Drive    
 
    One Amgen Center Drive   
      
    Chicago, IL 60601    
 
    Thousand Oaks, CA 91320-1799   
      
    Fax Number: [  *  ]    
 
    Fax Number: [  *  ]   

With a copy to:  
      
  With a copy to:   

General Counsel   
      
    Chief Commercial Counsel, Americas    
 
    Attn: Operations Group   
      
    Jones Lang LaSalle Americas, Inc.    
 
    Amgen Inc.   
      
    200 East Randolph Drive    
 
    Mailstop: 28-1-A   
      
    Chicago, IL 60601    
 
    One Amgen Center Drive   
      
    Fax Number: [*]    
 
    Thousand Oaks, CA 91320-1799   

Fax Number: [  *  ]   

With a copy of any notices of an indemnity claim that triggers a Notice of Election under  Section 29.4 :  
      
  With a copy of any notices of an indemnity claim that triggers a Notice of Election under  Section 29.4 :   

Director, Corporate Insurance   
      
    Jones Lang LaSalle    
 
    Amgen Inc.   
      
    Attn: Risk Management Department    
 
    One Amgen Center Drive   
      
    Jones Lang LaSalle Americas, Inc.    
 
    Mail Stop 24-2-A   
      
    200 East Randolph Drive    
 
    Thousand Oaks, CA 91320-1799   
      
    Chicago, IL 60601    
 
    Fax Number: [*]   
      
    Fax Number: [*]    
    32.4  Governing Law . This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California, excluding
conflict of law rules.      32.5  Venue and Jurisdiction . With respect to any dispute arising out of or related to this Agreement or the transactions
contemplated hereby, the Parties hereby irrevocably and unconditionally submit to the exclusive jurisdiction and venue (and waive any claim of forum non conveniens) of (i) the state or federal courts sitting in Ventura County, California; or
(ii) if such court does not have jurisdiction, the United States District Court for the Central District of California.      32.6  Independent
Contractor . Provider shall be acting as an independent contractor in performing the Services and shall not be considered or deemed to be an agent, employee, joint venturer or partner of Company. Provider shall have no authority to contract for
or to bind Company in any manner and shall not represent itself as an agent of Company or as otherwise authorized to act for or on behalf of Company.         

Confidential   
     
  57  

Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange
Commission.   

32.7  Publicity . Except for the purposes of performance hereunder, neither Party shall use or allow its Personnel
to use the other Party s name, the names of the other Party s Affiliates, or any derivatives thereof without the other Party s prior written consent, which may be withheld at the other Party s sole discretion. This prohibition of
use shall include without limitation use in any publicity or advertising, including without limitation media releases, public announcements, or public disclosures. A Party violating this  Section 32.7  shall immediately provide notice to
the other Party in the event it becomes aware of any violation of this prohibition and, at the violating Party s sole expense, take such steps necessary to cease and cure such violation to the non-violating Party s satisfaction.
     32.8  Cumulative Remedies . Except as expressly provided herein, no remedy made available to either Party hereunder is intended to be exclusive of
any other remedy provided hereunder or available at law or in equity.      32.9  Amendment . This Agreement may not be amended or modified except by an
instrument in writing signed by authorized representatives of Company and Provider. Unless otherwise specified by Company, to be effective, a representative of Company s Global Strategic Sourcing Department must authorize in writing any
amendment or modification to this Agreement including without limitation amendments or modifications to Service Levels and the scope of Services.      32.10
 No Waiver . The failure of either Party to enforce at any time for any period the provisions of or any rights deriving from this Agreement shall not be construed to be a waiver of such provisions or rights or the right of such Party thereafter
to enforce such provisions.      32.11  Severability . If any term or other provision of this Agreement is invalid, illegal or incapable of being enforced
by any law or public policy, all other terms and provisions of this Agreement shall nevertheless remain in full force and effect so long as the economic or legal substance of the transactions contemplated hereby is not affected in any manner
materially adverse to any Party.      32.12  Headings . The descriptive headings contained in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and
shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of the Agreement.      32.13  Counterparts . This Agreement may be executed in one or more
counterparts, and by the respective Parties in separate counterparts, each of which when executed shall be deemed to be an original but all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same Agreement.      32.14  Entire Agreement . This Agreement and the Orders constitute the entire agreement between the Parties with respect to the subject matter hereof, and no oral
or written statement that is not expressly set forth in this Agreement or the Orders may be used to interpret or vary the meaning of the terms and conditions hereof. This Agreement, including the Exhibits attached hereto and any Orders, supersede
any prior or contemporaneous agreements and understandings, whether written or oral, between the Parties with respect to the subject matter hereof.      32.15
 Third Party Beneficiaries . Except as expressly provided herein, nothing in this Agreement, either express or implied, is intended to or shall confer upon any third party any legal or equitable right, benefit or remedy of any nature whatsoever
under or by reason of this Agreement.       
    33.1  Certain Defined Terms . The following
defined terms as used in the Agreement, including its exhibits and appendices, shall have the meanings set forth below.         

Affected Contractors .   Affected Contractors   means those individuals or entities who are subject
to Company Contractor Agreements and who are identified as  affected contractors  in Schedule 8 (Affected Personnel) of  Exhibit A  (Description of Services) or an applicable Order.       Affected Employees .   Affected Employees   means those Company employees identified as  affected employees  in Schedule 8 (Affected
Personnel) of  Exhibit A  (Description of Services) or an applicable Order.       Affected Personnel .   Affected Personnel   means,
collectively, Affected Contractors and Affected Employees.       Affiliate .   Affiliate   means any entity controlling, controlled by or
under common control with a Party, but only for so long as such control continues, where  control  means: (i) the ownership of at least fifty percent (50%) of the equity or beneficial interest of such entity, or the right to vote
for or appoint a majority of the board of directors or other governing body of such entity; or (ii) the power to directly or indirectly direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such entity by any means whatsoever.
      Agreed Service Location .   Agreed Service Location   means any premises and facilities approved by Company and specified in
 Exhibit A  (Description of Services) or an applicable Order as a location from which or for which the Services will be performed.       Agreement .
  Agreement   means this Integrated Facilities Management Services Agreement and all appendices, exhibits, schedules and other attachments thereto, and all amendments of any of the foregoing.       Applicable Law .   Applicable Law   means any country, international, federal, state, provincial, commonwealth, cantonal or local government law,
statute, rule, requirement, code, regulation, permit, ordinance, authorization or similar such governmental requirement and interpretation and guidance documents of the same by a Governmental Authority as applicable to Provider, Company, the
Services, or this Agreement.       ARD Countries .   ARD Countries   means those jurisdictions that have implemented ARD Laws and in which
Company or one of its Affiliates employs Affected Employees.       ARD Laws .   ARD Laws   means (1) the European Community Council
Directive (77/187/EEC) of February 14, 1977 as consolidated by Council Directive 2001/23/EC of March 12, 2001, in each case as amended from time to time, and legislation and Laws implementing such directives in any country in which an
Agreed Service Location or a location from which Provider performs Services is located or where Transitioned Employees are employed; and (2) equivalent legislation and Laws dealing with the same subject matter as such directives.       Assigned Contracts .   Assigned Contracts   means any third party agreements that are assigned, in whole or in part, to Provider from Company or its
Affiliates, such agreements to be identified as  Assigned Contracts  in Schedule 10 (Assigned and Managed Contracts/Company Contractor Agreements) of  Exhibit A  (Description of Services) or an applicable Order.       BC Policies .   BC Policies   means the business continuity and disaster recovery policies, standards and guidelines set forth in  Exhibit P 
(Business Continuity Policies), as modified by Company from time-to-time.       Benchmarker .   Benchmarker   means an independent and
industry-recognized organization appointed by Company that is acknowledged by the Parties (each Party acting reasonably) to have directly relevant benchmarking expertise, methodology and data sources.         

Best Practice .   Best Practice   means the relevant best industry standards and practices for the
performance of Comparable Services.       cGMP .   cGMP   means (i) the applicable regulatory requirements, as amended from time to
time, for current good manufacturing practices, including without limitation those promulgated by the Food and Drug Administration under the United States Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, 21 C.F.R.   210  et seq.  or under
the Public Health Service Act, Biological Products, 21 C.F.R.    600-610, the European Medicines Agency or Health Canada under the Food and Drugs Act (Canada), R.S. 1985, CF-27 and its associated regulations; (ii) any applicable
guidance documents published by a Governmental Authority; and (iii) current industry practice consistent and in accordance therewith.       Change
Control Process .   Change Control Process   means the process for making Changes to Services set forth in  Article 5 .       Company
Data .   Company Data   means all Company data stored, processed, accessed, or accessible by Provider, including data that Provider has derived from such information, in connection with the Services.       Company Facilities .   Company Facilities   means physical premises owned or controlled by Company at which Services are being performed by
Provider.       Company Policies .   Company Policies   means any of Company s compliance, safety, security and other rules, programs,
regulations, policies and procedures (including Standard Operating Procedures) applicable to Provider or this Agreement, including, but not limited to, the BC Policies and the rules, programs, regulations and policies set forth in Exhibit I (Company
Standard Operating Procedures) and  Exhibit J  (Company Standard Policies), as modified from time-to-time in accordance with Section 4.6.       Comparable Services .   Comparable Services   means services that are supplied by third parties, and that are similar to the relevant Services (or the relevant category of such Services), having regard to factors such
as the nature and size of Provider, Company, the relevant geographies, the Service Levels and volumes, the quality, nature and type of the relevant Services and the standard to which such Services are subject, any particular or unique circumstances
in which such Services are received/supplied and any other relevant factors.       Competitor .
  Competitor   means any company or entity that, either independently or through its Affiliates, competes (or intends to compete) in a material manner with Company and includes without limitation the following: [    *       ]        Confidential Information .   Confidential Information   of a Party means all information, unless specifically identified by such Party as non-confidential, regardless of how communicated or stored, concerning the
operations, affairs, products and businesses of such Party, the financial affairs of such Party, and the relations of such Party with its customers, employees and service providers, including without limitation, confidential or proprietary
information, trade secrets, data, drafts, documents, communications, plans, know-how, formulas, improvements, designs, estimates, calculations, test results, specimens, schematics, drawings, tracings, studies, specifications, surveys, facilities,
photographs, documentation, software, equipment, processes, programs, reports, orders, maps, models, agreements, ideas, methods, discoveries, inventions, patents, concepts, research, development, business and financial information, customer or
client lists, account information, procedures, computer information and databases, business plans, budget forecasts, business arrangements, financial information and estimates, personnel data, and long-term plans and goals.   Confidential
Information   of Company shall include (i) all information relating to the Services and Orders, including the terms and conditions of this Agreement, (ii) the specifications, designs, documents, correspondence, software,
documentation, data and other materials and Work Products produced by or for Provider in the course of performing the Services other than Provider Intellectual Property Rights, (iii) Deliverables and Company data, and (iv) other Company
information or data stored or otherwise or communicated, and obtained, received, transmitted, processed, stored, archived, maintained or derived by Provider under this Agreement or in connection with the  

Confidential   
     
  60  

Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange
Commission.   

Services.   Confidential Information   of Provider shall include all information concerning the operations, affairs and businesses of
Provider, the financial affairs of Provider, and the relations of Provider with its other customers, employees and suppliers (including customer lists, customer (other than Company) information, account information, and consumer markets).
      Deliverables .   Deliverables   means any and all tangible Work Product, reports, data, specifications, designs, documents,
correspondence, software, documentation, and other materials, Work Product and other deliverables resulting from the Services.       Disaster .
  Disaster   means any incident, unplanned disruption or unplanned interruption whether relating to information processing facilities, inaccessibility of buildings, and unavailability of resources or otherwise (including a Force
Majeure Event) that impairs the ability of Provider to perform any of the Services.       Equipment .   Equipment   means computer,
telecommunications, mechanical, electrical and other equipment (without regard to the entity owning or leasing such equipment) used by Provider to provide the Services.       Event of Deteriorating Provider Condition .   Event of Deteriorating Provider Condition   means any of the following events: (i) Provider ceases to do business as a going concern, makes an
assignment for the benefit of creditors, is unable to pay its debts as they become due, is insolvent or the subject of receivership, or any substantial part of Provider s property is or becomes subject to any levy, seizure, assignment or sale
for or by any creditor or governmental agency without being released or satisfied within ten (10) days thereafter; (ii) Provider s auditors issue an opinion expressing doubt as to whether Provider can maintain itself as a  going
concern,  or Provider s credit is materially downgraded by a nationally recognized credit agency; (iii) any judgment or tax lien is filed or issued against Provider that materially impacts Provider s ability to provide the
Services to Company; (iv) bankruptcy proceedings, whether voluntary or involuntary, are commenced by or against Provider; (v) Provider sells all or substantially all of its assets, or a material portion of its assets related to the
Services; and (vi) there is a material adverse change in the Provider s business, financial condition or prospects that is reasonably likely to result in a delay in the performance of Provider s obligations hereunder, or a reduction
in the quality of such performance.       Excused Company-Related Delay .  Excused Company-Related Delay  means a critical path delay in the
performance of the Services that Provider demonstrates to Company s reasonable satisfaction is directly attributable to: (A) a breach of this Agreement by Company; or (B) acts or omissions of Company or a Third Party Supplier,
provided that (i) Provider is without fault or negligence in causing such delay; (ii) such delay could not have been prevented by reasonable precautions taken by Provider, including without limitation the use of alternate sources or
workaround plans; (iii) Provider uses commercially reasonable efforts to mitigate the impacts of the delay; and (iv) Provider immediately notifies Company by the most expedient method possible (to be confirmed in writing) and describes at
a reasonable level of detail the circumstances causing the delay.       Governmental Authority.    Governmental Authority   means any and
all governmental or regulatory authorities having jurisdiction over this Agreement and/or any Services or Orders associated therewith, including the FDA or any counterpart of the FDA outside of the United States.       Intellectual Property .   Intellectual Property   means: (i) patents, patent applications and statutory invention registrations;
(ii) trademarks, service marks, domain names, trade dress, logos, and other source identifiers, including registrations and applications for registration thereof; (iii) copyrights, including registrations and applications for registration
thereof; (iv) trade secrets; (v) moral rights; and (vi) any other industrial or proprietary rights similar to the foregoing.       Major
Subcontracts .   Major Subcontracts   means (i) all Subcontracts with compensation exceeding [  *  ]; (ii) those Subcontracts that include the performance of any of the following Services: (a) installation
or maintenance of high voltage electrical systems; fire and life safety systems; critical process control systems including without limitation building automation systems and critical equipment monitoring  

Confidential   
     
  61  

Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange
Commission.   

systems; utility systems; bulk and specialty gas storage, monitoring, and delivery systems; high purity systems; energy management of /ventilation/air
conditioning systems and refrigeration; (b) security guard services; (c) maintenance planning and administration; (d) capital projects; (f) engineering; (g) laundry; (h) pest control; (i) utilities;
(j) specialty maintenance research; or (k) instrument calibration; and (iii) any other Subcontracts or types of Subcontracts that Company may in the future designate as  Major Subcontracts.        Major Supply Contracts .   Major Supply Contracts   means (i) all Supply Contracts with compensation exceeding [*]; (ii) Supply Contracts
materially related to the Major Subcontracts and (iii) any other Supply Contracts or types of Supply Contracts that Company may in the future designate as  Major Supply Contracts.        Managed Contracts .   Managed Contracts   means any third party agreements to which Company or an Affiliate of Company is a party and for which
Provider assumes management responsibility in connection with the Services, including any agreements identified as  Managed Contracts  in  Exhibit A  (Description of Services) or an applicable Order.   Managed
Contracts   shall not include the Assigned Contracts.         Material Change .   Material Change   means any Change Request
or series of Change Requests that involves a change in the scope of Services in excess of US$200,000.00 in any calendar year.         Order Effective
Date .   Order Effective Date   means the date set forth in an Order for commencement of Services under such Order.       Personnel .
  Personnel   of a Party means such Party s directors, officers, employees, Subcontractors, Third Party Suppliers, consultants, representatives and agents, excluding the other Party, who contribute or who are dedicated to the
performance of such Party s obligations under this Agreement.       Provider Competitor .   Provider Competitor   means any of the
following entities and their respective Affiliates [*]       Provider Intellectual Property Rights .   Provider Intellectual Property
Rights   means any and all software and other Intellectual Property rights either (i) owned by or licensed to Provider and incorporated in or required to operate or utilize any Work Product which intellectual property is pre-existing on
the Effective Date or the Order Effective Date governing the development of such Work Product or (ii) developed by Provider after the Effective Date or the Order Effective Date provided that the development of such Provider Intellectual
Property Rights was not part of the Work Product performed pursuant to any Services to be performed under this Agreement or any Order issued pursuant to this Agreement.       Reimbursable Costs .   Reimbursable Costs   means those actual and necessary costs (excluding Non-Reimbursable Costs), all without any mark-up that (i) Company agrees to pay Provider in
accordance with the terms of this Agreement, and (ii) Provider reasonably and properly incurs in performing its obligations hereunder.       SAS 70 Gap
Period .   SAS 70 Gap Period   means the period of time between the issuance of a SAS 70 Type II Report by the service auditor and the date of the assessment by Company of the adequacy of Company s controls pursuant to the
Compliance Objectives.       SAS 70 Type II Report .   SAS 70 Type II Report   means a written opinion of a service auditor, issued in
accordance with and subject to the requirements of SAS 70, covering the Services, and addressing (i) whether Provider s description of its controls presents fairly, in all material respects, the relevant aspects of Provider s controls
that had been placed in operation as of a specified date, (ii) whether such controls were suitably designed to achieve the Control Objectives, and (iii) whether the controls that were tested were operating with sufficient effectiveness to
provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that the Control Objectives were achieved during the period specified; together with the service auditor s  

Confidential   
     
  62  

Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange
Commission.   

(a) description of the Control Objectives, (b) report on the operating effectiveness of the controls, and (c) description of the tests of the
operating effectiveness of the controls that may be relevant to specified assertions in Company s financial statements, and the results of those tests. The SAS 70 Type II Report will contain any additional information that may be required under
SAS 70 and will contain a paragraph stating that the SAS 70 Type II Report is intended to be used by customers of Provider and such customers  independent auditors.       Service Categories .   Services Categories   shall mean those specific kinds or types of Services to be performed by Provider or by its Subcontractors. The initial Services Categories are
identified in  Exhibit A  (Description of Services). The parties may add Services Categories by mutual written agreement.       Service Disruption .
  Service Disruption   means the occurrence of (i) a disruption of any of the Services caused by a Force Majeure Event, or (ii) any other material disruption of the Services.       Service Levels .   Service Levels   for a Service means the service metrics and key performance indicators for such Service set forth in  Exhibit
C  (Key Performance Indicators/Service Level Agreements) or the Order governing the performance of such Service, including the SLA Targets and KPI Targets.       Standard of Care .   Standard of Care   means (i) meeting the professional standards of diligence, care, timeliness, trust, dependability, safety, efficiency, economy and skill exercised by members of
Provider s profession in the United States with expertise in providing comparable first class services substantially similar in size, scope, cost and complexity to those to be provided hereunder, (ii) exercising such professional standards
by appropriate action or inaction during the Term and any Termination Assistance Period, and (iii) complying with all Applicable Laws.       Stranded
Costs .   Stranded Costs   means [  *  ].       Supplier .   Supplier   means a third party who has entered
into a Supply Contract.       Supply Contracts .   Supply Contracts   means third party trade and supply agreements that are required in
the prudent conduct of the reasonable and ordinary performance of the applicable Services.       Third Party Intellectual Property .   Third Party
Intellectual Property   means Intellectual Property licensed by Provider from third parties and used to provide the Services or incorporated in any Work Product.       Transitioned Contractors .   Transitioned Contractors   means Affected Contractors whose contractor agreements are either terminated or assigned pursuant to  Section 12.23(ii) .
      Transitioned Employees .   Transitioned Employees   means Affected Employees who either accept an offer of employment with Provider
or whose employment is transitioned to Provider pursuant to relevant ARD Laws (or the equivalent in countries outside of the EU) and become employed by Provider effective as of the start of business on the Effective Date or such other date as to
which the Parties mutually agree.       Transitioned Personnel .   Transitioned Personnel   means, collectively, Transitioned Employees and
Transitioned Contractors.       Work Product .   Work Product   means any and all work product, Deliverables, reports, data, developments,
inventions, ideas and discoveries, technology, including patentable and unpatentable inventions, test results, testing methods, materials, and Intellectual Property developed, discovered, improved, authored, derived, invented or acquired by, for, or
on behalf of Company in connection with or while performing Services, including improvements, variations, modifications, or derivative works to Intellectual Property. Innovations, practices, procedures, inventions, ideas, discoveries and technology
developed by Provider only in connection with the Services or for Company s account shall be exclusive Work Product of Company. Innovations, practices, procedures, inventions, ideas, discoveries and  

Confidential   
     
  63  

Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange
Commission.   

technology developed by Provider generally in connection with the Services and services provided to other customers of Provider shall not be exclusive Work
Product of Company. With respect to Provider Intellectual Property Rights, Work Product shall only include the licenses and rights provided for in this Agreement, and Company shall not be conveyed full ownership of such Provider Intellectual
Property Rights.      33.2  Other Defined Terms .       

Account Executive    
      
  Section 12.1   

Aggregate KPI Score    
      
  Exhibit C   

Aggregate SLA Score    
      
  Exhibit C   

Allocated MFAR Portion    
      
  Exhibit C   

Annual Budgets    
      
  Exhibit D   

Approved Equipment Lease Termination Fee    
      
  Section 13.3   

Approved Subcontract Termination Fee    
      
  Section 13.1   

Approved Supply Contract Termination Fee    
      
  Section 13.3   

ARD Affected Employees    
      
  Section 12.23(iv)   

Base Management Fee    
      
  Exhibit D   

BC Plan    
      
  Section 8.1   

Benchmark Category    
      
  Section 10.1   

Burden Rates    
      
  Exhibit D   

C.F.R.    
      
  Section 25.4   

Change    
      
  Section 5.1   

Change Request    
      
  Section 5.1   

Chemical Release    
      
  Exhibit L   

CIS    
      
  Section 24.6   

CMMS    
      
  Exhibit A   

Code    
      
  Section 11.9   

Company    
      
  Preamble   

Company Assets    
      
  Section 24.16   

Company Contractor Agreements    
      
  Section 12.23(ii)   

Company Emergency Change   
      
  Section 5.10   

Company Indemnified Parties   
      
  Section 29.1   

Company Provided Equipment   
      
  Section 31.1   

Company Substance Condition   
      
  Section 23.3 (iii)   

Control Objectives   
      
  Section 15.9   

Controllable Costs   
      
  Exhibit D   

Cost Baseline   
      
  Exhibit D   

[*]  
      
  Exhibit D   

[  *  ]  
      
  Exhibit D   

Critical Affected Personnel   
      
  Section 12.23(iii)   

Direct Provider Labor   
      
  Exhibit D   

Direct Provider Labor Allocation   
      
  Exhibit D   

Disqualifying Event   
      
  Exhibit C   

Due Diligence Information   
      
  Section 26.2(xv)   

Effective Date   
      
  Preamble   

Emergency   
      
  Exhibit D   

Emergency Change   
      
  Section 5.10   

FDA   
      
  Section 25.1   

Fiscal Quarter   
      
  Exhibit D   

Fiscal Year   
      
  Exhibit D   

Fiscal Year Prior to the Measurement Year   
      
  Exhibit D   

For Cause   
      
  Section 12.12   

Force Majeure Event   
      
  Section 28.2   

GAAP   
      
  Section 15.2   

HIPAA   
      
  Section 25.7   

Incentive Compensation   
      
  Exhibit D   

Confidential   
     
  65  

Note: Redacted portions have been marked with [*]. The redacted portions are subject to a request for confidential treatment that has been submitted to the Securities and Exchange
Commission.   

Incidental Expenses   
      
  Exhibit D   

Initial Term   
      
  Section 17.1   

Key Performance Indicators  or  KPIs   
      
  Exhibit C   

Key Provider Personnel   
      
  Section 12.11   

Key Transferred Employee   
      
  Section 12.23(iii)   

KPI Default   
      
  Exhibit C   

KPI Failure   
      
  Exhibit C   

KPI Multiplier   
      
  Exhibit C   

KPI Out-Performance Bonus   
      
  Exhibit D   

KPI Score   
      
  Exhibit C   

KPI Scorecard   
      
  Exhibit C   

KPI Table   
      
  Exhibit C   

KPI Target   
      
  Exhibit C   

Labor Disputes   
      
  Section 13.14   

Losses   
      
  Section 29.1   

Managed Costs   
      
  Exhibit D   

Managed Facility   
      
  Exhibit D   

Management Fee   
      
  Exhibit D   

Management Fee at Risk   
      
  Exhibit D   

Management Fee at Risk Earned   
      
  Exhibit C   

Measurement Period   
      
  Exhibit C   

Measurement Year   
      
  Exhibit D   

MFAR Amount at Risk   
      
  Exhibit C   

MFAR Amount Earned   
      
  Exhibit C   

Minimum Savings   
      
  Exhibit D   

MSDS   
      
  Exhibit L   

New Services   
      
  Section 2.3   

Non-Controllable Costs   
      
  Exhibit D   

Non-Reimbursable Costs   
      
  Exhibit D   

Notice of Election   
      
  Section 29.4(i)   

Operating Costs and Expenses   
      
  Exhibit D   

Operational Responsibility Matrix   
      
  Exhibit A   

Operations   
      
  Exhibit A   

Order   
      
  Section 2.3   

Order Effective Date   
      
  Exhibit K   

Outcomes   
      
  Exhibit A   

Party  or  Parties   
      
  Preamble   

Plan   
      
  Exhibit A   

PM   
      
  Exhibit L   

Policies and Procedures Guide   
      
  Section 12.4   

Potential Management Fee   
      
  Exhibit D   

Potential Management Fee Rate   
      
  Exhibit D   

Program Manager   
      
  Section 12.2   

Project Staff   
      
  Section 12.16   

Proposition 65   
      
  Section 23.3 (ii)   

Provider   
      
  Preamble   

Provider Emergency Change   
      
  Section 5.10   

Provider Equipment   
      
  Section 31.2   

Provider Indemnified Parties   
      
  Section 29.2   

Provider Provided Items   
      
  Section 29.1(vi)   

Provider Required Consents   
      
  Section 14.5   

Provider Senior Management   
      
  Exhibit D   

Provider s Shared Savings   
      
  Exhibit D   

Provider Substance Release   
      
  Section 23.3(iv)   

Provider T M Project Labor   
      
  Exhibit D   

Remediation Standard   
      
  Section 23.3(iv)   

Renewal Term   
      
  Section 17.1   

Resolution Period   
      
  Section 30.2   

Savings   
      
  Exhibit D   

Savings Initiative   
      
  Exhibit D   

Savings Performance Manager   
      
  Exhibit D   

Schedule   
      
  Section 16.2   

Services   
      
  Section 2.1   

Services Costs   
      
  Section 19.1   

Service Level Agreements  or  SLAs   
      
  Exhibit C   

Shared Savings   
      
  Exhibit D   

Shared Savings Multiplier   
      
  Exhibit D   

Shared Savings Threshold   
      
  Exhibit D   

Small Project Services   
      
  Exhibit A   

SLA Failure   
      
  Exhibit C   

SLA Scorecard   
      
  Exhibit C   

SLA Target   
      
  Exhibit C   

Staffing Action Plan   
      
  Section 12.14   

Staffing Notice   
      
  Section 12.14   

Step-In   
      
  Section 7.1   

Subcontract   
      
  Section 13.1   

Subcontractor   
      
  Section 13.1   

Taxes   
      
  Exhibit Q   

Technology Solutions   
      
  Exhibit A   

Term   
      
  Section 17.1   

Termination Assistance Period   
      
  Section 18.1   

Termination Assistance Services   
      
  Section 18.1   

Third Party Supplier  or  Third Party Suppliers   
      
  Section 12.20   

Three-Year Budget   
      
  Exhibit D   

Toxic Substances   
      
  Exhibit L   

Transferred Employees   
      
  Section 12.8   

Transition   
      
  Section 6.1   

Transition Costs   
      
  Exhibit D   

Transition Deliverables   
      
  Section 6.1(iii)   

Transition Manager   
      
  Section 6.5   

Transition Milestone   
      
  Section 6.1   

Transition Plan   
      
  Section 6.1   

Weighted Average Aggregate Annual KPI Score   
      
  Exhibit D   

Weighted KPI Period   
      
  Exhibit D   
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement has been executed by the Parties.       

AMGEN INC.   

JONES LANG LASALLE AMERICAS, INC.    

Signature:  
     
    /s/    F ABRIZIO  B ONANNI    

Signature:  
     
    /s/    B RIAN  P. H AKE     

By:  
     
  Fabrizio Bonanni  

By:  
     
  Brian P. Hake   

Title:  
     
  Executive Vice President, Operations  

Title:  
     
  Executive Vice President/ Chief Administrative Officer   
 
        Signature:   
     
    /s/    F ARRYN  M ELTON    

By:  
     
  Farryn Melton  

Title:  
     
  Vice President, Global Strategic Sourcing and Chief Procurement Officer  

</EX-10.72>

<EX-21>
 7
 dex21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE COMPANY

Subsidiaries of the Company 

Exhibit 21        AMGEN INC.        

SUBSIDIARY       (Name under which subsidiary does business)    
      
     STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION OF       INCORPORATION OR ORGANIZATION     
 
    Immunex Corporation   
      
  Washington   
 
    Amgen Manufacturing, Limited   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Amgen USA Inc.   
      
  Delaware   

</EX-21>

<EX-31>
 8
 dex31.htm
 RULE 13A-14(A) CERTIFICATIONS

Rule 13a-14(a) Certifications 

Exhibit 31        CERTIFICATIONS       I, Kevin W. Sharer, Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President of Amgen Inc.,
certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Amgen Inc.;         

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light
of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this annual report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this annual report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:         

(a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this annual report is being prepared;         

(b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;         

(c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this annual report based on such evaluation; and         

(d)  
  Disclosed in this annual report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
(the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and     

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

(a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

(b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

Date:  
     
  February 27, 2009  

/ S /     K EVIN  W.
S HARER                 

Kevin W. Sharer    

Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President    

CERTIFICATIONS       I, Robert A. Bradway, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Amgen Inc., certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Amgen Inc.;         

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light
of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this annual report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this annual report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:         

(a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this annual report is being prepared;         

(b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;         

(c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this annual report based on such evaluation; and         

(d)  
  Disclosed in this annual report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
(the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and     

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

(a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

(b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

Date:  
     
  February 27, 2009  

/ S /    R OBERT  A.
B RADWAY                 

Robert A. Bradway    

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer    

</EX-31>

<EX-32>
 9
 dex32.htm
 SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATIONS

Section 1350 Certifications 

Exhibit 32        Certification of Chief Executive Officer       Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as created by Section
906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the undersigned officer of Amgen Inc. (the  Company ) hereby certifies that:       

(i)  
  the accompanying Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the period ended December 31, 2008 (the  Report ) fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or
Section 15(d), as applicable, of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and         

(ii)  
  information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.         

Dated:  
     
  February 27, 2009  

/ S /    K EVIN  W.
S HARER                 

Kevin W. Sharer    

Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President    
    A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002 ( Section 906 ), or other document authenticating, acknowledging, or otherwise adopting the signature that appears in typed form within the electronic version of this written statement required by Section 906, has been provided to
Amgen Inc. and will be retained by Amgen Inc. and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.   

Certification of Chief Financial Officer       Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as created by Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the undersigned officer of Amgen Inc. (the
 Company ) hereby certifies that:       

(i)  
  the accompanying Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the period ended December 31, 2008 (the  Report ) fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or
Section 15(d), as applicable, of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and         

(ii)  
  information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.         

Dated:  
     
  February 27, 2009  

/ S /    R OBERT  A.
B RADWAY                 

Robert A. Bradway    

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer    
    A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002 ( Section 906 ), or other document authenticating, acknowledging, or otherwise adopting the signature that appears in typed form within the electronic version of this written statement required by Section 906, has been provided to
Amgen Inc. and will be retained by Amgen Inc. and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.   

</EX-32>

