<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20110225_10-K_edgar_data_318154_0000950123-11-018800_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>17782977</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>570720</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>3166872</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1109805</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>4335419</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>8221794</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>79</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>9</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950123-11-018800.hdr.sgml : 20110225
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20110225163848
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950123-11-018800
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		12
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20101231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20110225
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20110225

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			AMGEN INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000318154
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS (NO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES) [2836]
		IRS NUMBER:				953540776
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-12477
		FILM NUMBER:		11641570

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE AMGEN CENTER DRIVE
		STREET 2:		MAIL STOP 24-1-B
		CITY:			THOUSAND OAKS
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			91320-1799
		BUSINESS PHONE:		(805)313-1762

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE AMGEN CENTER DRIVE
		STREET 2:		MAIL STOP 24-1-B
		CITY:			THOUSAND OAKS
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			91320-1799

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	AMGEN
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19870305

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 Rt+POxQWEhhAzYBLnSMMQ6auu/w3S2tXKTZbLzRptkw47qWrIuIMLXVQl74LzceN
 JT2TN+hs+MsDyY2a08VZkw==

 0000950123-11-018800.txt : 20110225

10-K
 1
 v57113e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES  

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
    COMMISSION  

Washington, D.C. 20549 

Form 10-K   

Commission file number
     000-12477   

Amgen Inc.  

(Exact name of registrant as
    specified in its charter)

Delaware 

95-3540776 

(State or other jurisdiction of 
    incorporation or organization)

(I.R.S. Employer 
    Identification No.)

One Amgen Center Drive, 
    Thousand Oaks, California 
     (Address of principal executive offices)

91320-1799 
     (Zip Code)

(805) 447-1000   

(Registrant s telephone
    number, including area code)

Securities registered pursuant
    to Section 12(b) of the Act:  

Title of Each Class 

Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered 

Common stock, $0.0001 par value

The NASDAQ Global Select Market

Securities registered pursuant
    to Section 12(g) of the Act: None  

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
    seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
    Act. Yes     No   

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
    reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
    Act. Yes     No   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
    all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or
    Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
    the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that
    the registrant was required to file such reports), and
    (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
    past
    90 days. Yes     No   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted
    electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any,
    every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted
    pursuant to Rule 405 of
     Regulation S-T 
    (  232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding
    12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
    was required to submit and post such
    files). Yes     No   

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
    pursuant to Item 405 of
     Regulation S-K 
    is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
    of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
    information statements incorporated by reference in
    Part III of this
     Form 10-K 
    or any amendment to this
     Form 10-K.    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
    accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated
    filer, or a smaller reporting company. See definitions of
     large accelerated filer,   accelerated
    filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule
     12b-2  of the
    Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large accelerated
    filer      Accelerated
    filer       Non-accelerated 
    filer      Smaller
    reporting
    company    

(Do not check if a smaller
    reporting company)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
    (as defined in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the
    Act) Yes     No   

The approximate aggregate market value of voting and non-voting
    stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant was
    $50,355,022,164 as of June 30, 2010(A)

(A)

Excludes 1,085,011 shares of
    common stock held by directors and officers, and any
    stockholders whose ownership exceeds five percent of the shares
    outstanding, at June 30, 2010. Exclusion of shares held by
    any person should not be construed to indicate that such person
    possesses the power, directly or indirectly, to direct or cause
    the direction of the management or policies of the registrant,
    or that such person is controlled by or under common control
    with the registrant.

932,452,902  

(Number of shares of common stock
    outstanding as of February 11, 2011)

DOCUMENTS
    INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  

Specified portions of the registrant s Proxy Statement with
    respect to the 2011 Annual Meeting of stockholders to be held
    May 20, 2011 are incorporated by reference into
    Part III of this annual report.

INDEX  

Page No. 

PART I  

1  

Item 1. 

BUSINESS 

1

Overview 

1

Significant Developments 

2

Marketed Products 

3

Marketing and Distribution 

17

Reimbursement 

18

Manufacturing, Distribution and Raw Materials 

24

Business Relationships 

27

Government Regulation 

29

Research and Development and Selected Product
    Candidates 

33

Human Resources 

39

Executive Officers of the Registrant 

39

Geographic Area Financial Information 

40

Investor Information 

40

Item 1A. 

RISK FACTORS 

41

Item 1B. 

UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 

59

Item 2. 

PROPERTIES 

60

Item 3. 

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 

61

Item 4. 

RESERVED 

61

PART II  

62 

Item 5. 

MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY,
    RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY
    SECURITIES 

62

Item 6. 

SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 

65

Item 7. 

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
    FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

68

Item 7A. 

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT
    MARKET RISK 

85

Item 8. 

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 

87

Item 9. 

CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
    ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES 

87

Item 9A. 

CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 

87

Item 9B. 

OTHER INFORMATION 

90

PART III  

90  

Item 10. 

DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE
    GOVERNANCE OF THE REGISTRANT 

90

Item 11. 

EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 

90

Item 12. 

SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS
    AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 

91

Item 13. 

CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
    AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 

93

Item 14. 

PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES 

93

PART IV  

94 

Item 15. 

EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT
    SCHEDULES 

94

SIGNATURES 

102

EX-21    
     EX-31    
     EX-32    
     EX-101 INSTANCE DOCUMENT    
     EX-101 SCHEMA DOCUMENT    
     EX-101 CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT    
     EX-101 LABELS LINKBASE DOCUMENT    
     EX-101 PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT    
     EX-101 DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT    

i

Table of Contents   

PART I   

Item 1.  

BUSINESS  

Overview   

Amgen Inc. (including its subsidiaries, referred to as
     Amgen,   the Company,   we, 
     our  or  us ) is the world s largest
    independent biotechnology medicines company. We discover,
    develop, manufacture and market medicines for grievous
    illnesses. We focus solely on human therapeutics and concentrate
    on innovating novel medicines based on advances in cellular and
    molecular biology. Our mission is to serve patients.

We were incorporated in 1980 and organized as a Delaware
    corporation in 1987. Our public website is www.amgen.com. On our
    website, investors can find press releases, financial filings
    and other information about the Company. The
    U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC )
    website, www.sec.gov, also offers access to reports and
    documents we have electronically filed with or furnished to the
    SEC. These website addresses are not intended to function as
    hyperlinks, and the information contained in our website and in
    the SEC s website is not intended to be a part of this
    filing.

As of December 31, 2010, we had 17,400 staff members
    worldwide. Approximately 6,700 of our staff members work in our
    research and development ( R D ) function,
    approximately 4,600 work in manufacturing, approximately 4,200
    work in our commercial operations and the rest are in general
    and administrative functions.

Currently, we market primarily recombinant protein therapeutics
    in supportive cancer care, nephrology and inflammation. Our
    principal products are:
    Aranesp   

    (darbepoetin alfa) and
    EPOGEN   

    (Epoetin alfa), erythropoiesis-stimulating agents
    ( ESAs ) that stimulate the production of red blood
    cells;
    Neulasta   

    (pegfilgrastim), a pegylated protein, based on the Filgrastim
    molecule, and
    NEUPOGEN   

    (Filgrastim), a recombinant-methionyl human granulocyte
    colony-stimulating factor ( G-CSF ), both of which
    selectively stimulate the production of neutrophils (a type of
    white blood cell that helps the body fight infection); and
    Enbrel   

    (etanercept), an inhibitor of tumor necrosis factor
    ( TNF ), a substance that plays a role in the
    body s response to inflammatory diseases. Our principal
    products represented 91%, 93% and 94% of our sales in 2010, 2009
    and 2008, respectively. Our other marketed products include:
    Sensipar   /Mimpara   

    (cinacalcet), a small molecule calcimimetic that lowers serum
    calcium levels;
    Vectibix   

    (panitumumab), a monoclonal antibody that binds specifically to
    the epidermal growth factor receptor ( EGFr  and
    Nplate   

    (romiplostim), a thrombopoietin ( TPO ) receptor
    agonist that mimics endogenous TPO, the primary driver of
    platelet production. In addition, in 2010 we launched
    Prolia   

    (denosumab) and
    XGEVA  tm  

    (denosumab) both of which contain the same active ingredient but
    which are approved for different indications, patient
    populations, doses and frequencies of administration. Denosumab
    is a fully human monoclonal antibody that specifically targets
    RANKL, an essential regulator of osteoclasts (the cells that
    break down bone).

We maintain sales and marketing forces primarily in the United
    States, Europe and Canada. We have also entered into agreements
    with third parties to assist in the commercialization and
    marketing of certain of our products in specified geographic
    areas. (See Business Relationships.) Together with our partners,
    we market our products to healthcare providers, including
    physicians or their clinics, dialysis centers, hospitals and
    pharmacies. Most patients receiving our principal products for
    approved indications are covered by either government or private
    payer healthcare programs, which influence demand. The
    reimbursement environment continues to evolve with greater
    emphasis on both cost containment and demonstration of the
    economic value of products.

In addition to our marketed products, we have various product
    candidates in
     mid-to-late 
    stage development in a variety of therapeutic areas, including
    oncology, hematology, inflammation, bone, nephrology,
    cardiovascular and general medicine, which includes neurology.
    Our R D organization has expertise in multiple treatment
    modalities, including large molecules (such as proteins,
    antibodies and peptibodies) and small molecules.

Our manufacturing operations consist of bulk manufacturing,
    formulation, fill and finish and distribution activities for all
    of our principal products as well as most of our product
    candidates. We operate commercial
     and/or 
    clinical manufacturing facilities in the United States, Puerto
    Rico and the Netherlands. (See Item 2. Properties.)

1

Table of Contents   

Drug development in our industry is complex, challenging and
    risky; and failure rates are high. Product development cycles
    are very long   approximately 10 to 15 years from
    discovery to market. A new medicine must undergo many years of
    preclinical and clinical testing to establish its safety and
    efficacy for use in humans at appropriate dosing levels and with
    an acceptable benefit-risk profile. Biological products, which
    are produced in living systems, are inherently complex due to
    naturally occurring molecular variations. Highly specialized
    knowledge and extensive process and product characterization are
    required to transform laboratory-scale processes into
    reproducible commercial manufacturing processes. Upon approval,
    marketed products in our industry generally face substantial
    competition.

Our industry is also highly regulated, and various U.S. and
    foreign regulatory bodies have substantial authority over how we
    conduct our business. Government authorities in the United
    States and other countries regulate the manufacturing and
    marketing of our products as well as our ongoing R D
    activities. In recent years, regulators have placed a greater
    scrutiny on drug safety. This has led to, and may in the future
    lead to: fewer products being approved by the U.S. Food and
    Drug Administration ( FDA ) or other regulatory
    bodies; delays in receiving approvals; additional safety-related
    requirements; restrictions on the use of products, including
    expanded safety labeling, or required risk management activities.

Significant
    Developments   

Following is a summary of significant developments that occurred
    in 2010 and early 2011 affecting our business. A more detailed
    discussion of each development follows in the appropriate
    section.

Denosumab  

The FDA approved
    Prolia   

    for the treatment of postmenopausal women with osteoporosis at a
    high risk of fracture.

The European Commission ( EC ) granted marketing
    authorization for
    Prolia   

    for the treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women at
    increased risk of fractures and for the treatment of bone loss
    associated with hormone ablation in men with prostate cancer at
    increased risk of fractures.

The FDA approved
    XGEVA  tm  

    for the prevention of skeletal related events ( SREs )
    in patients with bone metastases from solid tumors.
    XGEVA  tm  

    is not indicated for the prevention of SREs in patients with
    multiple myeloma.

We submitted a marketing authorization application to the
    European Medicines Agency ( EMA ) for denosumab for
    the reduction of SREs in cancer patients.

We announced that a phase 3 trial evaluating
    XGEVA  tm  

    versus placebo in men with castrate-resistant prostate cancer
    met its primary endpoint by significantly improving bone
    metastasis-free survival. This study will form the basis of
    planned marketing applications, which we expect to submit to
    regulatory authorities beginning in the first half of 2011, for
    the prevention of bone metastases in prostate cancer.

Healthcare
    Reform  

A new healthcare reform law was enacted in the United States
    that, among other provisions, imposes additional costs on the
    biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries and authorizes the
    FDA to approve biosimilars.

ESAs  

The Centers for Medicare   Medicaid Services
    ( CMS ) released its Final Rule on Bundling in
    Dialysis, effective January 1, 2011, which provides a
    single payment for all dialysis services, including drugs that
    were previously reimbursed separately (except for oral drugs
    without intravenous equivalents for which the bundling rules
    have been postponed).

2

Table of Contents   

CMS engaged in a number of activities to examine the use of ESAs
    in certain patients with kidney disease, including holding a
    March 2010 meeting of the Medicare Evidence
    Development   Coverage Advisory Committee
    ( MEDCAC ), opening a National Coverage Analysis
    ( NCA ) in June 2010 to examine the use of ESAs to
    manage anemia in patients with chronic kidney disease
    ( CKD ) and dialysis-related anemia as well as holding
    another MEDCAC meeting in January 2011 to review the impact of
    ESA use on renal transplant graft survival.

We announced that the FDA approved a risk evaluation and
    mitigation strategy ( REMS ) for ESAs that requires,
    among other elements, that healthcare providers and institutions
    who prescribe ESAs to patients with cancer receive additional
    training and document their risk discussions with their cancer
    patients prior to initiating a new course of ESA therapy.
    Healthcare providers and institutions who fail to comply with
    the REMS program requirements, including enrolling in the ESA
    REMS program and meeting ongoing compliance obligations, will
    have their access to ESAs suspended. Beginning February 16,
    2011, we must ensure that our distributors do not ship ESAs to
    any healthcare provider or institution until such provider or
    institution has enrolled in the ESA APPRISE (Assisting Providers
    and cancer Patients with Risk Information for the Safe use of
    ESAs) Oncology Program.

We are working with the FDA to determine the appropriate use of
    ESAs in CKD patients and to determine any future ESA labeling
    changes required in connection with our Trial to Reduce
    Cardiovascular Events with
    Aranesp   

    Therapy ( TREAT ) study or the October 2010
    Cardiovascular and Renal Drug Advisory Committee
    ( CRDAC ) meeting.

Vectibix     

We submitted our application to the EMA for marketing
    authorization for the use of
    Vectibix   

    in first- and second-line treatment of metastatic colorectal
    cancer ( mCRC ) in patients whose tumors contain
    wild-type  KRAS  genes.

We filed supplemental Biologics License Application
    ( BLA ) submissions with the FDA for first- and
    second-line mCRC.

We announced that a phase 3 trial evaluating
    Vectibix   

    as a first-line treatment in patients with recurrent
     and/or 
    metastatic squamous cell head and neck cancer failed to meet its
    primary endpoint.

Other
    Developments  

We initiated a phase 3 study in recurrent ovarian cancer for AMG
    386.

We announced plans to begin a phase 3 study in first-line
    metastatic pancreatic cancer for ganitumab (AMG 479).

We announced that we anticipate data for a phase 3 motesanib
    study for advanced non small cell lung cancer
    ( NSCLC ) in the first half of 2011.

We recently announced an agreement to acquire BioVex Group, Inc.
    ( BioVex ). BioVex is a privately held biotechnology
    company developing treatments for cancer and the prevention of
    infectious disease, including
    OncoVEX GM-CSF ,

    a novel oncology vaccine in phase 3 trials for the treatment of
    melanoma and head and neck cancer. The acquisition, which is
    subject to customary closing conditions, is expected to close
    during the three months ended March 31, 2011.

Marketed
    Products   

We market our principal products,
    Aranesp   ,

    EPOGEN   ,

    Neulasta   ,

    NEUPOGEN   

    and ENBREL in supportive cancer care, nephrology and
    inflammation. Certain of our marketed products face, and our
    product candidates, if approved, are also expected to face,
    substantial competition, including from products marketed by
    large pharmaceutical corporations, which may have greater
    clinical, research, regulatory, manufacturing, marketing,
    financial and human resources than we do. Our products 
    competitive position among other biological and

3

Table of Contents   

pharmaceutical products may be based on, among other things,
    safety, efficacy, reliability, availability, patient
    convenience/delivery devices, price, reimbursement and patent
    position and expirations.

Over the next several years, the existing patents on our
    principal products will begin to expire, and we expect to face
    increasing competition thereafter, including from biosimilar
    products. A  biosimilar  product is a follow-on
    version of another biological product for which marketing
    approval is sought or has been obtained based on a demonstration
    that it is  highly similar  to the original reference
    product. This demonstration will typically consist of
    comparative analytical, preclinical and clinical data from the
    biosimilar product to show that it has similar safety and
    efficacy as the reference product. The 2010 U.S. healthcare
    reform legislation authorized the FDA to approve biosimilar
    products under a new, abbreviated pathway. Consequently, we
    expect to face greater competition, including from manufacturers
    with biosimilar products approved in Europe that may seek to
    quickly obtain U.S. approval, subject to our ability to
    enforce our patents. In the European Union ( EU ), we
    are already facing increasing competition from biosimilars given
    an established regulatory pathway for biosimilars in the EU.

Further, the introduction of new products or the development of
    new processes or technologies by competitors or new information
    about existing products may result in increased competition for
    our marketed products, even for those protected by patents, or
    in a reduction of price that we receive from selling our
    products. In addition, the development of new treatment options
    or standards of care may reduce the use of our products,
    particularly in supportive cancer care, or may limit the utility
    and application of ongoing clinical trials for our product
    candidates.

In addition to the challenges presented by competition, our
    existing products and product candidates are also subject to
    increasing regulatory compliance requirements that could be
    imposed as conditions of approval or after a product has been
    approved. This is increasingly true of new therapies with novel
    mechanisms of action. While such therapies may offer important
    benefits
     and/or 
    better treatment alternatives, they may also involve relatively
    new or higher levels of scientific complexity and may therefore
    generate increased safety concerns. As a condition of approval
    or due to safety concerns after a product has been approved, we
    may be required to perform additional clinical trials or
    studies. A postmarketing requirement ( PMR ) is a
    trial or study that a sponsor company is required by statute or
    regulation to conduct. A postmarketing commitment
    ( PMC ) is a trial or study that a sponsor company
    agrees to in writing, but is not required by law, to conduct. We
    currently have PMRs or PMCs for a number of our marketed
    products. In addition, we may be required to implement risk
    management plans for our products in the various regions in
    which they are approved. For example, in 2008 the FDA began
    requiring REMS for various approved products to ensure that the
    benefits of the drugs outweigh the risks. A REMS may also be
    imposed as a condition of approval or after a product has been
    on the market. A REMS may include a medication guide or a
    patient package insert, a healthcare provider communication plan
    or elements to assure safe use that the FDA deems necessary.
    While the elements of REMS may vary, all REMS require the
    sponsor company to submit periodic assessment reports to the FDA
    to demonstrate that the goals of the REMS are being met. The FDA
    evaluates such assessments and may require additional
    modifications to the REMS elements. REMS may also be modified as
    the FDA and companies gain more experience with REMS and how
    they are implemented, operated and monitored. We currently have
    REMS for a number of our marketed products. (See discussion on
    PMRs, PMCs and REMS in Government Regulation.)

ESAs  

Aranesp   

    and
    EPOGEN   

    are our registered trademarks for darbepoetin alfa and Epoetin
    alfa, respectively, both of which are ESAs, proteins that
    stimulate red blood cell production. Red blood cells transport
    oxygen to all cells of the body. Without adequate amounts of
    erythropoietin, the red blood cell count is reduced. A deficient
    red blood cell count can result in anemia, a condition in which
    insufficient oxygen is delivered to the body s organs and
    tissues. Anemia can be associated with chronic renal failure
    ( CRF ) in patients either on or not on dialysis.
    Individuals with CRF suffer from anemia because they do not
    produce sufficient amounts of erythropoietin, which is normally
    produced in healthy kidneys. Anemia can also result from
    chemotherapy treatments for patients with non-myeloid
    malignancies.

ESA products, including ours, have faced and continue to face
    challenges. For example, based on adverse safety results
    observed beginning in late 2006 in various ESA studies,
    performed by us and by others, that explored

4

Table of Contents   

the use of ESAs in settings different from those outlined in the
    FDA approved label, the product labeling of our ESA products in
    the United States and the EU has been updated several times to
    reflect those safety concerns. In addition, due in part to
    certain of these developments, reimbursement of our ESA products
    in the United States was also revised resulting in changes in
    the way ESAs are used in clinical practice, including by
    decreasing the number of treated patients, average dose and
    duration of ESA therapy. Certain of these developments have had
    a material adverse impact on sales of our ESA products, in
    particular
    Aranesp   

    sales in the U.S. supportive cancer care setting,
    reflecting an overall decline in the segment.

Further, we believe that the following recent and pending
    developments could also have a material adverse impact on future
    sales of
    Aranesp   

     and/or 
    EPOGEN   :

On January 1, 2011, the Final Rule on Bundling in Dialysis
    became effective which provides a single payment for all
    dialysis services, including drugs, supplies, and non-routine
    laboratory tests that were previously reimbursed separately.
    Under the Final Rule, dialysis providers were given the choice
    of opting into the new bundled payment system in its entirety on
    January 1, 2011, or phasing in over time. Substantially all
    dialysis providers in the United States have opted into the
    bundled payment system in its entirety. We expect the bundled
    payment system to decrease dose utilization of
    EPOGEN   

    and that this decrease will have a material adverse impact on
    our
    EPOGEN   

    sales.

On March 24, 2010, CMS held a MEDCAC meeting to examine the
    currently available evidence on the use of ESAs to manage anemia
    in patients who have CKD. Although there was no clear outcome
    from the MEDCAC meeting, on June 16, 2010, CMS opened an
    NCA to examine the use of ESAs to manage anemia in patients with
    CKD and dialysis-related anemia, which is generally CMS s
    first step toward developing a National Coverage Determination
    ( NCD ). Generally, an NCD is a national policy
    statement granting, limiting or excluding Medicare coverage or
    reimbursement for a specific medical item or service. Medicare
    currently does not have an NCD for the use of ESAs for anemia in
    patients who have CKD but has historically reimbursed for the
    use of ESAs in this setting. CMS has stated that the NCA process
    for ESAs will conclude on or before June 16, 2011, but CMS
    could propose an NCD at any time prior to that deadline. In
    addition, on January 19, 2011, CMS held another MEDCAC
    meeting, this time to review the available evidence on the
    impact of ESA use on renal transplant graft survival.

On February 16, 2010, Amgen and Centocor Ortho Biotech
    Products, L.P. ( Centocor ), a subsidiary of
    Johnson   Johnson ( J J ), announced
    that the FDA had approved a REMS for ESAs which includes
    Aranesp   ,

    EPOGEN   

    and
    PROCRIT   

    (Epoetin alfa), a product marketed by J J. In order to
    ensure continued access to ESAs for healthcare providers and
    institutions who prescribe ESAs to patients with cancer,
    healthcare providers and institutions are required to train and
    enroll in the ESA APPRISE Oncology Program. Enrolled healthcare
    providers and institutions are required to document that a
    discussion about the risks of ESAs took place with each patient
    prior to the initiation of each new course of ESA therapy.
    Beginning February 16, 2011, we must ensure that our
    distributors do not ship ESAs to any healthcare provider or
    institution until such provider or institution is enrolled in
    the APPRISE program. We are responsible for tracking and
    documenting certain elements of healthcare provider and
    institution compliance with the REMS and for providing the FDA
    with periodic assessment reports to demonstrate that the goals
    of the REMS are being met. Healthcare providers and institutions
    that fail to comply with the APPRISE program requirements will
    have their access to ESAs suspended. Direct patient registration
    or approval prior to ESA administration is not required through
    the ESA APPRISE Oncology Program. As required, we will work with
    the FDA if it is determined any modifications to the REMS are
    needed based on the REMS assessments we submit.

On October 18, 2010, the FDA held a CRDAC meeting to review
    results from the TREAT study conducted in CRF patients not on
    dialysis with type-2 diabetes and moderate anemia, and how those
    results inform the appropriate use of ESAs in patients with CKD.
    Prior to the CRDAC meeting, we submitted for the FDA s
    review proposed labeling changes regarding the use of ESAs in
    CRF patients not on dialysis that would limit treatment to
    patients who are most likely to benefit, specifically those with
    significant anemia (hemoglobin ( Hb ) levels  10
    grams per deciliter ( g/dL )), and who are at high
    risk for transfusion and for whom

5

Table of Contents   

transfusion avoidance is considered clinically important,
    including those in whom it is important to preserve kidney
    transplant eligibility. In addition to narrowing the patient
    population, we are proposing a more conservative dosing
    algorithm in those patients. We are working with the FDA to
    determine the appropriate use of ESAs in CKD patients and to
    determine any future ESA labeling changes required in connection
    with TREAT or the CRDAC meeting.

We are working with the FDA to make ESA product package insert
    changes associated with the Physician s Labeling Rule
    ( PLR ) conversion process. During the process of
    converting from the existing format to the new PLR format, the
    FDA and Amgen are evaluating the package insert information to
    ensure that it accurately reflects current knowledge and may
    revise, add to or remove information appearing in the old format
    that could substantively impact the content of the product
    package insert.

In addition to the above, following the FDA s Oncologic
    Drugs Advisory Committee ( ODAC ) meeting in May 2004,
    we proposed a pharmacovigilance program for
    Aranesp   

    comprised of five studies to explore the use of ESAs in settings
    different from those outlined in the FDA approved label. The
    studies were subsequently designated by the FDA as PMCs. Of the
    five studies, one was sponsored by Amgen while the other four
    were investigator-sponsored. Results of certain of those studies
    contributed to safety-related product labeling changes for our
    ESA products and changes in reimbursement, as noted above. Of
    the five studies, three are complete with final results of the
    remaining studies expected in 2011. In addition, Johnson and
    Johnson Pharmaceutical Research   Development
    ( J JPRD ), a subsidiary of J J,
     and/or  its
    investigators have conducted numerous studies proposed at the
    2004 ODAC meeting. All of these studies are closed to enrollment
    and summary results were submitted to the FDA.

Based on our discussions with the FDA in response to the May
    2007 ODAC meeting, we and J JPRD have carefully considered
    potential new study designs to determine the effects of ESAs on
    survival and tumor outcomes in anemic patients with metastatic
    cancer receiving concomitant myelosuppressive chemotherapy.
    Based on those discussions, we have initiated a randomized,
    double-blind, placebo-controlled, phase 3 non-inferiority study
    evaluating overall survival when comparing advanced NSCLC
    patients on
    Aranesp   

    to patients receiving placebo ( Study 782 ) as
    part of our
    Aranesp   

    pharmacovigilance program. In addition, J JPRD s
    EPO-ANE-3010 study in breast cancer is also ongoing. Both
    studies are designated by the FDA as PMR clinical trials.

Adverse events or results of any of these studies could further
    affect product safety labeling, healthcare provider prescribing
    behavior, regulatory or private healthcare organization medical
    guidelines
     and/or 
    reimbursement practices related to
    Aranesp   .

Aranesp   

    (darbepoetin alfa)  

We were granted an exclusive license by
     Kirin-Amgen, 
    Inc. ( KA ), a joint venture between Kirin Holdings
    Company, Limited ( Kirin ) and Amgen (see Business
    Relationships   Kirin Holdings Company, Limited), to
    manufacture and market
    Aranesp   

    in the United States, all European countries, Canada, Australia,
    New Zealand, Mexico, all Central and South American countries
    and certain countries in Central Asia, Africa and the Middle
    East.

We market
    Aranesp   

    primarily in the United States and Europe.
    Aranesp   

    was launched in 2001 in the United States and Europe for
    the treatment of anemia associated with CRF (both in patients on
    dialysis and patients not on dialysis) and is also indicated for
    the treatment of anemia due to concomitant chemotherapy in
    patients with non-myeloid malignancies.

Worldwide
    Aranesp   

    sales for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008
    were $2.5 billion, $2.7 billion and
    $3.14 billion, respectively. For the years ended
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    U.S. Aranesp   

    sales were $1.1 billion, $1.3 billion and
    $1.65 billion, respectively, and international
    Aranesp   

    sales were $1.4 billion, $1.4 billion and
    $1.49 billion, respectively.

6

Table of Contents   

Our outstanding material patents for darbepoetin alfa are
    described in the following table.

Territory 

General Subject Matter 

Expiration 

U.S. 

Glycosylation analogs of erythropoietin proteins

5/15/2024

Europe (1) 

Glycosylation analogs of erythropoietin proteins

8/16/2014

(1)  

In some cases, this European patent may also be entitled to
    supplemental protection in one or more countries in Europe and
    the length of any such extension will vary by country. 

Our principal European patent relating to Epoetin alfa expired
    in December 2004. Although we do not market
    EPOGEN   

    in Europe, upon expiration of this patent, some companies
    received approval to market products, including biosimilars,
    that compete with
    Aranesp   

    in Europe, as further discussed below.

Any products or technologies that are directly or indirectly
    successful in addressing anemia associated with chemotherapy
     and/or  renal
    failure negatively impact
    Aranesp   

    sales. In the United States,
    Aranesp   

    competes with
    EPOGEN   ,

    primarily in the U.S. hospital dialysis clinic setting. The
    following table reflects companies and their currently marketed
    products that compete with
    Aranesp   

    in the United States and Europe in the supportive cancer care
    and nephrology segments, unless otherwise indicated. The table
    and the following discussion of competitor marketed products and
    products in development may not be exhaustive.

Territory 

Competitor Marketed Product 

Competitor 

U.S. 

PROCRIT    (1) 

Centocor (2) 

Europe

EPREX   /ERYPO   

Janssen-Cilag (2) 

Europe

NeoRecormon   

F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd. ( Roche )

Europe

Retacrit  tm(3)  /Silapo    (3) 

Hospira Inc.. ( Hospira )/Stada Arzneimittel AG

Europe

Binocrit    (3) /Epoetin

    alfa
    Hexal    (3) / 

    Abseamed    (3) 

Sandoz GmbH ( Sandoz )/Hexal Biotech Forschungs GmbH
    ( Hexal )/Medice Arzneimittel P tter GmbH  
    Company KG

Europe

MIRCERA    (4) 

Roche

Europe

Eporatio   /Biopoin   

ratiopharm GmbH
    ( ratiopharm ) (5) /CT

    Arztneimittel GmbH ( CT Arztneimittel )

(1)  

Aranesp   

    competes with
    PROCRIT   

    in the supportive cancer care and pre-dialysis settings. 

(2)  

A subsidiary of J J. 

(3)  

Biosimilar product. 

(4)  

Competes with
    Aranesp   

    in the nephrology segment only. Pursuant to a December 2009
    settlement agreement between Amgen and Roche, Roche is allowed
    to begin selling
    MIRCERA   

    in the United States in mid-2014 under terms of a limited
    license agreement.
    MIRCERA   

    has been approved by the FDA for the treatment of anemia
    associated with CRF. 

(5)  

A subsidiary of Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. ( Teva
    Pharmaceutical ). 

In addition to competition from these marketed products, the
    following products in development could compete with
    Aranesp   

    in the future:

Affymax Inc. and Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited
    ( Takeda ) are co-developing peginesatide, an ESA for
    the treatment of anemia in CRF patients on dialysis and they
    have announced plans to file for regulatory approval in the
    United States in the second quarter of 2011.

Reliance Life Sciences Pvt. Ltd. ( Reliance Life
    Sciences ) has an epoetin biosimiliar (Epostim) that they
    filed for regulatory approval for in Europe.

7

Table of Contents   

EPOGEN   

    (Epoetin alfa)  

We were granted an exclusive license to manufacture and market
    EPOGEN   

    in the United States under a licensing agreement with KA. We
    have retained exclusive rights to market
    EPOGEN   

    in the United States for dialysis patients. We granted Ortho
    Pharmaceutical Corporation, a subsidiary of J J (which has
    assigned its rights under the Product License Agreement to
    Centocor), a license to commercialize recombinant human
    erythropoietin as a human therapeutic in the United States in
    all indications other than dialysis. (See Business
    Relationships   Johnson   Johnson.)

We launched
    EPOGEN   

    in the United States in 1989 for the treatment of anemia
    associated with CRF in patients who are on dialysis. We market
    EPOGEN   

    in the United States for the treatment of anemic adult and
    pediatric patients with CRF who are on dialysis.
    EPOGEN   

    is indicated for elevating or maintaining the red blood cell
    level (as determined by hematocrit or Hb measurements) and
    decreasing the need for blood transfusions in these patients.

EPOGEN   

    sales in the United States for the years ended December 31,
    2010, 2009 and 2008 were $2.5 billion, $2.6 billion
    and $2.5 billion, respectively.

Our outstanding material patents for Epoetin alfa are described
    in the following table.

Any products or technologies that are directly or indirectly
    successful in addressing anemia associated with renal failure
    negatively impact
    EPOGEN   

    sales. In the United States, as noted above,
    EPOGEN   

    and
    Aranesp   

    compete with each other, primarily in the U.S. hospital
    dialysis clinic setting. In addition,
    EPOGEN   

    could face additional competition from those products in
    development noted in the
    Aranesp   

    section above that may be used in dialysis in the United States.

Neulasta   

    (pegfilgrastim)/NEUPOGEN   

    (Filgrastim)  

We were granted an exclusive license to manufacture and market
    Neulasta   

    and
    NEUPOGEN   

    in the United States, Europe, Canada, Australia and New
    Zealand under a licensing agreement with KA. (See Business
    Relationships   Kirin Holdings Company, Limited.)

Neulasta   

    and
    NEUPOGEN   

    stimulate production of certain white blood cells known as
    neutrophils. Neutrophils defend against infection. Treatments
    for various diseases and diseases themselves can result in
    extremely low numbers of neutrophils, a condition called
    neutropenia. Myelosuppressive chemotherapy, one treatment option
    for individuals with certain types of cancers, targets cell
    types that grow rapidly, such as tumor cells. Normal cells that
    divide rapidly, such as those in the bone marrow that become
    neutrophils, are also vulnerable to the cytotoxic effects of
    myelosuppressive chemotherapy, resulting in neutropenia with an
    increased risk of severe infection.
    NEUPOGEN   

    is our registered trademark for Filgrastim, our
    recombinant-methionyl human G-CSF.
    Neulasta   

    is our registered trademark for pegfilgrastim, a pegylated
    protein based on the Filgrastim molecule. A polyethylene glycol
    molecule ( PEG ) is added to enlarge the Filgrastim
    molecule, thereby extending its half-life and causing it to be
    removed more slowly from the body. Because pegfilgrastim is
    eliminated through binding to its receptor on neutrophils and
    their precursors, pegfilgrastim remains in the circulation until
    neutrophil recovery has occurred. This neutrophil-mediated
    clearance allows for administration as a single dose per
    chemotherapy cycle, compared with
    NEUPOGEN   ,

    which requires more frequent dosing.
    Neulasta   

    and
    NEUPOGEN   

    are prescribed more frequently in the curative setting, in which
    myelosuppressive chemotherapy is administered with the intent to
    cure cancer, rather than in the palliative setting, in which
    myelosuppressive chemotherapy is administered to treat other
    complications of cancer by managing tumor growth.

We market
    Neulasta   

    and
    NEUPOGEN   

    primarily in the United States and Europe. Filgrastim is also
    marketed under the brand name
    GRANULOKINE   

    in Italy.
    Neulasta   

    was launched in the United States and

8

Table of Contents   

Europe in 2002 and is indicated to decrease the incidence of
    infection associated with chemotherapy-induced febrile
    neutropenia in cancer patients with non-myeloid malignancies.
    Administration of
    Neulasta   

    in all cycles of chemotherapy is approved for patients receiving
    myelosuppressive chemotherapy associated with a clinically
    significant risk of febrile neutropenia.
    NEUPOGEN   

    was launched in the United States and Europe in 1991.
    NEUPOGEN   

    is indicated for reducing the incidence of infection as
    manifested by febrile neutropenia for patients with non-myeloid
    malignancies undergoing myelosuppressive chemotherapy; reducing
    the duration of neutropenia and neutropenia-related consequences
    for patients with non-myeloid malignancies undergoing
    myeloablative chemotherapy followed by bone marrow
    transplantation; reducing the incidence and duration of
    neutropenia-related consequences in symptomatic patients with
    congenital neutropenia, cyclic neutropenia or idiopathic
    neutropenia (collectively, severe chronic neutropenia);
    mobilizing peripheral blood progenitor cells ( PBPC )
    in cancer patients who have undergone myeloablative chemotherapy
    for stem cell transplantation; and reducing the recovery time of
    neutrophils and the duration of fever following induction or
    consolidation chemotherapy treatment in adult patients with
    acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ).

Worldwide
    Neulasta   /NEUPOGEN   

    sales for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008
    were $4.8 billion, $4.6 billion and $4.7 billion,
    respectively.
    U.S. Neulasta   /NEUPOGEN   

    sales for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008
    were $3.6 billion, $3.4 billion and $3.4 billion,
    respectively. International
    Neulasta   /NEUPOGEN   

    sales for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008
    were $1.2 billion, $1.2 billion and $1.3 billion,
    respectively.

Our outstanding material patents for pegfilgrastim are described
    in the following table.

(1)  

In some cases, this European patent may also be entitled to
    supplemental protection in one or more countries in Europe and
    the length of any such extension will vary by country. 

Our outstanding material patents for Filgrastim are described in
    the following table.

Our principal European patent relating to G-CSF expired in
    August 2006. Upon expiration of that patent, some companies
    received approval to market products, including biosimilars,
    that compete with
    NEUPOGEN   

    and
    Neulasta   

    in Europe, as further discussed below.

Neulasta   

     and/or 
    NEUPOGEN   

    also face competition in some circumstances from companies
    marketing or developing treatments for neutropenia associated
    with chemotherapy, for bone marrow and PBPC transplant patients,
    severe chronic neutropenia and AML. Further,
    NEUPOGEN   

    competes with
    Neulasta   

    in the United States and Europe, and
    NEUPOGEN   

    sales have been adversely impacted by conversion to
    Neulasta   .

    However, we believe the conversion in the United States is
    substantially complete and that a significant amount of the
    conversion in Europe has already occurred.

9

Table of Contents   

The following table reflects companies and their currently
    marketed products that compete with
    Neulasta   

     and/or 
    NEUPOGEN   

    in the United States and Europe in the supportive cancer care
    setting. The table and the following discussion of competitor
    marketed products and products in development may not be
    exhaustive.

Territory 

Competitor Marketed Product 

Competitor 

U.S. 

Leukine   

Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals

Europe

Granocyte   

Chugai Pharmaceuticals Co., Ltd./Sanofi-Aventis

Europe

Ratiograstim    (1) /Filgrastim 

    Ratiopharm    (1) /Biograstim    (1) 

ratiopharm (2) /CT

    Arztneimittel

Europe

Tevagrastim    (1) 

Teva Pharmaceutical

Europe

Zarzio    (1) /Filgrastim

    Hexal    (1) 

Sandoz/Hexal

Europe

Nivestim    (1) 

Hospira

(1)  

Biosimilar product. 

(2)  

A subsidiary of Teva Pharmaceutical. 

In February 2010, Teva Pharmaceutical announced that the FDA had
    accepted for review its BLA seeking U.S. approval to market
    XM02 to boost white blood cells under the brand name
    Neutroval  tm  .

    On September 30, 2010, the FDA issued a Complete Response
    Letter requesting additional information from Teva
    Pharmaceutical to complete the review of its applications for
    approval of
    Neutroval  tm  .

    Neutroval  tm  

    is currently sold under the brand name
    Tevagrastim   

    in several European countries. If approved in the United States,
    this drug would compete with
    NEUPOGEN   

    and
    Neulasta   .

    On November 30, 2009, Teva Pharmaceutical filed a
    declaratory judgment action against us alleging that certain of
    our
    NEUPOGEN   

    patents are invalid and not infringed by
    Neutroval  tm  ,

    and on January 15, 2010, we filed an answer and
    counterclaims seeking a declaratory judgment that our patents
    are valid and infringed. Pretrial proceedings are ongoing and no
    trial date has yet been set. (See Note 19, Contingencies
    and commitments to the Consolidated Financial Statements.)

Other companies with short-acting filgrastims in phase 3
    clinical development for Europe are:

Merck   Company, Inc. ( Merck ) (MK-4214).

Intas/Apotex Inc. (Neukine).

Reliance Life Sciences (Religrast).

Biocon Ltd./Celgene Corporation ( Celgene ) (Nufil).

In addition, Teva Pharmaceutical has two long-acting filgrastims
    in phase 3 clinical development for Europe (XM-22 and Neugranin).

Enbrel   

    (etanercept)  

ENBREL is our registered trademark for etanercept, our TNF
    receptor fusion protein that inhibits the binding of TNF to its
    receptors, which can result in a significant reduction in
    inflammatory activity. TNF is one of the chemical messengers
    that help regulate the inflammatory process. When the body
    produces too much TNF, it overwhelms the immune system s
    ability to control inflammation of the joints or of
    psoriasis-affected skin areas. ENBREL is similar to a protein
    that the body produces naturally, and like this protein, it
    binds certain TNF molecules before they can trigger inflammation.

We acquired the rights to ENBREL in July 2002 with our
    acquisition of Immunex Corporation ( Immunex ). ENBREL
    was launched in November 1998 for the treatment of rheumatoid
    arthritis ( RA ). In addition, ENBREL is now indicated
    for the treatment of adult patients with the following
    conditions: moderately to severely active RA; chronic moderate
    to severe plaque psoriasis patients who are candidates for
    systemic therapy or phototherapy; active psoriatic arthritis;
    and active ankylosing spondylitis. ENBREL is also approved for
    the treatment of moderately to severely active polyarticular
    juvenile idopathic arthritis in patients ages 2 and older.

10

Table of Contents   

We market ENBREL under a collaboration agreement with Pfizer
    Inc. ( Pfizer ) in the United States and Canada, which
    expires in the fourth quarter of 2013. (See Business
    Relationships   Pfizer Inc.) The rights to market
    and sell ENBREL outside the United States and Canada are
    reserved to Pfizer.

ENBREL sales for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009
    and 2008 were $3.5 billion, $3.5 billion and
    $3.6 billion, respectively.

Our outstanding material patents for etanercept are described in
    the following table.

(1)  

This formulation patent relates to the currently approved liquid
    formulation of ENBREL, which formulation accounts for the
    majority of ENBREL sales in the United States. ENBREL is also
    sold as a lyophilized formulation that requires reconstituting
    before it can be administered to the patient. Accordingly, a
    potential competitor may be able to develop an alternative
    formulation of etanercept, including the lyophilized
    formulation, and compete in the marketplace prior to the
    expiration of the liquid formulation patent. 

Any products or technologies that are directly or indirectly
    successful in treating rheumatologic conditions, which includes
    moderate to severe RA; moderate to severe polyarticular juvenile
    idiopathic arthritis; ankylosing spondylitis and psoriatic
    arthritis; and dermatologic conditions, which includes moderate
    to severe plaque psoriasis, could negatively impact ENBREL
    sales. Certain of the treatments for these indications include
    generic methotrexate and other products.

The following table reflects companies and their currently
    marketed products that primarily compete with ENBREL in the
    United States and Canada in the inflammatory disease setting.
    The table and the following discussion of competitor marketed
    products and products in development may not be exhaustive.

Competitor 

Territory 

Therapeutic Area 

Marketed Product 

Competitor 

U.S.   Canada

Rheumatology   Dermatology

REMICADE   

Centocor (1) /Merck

U.S.   Canada

Rheumatology   Dermatology

HUMIRA   

Abbott Laboratories ( Abbott )

U.S.   Canada

Rheumatology   Dermatology

Simponi   

Centocor (1) 

U.S.   Canada

Rheumatology

Cimzia   

UCB/ Nektar Therapeutics

U.S.   Canada

Rheumatology

Orencia   

Bristol-Myers Squibb Corporation ( BMS )

U.S.   Canada

Rheumatology

Rituxan   

Roche

U.S. 

Rheumatology

Actemra   

Roche

U.S.   Canada

Dermatology

Stelara   

Centocor (1) 

U.S.   Canada

Dermatology

Amevive   

Biogen IDEC Inc.

(1)  

A subsidiary of J J. 

In addition to competition from the above-noted marketed
    products, various competitors are developing products that may
    compete with ENBREL in the future, as discussed below:

BMS submitted a supplemental BLA in the United States in October
    2010 for subcutaneous
    Orencia   .

Pfizer released phase 3 data for its small molecule oral JAK
    program (tofacitinib) in RA and has initiated phase 3 trials in
    psoriasis.

AstraZeneca PLC and Rigel Pharmaceuticals Inc. initiated phase 3
    trials in RA for their small molecule (fostamatinib).

Celgene initiated phase 3 clinical trials in both psoriasis and
    psoriatic arthritis for its small molecule (apremilast).

11

Table of Contents   

In addition, several pharmaceutical companies announced their
    intent to produce biosimilars that may compete with ENBREL.

Other  

Our other marketed products are
    Sensipar   /Mimpara   

    (cinacalcet),
    Vectibix   

    (panitumumab),
    Nplate   

    (romiplostim),
    Prolia   

    (denosumab) and
    XGEVA  tm  

    (denosumab).

Sensipar   /Mimpara   

    (cinacalcet)  

Sensipar   

    is our registered trademark in the United States and
    Mimpara   

    is our registered trademark in Europe for cinacalcet, our small
    molecule medicine used in treating CKD patients on dialysis who
    produce too much parathyroid hormone ( PTH ), a
    condition known as secondary hyperparathyroidism. In 2004,
    Sensipar    /Mimpara    

    was approved in the United States and Europe for the treatment
    of secondary hyperparathyroidism in CKD patients on dialysis and
    for the treatment of hypercalcemia in patients with parathyroid
    carcinoma. In 2008,
    Mimpara   

    was approved in Europe for the reduction of hypercalcemia in
    patients with primary hyperparathyroidism where a
    parathyroidectomy is not clinically appropriate or is
    contraindicated. We market
    Sensipar   

    primarily in the United States and
    Mimpara   

    primarily in Europe.

In addition, as previously discussed, CMS released the Final
    Rule on Bundling in Dialysis, effective January 1, 2011,
    resulting in a bundled payment system for dialysis facilities.
    Oral drugs without intravenous equivalents, such as
    Sensipar   

    and phosphate binders, will continue to be reimbursed separately
    under the Medicare Part D benefit until 2014 when they will
    be reimbursed under the bundled payment system. Inclusion in the
    bundled payment system may reduce utilization of these oral
    drugs and have a material adverse impact on
    Sensipar   

    sales. (See Reimbursement . )

Worldwide
    Sensipar   /Mimpara   

    sales for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008
    were $714 million, $651 million and $597 million,
    respectively.

Our outstanding material patents for cinacalcet are described in
    the following table.

(1)  

An election of U.S. Patent No. 6,011,068 for patent term
    extension has been submitted to the U.S. Patent and Trademark
    Office which will extend this patent until March 8, 2018. 

(2)  

In some cases, this European patent may also be entitled to
    supplemental protection in one or more countries in Europe and
    the length of any such extension will vary by country. 

Any products or technologies that are directly or indirectly
    successful in treating secondary hyperparathyroidism in patients
    with CKD on dialysis
     and/or 
    hypercalcemia in patients with parathyroid carcinoma negatively
    impact
    Sensipar   /Mimpara   

    sales.

12

Table of Contents   

The following table reflects companies and their currently
    marketed products that compete with
    Sensipar   

    in the United States and with
    Mimpara   

    in Europe in the nephrology segment for patients with CKD on
    dialysis. The table and discussion below of competitor marketed
    products and products in development may not be exhaustive.

Territory 

Competitor Marketed Product 

Competitor 

U.S. 

Hectorol   

Genzyme Corporation ( Genzyme )

U.S. 

Rocaltrol   

Roche

U.S. 

Calcijex   

Abbott

U.S. 

Calcium
    Acetate   

Roxane Laboratories/Sandoz

U.S.   Europe

Zemplar   

Abbott

U.S.   Europe

Renagel   

Genzyme

U.S.   Europe

Renvela   

Genzyme

U.S.   Europe

PhosLo   /Rephoren   

Fresenius Medical Care

U.S.   Europe

OsvaRen   

Fresenius Medical Care

U.S.   Europe

Fosrenol   

Shire Pharmaceuticals Group Plc

On July 25, 2008, we filed a lawsuit against Teva
    Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. and Teva Pharmaceutical (together
    defined as  Teva ) and Barr Pharmaceuticals Inc.
    ( Barr ) for infringement of four
    Sensipar   

    patents. The lawsuit was based on Abbreviated New Drug
    Applications filed by Teva and Barr that sought approval to
    market generic versions of
    Sensipar   .

    Following trial, on January 7, 2011, the U.S. District
    Court for the District of Delaware granted an injunction
    prohibiting Teva and Barr from commercializing generic versions
    of
    Sensipar   

    in the United States until expiration of three of those patents.
    (See Note 19, Contingencies and commitments to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements.) These generic versions could
    compete with
    Sensipar   

    in the future.

Vectibix   

    (panitumumab)  

Vectibix   

    is our registered trademark for panitumumab, our monoclonal
    antibody for the treatment of patients with EGFr expressing mCRC
    after disease progression on, or following fluoropyrimidine-,
    oxaliplatin- and irinotecan- containing chemotherapy regimens.
    EGFr is a protein that plays an important role in cancer cell
    signaling and is over-expressed in many human cancers.
    Vectibix   

    binds with high affinity to EGFrs and interferes with signals
    that might otherwise stimulate growth and survival of the cancer
    cell. We acquired full ownership of
    Vectibix   

    with our acquisition of Abgenix, Inc. ( Abgenix ) in
    April 2006. In September 2006,
    Vectibix   

    received FDA accelerated approval in the United States, based
    upon clinical trial data from a study demonstrating a
    statistically significant improvement in progression-free
    survival and with the condition that Amgen conduct a
    confirmatory trial to verify the clinical benefit of panitumumab
    through demonstration of an improvement in overall survival. In
    the EU, the conditional approval of
    Vectibix   

    as monotherapy, for the treatment of patients with EGFr
    expressing metastatic colorectal carcinoma with non-mutated
    (wild-type)  KRAS  genes after failure of
    fluoropyrimidine-, oxaliplatin-, and irinotecan-containing
    chemotherapy regimens, was received in December 2007 and is
    reviewed annually by the Committee for Medicinal Products for
    Human Use ( CHMP ). In December 2008, 2009 and 2010,
    the EU conditional marketing authorization was renewed with an
    additional specific obligation to conduct a clinical trial in
    the existing approved indication. In 2010, we began enrollment
    for this additional clinical trial which compares the effect of
    Vectibix   

    versus
    Erbitux   

    (cetuximab) on overall survival for chemorefractory mCRC
    patients with wild-type  KRAS  genes.  KRAS  is a
    protein found in all human cells. Some colorectal cancers have
    mutations in the  KRAS  gene.
    Vectibix   

    has been shown to be ineffective in people whose tumors had
     KRAS  mutations in codon 12 or 13.

In 2009, we announced results from the  203 and  181
    pivotal phase 3 trials evaluating
    Vectibix   

    in combination with chemotherapy (FOLFOX or FOLFIRI) as a first-
    and second-line treatment for mCRC, respectively. Both studies
    demonstrated that
    Vectibix   

    administered with chemotherapy significantly improved
    progression-free survival in patients with wild-type  KRAS
     mCRC. Additionally, both studies showed numeric improvements
    in median overall survival in the same patient population. The
    numeric improvements in median overall survival failed to
    achieve statistical significance. It was previously agreed with
    the FDA that the  181 study would serve as the confirmatory
    trial for establishing full approval for the mCRC indication.

13

Table of Contents   

On April 16, 2010, our application for marketing
    authorization for the use of
    Vectibix   

    in first- and second-line treatment of mCRC in patients whose
    tumors contain wild-type  KRAS  genes was submitted to the
    EMA. In the United States, we filed supplemental BLA submissions
    for first- and second-line mCRC with the FDA on October 29,
    2010 and November 4, 2010. Both the EMA and FDA filings
    included the data from the  203 and  181 clinical
    trials. In addition, the FDA has indicated that in order for
    Vectibix   

    to be approved for these indications, there must be a
    commercially available, FDA-approved  KRAS  test kit. We
    continue to work with our partner QIAGEN N.V. to support their
    submission of a Premarket Application for approval of this test
    kit.

On February 8, 2011, we and four other sponsor companies
    met with the FDA and the ODAC to discuss the status of our
    respective PMCs for product indications that had been granted
    accelerated approval by the FDA prior to 2009, including
    Vectibix   .

    At that meeting, we updated the Committee on the completion and
    submission of the main PMC for
    Vectibix   ,

    the confirmatory  181 study, and participated in an open
    discussion with the ODAC on the accelerated approval process.

Worldwide
    Vectibix   

    sales for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008
    were $288 million, $233 million and $153 million,
    respectively.

Our outstanding material patents for panitumumab are described
    in the following table.

(1)  

In some cases, this European patent may also be entitled to
    supplemental protection in one or more countries in Europe and
    the length of any such extension will vary by country. 

Any products or technologies that are directly or indirectly
    successful in treating mCRC after disease progression on, or
    following fluoropyrimidine-, oxaliplatin- and irinotecan-
    containing chemotherapy regimens negatively impact
    Vectibix   

    sales. The following table reflects companies and their
    currently marketed products that compete with
    Vectibix   

    in the United States and Europe. The table may not be exhaustive.

Territory 

Competitor Marketed Product 

Competitor 

U.S. 

Erbitux   

Eli Lilly and Company ( Eli Lilly )/BMS

Europe

Erbitux   

Merck KGaA

Nplate   

    (romiplostim)  

In August 2008, the FDA approved
    Nplate   ,

    our platelet producer for the treatment of thrombocytopenia in
    splenectomized (spleen removed) and non-splenectomized adults
    with chronic immune thrombocytopenic purpura ( ITP ).
    Nplate   

    works by raising and sustaining platelet counts. We were granted
    an exclusive license by KA to manufacture and market
    Nplate   

    in the United States, all European countries, Canada, Australia,
    New Zealand, Mexico, all Central and South American countries
    and certain countries in Central Asia, Africa and the Middle
    East. In February 2009, we announced that the EC had granted
    marketing authorization for
    Nplate   

    for the treatment of splenectomized adult chronic ITP patients
    who are refractory to other treatments (eg, corticosteroids,
    immunoglobulins). In the EU,
    Nplate   

    may also be considered as second-line treatment for adult
    non-splenectomized ITP patients where surgery is contraindicated.

We currently have an approved REMS for
    Nplate   ,

    which includes a medication guide, a healthcare provider
    communication plan and certain elements to assure safe use
    (including restricted distribution, registry, healthcare
    provider, institution and patient enrollment). As required, we
    have submitted REMS assessment reports to the FDA and are
    working with the FDA to determine any additional modifications
    to the REMS that will be needed.

14

Table of Contents   

Worldwide
    Nplate   

    sales for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008
    were $229 million, $110 million and $17 million,
    respectively.

Our outstanding material patents for romiplostim are described
    in the following table.

(1)  

In some cases, this European patent may also be entitled to
    supplemental protection in one or more countries in Europe and
    the length of any such extension will vary by country. 

Any products or technologies that are directly or indirectly
    successful in treating thrombocytopenia in splenectomized and
    non-splenectomized adults with chronic ITP negatively impact
    Nplate   

    sales. The following table reflects currently marketed products
    that compete with
    Nplate   

    in the United States and Europe. The table may not be exhaustive.

Territory 

Competitor Marketed Product 

Competitor 

U.S. 

Promacta   

GlaxoSmithKline plc ( GSK )

Europe

Revolade   

GSK

Prolia   /XGEVA     tm     

    (denosumab)  

In 2010, we launched
    Prolia   

    and
    XGEVA  tm  ,

    both of which contain the same active ingredient but which are
    approved for different indications, patient populations, doses
    and frequencies of administration. We have a collaboration
    agreement with Glaxo Group Limited ( Glaxo ), a wholly
    owned subsidiary of GSK, for the commercialization of denosumab
    in certain countries. (See Business Relationships  
    Glaxo Group Limited.)

Prolia     

On June 1, 2010, the FDA approved
    Prolia   

    for the treatment of postmenopausal women with osteoporosis at
    high risk for fracture, defined as a history of osteoporotic
    fracture, or multiple risk factors for fracture, or patients who
    have failed or are intolerant to other available osteoporosis
    therapy. We estimate that the majority of potential
    U.S. Prolia   

    patients are covered under Medicare and the remaining patients
    under commercial plans. (See Reimbursement . ) Future
    U.S. product sales for
    Prolia   

    will depend on the willingness of primary care physicians to
    prescribe, the availability of reimbursement for and patient
    acceptance of the product.

On May 25, 2010, the EC granted marketing authorization for
    Prolia   

    for the treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women at
    increased risk of fractures and for the treatment of bone loss
    associated with hormone ablation in men with prostate cancer at
    increased risk of fractures. The timing of reimbursement
    authority approval of pricing in individual EU countries will
    vary by country, which could follow the EC approval by many
    months. For example, on July 1, 2010,
    Prolia   

    received reimbursement authority in Germany. On October 27,
    2010, the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence
    ( NICE ) in the United Kingdom ( UK )
    recommended
    Prolia   

    for National Health Service ( NHS ) reimbursement as a
    treatment option for certain postmenopausal women who are at
    increased risk of primary and secondary osteoporotic fractures
    if other treatments available on the publicly-funded NHS are
    unsuitable.

Worldwide
    Prolia   

    sales for the year ended December 31, 2010 were
    $33 million.

15

Table of Contents   

The following table and discussion reflect other companies and
    their currently marketed products that compete with
    Prolia   .

    The table and the discussion of competitor marketed products and
    product in development may not be exhaustive.

Territory 

Competitor Marketed Product 

Competitor 

U.S.   Europe

FOSAMAX    (1) 

Merck

U.S.   Europe

Actonel   /Atelvia  tm 

Warner Chilcott PLC

U.S.   Europe

Boniva   /Bonviva   

Roche

U.S.   Europe

Evista   

Eli Lilly

U.S.   Europe

Forteo   /Forsteo  tm 

Eli Lilly

U.S.   Europe

Miacalcin   

Novartis AG ( Novartis )

U.S.   Europe

Aclasta   /Reclast   

Novartis

Europe

Conbriza   

Pfizer

Europe

Fablyn   

Pfizer

(1)  

Merck s patent covering the use of
    FOSAMAX   

    to treat bone loss expired in the United States in February
    2008. Following the patent expiry, generic alendronate, which
    competes with
    FOSAMAX   

    and
    Prolia   ,

    became available. 

Over the next several years, we expect certain additional
    marketed products noted above to lose patent protection, at
    which time we expect that generic versions of these products
    would become commercially available and compete with
    Prolia   .

In addition to competition from the above-noted marketed
    products, Merck has a new cathepsin-K inhibitor, odanacatib, in
    phase 3 clinical trials that could compete with
    Prolia   

    in the future.

XGEVA  tm    

On November 18, 2010, the FDA approved
    XGEVA  tm  

    for the prevention of SREs in patients with bone metastases from
    solid tumors.
    XGEVA  tm  

    is not indicated for the prevention of SREs in patients with
    multiple myeloma.

We also submitted a marketing authorization application to the
    EMA on June 4, 2010 for denosumab for the reduction of SREs
    in cancer patients.

On December 12, 2010, we announced top-line results from a
    phase 3 trial evaluating
    XGEVA  tm  

    versus placebo in men with castrate-resistant prostate cancer.
    The trial, known as the  147 study, demonstrated that
    XGEVA  tm  

    significantly improved median bone metastasis-free survival by
    4.2 months compared to placebo (primary endpoint) and
    significantly improved time to first occurrence of bone
    metastases (secondary endpoint). Overall survival was similar
    between the
    XGEVA  tm  

    and placebo groups (secondary endpoint). This study will form
    the basis of planned marketing applications, which we expect to
    submit to regulatory authorities beginning in the first half of
    2011, for the prevention of bone metastasis in prostate cancer.
    (See Research and Development and Selected Product Candidates.)

U.S.
    XGEVA  tm  

    sales for the year ended December 31, 2010 were
    $8 million.

16

Table of Contents   

The following table reflects currently marketed products that
    compete with
    XGEVA  tm  .

    The table may not be exhaustive.

Territory 

Competitor Marketed Product 

Competitor 

U.S.   Europe

Zometa    (1) 

Novartis

U.S.   Europe

Aredia    (2) 

Novartis

(1)  

Novartis has indicated that patent protection on the active
    ingredient for
    Zometa   

    will expire in 2013 in the United States and 2012 in other major
    markets. At such time, we expect that generic forms of
    zoledronic acid may become commercially available and compete
    with
    Zometa   

    and
    XGEVA  tm  . 

(2)  

Novartis s patent covering the use of
    Aredia   

    to treat tumor-induced hypercalcemia, osteolysis from multiple
    myeloma and bone metastases from breast cancer expired in the
    United States in 2001. Following the patent expiry, generic
    pamidronate, which competes with
    Aredia   

    and
    XGEVA  tm  ,

    became available from other companies. 

Our outstanding material patents for denosumab are described in
    the following table.

(1)  

The expiration dates may be subject to change if delays in
    regulatory approval lead to extensions of patent terms in the
    United States and/or supplemental protection in Europe. 

Marketing
    and Distribution   

We maintain sales and marketing forces primarily in the United
    States, Europe and Canada to support our currently marketed
    products. We have also entered into agreements with third
    parties to assist in the commercialization and marketing of
    certain of our products in specified geographic areas. (See
    Business Relationships.) Together with our partners, we market
    our products to healthcare providers, including physicians or
    their clinics, dialysis centers, hospitals and pharmacies. We
    also market certain products directly to consumers through
     direct-to-consumer 
    print and television advertising, and also through the Internet.
    In addition, for certain of our products, we promote programs to
    increase public awareness of the health risks associated with
    the diseases these products treat, as well as providing support
    to various patient education and support programs in the related
    therapeutic areas. (See Government Regulation   FDA
    Regulation of Product Marketing and Promotion for a discussion
    of the government regulation over product marketing and
    promotion.)

In the United States, we sell primarily to wholesale
    distributors of pharmaceutical products. We utilize those
    wholesale distributors as the principal means of distributing
    our products to healthcare providers. In Europe, we sell
    principally to healthcare providers
     and/or 
    wholesalers depending on the distribution practice in each
    country. We monitor the financial condition of our larger
    customers and limit our credit exposure by setting credit
    limits, requiring letters of credit and obtaining credit
    insurance, as we deem appropriate.

We had product sales to three large wholesaler customers each
    accounting for more than 10% of total revenues for the years
    ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. On a combined
    basis, these distributors accounted for 71% and 88% for 2010 of
    worldwide gross revenues and U.S. gross product sales,
    respectively, as noted in the table

17

Table of Contents   

below. Certain information with respect to these distributors
    for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 is as
    follows (dollar amounts in millions):

Reimbursement   

Sales of all of our principal products are dependent in large
    part on the availability and extent of coverage and
    reimbursement from third-party payers, including government and
    private insurance plans. Most patients receiving our products
    are covered by government healthcare programs or private
    insurers. Governments may regulate coverage, reimbursement
     and/or 
    pricing of our products to control costs or to affect levels of
    use of our products, and private insurers may adopt or be
    influenced by government coverage and reimbursement
    methodologies. Worldwide use of our products may be affected by
    cost containment pressures and cost shifting from governments
    and private insurers to healthcare providers or patients in
    response to ongoing initiatives to reduce or reallocate
    healthcare expenditures. An increasing worldwide focus on
    patient access controls and cost containment by public and
    private insurers has resulted, and may continue to result, in
    reduced reimbursement rates for our products. In addition,
    recent healthcare reform efforts enacted in the United States
    have made substantial long-term changes to the reimbursement of
    our products, and those changes have had, and are expected to
    continue to have, a significant impact on our business.

U.S.
    Reimbursement System  

Our principal products are sold primarily in the United States
    and healthcare providers, including doctors, hospitals and other
    healthcare professionals and providers, are reimbursed for their
    services by the government through Medicare, Medicaid and other
    government healthcare programs as well as through private
    payers. Government healthcare programs are funded primarily
    through the payment of taxes by individuals and businesses. The
    public and private components of this multi-payer system are
    described below.

Medicare
    and Other Forms of Public Health Insurance  

Medicare is a federal program administered by the federal
    government that covers individuals age 65 and over as well
    as those with certain disabilities and end stage renal disease
    ( ESRD ), regardless of their age. The primary
    Medicare programs that affect reimbursement for our products are
    Medicare Part B, which covers physician services and
    outpatient care, and Medicare Part D, which provides a
    voluntary outpatient prescription drug benefit. CMS is the
    federal agency responsible for administering Medicare (as well
    as Medicaid, described below) and, among its responsibilities,
    has authority to issue Medicare NCDs which are national policy
    statements granting, limiting or excluding Medicare coverage for
    specific medical items or services. In addition, CMS has
    authority to issue manual policy issuances and updates as well
    as reimbursement codes for drugs and other items, which
    determine how products and services are reimbursed. Medicare
    Administrative Contractors have authority to issue local
    coverage determinations. CMS sometimes uses advisory committees
    of external experts in order to obtain

18

Table of Contents   

independent expert advice on scientific, technical and policy
    matters. For example, the MEDCAC was established to provide
    independent guidance and expert advice to CMS on specific
    clinical topics. The MEDCAC reviews and evaluates medical
    literature, technology assessments, and examines data and
    information on the effectiveness and appropriateness of medical
    items and services that are covered under Medicare, or that may
    be eligible for coverage under Medicare.

Medicare Part B Coverage of Drugs and
    ESRD.  Medicare Part B provides limited coverage of
    outpatient drugs and biologicals that are furnished
     incident to  a physician s services. Generally,
     incident to  drugs and biologicals are covered if
    they satisfy certain criteria, including that they are of the
    type that are not usually self-administered by the patient and
    are reasonable and necessary for a medically accepted diagnosis
    or treatment. Medicare Part B also covers certain drugs
    pursuant to a specific statutory directive, such as
    blood-clotting factors and certain immunosuppressive drugs,
    erythropoietin and certain oral cancer drugs, if they fall under
    a specific statutory benefit category and they are  safe
    and effective  as established by FDA approval. Many of our
    principal products are currently covered under Medicare
    Part B (as well as other government healthcare programs).
    In addition, most patients with ESRD, regardless of age, are
    eligible for coverage of dialysis treatment through the ESRD
    Program under Medicare Part B, the primary payer for
    dialysis treatment. Because Medicare Part B is the primary
    payer for dialysis treatment, reimbursement for products, such
    as
    EPOGEN   ,

    that are typically administered in dialysis centers and other
    settings is particularly sensitive to changes in Medicare
    coverage and reimbursement policy. Beginning January 1,
    2011, dialysis treatment is reimbursed by Medicare under a
    bundled payment system described in more detail below. (See
    Dialysis Reimbursement.)

Medicare Part D.  Medicare Part D provides
    a voluntary prescription drug benefit for Medicare eligible
    beneficiaries. The coverage is available through various private
    plans that provide insurance coverage for prescription drugs for
    a monthly premium. The list of prescription drugs covered by
    Medicare Part D plans varies by plan, but drug lists
    maintained by individual plans must cover certain classes of
    drugs and biologicals; specifically the statute stipulates that
    Medicare Part D plans have at least two drugs in each
    unique therapeutic category or class, subject to certain
    exceptions. Medicare patients who obtain ENBREL and
    Sensipar   

    under retail coverage, where they are primarily provided, are
    typically covered by Medicare Part D.

Medicaid.  Medicaid is a joint federal and state
    program administered by individual states for low-income and
    disabled eligible beneficiaries. CMS also has responsibility for
    federal administration of the Medicaid program. Under federal
    law, states must cover low-income adults and children, pregnant
    women, disabled individuals and seniors, and states have the
    option of expanding eligibility beyond those groups of
    beneficiaries. Medicaid is financed jointly by the states and
    federal government through taxes. Medicaid offers a broad set of
    benefits, including prescription drugs. Medicaid includes the
    Drug Rebate Program which requires manufacturers to provide
    rebates to the states for products covered and reimbursed by
    state Medicaid programs.

See Item 1A. Risk Factors   Our sales depend on
    coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers.

Private
    Health Insurance  

Employer-sponsored insurance.  Employer-sponsored
    insurance currently represents the main pathway by which
    Americans receive private health insurance. Many employers
    provide health insurance as part of employees  benefit
    packages. Insurance plans are administered by private companies,
    both for-profit and
     not-for-profit, 
    and some companies are  self-insured  (i.e., they pay
    for all healthcare costs incurred by employees directly through
    a plan administered by a third party). Generally,
    employer-sponsored insurance premiums are paid primarily by
    employers and secondarily by employees.

Individual market.  The individual market covers part
    of the population that is self-employed or retired. In addition,
    it covers some people who are unable to obtain insurance through
    their employers. The plans are administered by private insurance
    companies. Individuals pay
     out-of-pocket 
    insurance premiums for coverage, and the benefits vary widely
    according to plan specifications.

19

Table of Contents   

Reimbursement
    of Our Principal Products  

Aranesp     ,

    Neulasta    

     and
    NEUPOGEN    . Medicare

    and Medicaid payment policies for drugs and biologicals are
    subject to various laws and regulations. The Medicare program
    covers our principal products
    Aranesp   ,

    Neulasta   

    and
    NEUPOGEN   

    (as well as certain of our other products including
    Vectibix   ,

    Nplate   ,

    Prolia   

    and
    XGEVA  tm  )

    under Part B, when administered in the physician clinic
    setting and the hospital outpatient and dialysis settings.
    Healthcare providers are reimbursed for these products under a
     buy and bill  process where providers purchase the
    product in advance of treatment and then submit a reimbursement
    claim to Medicare following administration of the product.
    Medicare reimburses providers using a payment methodology based
    on a fixed percentage of each product s average sales price
    ( ASP ). ASP is calculated by the manufacturer based
    on a statutorily defined formula and submitted to CMS. A
    product s ASP is calculated and reported to CMS on a
    quarterly basis and therefore may change each quarter. The ASP
    in effect for a given quarter (the  Current Period )
    is based upon certain historical sales and sales incentive data
    covering a statutorily defined period of time preceding the
    Current Period. CMS publishes the ASPs for products in advance
    of the quarter in which they go into effect so healthcare
    providers will know the applicable reimbursement rates. In the
    calculation of ASP, CMS currently allows manufacturers to make
    reasonable assumptions consistent with the general requirements
    and the intent of the Medicare statute and regulations and their
    customary business practices and in the future CMS may provide
    more specific guidance. Any changes to the ASP calculations
    directly affect the Medicare reimbursement for our products
    administered in the physician clinic setting, hospital
    outpatient setting and, to a lesser extent, the dialysis
    facility setting. (See
    EPOGEN   

    and Dialysis Reimbursement.) Our ASP calculations are reviewed
    quarterly for completeness and based on such review, we have on
    occasion restated our reported ASPs to reflect calculation
    changes both prospectively and retroactively. (See
    Items 1A. Risk Factors   Our sales depend on
    coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers.)

Since 2005, in the physician office setting under Medicare
    Part B,
    Aranesp   ,

    Neulasta   

    and
    NEUPOGEN   

    have been reimbursed at 106% of their ASP (sometimes referred to
    as  ASP+6% ), and in 2011 will continue to be
    reimbursed at this rate pursuant to the 2011 Medicare Physician
    Fee Schedule Final Rule. In the hospital outpatient
    setting, from 2006 to 2010 Medicare reimbursement rates fell
    incrementally from ASP+6% to ASP+4%, but rose in 2011 to ASP+5%
    pursuant to the 2011 Hospital Outpatient Prospective Payment
    Final Rule. CMS has the regulatory authority to further adjust
    formulas in future years. The extent to which commercial payers
    adopt the use of ASP as a payment methodology is often based on
    the contractual relationship between the provider and the
    insurer.

Dialysis Reimbursement.   Currently, dialysis
    providers in the United States are reimbursed for
    EPOGEN   

    primarily by Medicare through the ESRD Program, which is
    established by federal law and implemented by CMS. The ESRD
    Program reimburses Medicare providers for 80% of allowed
    dialysis costs; the remainder is paid by other sources,
    including patients, state Medicaid programs, private insurance,
    and to a lesser extent, state kidney patient programs. Until
    January 1, 2011, Medicare reimbursed for separately
    billable dialysis drugs (including
    EPOGEN   

    and
    Aranesp   )

    administered in both freestanding and hospital-based dialysis
    centers, at ASP+6%, using the same payment amount methodology
    used in the physician clinic setting under Part B. On
    January 1, 2011, CMS s bundled payment system went
    into effect for dialysis facilities which provides a single
    payment for all dialysis services including drugs, supplies and
    non-routine laboratory tests that were previously reimbursed
    separately. Key provisions under the new system include:

Unit of payment   CMS will provide a per treatment
    unit of payment. Consistent with past policy, ESRD facilities
    can be paid for up to three treatments per week, unless medical
    necessity justifies more frequent treatments.

Payment rate   for 2011, the base rate is $229.63 per
    treatment.

Oral drugs without intravenous equivalents   oral-only
    drugs, such as
    Sensipar   

    and phosphate binders, will remain under the Medicare
    Part D benefit until 2014 when they will be reimbursed
    under the bundled payment system.

20

Table of Contents   

Dialysis providers were given the choice of opting into the new
    bundled payment system 100% on January 1, 2011, or phasing
    in over a four-year period. Substantially, all dialysis
    providers in the United States have opted into the bundled
    payment system in its entirety.

To encourage dialysis facilities to continue to provide quality
    dialysis treatment under the new bundled payment system, on
    December 29, 2010, CMS issued the Final Rule to implement
    the ESRD Quality Improvement Program ( QIP ). Under
    the QIP, beginning in 2012, ESRD facilities will be subject to a
    payment penalty of up to 2% of amounts reimbursed for failure to
    meet or exceed CMS  quality performance standards,
    including performance standards related to anemia management and
    dialysis adequacy. Under the QIP, the penalty will be based on a
    composite score of measures as follows:

The percent of Medicare patients with Hb levels below 10 g/dL
    constitutes 50% of the weighting.

The percent of Medicare patients with Hb levels above 12 g/dL
    represents 25% of the weighting.

The percent of Medicare patients with an average Urea Reduction
    Ratio of greater than or equal to 65% constitutes 25% of the
    weighting.

Notwithstanding the implementation of the QIP in 2012, we expect
    the bundled payment system to decrease dose utilization of
    EPOGEN   

    and that this decrease will have a material adverse impact on
    EPOGEN   

    sales. Further, if CMS issues an NCD for the use of ESAs in
    patients who have kidney disease (see Other ESA Reimbursement
    Developments below), CMS could further adjust the bundled
    payment system
     and/or  the
    QIP.

Other ESA Reimbursement Developments.  Since April 1,
    2006, Medicare reimbursement for ESAs administered to dialysis
    patients has been subject to a Erythropoietin Monitoring Policy
    ( EMP ), the Medicare payment review mechanism used by
    CMS to monitor
    EPOGEN   

    and
    Aranesp   

    utilization and appropriate hematocrit outcomes of dialysis
    patients. The EMP was revised, effective January 1, 2008,
    requiring a 50% reduction in Medicare reimbursement if a
    patient s Hb is above 13 g/dL for three or more consecutive
    months. In addition, the revised EMP reduces the monthly dosing
    limits to 400,000 international units ( IUs ) of
    EPOGEN   ,

    from 500,000 IUs, and to 1,200 micrograms ( mcgs ) of
    Aranesp   ,

    from 1,500 mcgs.

On March 14, 2007, CMS announced a review of all Medicare
    policies related to the administration of ESAs in non-renal
    disease applications as part of an NCA, which is generally
    CMS  first step toward developing an NCD. As a result of
    that review, CMS initiated an NCD for non-renal ESAs. After
    various CMS proposals and a public comment period, CMS issued a
    final NCD on July 30, 2007. The 2007 NCD determined that
    ESA treatment was not reasonable and necessary for certain
    clinical conditions and established Medicare coverage parameters
    for FDA-approved ESA use in oncology. We believe the
    restrictions in the 2007 NCD changed the way ESAs are used in
    clinical practice, for example, by decreasing the number of
    treated patients, the average ESA dose and the duration of ESA
    therapy. We believe this restriction on coverage of ESAs in the
    2007 NCD has had a material adverse effect on the coverage,
    reimbursement and sales of
    Aranesp   ,

    and our business and results of operations. In addition, many
    private payers have implemented portions of the 2007 NCD and we
    believe many healthcare providers have reduced ESA utilization
    for all of their patients regardless of insurance coverage.

On March 24, 2010, CMS held a MEDCAC meeting to examine the
    currently available evidence on the use of ESAs to manage anemia
    in patients who have CKD. Although there was no clear outcome
    from the MEDCAC meeting, on June 16, 2010, CMS opened a new
    NCA to examine the use of ESAs to manage anemia in patients with
    CKD and dialysis-related anemia, which is generally CMS 
    first step toward developing an NCD. CMS has stated that the NCA
    process for ESAs will conclude on or before June 16, 2011,
    but CMS could propose a new NCD at any time prior to that
    deadline. Additionally, on January 19, 2011, CMS held
    another MEDCAC meeting, this time to review the available
    evidence on the impact of ESA use on renal transplant graft
    survival.

ENBREL Reimbursement.  The majority of prescription claims
    for ENBREL are paid through private insurance companies. Under
    Medicare, ENBREL is reimbursed through the Part D program,
    although less than 10% of all ENBREL U.S. prescriptions are
    reimbursed by Medicare.

21

Table of Contents   

Prolia   

    Reimbursement  

We estimate that the majority of potential
    U.S. Prolia   

    patients are covered under Medicare and the remaining under
    commercial plans. Beginning in 2010,
    Prolia   

    has been reimbursed under Medicare Part B through the buy
    and bill process. (See Reimbursement of Our Principal
    Products  
    Aranesp   ,

    Neulasta   

    and
    NEUPOGEN   .)

    The buy and bill reimbursement process for
    Prolia   

    has required, and is expected to continue to require, time to
    become established, particularly among primary care physicians
    who may have limited experience using this reimbursement
    process. We expect that U.S. Medicare Part D plans
    will begin to cover
    Prolia   

    in 2011 and that commercial coverage will continue to expand as
    more commercial plans make their decisions about
    Prolia   

    coverage and reimbursement.

Medicaid
    Reimbursement  

Since 1991, we have participated in the Medicaid drug rebate
    program established in Section 1927 of the Social Security
    Act by the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990 and
    subsequent amendments of that law. Under the Medicaid drug
    rebate program, we pay a rebate to the states for each unit of
    our product reimbursed by state Medicaid programs. As more fully
    described below, the new healthcare reform law enacted in the
    United States in March 2010 made certain changes in how those
    rebates are calculated and to whom they must be extended. (See
    U.S. Healthcare Reform . ) The amount of the rebate
    for each of our products is currently set by law as a minimum of
    23.1% of the Average Manufacturer Price ( AMP ) of
    that product, or if it is greater, the difference between AMP
    and the best price available from us to any non-government
    customer. The rebate amount is determined for each quarter based
    on our reports to CMS of the quarter s AMP and best price
    for each of our products. The rebate amount also includes an
    inflation adjustment if AMP increases faster than inflation. As
    described below, the statutory definition of AMP changed in 2010
    as a result of the new U.S. healthcare reform law, and we
    expect CMS to shortly issue a proposed rule further defining the
    new AMP definition. Until that rule is issued, we will be
    required to make reasonable assumptions when calculating AMP.
    Once CMS proposed rule is issued, and clarification is provided
    on the calculation of AMP, we will have to determine whether our
    reasonable assumptions need to be amended to comply with the
    regulation s definition of AMP, and whether we need to
    restate our prior AMPs. The terms of our participation in the
    Medicaid drug rebate program impose an obligation to correct the
    prices reported in previous quarters, as may be necessary. Any
    such corrections could result in an overage or underage in our
    rebate liability for past quarters, depending on the direction
    of the correction. In addition to retroactive rebates, if we
    were found to have knowingly submitted false information to the
    government, in addition to other penalties available to the
    government, the statute provides for civil monetary penalties in
    the amount of $100,000 per item of false information.

Related to our participation in the Medicaid drug rebate program
    is a requirement that we extend comparable discounts under the
    Public Health Service ( PHS ) drug pricing program to
    a variety of community health clinics and other entities that
    receive health services grants from the PHS, as well as
    hospitals that serve a disproportionate share of Medicare and
    Medicaid beneficiaries. As more fully described below, the list
    of entities to which we are required to extend these discounts
    also expanded as a result of the new healthcare reform law.

We also make our products available to authorized users of the
    Federal Supply Schedule ( FSS ) of the General
    Services Administration. Since 1993, as a result of the Veterans
    Health Care Act of 1992 (the  VHC Act ), federal law
    has required that we offer deeply discounted FSS contract
    pricing for purchases by the Department of Veterans Affairs, the
    Department of Defense, the Coast Guard and the PHS (including
    the Indian Health Service) in order for federal funding to be
    available for reimbursement of our products under the Medicaid
    program or purchase of our products by those four federal
    agencies and certain federal grantees. FSS pricing to those four
    federal agencies must be equal to or less than the Federal
    Ceiling Price ( FCP ), which is 24% below the
    Non-Federal Average Manufacturer Price ( Non-FAMP )
    for the prior fiscal year. The accuracy of our reported
    Non-FAMPs, FCPs and our FSS contract prices may be audited by
    the government under applicable federal procurement laws and the
    terms of our FSS contract. Among the remedies available to the
    government for inaccuracies in calculation of Non-FAMPs and FCPs
    is recoupment of any overcharges to the four specified Federal
    agencies based on those inaccuracies. Also, if we were found to
    have knowingly reported a false Non-FAMP, in addition to other
    penalties available to the government, the VHC Act provides for
    civil monetary penalties of $100,000 per item that is

22

Table of Contents   

incorrect. Finally, we are required to disclose in our FSS
    contract proposal all commercial pricing that is equal to or
    less than our proposed FSS pricing, and subsequent to award of
    an FSS contract, we are required to monitor certain commercial
    price reductions and extend commensurate price reductions to the
    government, under the terms of the FSS contract Price Reductions
    Clause. Among the remedies available to the government for any
    failure to properly disclose commercial pricing
     and/or  to
    extend FSS contract price reductions is recoupment of any FSS
    overcharges that may result from such omissions.

U.S. Healthcare Reform.  In March 2010, the Patient
    Protection and Affordable Care Act (the  PPACA ) and
    the companion Healthcare and Education Reconciliation Act, which
    made certain changes and adjustments to the PPACA, primarily
    with respect to the PPACA s financial and budgetary
    impacts, were signed into law. We refer to those two laws
    collectively as the  new healthcare reform law.  The
    new healthcare reform law imposes additional costs on and
    reduces the revenue of companies in the biotechnology and
    pharmaceutical industries. The following paragraphs describe
    certain provisions of the new healthcare reform law that will
    affect the reimbursement of our products.

The new healthcare reform law increased the rebates we pay to
    the states for our products that are covered and reimbursed by
    state Medicaid programs. The healthcare reform law increased the
    minimum base Medicaid rebate rate payable on our products
    reimbursed by Medicaid from 15.1% to 23.1% of the AMP of the
    product, or if it is greater, the difference between the AMP and
    the best price available from us to any non-government customer.
    The change in the minimum rebate percentage was effective on
    January 1, 2010. The healthcare reform law also extended
    the Medicaid drug rebate program to patients in Medicaid managed
    care insurance plans for whom rebates were not previously
    required. The extension of rebates to patients in Medicaid
    managed care plans was effective on March 23, 2010.

As mentioned above, the new healthcare reform law also expanded
    the list of provider institutions to which we must extend
    discounts under the PHS 340B drug pricing program. The new
    healthcare reform law added certain cancer centers,
    children s hospitals, critical access hospitals and rural
    referral centers to the list of entities to which these
    discounts must be extended. This change to the list of eligible
    entities was effective on January 1, 2010. The healthcare
    reform law also imposed a new fee on manufacturers and importers
    of  branded prescription drugs,  which includes drugs
    approved under section 505(b) of the Federal Food, Drug,
    and Cosmetic Act or biologicals licensed under
    section 351(a) of the Public Health Service Act. Beginning
    in 2011, the new healthcare reform law sets an aggregate annual
    fee, to be paid by these manufacturers and importers, totaling
    $28 billion over 10 years, of which $2.5 billion
    is payable in 2011. This annual fee will be apportioned among
    the participating companies, including us, based on each
    company s sales of qualifying products to, and utilization
    by, certain U.S. government programs during the preceding
    calendar year. The additional fee became effective
    January 1, 2011, and is not deductible for
    U.S. federal income tax purposes. Manufacturers and
    importers of generic or biosimilar drugs are not subject to the
    fee. We estimate that we will be required to pay
    $150 million to $200 million as our portion of the
    2011 fee.

Since the Medicare Part D drug benefit took effect in 2006,
    beneficiaries enrolled in Part D plans have been required
    to pay 100% of their prescription drug costs after their total
    drug spending exceeds an initial coverage limit until they
    qualify for catastrophic coverage. This coverage gap is
    sometimes referred to as the Part D  doughnut
    hole.  The new healthcare reform law reduces the
     doughnut hole  by requiring manufacturers like us to
    provide a 50% discount to Medicare Part D patients whose
    prescription expenses exceed the Part D prescription drug
    coverage limit but have not yet reached the catastrophic
    coverage threshold. This provision became effective
    January 1, 2011.

The new healthcare reform law also expands the Medicaid
    eligibility to include those with incomes up to 133% of the
    federal poverty level ( FPL ), from 100% of the FPL.
    This provision becomes effective January 1, 2014.

We estimate that the total impact of U.S. healthcare reform
    in 2011 to us, including the industry fee described above, will
    be in the range of $400 million to $500 million.

23

Table of Contents   

Reimbursement
    Outside the United States  

Generally, in Europe and other countries outside the United
    States, government-sponsored healthcare systems have
    traditionally been the primary payers of all healthcare costs,
    including payment for drugs and biologicals. Over the past
    several years, the reimbursement environment in Europe has
    become very challenging, with the advent of Health Technology
    Assessment ( HTA ) organizations (eg, NICE in the UK)
    that make recommendations
     and/or 
    determinations of coverage and reimbursement based on both the
    clinical as well as the economic value of a product. Although
    the methods employed by different HTA agencies vary from country
    to country, the use of formal economic metrics has been
    increasing across Europe as well as in several emerging markets
    throughout the world. In addition to determining whether or not
    a new product will be reimbursed, these agencies are becoming
    increasingly involved in setting the maximum price at which the
    product will be reimbursed   the
     value-based  price for a product.

With increased budgetary constraints, payers in many countries
    employ a variety of measures to exert downward price pressure.
    In some countries, international price referencing is the
    primary mechanism for price control whereby the ceiling price of
    a pharmaceutical or biological product is set based on the
    prices in particular benchmark countries. These price
    referencing rules are increasing in complexity as prices become
    more transparent and payers seek lower-price benchmarks against
    which to compare themselves. Additional cost-containment
    measures can include therapeutic reference pricing (eg, setting
    the reimbursement rate for a given class of agents at the lowest
    price within the class), generic substitution and
    government-mandated price cuts.

While mandatory price reductions have been a recurring aspect of
    business for the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries in
    the EU, given the current worldwide economic conditions, some EU
    governmental agencies have increased the frequency
     and/or  size
    of such mandatory price reductions to extract further cost
    savings. For example, in 2010, countries such as Greece
    announced price reductions
     and/or 
    mandated rebates for certain pharmaceutical and biological
    products that substantially exceeded prior levels. Other
    countries may follow
     and/or  take
    similar or more extensive actions to reduce expenditures on
    drugs and biologics, including implementing mandatory price
    reductions, establishing preferences for biosimilar products, or
    reducing the amount of reimbursement.

In many countries, the influence of regional and hospital payers
    also contributes to whether patients have access to certain
    products. For example, a product may be successfully listed on a
    national formulary, but may also be subject to further
    evaluations or competitive bidding by payers at a regional or
    hospital level. Finally, payers in some countries are beginning
    to experiment with alternative payment mechanisms (eg, payment
    caps) as a means to maintain access to innovative therapies.

Fraud and
    Abuse Regulations Related to Reimbursement  

As participants in government reimbursement programs, we are
    subject to various U.S. federal and state laws, as well as
    foreign laws, pertaining to healthcare  fraud and
    abuse,  including anti-kickback laws and false claims laws.
    (See Government Regulation   Other.) Violations of
    fraud and abuse laws can result in stringent enforcement
    penalties up to and including complete exclusion from federal
    healthcare programs (including Medicare and Medicaid).

Manufacturing,
    Distribution and Raw Materials   

Manufacturing  

Biological products, which are produced in living systems, are
    inherently complex due to naturally-occurring molecular
    variations. Highly specialized knowledge and extensive process
    and product characterization are required to transform
    laboratory scale processes into reproducible commercial
    manufacturing processes. Our manufacturing operations consist of
    bulk manufacturing, formulation, fill and finish and
    distribution activities. Bulk manufacturing includes
    fermentation and cell culture, which are the processes by which
    our proteins are produced. The proteins are purified to a high
    quality and then formulated into a stable form. The fill process

24

Table of Contents   

dispenses the formulated bulk protein into vials or syringes.
    Finally, in the finish process, our products are packaged for
    distribution.

We operate commercial
     and/or 
    clinical manufacturing facilities in the United States, Puerto
    Rico and the Netherlands. (See Item 2. Properties.)
    Manufacturing of
    Sensipar   /Mimpara   ,

    our small molecule product, is currently performed by
    third-party contract manufacturers, although we are in the
    process of transferring certain finishing aspects to our
    facility in Puerto Rico. We also use and expect to continue to
    use third-party contract manufacturers to produce or assist in
    the production of certain of our large molecule marketed
    products, including ENBREL,
    Nplate   ,

    Prolia   

    and
    XGEVA  tm  

    as well as a number of our clinical product candidates. In
    addition to producing our own commercial quantities of Epoetin
    alfa, we also supply Epoetin alfa in the United States to
    J J under a supply agreement. (See Business
    Relationships   Johnson   Johnson.)

The global supply of our principal products depends on actively
    managing the inventory produced at our facilities and by
    third-party contract manufacturers and the uninterrupted and
    efficient operation of our facilities and those of our
    third-party contract manufacturers. During the manufacturing
     scale-up 
    process, and even after achieving sustainable commercial
    manufacturing, we may encounter difficulties or disruptions due
    to defects in raw materials or equipment, contamination or other
    factors that could impact product availability. (See
    Item 1A. Risk Factors   Manufacturing
    difficulties, disruptions or delays could limit supply of our
    products and limit our product sales and   We rely on
    third-party suppliers for certain of our raw materials, medical
    devices and components.)

We have obtained from various parties certain licenses we deem
    necessary or desirable for the manufacture of our products. The
    licenses generally require us to pay royalties to the licensors
    based on product sales.

Commercial
    Bulk Manufacturing  

We operate commercial bulk manufacturing facilities in Puerto
    Rico and in several locations throughout the United States. (See
    Item 2. Properties.) We perform all of the commercial bulk
    manufacturing of all of our proteins except ENBREL,
    Prolia   

    and
    XGEVA  tm  ,

    which we supplement with a third-party contract manufacturer.

Commercial
    Formulation, Fill and Finish Manufacturing  

Our primary commercial formulation, fill and finish
    manufacturing facility is located in Puerto Rico. We perform the
    commercial formulation, fill and finish manufacturing for our
    proteins at that facility, except for
    Vectibix   

    and
    Nplate   .

    We operate a commercial formulation, fill and finish
    manufacturing facility in the United States for
    Vectibix   

    and the formulation, fill and finish for
    Nplate   

    is performed by a third-party contract manufacturer. In addition
    to the formulation, fill and finish of ENBREL performed by us in
    Puerto Rico, fill and finish of a certain portion of ENBREL is
    also performed by third-party contract manufacturers. We also
    conduct certain finish activities in the Netherlands. (See
    Item 2. Properties.)

Clinical
    Manufacturing  

Clinical bulk, formulation, fill and finish manufacturing
    facilities are operated primarily in our Thousand Oaks,
    California location. (See Item 2. Properties.) Certain
    finishing activities for our clinical products are performed in
    the Netherlands. In addition, we also utilize third-party
    contract manufacturers for certain of our clinical products.

See Item 1A. Risk Factors   We perform a
    substantial amount of our commercial manufacturing activities at
    our Puerto Rico manufacturing facility and a substantial amount
    of our clinical manufacturing activities at our Thousand Oaks,
    California manufacturing facility; if significant natural
    disasters or production failures occur at the Puerto Rico
    facility, we may not be able to supply these products or, at the
    Thousand Oaks facility, we may not be able to continue our
    clinical trials.

Distribution  

We operate distribution centers in the United States,
    principally in Kentucky and California, and in the Netherlands
    for worldwide distribution of the majority of our commercial and
    clinical products. In addition, we also

25

Table of Contents   

use third-party distributors to supplement distribution of our
    commercial and clinical products in certain areas of the world.

Other  

In addition to the manufacturing and distribution activities
    noted above, our operations in the United States, Puerto Rico
    and the Netherlands perform key manufacturing support functions,
    including quality control, process development, procurement,
    distribution and production scheduling. Certain of those
    manufacturing and distribution activities are highly regulated
    by the FDA as well as other international regulatory agencies.
    (See Government Regulation   FDA Regulation of
    Manufacturing Standards . )

Manufacturing
    Initiatives  

We have multiple ongoing initiatives that are designed to
    optimize our manufacturing network and mitigate risks while
    continuing to ensure adequate supply of our commercial products.
    For example, we are completing the construction and
    qualification of a new formulation and filling facility at our
    Puerto Rico site in order to mitigate the risk associated with
    the majority of our formulation and fill operations being
    performed in a single facility and we are qualifying the
    expansion of our existing bulk protein facilities at our Puerto
    Rico site in order to maintain supply and to satisfy anticipated
    future demand for denosumab. Upon completion, the facilities
    will require licensure by the various regulatory authorities.

We have also entered into an agreement with Boehringer Ingelheim
    ( BI ) for the divestiture of our manufacturing
    facility in Fremont, California to further optimize our
    manufacturing network.

In addition to these projects, we have initiatives designed to
    operate our facilities at appropriate production capacity over
    the next few years, further optimize manufacturing asset
    utilization, continue our use of third-party contract
    manufacturers and maintain a state of regulatory compliance.
    (See Item 1A. Risk Factors   Manufacturing
    difficulties, disruptions or delays could limit supply of our
    products and limit our product sales.)

Raw
    Materials and Medical Devices  

Certain raw materials necessary for the commercial and clinical
    bulk manufacturing of our products are provided by unaffiliated
    third-party suppliers, certain of which may be our only source
    for such materials. Also, certain medical devices and components
    necessary for the formulation, fill and finish of our products
    are provided by unaffiliated third-party suppliers, certain of
    which may be the sole source. Certain of the raw materials,
    medical devices and components are the proprietary products of
    those unaffiliated third-party suppliers and are specifically
    cited in our drug application with regulatory agencies so that
    they must be obtained from the specific sole source or sources
    and could not be obtained from another supplier unless and until
    the regulatory agency approved such supplier. We currently
    attempt to manage the risk associated with such suppliers by
    inventory management, relationship management and evaluation of
    alternative sources when feasible. We also monitor the financial
    condition of certain suppliers, their ability to supply our
    needs and the market conditions for these items.

Certain of the raw materials required in the commercial and
    clinical manufacturing of our products are sourced from other
    countries
     and/or 
    derived from biological sources, including mammalian tissues. In
    addition, one of our marketed products also uses bovine serum
    and human serum albumin ( HSA ). Some countries in
    which we market our products may restrict the use of certain
    biologically derived substances in the manufacture of drugs. We
    continue to investigate alternatives to certain biological
    sources and alternative manufacturing processes that do not
    require the use of certain biologically derived substances
    because such raw materials may be subject to contamination
     and/or 
    recall. A material shortage, contamination, recall
     and/or 
    restriction of the use of certain biologically derived
    substances or other raw materials, which may be sourced from
    other countries and that are used in the manufacture of our
    products could adversely impact or disrupt the commercial
    manufacturing of our products or could result in a mandated
    withdrawal of our products from the market. (See Item 1A.
    Risk Factors   We rely on third-party suppliers for
    certain of our raw materials, medical devices and components.)

26

Table of Contents   

We perform various procedures to assist in authenticating the
    source of raw materials, including intermediary materials used
    in the manufacture of our products, which include verification
    of the country of origin. These procedures are incorporated into
    the manufacturing processes we and our third-party contract
    manufacturers perform.

Business
    Relationships   

From time to time, we enter into business relationships
    including, joint ventures and collaborative arrangements, for
    the R D, manufacture
     and/or 
    commercialization of products and product candidates. In
    addition, we also acquire product and R D technology rights
    and establish R D collaborations with third-parties to
    enhance our strategic position within our industry by
    strengthening and diversifying our R D capabilities,
    product pipeline and marketed product base. These arrangements
    generally provide for non-refundable upfront license fees,
    R D and commercial performance milestone payments, cost
    sharing, royalty payments
     and/or 
    profit sharing. Our collaboration agreements are performed on a
     best efforts  basis with no guarantee of either
    technological or commercial success and each is unique in nature.

Trade secret protection for our unpatented confidential and
    proprietary information is important to us. To protect our trade
    secrets, we generally require parties to business relationships
    to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of
    the business relationship with us. However, others could either
    develop independently the same or similar information or obtain
    access to our information.

Kirin
    Holdings Company, Limited  

We formed KA, a
     50-50  joint
    venture with Kirin in 1984. KA develops and commercializes
    certain of our and Kirin s product rights, which have been
    transferred to this joint venture. KA has given exclusive
    licenses to us to manufacture and market: (i) darbepoetin
    alfa in the United States, Europe, Canada, Australia, New
    Zealand, Mexico, all Central and South American countries and
    certain countries in Central Asia, Africa and the Middle East,
    (ii) pegfilgrastim and G-CSF in the United States, Europe,
    Canada, Australia and New Zealand, (iii) recombinant human
    erythropoietin in the United States and (iv) romiplostim in
    the United States, Europe, Canada, Australia, New Zealand,
    Mexico, all Central and South American countries and certain
    countries in Central Asia, Africa and the Middle East. We
    currently market darbepoetin alfa, pegfilgrastim, G-CSF,
    recombinant human erythropoietin and romiplostim under the brand
    names
    Aranesp   ,

    Neulasta   ,

    NEUPOGEN   /GRANULOKINE   ,

    EPOGEN   

    and
    Nplate   ,

    respectively.

KA has also given exclusive licenses to Kirin to manufacture and
    market: (i) darbepoetin alfa, pegfilgrastim, G-CSF and
    romiplostim in Japan, the People s Republic of China
    ( China ), Taiwan, Korea and certain other countries
    in Asia, and (ii) recombinant human erythropoietin in Japan
    and China. Kirin markets darbepoetin alfa in Japan under the
    brand name
    NESP   .

    Kirin markets G-CSF and recombinant human erythropoietin in
    China under separate agreements with KA. Kirin markets its G-CSF
    product in its respective territories under the trademark
    GRAN   /Grasin   /Filgrastim   .

    Kirin markets its recombinant human erythropoietin product in
    Japan under the trademark
    ESPO   .

    Kirin also markets G-CSF and recombinant human erythropoietin in
    China under a separate agreement with Amgen Greater China Ltd.,
    a subsidiary of Amgen Inc.

KA has licensed to J J rights to recombinant human
    erythropoietin in all geographic areas of the world outside the
    United States, China and Japan. (See Johnson  
    Johnson.) Under its agreement with KA, J J pays a royalty
    to KA based on sales. KA has also licensed to Roche rights to
    pegfilgrastim and G-CSF in certain geographic areas of the world.

In connection with our various license agreements with KA, we
    pay KA royalties based on product sales. In addition, we also
    receive payment from KA for conducting certain R D
    activities on its behalf. (See Note 7, Related party
    transactions to the Consolidated Financial Statements.)

27

Table of Contents   

Johnson  
    Johnson  

We granted J J a license to commercialize recombinant human
    erythropoietin as a human therapeutic in the United States in
    all indications other than dialysis and diagnostics. All
    recombinant human erythropoietin sold by J J in the United
    States is manufactured by us and sold by J J under the
    trademark
    PROCRIT   

    (Epoetin alfa).
    PROCRIT   

    brand Epoetin alfa is identical to
    EPOGEN   

    brand Epoetin alfa, which is manufactured and sold by us in the
    U.S. market for the dialysis indication. Pursuant to the
    license agreement with J J, we earn a 10% royalty on net
    sales of
    PROCRIT   

    by J J in the United States.

Outside the United States, with the exception of China and
    Japan, J J was granted rights to manufacture and
    commercialize recombinant human erythropoietin as a human
    therapeutic for all uses under a licensing agreement with KA.
    With respect to its sales outside of the United States, J J
    manufactures and commercializes its own brand of Epoetin alfa
    which is then sold by a subsidiary of J J under various
    trademarks such as
    EPREX   

    and
    ERYPO   .

    We are not involved in the manufacture of Epoetin alfa sold by
    J J outside of the United States.

Pfizer
    Inc.  

Amgen and Pfizer are in a collaboration agreement to co-promote
    ENBREL in the United States and Canada. The rights to market
    ENBREL outside of the United States and Canada are reserved to
    Pfizer. Under the agreement, a management committee comprised of
    equal representation from Amgen and Pfizer is responsible for
    overseeing the marketing and sales of ENBREL, including
    strategic planning, the approval of an annual marketing plan,
    product pricing and the establishment of a brand team. The brand
    team, with equal representation from each party, prepares and
    implements the annual marketing plan, which requires a minimum
    level of financial and sales personnel commitment from each
    party, and is responsible for all sales activities. Further,
    pursuant to the collaboration agreement, Amgen and Pfizer share
    in the
     agreed-upon 
    selling and marketing expenses approved by the joint management
    committee. We currently pay Pfizer a percentage of the annual
    gross profits on our ENBREL sales in the United States and
    Canada attributable to all approved indications for ENBREL on a
    scale that increases as gross profits increase; however, we
    maintain a majority share of ENBREL profits. After expiration of
    the collaboration agreement in the fourth quarter of 2013, we
    are required to pay Pfizer a percentage of net ENBREL sales in
    the United States and Canada for three years. The annual amount
    of such payments is anticipated to be significantly less than
    the current ENBREL profit share.

Glaxo
    Group Limited  

In July 2009, we entered into a collaboration agreement with
    Glaxo for the commercialization of denosumab for osteoporosis
    indications in Europe, Australia, New Zealand and Mexico (the
     Primary Territories ). We retained the rights to
    commercialize denosumab for all indications in the United States
    and Canada and for oncology indications in the Primary
    Territories. Under a related agreement, Glaxo will commercialize
    denosumab for all indications in countries, excluding Japan,
    where we do not currently have a commercial presence, including
    China, Brazil, India, Taiwan and South Korea (the
     Expansion Territories ). In the Expansion
    Territories, Glaxo will be responsible for all development and
    commercialization costs and will purchase denosumab from us to
    meet demand. We have the option of expanding our role in the
    future in the commercialization of denosumab in the Primary
    Territories and certain of the Expansion Territories. In the
    Primary Territories, we share equally in the commercialization
    profits and losses related to the collaboration after accounting
    for expenses, including an amount payable to us in recognition
    of our discovery and development of denosumab. Glaxo will also
    be responsible for bearing a portion of the cost of certain
    specified development activities in the Primary Territories.

Takeda
    Pharmaceutical Company Limited  

In February 2008, we entered into a collaboration agreement with
    Takeda, which provides Takeda the exclusive rights to develop
    and commercialize for the Japanese market up to 12 clinical
    stage molecules from our pipeline across a range of therapeutic
    areas, including oncology and inflammation. The products include
    Vectibix   

    which received regulatory approval in Japan in 2010 for
    unresectable, advanced or recurrent colorectal cancer with
    wild-type  KRAS , AMG 386, which is in a phase 3 trial in
    the United States for recurrent ovarian cancer, and

28

Table of Contents   

ganitumab (AMG 479) which is expected to enter into a phase
    3 trial in the United States for first-line metastatic
    pancreatic cancer in 2011. We have the right to participate in
    the promotion of the products in Japan. In addition, we entered
    into a collaboration agreement with Takeda for the worldwide
    development and commercialization of our product candidate
    motesanib in the oncology area. Each party has the right to
    participate in the commercialization of motesanib in the other
    party s territory.

Daiichi
    Sankyo Company, Limited  

In July 2007, we entered into a collaboration and license
    agreement with Daiichi Sankyo, which provides Daiichi Sankyo the
    exclusive rights to develop and commercialize denosumab in Japan
    in postmenopausal osteoporosis ( PMO ), oncology and
    certain other indications. As part of the agreement, Amgen
    received exclusive worldwide rights to certain Daiichi Sankyo
    intellectual property to the extent applicable to denosumab.

Fresenius
    Medical Care North America  

In October 2006, we entered into a five-year sole sourcing and
    supply agreement with an affiliate of Fresenius Medical Care
    North America ( Fresenius North America ) (a wholly
    owned subsidiary of Fresenius Medical Care), on its behalf and
    on behalf of certain of its affiliates, whereby Fresenius North
    America agreed to purchase, and we have agreed to supply, all of
    Fresenius North America s commercial requirements for ESAs
    for use in managing the anemia of its hemodialysis patients in
    the United States and Puerto Rico, based on forecasts provided
    by Fresenius and subject to the terms and conditions of the
    agreement.

Government
    Regulation   

Regulation by government authorities in the United States and
    other countries is a significant factor in the production and
    marketing of our products and our ongoing R D activities.

In order to clinically test, manufacture and market products for
    therapeutic use, we must satisfy mandatory procedures and safety
    and effectiveness standards established by various regulatory
    bodies. In the United States, the Public Health Service Act, the
    Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act ( FDCA ) and the
    regulations promulgated thereunder, as well as other federal and
    state statutes and regulations govern, among other things, the
    raw materials and components used in the production, research,
    development, testing, manufacture, quality control, labeling,
    storage, record keeping, approval, advertising and promotion,
    and distribution of our products. Failure to comply with the
    applicable regulatory requirements may subject us to a variety
    of administrative
     and/or 
    judicially imposed sanctions. The sanctions could include the
    FDA s refusal to approve pending applications, withdrawals
    of approvals, delay or suspension of clinical trials, warning
    letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial
    suspension of our operations, injunctions, fines, civil
    penalties
     and/or 
    criminal prosecution.

Clinical Development.  We must conduct extensive clinical
    trials designed to establish the safety and efficacy of product
    candidates in order to file for regulatory approval to market a
    product. Product development and approval within that regulatory
    framework takes a number of years and involves our expenditure
    of substantial resources, and any approval we obtain remains
    costly for us to maintain. After laboratory analysis and
    preclinical testing in animals, we file an investigational new
    drug application ( IND ) with the FDA to begin human
    testing. The IND automatically becomes effective 30 days
    after receipt by the FDA, unless the FDA raises concerns or
    questions. In such a case, we and the FDA must resolve any
    outstanding concerns before the clinical trial can begin.

Typically, we undertake a three-phase human clinical testing
    program. In phase 1, we conduct small clinical trials to
    investigate the safety and proper dose ranges of our product
    candidates in a small number of human subjects. In phase 2, we
    conduct clinical trials to investigate side effect profiles and
    the efficacy of our product candidates in a larger number of
    patients who have the disease or condition under study. In phase
    3, we conduct clinical trials to investigate the safety and
    efficacy of our product candidates in a large number of patients
    who have the disease or condition under study. The time and
    expense required for us to perform this clinical testing is
    substantial and may vary by product. For example, the clinical
    trials for the BLA for
    Prolia   /XGEVA  tm  

    were large and required substantial time and resources to
    recruit patients and significant expense to execute.
    Historically, our products have required smaller, shorter
    trials. Foreign studies performed under an IND must meet the
    same

29

Table of Contents   

requirements that apply to U.S. studies. The FDA will
    accept a foreign clinical study not conducted under an IND only
    if the study is well-designed, well-conducted, performed by
    qualified investigators, and conforms to good clinical practice.
    Phase 1, 2 and 3 testing may not be completed successfully
    within any specified time period, if at all. (See Item 1A.
    Risk Factors   We may not be able to develop
    commercial products.) The FDA monitors the progress of each
    trial conducted under an IND and may, at its discretion,
    re-evaluate, alter, suspend, or terminate the testing based on
    the data accumulated to that point and the FDA s
    risk/benefit assessment with regard to the patients enrolled in
    the trial. (See Item 1A. Risk Factors   We must
    conduct clinical trials in humans before we can commercialize
    and sell any of our product candidates or existing products for
    new indications.)

Applications.  The results of preclinical and clinical
    trials are submitted to the FDA in the form of a BLA for
    biologic products subject to the Public Health Service Act or a
    new drug application ( NDA ) for drugs subject to the
    approval provisions of the FDCA. The submission of the
    application is no guarantee that the FDA will find it complete
    and accept it for filing. If an application is accepted for
    filing, following the FDA s review, the FDA may grant
    marketing approval, request additional information, or deny the
    application if it determines that the application does not
    provide an adequate basis for approval. We cannot take any
    action to market any new drug or biologic product in the United
    States until our appropriate marketing application has been
    approved by the FDA.

Post-approval Phase.  After we have obtained approval to
    market our products, we monitor adverse events from the use of
    our products and report such events to regulatory agencies,
    along with information from post marketing surveillance or
    studies. We may utilize other research approaches to learn or
    confirm information about our marketed products, including
    observational studies and patient registries, and may engage in
    risk management activities such as physician education
    initiatives and patient advocacy group initiatives. We may also
    conduct, or be required by regulatory agencies to conduct,
    further clinical trials to provide additional information on our
    marketed products  safety and efficacy. Those additional
    trials may include studying different doses or schedules of
    administration that were used in previous studies, use in other
    patient populations or other stages of the disease or use over a
    longer period of time. Additional trials of this nature are
    sometimes required by regulatory agencies as a condition of
    their approval to market our products and they might also
    request or require that we conduct specific studies, including
    observational epidemiological studies, in order to identify or
    assess possible safety risks of our marketed products that are
    observed or suggested by available scientific data and such
    trials are sometimes referred to as PMCs or PMRs. In the United
    States, under the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of
    2007 (the  FDAAA ), if the FDA becomes aware of new
    safety information after approval of a product, it may require
    us to conduct further clinical trials to assess a known or
    potential serious risk. If we are required to conduct such a
    post-approval study, periodic status reports must be submitted
    to the FDA. Failure to conduct such post-approval studies in a
    timely manner may result in substantial civil or criminal
    penalties. Data resulting from these clinical trials may result
    in expansions or restrictions to the labeled indications for
    which our products have already been approved and to the
    reimbursement provided by government and commercial payers for
    our products.

The FDAAA also gave the FDA authority to require companies to
    implement a REMS for a product to ensure that the benefits of
    the drugs outweigh the risks. While risk management activities
    and programs are not new, with FDAAA the FDA gained new
    authority to implement specific risk management requirements and
    new enforcement power to ensure that the goals of the REMS are
    being met. The FDA began to implement REMS in 2008. The FDA may
    require the submission of a REMS before a product is approved or
    after approval based on new safety information, including new
    analyses of existing safety information. In determining whether
    a product will require a REMS before the product is approved,
    the FDA may consider a number of factors including:

estimated size of the population likely to use the product;

seriousness of the condition treated and expected benefits of
    the product;

duration of treatment with the product;

seriousness of known or potential adverse events associated with
    the product; and

whether the product is a new molecular entity.

30

Table of Contents   

All REMS are required to have a timetable for assessment and may
    have one or more of the following:

distribution of a medication guide or a patient package insert
    to patients;

communication plan for the healthcare provider or institution,
    such as a Dear Healthcare Professional Letter;

elements to assure safe use including, but not limited to:

specific training, experience or certification for prescribers;

certification of medication dispensing sites and dispensing in
    limited settings;

monitoring of specific patients; and

enrollment of patients in a registry.

Each REMS is unique and varies depending on the specific factors
    required. While the elements of REMS may vary, all REMS require
    the sponsor to submit periodic assessment reports to the FDA to
    demonstrate that the goals of the REMS are being met. Failure to
    comply with a REMS, including submission of a required
    assessment or any modification to a REMS, may result in
    substantial civil or criminal penalties and can result in
    additional limitations being placed on a product s use and,
    potentially, withdrawal of the product from the market. We
    currently have approved REMS for our ESAs, ENBREL,
    Prolia   

    and
    Nplate   .

    Because REMS are relatively new, the FDA and sponsor companies
    continue to learn how best to implement, operate and monitor the
    effectiveness of REMS, and the requirements of our REMS and
    those of other companies may change over time.

Adverse events that are reported after marketing approval also
    can result in additional limitations being placed on a
    product s use and, potentially, withdrawal of the product
    from the market. The FDA has authority to mandate labeling
    changes to products at any point in a product s lifecycle
    based on new safety information or as part of an evolving label
    change to a particular class of products. Also under the
    FDA s PLR implemented in 2006, we are required to make
    changes to the existing format of U.S. product package
    inserts for human prescription drug and biological products with
    the intent of making product information more easily accessible.
    The PLR requires revised standards of content and format of
    labeling and provides timelines for when new and previously
    approved products must comply with the new regulations. During
    the PLR conversion process from an old format to the new PLR
    format, the FDA has the authority to evaluate the package insert
    information to ensure that it accurately reflects current
    knowledge and the FDA may revise, add or remove information in
    the old format that could substantively impact the content of
    the product package insert for the new format. Failure to
    implement FDA-mandated changes may result in civil or criminal
    penalties. (See Item 1A. Risk Factors   Our ESA
    products continue to be under review and receive scrutiny by
    regulatory authorities and   Our current products and
    products in development cannot be sold if we do not maintain or
    gain regulatory approval.) The package inserts for our ENBREL
    and
    Neulasta   

    products have already been converted to the new PLR format and
    we are currently working with the FDA on converting the package
    inserts for
    Aranesp   ,

    EPOGEN   

    and
    Sensipar   .

    Our
    Vectibix   ,

    Nplate      ,

     Prolia   

    and
    XGEVA  tm  

    products were approved in the PLR format.

The FDA also uses various advisory committees of external
    experts to assist in its mission to protect and promote the
    public health, to obtain independent expert advice on
    scientific, technical and policy matters. The committees are
    generally advisory only and FDA officials are not bound to or
    limited by their recommendations. We have participated in
    meetings of the ODAC, the CRDAC and the Advisory Committee for
    Reproductive Health Drugs, among others, to address certain
    issues related to our products, including
    Aranesp   ,

    EPOGEN   

    and
    Prolia   .

FDA Approval of Biosimilar Products.  The new healthcare
    reform law authorizes the FDA to approve biosimilar products
    under a separate, abbreviated pathway. The new law establishes a
    period of 12 years of data exclusivity for reference
    products in order to preserve incentives for future innovation
    and outlines statutory criteria for science-based biosimilar
    approval standards that take into account patient safety
    considerations. Under this framework, data exclusivity protects
    the data in the innovator s regulatory application by
    prohibiting others, for a period of 12 years, from gaining
    FDA approval based in part on reliance or reference to the
    innovator s data in their application to the FDA. The new
    law does not change the duration of patents granted on biologic
    products. While the FDA now has the authority to approve
    biosimilar products, the FDA has not announced whether it will
    first

31

Table of Contents   

publish guidance or rules for biosimilar applicants before
    approving biosimilar products. The FDA held a public meeting in
    November 2010 to seek stakeholder input on the subject and
    accepted written comments through 2010.

FDA Regulation of Product Marketing and Promotion.  The
    FDA closely reviews and regulates the marketing and promotion of
    products. We are required to obtain FDA approval before
    marketing or promoting a product as a treatment for a particular
    indication. Our product promotion for approved product
    indications must comply with the statutory standards of the
    FDCA, and the FDA s implementing regulations and standards.
    The FDA s review of marketing and promotional activities
    encompasses, but is not limited to,
     direct-to-consumer 
    advertising, healthcare provider-directed advertising and
    promotion, sales representative communications to healthcare
    professionals, promotional programming and promotional
    activities involving the Internet. The FDA may also review
    industry-sponsored scientific and educational activities. The
    FDA may take enforcement action against a company for promoting
    unapproved uses of a product ( off-label promotion )
    or for other violations of its advertising and labeling laws and
    regulations. Enforcement action may include product seizures,
    injunctions, civil or criminal penalties or regulatory letters,
    which may require corrective advertising or other corrective
    communications to healthcare professionals. Failure to comply
    with the FDA s regulations also can result in adverse
    publicity or increased scrutiny of company activities by the
    U.S. Congress or other legislators.

FDA Regulation of Manufacturing Standards.  The FDA
    regulates and inspects equipment, facilities, laboratories and
    processes used in the manufacturing and testing of products
    prior to providing approval to market a product. If after
    receiving approval from the FDA, we make a material change in
    manufacturing equipment, location or process, additional
    regulatory review may be required. We also must adhere to
    current Good Manufacturing Practice ( GMP )
    regulations and product-specific regulations enforced by the FDA
    through its facilities inspection program. The FDA also conducts
    regular, periodic visits to re-inspect our equipment,
    facilities, laboratories and processes following an initial
    approval. If, as a result of those inspections, the FDA
    determines that our equipment, facilities, laboratories or
    processes do not comply with applicable FDA regulations and
    conditions of product approval, the FDA may seek civil, criminal
    or administrative sanctions
     and/or 
    remedies against us, including suspension of our manufacturing
    operations. Such issues may also delay the approval of new
    products undergoing FDA review.

Approval and Post-Approval Regulation Outside the United
    States.  In the EU countries, Switzerland, Canada and
    Australia, regulatory requirements and approval processes are
    similar in principle to those in the United States.
    Additionally, depending on the type of drug for which approval
    is sought, there are currently two potential tracks for
    marketing approval in the EU, including a centralized procedure.
    In the centralized procedure, which is required of all products
    derived from biotechnology, a company submits a single marketing
    authorization application to the EMA who conducts a thorough
    evaluation, drawing from its scientific resources across Europe.
    If the drug product is proven to fulfill the requirements for
    quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP adopts a positive
    opinion, which is transmitted to the EC for final approval of
    the marketing authorization. While the EC generally follows the
    CHMP s opinion, it is not bound to do so. In the EU,
    biosimilar products have been approved under a
     sub-pathway 
    of the centralized procedure since 2006. The pathway allows
    sponsors of a biosimilar product to seek and obtain regulatory
    approval based in part on the clinical trial data of an
    originator product to which the biosimilar product has been
    demonstrated to be  similar.  In many cases, this
    allows biosimilar products to be brought to market without
    conducting the full suite of clinical trials typically required
    of innovators. After evaluation and marketing authorization,
    various parties, including the national competent authorities,
    the EMA, the EC and the marketing authorization holders share
    responsibilities for the detection, assessment and prevention of
    adverse effects and other medicine-related problems in a process
    known as pharmacovigilance. Healthcare professionals and
    patients are also encouraged to report adverse effects and other
    medicine-related problems. This process includes the collection
    of adverse drug reaction reports as part of the
     follow-up  on
    any side effects of a product, and upon assessment, the
    authorities can decide to demand that product labels be updated
    with safety data or warnings, that safety data or warnings be
    provided to healthcare professionals, or recommend the temporary
    suspension or complete withdrawal of a product from the market.

Other.  We are also subject to various federal and state
    laws, as well as foreign laws, pertaining to healthcare
     fraud and abuse,  including anti-kickback laws and
    false claims laws. Anti-kickback laws make it illegal to
    solicit, offer, receive or pay any remuneration in exchange for,
    or to induce, the referral of business, including the purchase
    or prescription of a particular drug that is reimbursed by a
    state or federal program. The federal government and the states
    have published regulations that identify  safe
    harbors  or exemptions for certain arrangements that do not

32

Table of Contents   

violate the anti-kickback statute. We seek to comply with the
    safe harbors wherever possible. Due to the breadth of the
    statutory provisions and the absence of guidance in the form of
    regulations or court decisions addressing some of our practices,
    it is possible that our practices might be challenged under
    anti-kickback or similar laws. False claims laws prohibit
    knowingly and willingly presenting, or causing to be presented
    for payment to third-party payers (including Medicare and
    Medicaid), claims for reimbursed drugs or services that are
    false or fraudulent, claims for items or services not provided
    as claimed or claims for medically unnecessary items or
    services. Our activities related to the sale and marketing of
    our products may be subject to scrutiny under these laws.
    Violations of fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by criminal
     and/or  civil
    sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties, as well
    as the possibility of exclusion from federal healthcare programs
    (including Medicare and Medicaid). If the government were to
    allege against or convict us of violating those laws or if we
    entered into a settlement with the government, there could be a
    material adverse effect on our business, including our stock
    price. Our activities could be subject to challenge for the
    reasons discussed above and due to the broad scope of those laws
    and the increasing attention being given to them by law
    enforcement authorities.

We are also subject to regulation under the Occupational Safety
    and Health Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Resource
    Conservation and Recovery Act and other current and potential
    future federal, state or local laws, rules
     and/or 
    regulations. Our R D activities involve the controlled use
    of hazardous materials, chemicals, biological materials and
    various radioactive compounds. We believe our procedures comply
    with the standards prescribed by federal, state or local laws,
    rules  and/or 
    regulations; however, the risk of injury or accidental
    contamination cannot be completely eliminated. While we are not
    required to do so, we strive to conduct our research and
    manufacturing activities in a manner that meets the intents and
    purposes of the National Institutes of Health Guidelines for
    Recombinant DNA Research.

Additionally, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
    ( FCPA ) prohibits U.S. corporations and their
    representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making
    payments to any foreign government official, government staff
    member, political party or political candidate in an attempt to
    obtain or retain business abroad. The scope of the FCPA includes
    interactions with certain healthcare professionals in many
    countries.

Our present and future business has been and will continue to be
    subject to various other U.S. and foreign laws, rules
     and/or 
    regulations.

Research
    and Development and Selected Product Candidates   

Our vision is to deliver therapeutics that can make a meaningful
    difference in patients  lives. Therefore, we focus our
    R D on novel human therapeutics for the treatment of
    grievous illness in the areas of oncology, hematology,
    inflammation, bone, nephrology, cardiovascular and general
    medicine, which includes neurology. We take a
    modality-independent approach to R D   that is,
    we identify targets, and then choose the modality best suited to
    address a specific target. As such, our discovery research
    programs may yield targets that lead to the development of human
    therapeutics delivered as large molecules (such as proteins,
    antibodies and peptibodies) or small molecules.

We have major R D centers in several locations throughout
    the United States and in the United Kingdom, as well as smaller
    research centers in Canada and Germany, and smaller development
    facilities throughout Europe and in Canada, Australia, Mexico,
    Hong Kong and India. (See Item 2. Properties.)

To execute our clinical trial programs, we need to maintain an
    effective development organization and associated R D
    support organizations. We conduct clinical trial activities with
    both our internal staff and third-party contract clinical trial
    service providers. In order to increase the number of patients
    available for enrollment for our clinical trials, we have and
    will continue to open clinical sites and enroll patients in a
    number of geographic locations. (See Item 1A. Risk
    Factors   We must conduct clinical trials in humans
    before we can commercialize and sell any of our product
    candidates or existing products for new indications.)

Some of our competitors are actively engaged in R D in
    areas where we have products or where we are developing product
    candidates or new indications for existing products. For
    example, we compete with other clinical trials for eligible
    patients, which may limit the number of available patients who
    meet the criteria for certain

33

Table of Contents   

clinical trials. The competitive marketplace for our product
    candidates is significantly dependent upon the timing of entry
    into the market. Early entry may have important advantages in
    gaining product acceptance, contributing to the product s
    eventual success and profitability. Accordingly, we expect that
    in some cases, the relative speed with which we can develop
    products, complete clinical testing, receive regulatory approval
    and supply commercial quantities of the product to the market is
    expected to be important to our competitive position.

In addition to product candidates and marketed products
    generated from our internal R D efforts, we acquire
    companies, acquire and license certain product and R D
    technology rights and establish R D collaborations with
    third parties to enhance our strategic position within our
    industry by strengthening and diversifying our R D
    capabilities, product pipeline and marketed product base. These
    licenses and collaboration agreements generally provide for
    non-refundable upfront license fees, R D and commercial
    performance milestone payments, cost sharing, royalty payments
     and/or 
    profit sharing.

Various public and privately owned companies, research
    organizations, academic institutions and governmental agencies
    conduct a significant amount of R D in the biotechnology
    industry. We face competition in pursuing collaborative
    arrangements and licensing or acquisition activities from other
    pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that also seek to
    license or acquire technologies, product candidates or marketed
    products from these entities. Accordingly, we may have
    difficulty entering into collaborative arrangements and
    licensing or acquiring technologies, product candidates and
    marketed products on acceptable terms.

See Government Regulation   Clinical Development for a
    discussion of the government regulation over clinical
    development.

34

Table of Contents   

The following table is a selection of certain of our product
    candidates by phase of development in our therapeutic areas of
    focus as of February 9, 2011, unless otherwise indicated.
    Each target indication for product candidates in phase 3 is
    listed separately. Additional product candidate (pipeline)
    information can be found on our website at
     http://www.amgen.com. 
    (This website address is not intended to function as a
    hyperlink, and the information contained on our website is not
    intended to be a part of this filing.)

Molecule 

Disease/Condition 

Therapeutic Area 

Phase 3 Programs 

AMG 386

Ovarian cancer

Hematology/Oncology

Ganitumab (AMG 479)

Pancreatic cancer

Hematology/Oncology

Aranesp   

    (darbepoetin alfa)

Anemia in heart failure

Nephrology

Motesanib

First-line non-small cell lung cancer

Hematology/Oncology

Prolia   

    (denosumab)

Male osteoporosis

Bone

Sensipar   /Mimpara   

    (cinacalcet)

Cardiovascular disease in patients with secondary
    hyperparathyroidism and chronic kidney disease undergoing
    maintenance dialysis

Nephrology

Vectibix   

    (panitumumab)

First- and second-line colorectal cancer

Hematology/Oncology

XGEVA  tm  

(denosumab)

Prevention of bone metastases in prostate cancer

Hematology/Oncology

XGEVA  tm  

(denosumab)

Prevention of bone metastases in breast cancer

Hematology/Oncology

Phase 2 Programs 

AMG 386

Various cancer types

Hematology/Oncology

Ganitumab (AMG 479)

Various cancer types

Hematology/Oncology

AMG 785

Bone-related conditions, including postmenopausal osteoporosis
    and fracture healing

Bone

AMG 827

Inflammatory diseases

Inflammation

AMG 853

Asthma

Inflammation

Conatumumab

Various cancer types

Hematology/Oncology

Denosumab

Rheumatoid arthritis

Inflammation

Motesanib

First-line breast cancer

Hematology/Oncology

Nplate   

    (romiplostim)

Chemotherapy-induced thrombocytopenia

Hematology/Oncology

Nplate   

    (romiplostim)

Myelodysplastic syndromes

Hematology/Oncology

Omecamtiv mecarbil (AMG 423)

Heart failure

Cardiovascular

Rilotumumab (AMG 102)

Various cancer types

Hematology/Oncology

Sensipar   /Mimpara   

    (cinacalcet)

Post Renal Transplant

Nephrology

Vectibix   

    (panitumumab)

Locally advanced head and neck cancer

Hematology/Oncology

Phase 1 Programs 

AMG 139

Inflammatory diseases

Inflammation

AMG 145

Hypercholesterolemia

Cardiovascular

AMG 151

Type 2 diabetes

General Medicine

AMG 157

Asthma

Inflammation

AMG 167

Bone-related conditions

Bone

AMG 181

Ulcerative colitis

Inflammation

AMG 191

Inflammatory diseases

Inflammation

AMG 208

Various cancer types

Hematology/Oncology

AMG 221

Type 2 diabetes

General Medicine

AMG 319

Hematologic malignancies

Hematology/Oncology

AMG 337

Various cancer types

Hematology/Oncology

AMG 557

Systemic lupus erythematosus

Inflammation

AMG 745

Muscle-wasting disorders

General Medicine

AMG 747

Neuroscience

General Medicine

AMG 761

Asthma

Inflammation

AMG 780

Various cancer types

Hematology/Oncology

AMG 811

Systemic lupus erythematosus

Inflammation

AMG 820

Various cancer types

Hematology/Oncology

AMG 888

Various cancer types

Hematology/Oncology

AMG 900

Various cancer types

Hematology/Oncology

Dulanermin (rhApo2L/TRAIL)

Various cancer types

Hematology/Oncology

Phase 1   

clinical trials investigate safety
    and proper dose ranges of a product candidate in a small number
    of human subjects.

Phase 2   

clinical trials investigate side
    effect profiles and efficacy of a product candidate in a large
    number of patients who have the disease or condition under study.

Phase 3   

clinical trials investigate the
    safety and efficacy of a product candidate in a large number of
    patients who have the disease or condition under study.

35

Table of Contents   

The following text provides additional information about
    selected product candidates that have advanced into human
    clinical trials.

AMG
    386  

AMG 386 is a peptibody that inhibits the interaction between the
    endothelial cell-selective Tie2 receptor and its ligands Ang1
    and Ang2. It is being investigated as a cancer treatment.

In 2007 and 2008, we initiated five randomized phase 2 studies
    of AMG 386 for the treatment of renal cell carcinoma
    ( RCC ), metastatic breast cancer, ovarian cancer,
    gastric cancer and colorectal cancer, and numerous other
    supportive studies. In June 2010 at a medical meeting, we
    presented the results from the phase 2 recurrent ovarian cancer
    trial. Based on study results, we initiated a phase 3 study in
    recurrent ovarian cancer in 2010. We also initiated a phase 1b
    study in first-line ovarian cancer in 2010. We are initiating
    other phase 2 studies in 2011.

Ganitumab
    (AMG 479)  

Ganitumab (AMG 479) is a fully human monoclonal antibody
    antagonist of IGF-1 receptor. It is being investigated as a
    cancer treatment.

In 2007, we initiated a phase 2 study of ganitumab (AMG
    479) as a potential cancer therapeutic in Ewing s
    sarcoma. We also initiated, in 2008, phase 2 studies for the
    treatment of advanced breast, pancreatic, colorectal and small
    cell lung cancers. We reported the results from the phase 2
    Ewing s sarcoma and pancreatic cancer studies at a medical
    meeting in June 2010 and results from the breast cancer study at
    a meeting in December 2010. Results from a study in mCRC in
    combination with
    Vectibix   

    were reported at a meeting in January 2011. We are initiating a
    phase 3 study in first-line metastatic pancreatic cancer in 2011.

Aranesp   

    (darbepoetin alfa)  

Aranesp   

    is a recombinant human protein agonist of the erythropoietin
    receptor.

The Reduction of Events with Darbepoetin alfa in Heart Failure
    ( RED-HF    )

    Trial phase 3 study, initiated in 2006, is a large (2,600
    subjects planned), global, randomized, double-blind,
    placebo-controlled study to evaluate the effect of treatment of
    anemia with darbepoetin alfa on morbidity and mortality in
    patients with symptomatic left ventricular heart failure. The
    RED-HF   

    Trial continues to enroll subjects and we anticipate completion
    of the study in 2012.

Motesanib  

Motesanib is an orally-administered small molecule antagonist of
    vascular endothelial growth factor receptors 1, 2 and 3,
    platelet-derived growth factor receptors and stem cell factor
    receptor. It is being investigated as a cancer treatment. We are
    developing this product in collaboration with Takeda/Millennium
    Pharmaceuticals.

Enrollment in the phase 3 first-line NSCLC study (MONET1)
    evaluating motesanib in combination with paclitaxel and
    carboplatin for the first-line treatment of advanced NSCLC is
    complete. Based on current event rates, we anticipate completion
    of the study in the first half of 2011.

At a medical meeting in June 2010, we shared the results of
    biomarkers as predictors of response to treatment with motesanib
    or bevacizumab in combination with carboplatin/paclitaxel in
    patients with NSCLC or in combination with paclitaxel in
    patients with locally recurrent or metastatic breast cancer.

Denosumab  

Denosumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody that specifically
    targets a ligand known as RANKL (that binds to a receptor known
    as RANK) which is a key mediator of osteoclast formation,
    function, and survival. Denosumab is being studied across a
    range of conditions including osteoporosis, treatment-induced
    bone loss, RA and numerous tumor types across the spectrum of
    cancer-related bone diseases.

Prolia   

    (denosumab)  

The phase 3 study evaluating
    Prolia   

    patients with male osteoporosis is ongoing.

36

Table of Contents   

XGEVA     tm    

     (denosumab) 

In February 2010, we announced that a pivotal, phase 3,
     head-to-head 
    study evaluating
    XGEVA  tm  

    versus
    Zometa   

    (zoledronic acid) in the treatment of bone metastases in 1,901
    men with advanced prostate cancer met its primary and secondary
    endpoints.
    XGEVA  tm  

    demonstrated superiority over
    Zometa   

    for both delaying the time to the first on-study SRE (fracture,
    radiation to bone, surgery to bone or spinal cord compression)
    (hazard ratio ( HR ) 0.82, 95% confidence interval
    ( CI ): 0.71, 0.95), and reducing the rate of multiple
    SREs (HR 0.82, 95% CI: 0.71, 0.94). Both results were
    statistically significant.

In December 2010, we announced top-line results from a phase 3
    trial evaluating
    XGEVA  tm  

    versus placebo in 1,432 men with non-metastatic
    castrate-resistant prostate cancer. The trial, known as the
     147 study, demonstrated that
    XGEVA  tm  

    significantly improved median bone metastasis-free survival by
    4.2 months (HR=0.85, 95%
     CI 0.73-0.98, 
    p=0.03) compared to placebo (primary endpoint), and
    significantly improved time to first occurrence of bone
    metastases (secondary endpoint). Overall survival was similar
    between the
    XGEVA  tm  

    and placebo groups (secondary endpoint). Overall rates of
    adverse events and serious adverse events were generally similar
    between
    XGEVA  tm  

    and placebo, with hypocalcemia and osteonecrosis of the jaw
    ( ONJ ) observed at increased frequencies in the
    XGEVA  tm  

    arm. The yearly rate of ONJ in the
    XGEVA  tm  -treated

    group was similar to what has been observed in prior
    XGEVA  tm  

    trials. This study will form the basis of planned marketing
    applications, which we expect to submit to regulatory
    authorities beginning in the first half of 2011, for a new
    indication for the prevention of bone metastases in prostate
    cancer.

Also, we are currently conducting a study for the prevention of
    bone metastases in patients with breast cancer and are planning
    an additional SRE study in patients with multiple myeloma.

Sensipar   /Mimpara   

    (cinacalcet)  

Sensipar   /Mimpara   

    is an orally-administered small molecule that lowers PTH levels
    in blood by signaling through the calcium-sensing receptor in
    parathyroid tissue to inhibit PTH secretion. It also lowers
    blood calcium and phosphorous levels.

The phase 3 EValuation Of Cinacalcet HCl Therapy to Lower
    CardioVascular Events
    ( E.V.O.L.V.E  tm   )

    trial, initiated in 2006, is a large (3,800 patient),
    multi-center, international, randomized, double-blind study to
    assess the effects of
    Sensipar   /Mimpara   

    in mortality and cardiovascular morbidity in patients with CKD
    undergoing maintenance dialysis. The
    E.V.O.L.V.E  tm  

    study completed enrollment in January 2008. Based on current
    event rates, we anticipate completion of the study in dialysis
    patients in 2012.

Sensipar   /Mimpara   

    is also being evaluated in post renal transplant patients.

Vectibix   

    (panitumumab)  

Vectibix   

    is a monoclonal antibody antagonist of the EGFr pathway. It is
    being investigated as a cancer treatment.

On April 16, 2010, our application for marketing
    authorization for the use of
    Vectibix   

    in first- and second-line treatment of mCRC in patients whose
    tumors contain wild-type  KRAS  genes was submitted to the
    EMA. In the United States, we filed supplemental BLA submissions
    for first- and second-line mCRC with the FDA on October 29,
    and November 4, 2010.

In August 2010, we announced top-line results from a randomized
    phase 3 trial evaluating
    Vectibix   

    as a first-line treatment in patients with recurrent
     and/or 
    metastatic squamous cell head and neck cancer. The data showed
    the addition of
    Vectibix   

    to platinum-based chemotherapy did not result in a statistically
    significant improvement in overall survival, the primary
    endpoint, compared to chemotherapy alone [median
    11.1 months versus 9.0 months, HR 0.87 (95% CI: 0.73,
    1.05)]. Secondary endpoints of progression-free survival [median
    5.8 months versus 4.6 months, HR 0.78 (95% CI: 0.66,
    0.92)] and objective response rate (36% versus 25%) were
    numerically improved but were not tested for statistical
    significance.

Additionally, we have two ongoing phase 2 trials in locally
    advanced head and neck cancer.

37

Table of Contents   

AMG
    785  

AMG 785 is a humanized monoclonal antibody that targets
    sclerostin, a protein secreted by bone cells that inhibits bone
    formation. AMG 785 (also known as CDP7851) is being developed in
    collaboration with UCB for bone-related conditions, including
    PMO and fracture healing.

In 2009, we initiated phase 2 studies of AMG 785 for the
    treatment of PMO and fracture healing (tibial diaphyseal).

In 2010, we initiated a phase 2 study of AMG 785 for the
    treatment of fracture healing (hip).

AMG
    827  

AMG 827 is a fully human monoclonal antibody that binds to and
    blocks signaling via the interleukin-17 receptor. It is being
    investigated as a treatment for a variety of inflammatory
    disorders.

In 2009, we initiated phase 2 studies of AMG 827 as a potential
    treatment for psoriasis and RA. In 2010, we initiated phase 2
    studies of AMG 827 as a potential treatment for Crohn s
    disease and asthma. We received the results from the phase 2
    study in psoriasis in 2010 and plan to share these data at an
    upcoming medical meeting.

AMG
    853  

AMG 853 is an orally-administered small molecule antagonist of
    the CRTH2 and D-prostanoid receptors of prostaglandin D2. It is
    being investigated as a treatment for asthma.

Phase 1 single- and multiple-ascending dose studies have been
    completed. A global, randomized, double-blind, placebo
    controlled, multiple dose phase 2 study in subjects with
    inadequately controlled asthma was initiated in December 2009
    and is ongoing.

Conatumumab  

Conatumumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody agonist that
    targets death receptor 5 and induces apoptosis in sensitive
    tumor cells. It is being investigated as a cancer treatment.

We have an ongoing phase 2 study in mCRC.

Nplate   

    (romiplostim)  

Nplate   

    is a peptibody agonist of the TPO receptor.

In December 2010, we announced results at a medical meeting from
    studies evaluating
    Nplate   

    in adult and pediatric patients with chronic immune (idiopathic)
    thrombocytopenic purpura.

Results from completed phase 2 studies in myelodysplastic
    syndromes ( MDS ) were presented in 2010. In late
    February 2011, an independent Data Monitoring Committee
    ( DMC ) recommended that we modify the study conduct
    in another ongoing phase 2 study exploring the use of
    Nplate   

    in MDS, expressing concern that the demonstrated benefits seen
    in treated patients might not outweigh the potential risks of
    accelerated disease progression to AML. The DMC was also
    concerned that transient blast cell increases in the
    Nplate   

    arm put patients at risk for diagnosis of, and treatment for,
    AML, irrespective of whether or not the disease had actually
    developed. We accepted the recommendation of the DMC and
    notified investigators that subjects in this study should
    discontinue
    Nplate   

    treatment and enter into the observational long-term
     follow-up 
    phase of the study.

Nplate   

    is also being evaluated in chemotherapy-induced thrombocytopenia.

Omecamtiv
    mecarbil (AMG 423)  

Omecamtiv mecarbil is a small molecule activator of cardiac
    myosin. Omecamtiv mecarbil is being investigated to improve
    cardiac contractility in subjects with heart failure. We are
    developing this product in collaboration with Cytokinetics, Inc.
    ( Cytokinetics ).

38

Table of Contents   

Rilotumumab
    (AMG 102)  

Rilotumumab (AMG 102) is a fully human monoclonal antibody
    that blocks the action of hepatocyte growth factor/scatter
    factor. It is being investigated as a cancer treatment.

Results from a study in mCRC in combination with
    Vectibix   

    were reported at a meeting in January 2011. Phase 2 combination
    studies with rilotumumab (AMG 102) in the gastric,
    prostate, mCRC and small cell lung cancer settings continue.

Human
    Resources   

As of December 31, 2010, Amgen had approximately 17,400
    staff members, which includes approximately 300 part-time
    staff members. There can be no assurance that we will be able to
    continue attracting and retaining qualified personnel in
    sufficient numbers to meet our needs. None of our staff members
    are covered by a collective bargaining agreement, and we have
    experienced no work stoppages. We consider our staff relations
    to be good.

Trade secret protection for our unpatented confidential and
    proprietary information is important to us. To protect our trade
    secrets, we generally require our staff members, material
    consultants and scientific advisors to execute confidentiality
    agreements upon commencement of employment or a consulting
    relationship with us. However, others could either develop
    independently the same or similar information or obtain access
    to our information.

Executive
    Officers of the Registrant   

The executive officers of the Company as of February 11,
    2011 are as follows:

Mr. Kevin W. Sharer, age 62, has served as a director
    of the Company since November 1992. Mr. Sharer has been the
    Company s Chief Executive Officer since May 2000 and has
    also been Chairman of the Board of Directors since January 2001.
    From May 2000 to May 2010, Mr. Sharer also served as the
    Company s President. From October 1992 to May 2000,
    Mr. Sharer served as President and Chief Operating Officer
    of the Company. From April 1989 to October 1992,
    Mr. Sharer was President of the Business Markets Division
    of MCI Communications Corporation. From February 1984 to March
    1989, Mr. Sharer held numerous executive capacities at
    General Electric Company ( GE ). Mr. Sharer is a
    director of Chevron Corporation and Northrop Grumman
    Corporation. He is Chairman of the Board of the Los Angeles
    County Museum of Natural History.

Mr. David W. Beier, age 62, became Senior Vice
    President, Global Government and Corporate Affairs in March
    2008. He joined the Company in 2003 as Senior Vice President,
    Global Government Affairs. Previously, Mr. Beier was a
    partner with the law firm of Hogan and Hartson in
    Washington, D.C. From 1998 to early 2001, Mr. Beier
    served as Chief Domestic Policy Advisor to the Vice President of
    the United States. He also held positions as Vice President of
    Government Affairs and Public Policy for Genentech and staff
    counsel in the U.S. House of Representatives.
    Mr. Beier is a director of ARYx Therapeutics, Inc.

Dr. Fabrizio Bonanni, age 64, became Executive Vice
    President, Operations in August 2007. He has served as Senior
    Vice President, Manufacturing of the Company since 2004.
    Dr. Bonanni joined the Company in 1999 as Senior Vice
    President, Quality and Compliance, and in June 2001 he also
    became the Corporate Compliance Officer. Previously,
    Dr. Bonanni held various management positions at Baxter
    International, Inc. from 1974 to 1999, including positions as
    Corporate Vice President, Regulatory and Clinical Affairs and
    Corporate Vice President, Quality System.

Mr. Robert A. Bradway, age 48, became President and
    Chief Operating Officer of Amgen in May 2010. Mr. Bradway
    joined the Company in 2006 as Vice President, Operations
    Strategy and served as Executive Vice President and Chief
    Financial Officer from April 2007 to May 2010. Prior to joining
    the Company, he was a Managing Director at Morgan Stanley in
    London where he had responsibility for the firm s banking
    department and corporate finance activities in Europe.
    Mr. Bradway joined Morgan Stanley in New York as a health
    care industry investment banker in 1985 and moved to London in
    1990 where he served as head of the firm s international
    health care investment banking activities until assuming broader
    corporate finance management responsibilities.

39

Table of Contents   

Mr. Brian McNamee, age 54, became Senior Vice
    President, Human Resources in June 2001. From November 1999 to
    June 2001, Mr. McNamee served as Vice President of Human
    Resources at Dell Computer Corp. From 1998 to 1999,
    Mr. McNamee served as Senior Vice President, Human
    Resources for the National Broadcasting Corporation, a division
    of GE. From July 1988 to November 1999, Mr. McNamee held
    human resource positions at GE.

Mr. Jonathan M. Peacock, age 52, became Executive Vice
    President and Chief Financial Officer in September 2010. Prior
    to joining Amgen, Mr. Peacock served as Chief Financial and
    Administration Officer of Novartis Pharmaceuticals AG beginning
    in 2005. From 1998 to 2005, Mr. Peacock was a partner at
    McKinsey and Co., where he co-led the European Corporate Finance
    Practice. Mr. Peacock was also a partner at Price
    Waterhouse in London and New York from 1993 to 1998.

Dr. Roger M. Perlmutter, age 58, became Executive Vice
    President, Research and Development in January 2001. From July
    1999 to December 2000, Dr. Perlmutter was Executive Vice
    President, Worldwide Basic Research and Preclinical Development
    of Merck Research Laboratories. From February 1999 to July 1999,
    Dr. Perlmutter served as Executive Vice President of Merck
    Research Laboratories, and from February 1997 to January 1999,
    as Senior Vice President of Merck Research Laboratories. From
    May 1989 to January 1997, Dr. Perlmutter was also Chairman
    of the Department of Immunology, University of Washington, and
    from January 1991 to January 1997, Professor in the Departments
    of Immunology, Biochemistry and Medicine, University of
    Washington. From July 1984 to January 1997, Dr. Perlmutter
    served as Investigator at the Howard Hughes Medical Institute at
    the University of Washington. Dr. Perlmutter currently
    serves on the Board of Directors of StemCells, Inc.

Ms. Anna S. Richo, age 50, became Senior Vice
    President and Chief Compliance Officer in June 2008. From
    December 2003 to June 2008, Ms. Richo served as Vice
    President, Law. Prior to Amgen, she spent 12 years at
    Baxter Healthcare Corporation in roles of increasing
    responsibility in law, including Vice President, Law, for
    Baxter s BioScience Division. Also, for more than five
    years, Ms. Richo served on the Board of Directors of Cytyc
    Corporation and was a member of the Audit and Finance Committees.

Mr. David J. Scott, age 58, became Senior Vice
    President, General Counsel and Secretary in March 2004. From May
    1999 to February 2004, Mr. Scott served as Senior Vice
    President and General Counsel of Medtronic, Inc. and also as
    Secretary from January 2000. From December 1997 to April 1999,
    Mr. Scott served as General Counsel of London-based United
    Distillers   Vintners. Mr. Scott also served in
    executive roles at Grand Metropolitan plc and RJR Nabisco, Inc.,
    and was an attorney in private practice.

Geographic
    Area Financial Informatio n  

For financial information concerning the geographic areas in
    which we operate, see Note 20, Segment
    information   Geographic information to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

Investor
    Information   

Financial and other information about us is available on our
    website
     (http://www.amgen.com) 
    (This website address is not intended to function as a
    hyperlink, and the information contained in our website is not
    intended to be a part of this filing). We make available on our
    website, free of charge, copies of our annual report on
     Form 10-K, 
    quarterly reports on
     Form 10-Q, 
    current reports on
     Form 8-K 
    and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as
    reasonably practicable after filing or submitting such material
    electronically or otherwise furnishing it to the SEC. In
    addition, we have previously filed registration statements and
    other documents with the SEC. Any document we file may be
    inspected, without charge, at the SEC s public reference
    room at 100 F Street NE, Washington, D.C. 20549
    or at the SEC s internet address at
     http://www.sec.gov 
    (This website address is not intended to function as a
    hyperlink, and the information contained in the SEC s
    website is not intended to be a part of this filing).
    Information related to the operation of the SEC s public
    reference room may be obtained by calling the SEC at
     1-800-SEC-0330. 

40

Table of Contents   

Item 1A.  

RISK
    FACTORS  

This report and other documents we file with the SEC contain
    forward looking statements that are based on current
    expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about us, our
    future performance, our business or others on our behalf, our
    beliefs and our management s assumptions. These statements
    are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain
    risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to
    predict. You should carefully consider the risks and
    uncertainties facing our business. The risks described below are
    not the only ones facing us. Our business is also subject to the
    risks that affect many other companies, such as employment
    relations, general economic conditions, geopolitical events and
    international operations. Further, additional risks not
    currently known to us or that we currently believe are
    immaterial also may impair our business, operations, liquidity
    and stock price materially and adversely.

Our sales
    depend on coverage and reimbursement from third-party
    payers.  

Sales of all of our principal products are dependent on the
    availability and extent of coverage and reimbursement from
    third-party payers, including government healthcare programs and
    private insurance plans. Governments and private payers may
    regulate prices, reimbursement levels
     and/or 
    access to our products to control costs or to affect levels of
    use of our products. We rely in large part on the reimbursement
    of our principal products through government programs such as
    Medicare and Medicaid in the United States and similar programs
    in foreign countries and a reduction in the coverage
     and/or 
    reimbursement for our products could have a material adverse
    effect on our product sales and results of operations.

The government-sponsored healthcare systems in Europe and many
    other foreign countries are the primary payers for healthcare
    expenditures, including payment for drugs and biologics, in
    those regions. While mandatory price reductions have been a
    recurring aspect of business for the pharmaceutical and
    biotechnology industries in Europe, given the current worldwide
    economic conditions, certain European country governments have
    increased the frequency and size of such mandatory price
    reductions to extract further cost savings. For example, in 2010
    countries such as Greece announced price reductions
     and/or 
    mandated rebates for certain pharmaceutical and biological
    products that substantially exceeded prior levels. We expect
    that other countries may follow
     and/or  take
    similar or more extensive actions to reduce expenditure on drugs
    and biologics, including mandatory price reductions, preference
    for biosimilar products or reduction in the amount of
    reimbursement. While we cannot fully predict the extent of
    further price reductions by countries in Europe or the impact
    such price reductions will have on our business, such reductions
    in price
     and/or  the
    coverage and reimbursement for our products in European
    countries could have a material adverse effect on our product
    sales and results of operations.

In March 2010 the United States adopted significant healthcare
    reform through the enactment of the PPACA and the Heathcare and
    Education Reconciliation Act. (See Reimbursement  
    U.S. Healthcare Reform.) A major goal of the new healthcare
    reform law is to provide greater access to healthcare coverage
    for more Americans. Accordingly, the new healthcare reform law
    requires individual U.S. citizens and legal residents to
    maintain qualifying health coverage, imposes certain
    requirements on employers with respect to offering health
    coverage to employees, amends insurance regulations regarding
    when coverage can be provided and denied to individuals, and
    expands existing government healthcare coverage programs to more
    individuals in more situations, with most of these changes going
    into effect in January 2014. We do not expect a significant
    increase in sales of our products as a result of the 2014
    expansions in healthcare coverage. The new healthcare reform law
    does have several components, with varied implementation dates
    that began in 2010, that have and are expected to continue to
    adversely impact our business. While we cannot fully predict the
    ultimate impact the new healthcare reform law will have on us,
    we expect that the new law will continue to have a material
    adverse effect on our business and results of operations.

Public and private insurers have pursued, and continue to
    pursue, aggressive cost containment initiatives, including
    increased focus on comparing the effectiveness, benefits and
    costs of similar treatments, which could result in lower
    reimbursement rates for our products. A substantial portion of
    our U.S. business relies on reimbursement under Medicare
    Part B coverage. Any deterioration in the timeliness or
    certainty of payment from CMS to physicians, including as a
    result of changes in policy or regulations, or as a result of
    operational difficulties, could negatively impact the
    willingness of physicians to prescribe our products for patients
    relying on

41

Table of Contents   

Medicare for their medical coverage. Most of our products
    furnished to Medicare beneficiaries in both a physician office
    setting and hospital outpatient setting are reimbursed under the
    ASP payment methodology. ASP-based reimbursements of products
    under Medicare may be below or could fall below the cost that
    some medical providers pay for such products, which would
    adversely affect sales of our products. We also face certain
    risks relating to the calculation of ASP. ASP is calculated by
    the manufacturer based on a statutorily defined formula and
    submitted to CMS. However, the statute, regulations and CMS
    guidance do not define specific methodologies for all aspects of
    the calculation of ASP. For example, in the Medicare Physician
    Fee Schedule Final Rule for 2011, CMS did not address a
    proposed methodology for treatment of bundled price concessions.
    Consequently, the current CMS guidance is that manufacturers may
    make  reasonable assumptions  in their calculation of
    ASP consistent with the general requirements and the intent of
    the Medicare statute, federal regulations and their customary
    business practices. As a result, we are required to apply our
    judgment in certain aspects of calculating ASP which are
    disclosed to CMS and also are subject to further CMS review. If
    our calculation of ASP is incorrect, we could be subject to
    substantial fines and penalties which could have a material
    adverse impact on our results of operations. Additionally, we
    are required to pay rebates to the federal government on
    products reimbursed by Medicaid at a rate of 23.1% of the
    average manufacturers price ( AMP ) of a product, or
    if it is greater, the difference between the AMP and the best
    price available to any non-government customer. The definition
    of AMP recently changed and we expect CMS to shortly issue a
    proposed rule further defining the new AMP definition. Until
    that rule is issued, we will be required to apply our judgment
    in certain aspects of the AMP calculation. Once the CMS rule is
    issued, we will have to determine whether our interpretation of
    AMP follows the rule or would need to be restated and this could
    have a material adverse impact on our business and results of
    operations.

Other initiatives reviewing the coverage or reimbursement of our
    products could result in less extensive coverage or lower
    reimbursement rates. For example, in July 2007, CMS issued an
    NCD where it determined that ESA treatment was not reasonable
    and necessary for certain clinical conditions and established
    Medicare coverage parameters for FDA-approved ESA use in
    oncology. Generally, an NCD is a national policy statement
    granting, limiting or excluding Medicare coverage or
    reimbursement for a specific medical item or service. We believe
    the restrictions in the 2007 NCD changed the way ESAs are used
    in clinical practice, for example, by decreasing the number of
    treated patients, the average ESA dose and the duration of ESA
    therapy in the oncology setting. As a result, we believe these
    restrictions have had a material adverse effect on the use,
    reimbursement and sales of
    Aranesp   ,

    which has had a significant impact to our business.

The reimbursement of ESAs in the nephrology setting is also
    receiving attention. On March 24, 2010, CMS held a MEDCAC
    meeting to examine the currently available evidence on the use
    of ESAs to manage anemia in patients who have CKD and on
    June 16, 2010, CMS opened an NCA to examine the use of ESAs
    to manage anemia in patients with CKD and dialysis-related
    anemia. This NCA initiates the process of reviewing and
    evaluating potential changes in Medicare coverage policies for
    the use of ESAs in those patients and may result in the issuance
    of a new NCD by CMS. The
     30-day 
    public comment period on the NCA ended on July 17, 2010 and
    CMS has stated that the NCA process for ESAs will conclude on or
    before June 16, 2011, but CMS could propose a new NCD at
    any time prior to that deadline. Additionally, on
    January 19, 2011, CMS held another MEDCAC meeting, this
    time to review the available evidence on the impact of ESA use
    on renal transplant graft survival. This development continues
    CMS s process of reviewing and evaluating potential changes
    in Medicare coverage policies for the use of ESAs in patients
    with CKD. We cannot predict if and when a new NCD will be issued
    or the details of any potentially changed coverage decisions for
    the use of ESAs in patients with CKD, including whether or how a
    new NCD could change CMS s bundled payment system
     and/or  the
    ESRD QIP. However, similar to the impact of the 2007 NCD on the
    use of ESAs in oncology, a new NCD around the use of ESAs to
    manage anemia in patients with CKD and dialysis-related anemia
    may negatively affect use, coverage and reimbursement,
     and/or 
    product sales of our ESA products in the nephrology setting,
    which could have a material adverse effect on our business and
    results of operations.

Further, the list of potential future NCDs issued by CMS in late
    2008 included the category of thrombopoiesis stimulating agents
    (platelet growth factors), the category of drugs that includes
    Nplate   ,

    and a discussion on bisphosphonates used to treat osteoporosis.
    CMS has not announced whether it will proceed with an NCA
    related to

42

Table of Contents   

thrombopoiesis stimulating agents and, while
    Prolia   

    is not a bisphosphonate, there is the possibility that CMS might
    evaluate other agents, including RANK Ligand inhibitors such as
    Prolia   

    and
    XGEVA  tm  .

In the dialysis setting, the reimbursement rates for our
    products are also subject to downward pressure. In the United
    States, dialysis providers are reimbursed for
    EPOGEN   

    primarily by the federal government through the ESRD Program of
    Medicare. The ESRD Program reimburses approved dialysis
    providers for 80% of allowed dialysis costs while the remainder
    is paid by other sources, including patients, state Medicaid
    programs, private insurance and, to a lesser extent, state
    kidney patient programs. The ESRD Program reimbursement
    methodology is established by federal law and is implemented by
    CMS. Until January 1, 2011, Medicare reimbursed for
    separately billable dialysis drugs (including
    EPOGEN   

    and
    Aranesp   )

    administered in both freestanding and hospital-based dialysis
    centers at ASP+6%, using the same payment amount methodology
    used in the physician clinic setting under Part B. On
    January 1, 2011, CMS s bundled payment system went
    into effect for dialysis facilities which provides a single
    payment for all dialysis services including drugs, supplies, and
    non-routine laboratory tests that were previously reimbursed
    separately. (See Reimbursement   Reimbursement of Our
    Principal Products   Dialysis Reimbursement.) Dialysis
    providers were given the choice of opting into the new bundled
    payment system in its entirety on January 1, 2011, or
    phasing in ratably over a four-year period beginning in 2011.
    Substantially all dialysis providers in the United States have
    opted into the bundled payment system in its entirety beginning
    in 2011. We expect that the implementation of the bundled
    payment system by ESRD facilities will have a material adverse
    impact on the reimbursement, use and sales of
    EPOGEN   

    beginning in 2011, and
    Sensipar   

    beginning in 2014.

Additional initiatives addressing the coverage or reimbursement
    of our products could result in less extensive coverage or lower
    reimbursement, which could negatively affect sales of our
    products. For example, since April 2006, the Medicare
    reimbursement for ESAs administered to dialysis patients has
    also been subject to an EMP, the Medicare payment review
    mechanism used by CMS to monitor
    EPOGEN   

    and
    Aranesp   

    utilization and hematocrit outcomes of dialysis patients. CMS
    revised the EMP, effective January 2008, further limiting
    reimbursement for
    EPOGEN   

    and
    Aranesp   

    in certain cases. Further reduction in reimbursement in the
    dialysis setting could have a material adverse effect on sales
    of
    EPOGEN   

    and
    Aranesp   ,

    and our business.

If, for any of these or other reasons, reimbursement rates are
    reduced, or if healthcare providers anticipate reimbursement
    being reduced, providers may narrow the circumstances in which
    they prescribe or administer our products, which could reduce
    the use
     and/or  sales
    of our products. A reduction in the use and sales of our
    products could have a material adverse effect on our business
    and our results of operations.

Our
    current products and products in development cannot be sold if
    we do not maintain or gain regulatory approval.  

Our business is subject to extensive regulation by numerous
    state and federal governmental authorities in the United States,
    including the FDA, and by foreign regulatory authorities,
    including the EMA. We are required in the United States and in
    foreign countries to obtain approval from regulatory authorities
    before we can manufacture, market and sell our products. Once
    approved, the FDA and other U.S. and foreign regulatory
    agencies have substantial authority to require additional
    testing, change product labeling or mandate withdrawals of our
    products. Also, legislative bodies or regulatory agencies could
    enact new laws or regulations or change existing laws or
    regulations at any time, which could affect our ability to
    obtain or maintain approval of our products. For example, the
    2007 creation of the FDAAA significantly added to the FDA s
    authority, allowing the FDA to (i) require sponsors of
    marketed products to conduct post-approval clinical studies;
    (ii) mandate labeling changes to products and
    (iii) require sponsors to implement a REMS for a product.
    Failure to comply with FDAAA requirements could result in
    significant civil monetary penalties, reputational harm and
    increased product liability risk. Current policy discussions
    underway in the United States include debates about the
    implementation of the new, abbreviated pathway for biosimilars
    established under the new healthcare reform law; renegotiation
    of the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, which governs the user
    fees pharmaceutical and biological companies pay to the FDA that
    provide a substantial portion of the FDA s operating
    budget, in anticipation of re-authorization before
    September 30, 2012; and reforms to the regulations that
    govern diagnostics and medical devices which are sometimes used
    in conjunction with our products. We are unable to predict when
    and whether any changes to laws or regulatory policies affecting
    our business could occur, and such changes could have a material
    adverse impact on our business.

43

Table of Contents   

Obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval has been and will
    continue to be increasingly difficult, time-consuming and
    costly. For example, in October 2009 we received Complete
    Response Letters from the FDA for the BLA for
    Prolia   

    in the treatment and prevention of PMO and in the treatment and
    prevention of bone loss due to hormone ablation therapy
    ( HALT ) in breast and prostate cancer patients. The
    Complete Response Letter related to the PMO indication requested
    several items, including further information on the design and
    background adverse event rates to inform the methodology of our
    previously submitted post-marketing surveillance program. The
    FDA also requested a new clinical program to support the
    approval of
    Prolia   

    for the prevention of PMO, updated safety data and stated that a
    REMS is necessary for
    Prolia   .

    The Complete Response Letter related to the HALT indication
    requested additional information regarding the safety of
    Prolia   

    in patients with breast cancer receiving aromatase inhibitor
    therapy and patients with prostate cancer receiving Androgen
    Deprivation Therapy. The FDA specifically requested results from
    additional adequate and well-controlled clinical trials
    demonstrating that
    Prolia   

    has no detrimental effects on either time to disease progression
    or overall survival.

In addition, there may be situations in which demonstrating the
    efficacy and safety of a product candidate may not be sufficient
    to gain regulatory approval unless superiority to comparative
    products can be shown. Further some of our products are approved
    by U.S. and foreign regulatory authorities on a conditional
    basis with full approval conditioned upon fulfilling
    requirements of regulators.
    Vectibix   ,

    for example, received conditional approval in the United States
    and EU, with full approval conditioned on conducting additional
    clinical trials of the use of
    Vectibix   

    as a therapy in treating mCRC. (See Marketed Products and
    Selected Product Candidates  
    Vectibix   

    (panitumumab).) If we are unable to fulfill the requirements of
    regulators that were conditions of our products 
    accelerated or conditional approval, we may not receive full
    approval for these products and may be required to change the
    products  labeled indications or even withdraw the products
    from the market. Further, some of our products or product
    candidates may be used with a companion diagnostic product, such
    as a test kit, or companion device, such as an injector or other
    delivery system. These product candidates or expanded
    indications of our products may not be approved if the companion
    diagnostic product or companion device does not gain or maintain
    regulatory approval. These companion diagnostics and devices may
    be provided by single-source unaffiliated third-party companies.
    We are dependent on the sustained cooperation and effort of
    those third-party companies in conducting the studies required
    for such approval by the applicable regulatory agencies. Delays
    in the studies or failure of the third-party company to obtain
    regulatory approval of the companion diagnostic or device could
    negatively impact the approval of our product candidate or the
    expanded indication of our product and we may incur increased
    development costs, delays in regulatory approval
     and/or 
    associated delays in a product candidate reaching the market or
    the expansion of existing product labels for new indications.

The occurrence of a number of high profile safety events has
    caused an increased public and governmental concern about
    potential safety issues relating to pharmaceutical and
    biological products and certain of our products and product
    candidates. (See Our ESA products continue to be under review
    and receive scrutiny by regulatory authorities.) As a result of
    this increased concern in recent years, the U.S. regulatory
    environment has evolved and safety signals and safety concerns
    resulting from clinical trials (including
     sub-analyses 
    and meta-analyses), market use or other sources are receiving
    greater scrutiny. Actual or perceived safety problems could lead
    to revised or restrictive labeling of our approved products or a
    class of products, potentially including limitations on the use
    of approved products in certain patients because of:

the identification of actual or theoretical safety or efficacy
    concerns with respect to any of our products by regulatory
    agencies

an increased rate or number of previously-identified
    safety-related events

the discovery of significant problems or safety signals or
    trends with a similar product that implicates an entire class of
    products

44

Table of Contents   

subsequent concerns about the sufficiency of the data or studies
    underlying the label or changes to the underlying
    safety/efficacy analysis related to results from clinical
    trials, including
     sub-analyses, 
    or meta-analysis (a meta-analysis is the review of studies using
    various statistical methods to combine results from previous
    separate but related studies) of clinical trials or clinical
    data performed by us or others

new legislation or rules by regulatory agencies

For example, in December 2009, based on the TREAT results, we
    updated the boxed warning in the labeling information for ESAs,
    to reflect an increased risk of stroke when ESAs are
    administered to CRF patients to target Hb levels of 13 g/dL and
    above. In October 2010, we submitted additional proposed
    labeling changes regarding the use of ESAs in CRF patients not
    on dialysis that would limit treatment to patients who are most
    likely to benefit, specifically those with significant anemia
    ( 10 g/dL), and who are at high risk for transfusion and
    for whom transfusion avoidance is considered clinically
    important, including those in whom it is important to preserve
    kidney transplant eligibility. We are working with the FDA to
    determine the appropriate use of ESAs in CKD patients and to
    determine any future ESA labeling changes required in connection
    with TREAT or the CRDAC meeting. (See Our ESA products continue
    to be under review and receive scrutiny by regulatory
    authorities.)

In addition to revised labeling for our products, discovery of
    new safety information or previously unknown safety concerns
     and/or 
    safety signals with our products or similar products could also
    lead to:

requirement of risk management activities (including a REMS) or
    other FDA compliance actions related to the promotion and sale
    of our products

mandated PMCs or pharmacovigilance programs for our approved
    products

product recalls of our approved products

revocation of approval for our products from the market
    completely, or within particular therapeutic areas, and/or

increased timelines or delays in being approved by the FDA or
    other regulatory bodies

fewer treatments or product candidates being approved by
    regulatory bodies

Product safety concerns could cause regulatory agencies to
    impose risk management activities upon us (including a REMS),
    which may require substantial costs and resources to negotiate,
    develop, implement and administer. The results of these risk
    management activities could:

impact the ability of healthcare providers to prescribe,
    dispense or use our products

limit patient access to our products

reduce patient willingness to use our products

place administrative burdens on healthcare providers in
    prescribing our products

affect our ability to compete against products that do not have
    a REMS or similar risk management activities

We currently have approved REMS for our ESAs, ENBREL,
    Prolia   

    and
    Nplate   ,

    and we use third-party service providers to assist in the
    administration of our REMS that include elements to assure safe
    use. For example, our
    Nplate   

    and ESA REMS each require applicable healthcare providers and
    institutions to enroll in the program, receive education about
    the product and the REMS and document and report certain
    information to us over time. We are responsible for tracking and
    documenting certain elements of healthcare provider and
    institution compliance with the
    Nplate   

    and ESA REMS and providing the FDA with periodic assessment
    reports to demonstrate that the goals of the REMS are being met.
    If we or third-party service providers acting on our behalf fail
    to effectively implement
     and/or 
    administer the REMS for our products, we may be required to
    modify such REMS, and we may be subject to FDA enforcement
    actions or to civil penalties.

Further, if new medical data or product quality issues suggest
    an unacceptable safety risk or previously unidentified
    side-effects, we may withdraw some or all affected
    product   either voluntarily or by regulatory

45

Table of Contents   

mandate   in certain therapeutic areas, or completely
    recall a product presentation from the market for some period or
    permanently. For example, in September 2009, we initiated a
    voluntary recall of a limited number of ENBREL
    SureClick   

    lots due to a defect in the glass syringe barrel which resulted
    in a small number of broken syringes following assembly of the
    autoinjector device. In October 2010, we initiated a voluntary
    recall of certain lots of ENBREL due to identification of cracks
    in a small number of the glass syringes which may have resulted
    in product leakage and syringe breakage. Further, beginning in
    September 2010, we initiated a voluntary recall of certain lots
    of
    EPOGEN   

    and J J voluntarily recalled certain lots of
    PROCRIT   ,

    manufactured by us, because a small number of vials in each lot
    were found to contain glass lamellae (extremely thin, barely
    visible glass flakes) which we believed was a result of the
    interaction of the formulation with glass vials during the shelf
    life of the product. The recalls were executed in close
    collaboration with the FDA. We may experience the same or other
    problems in the future, resulting in broader product recalls,
    adverse event trends, delayed shipments, supply constraints,
    contract disputes
     and/or 
    stock-outs of our products, which may adversely affect the sales
    of our products. Additionally, if other parties (including our
    independent clinical trial investigators or our licensees, such
    as J J, Pfizer, Glaxo, Takeda and Daiichi Sankyo) report or
    fail to effectively report to regulatory agencies side effects
    or other safety concerns that occur from their use of our
    products in clinical trials or studies or from marketed use,
    resulting regulatory action could adversely affect the sales of
    our products and our business and results of operations.

If regulatory authorities determine that we have not complied
    with regulations in the R D of a product candidate, a new
    indication for an existing product or information to support a
    current indication, they may not approve the product candidate
    or new indication or maintain approval of the current indication
    in its current form or at all, and we would not be able to
    market and sell it. If we were unable to market and sell our
    products or product candidates, our business and results of
    operations would be materially and adversely affected. Further,
    safety signals, trends, adverse events or results from clinical
    trials or studies performed by us or by others (including our
    licensees or independent investigators) from the marketed use of
    our drugs or similar products that result in revised
    safety-related labeling or restrictions on the use of our
    approved products could negatively impact healthcare provider
    prescribing behavior, use and sales of our products, regulatory
    or private health organization medical guidelines and
    reimbursement for our products all of which could have a
    material adverse effect on our business and results of
    operations.

Our ESA
    products continue to be under review and receive scrutiny by
    regulatory authorities.  

Beginning in 2006, adverse safety results involving ESA products
    were observed and since that time our ESAs have been the subject
    of ongoing review and scrutiny by regulatory authorities and
    reimbursement agencies. In the United States, the FDA continues
    to review the benefit-risk profile of ESAs, which have resulted
    and could result in future changes to ESA labeling and usage.
    For example, we revised the labeling for our ESAs in August
    2008, as the FDA directed. In addition, in July 2007 CMS issued
    an NCD for non-renal ESAs that determined that ESA treatment was
    not reasonable and necessary for certain clinical conditions,
    and established Medicare coverage parameters for FDA-approved
    ESA use in oncology. Since these labeling and reimbursement
    changes, we experienced a substantial reduction in our ESA
    sales, in particular
    Aranesp   

    sales in the U.S. supportive cancer care setting. In
    October 2009, the results from TREAT, a phase 3 pivotal study of
    patients with CKD not on dialysis were published in the
    New England Journal of Medicine. The study failed to meet
    its primary objectives of demonstrating a reduction in all-cause
    mortality, cardiovascular morbidity, including heart failure,
    heart attack, stroke or hospitalization for myocardial ischemia,
    or time to ESRD. On December 16, 2009, based on the TREAT
    results, we updated the boxed warning in the labeling
    information for ESAs, to reflect an increased risk of stroke
    when ESAs are administered to CRF patients to target Hb levels
    of 13 g/dL and above. CMS held a MEDCAC meeting on
    March 24, 2010 to examine the currently available evidence
    on the use of ESAs to manage anemia in patients who have CKD,
    which considered the results from the TREAT study, and on
    June 16, 2010, CMS opened a new NCA to examine the use of
    ESAs to manage anemia in patients with CKD and dialysis-related
    anemia. On October 18, 2010 the FDA s CRDAC discussed
    the results from the TREAT study conducted in patients not on
    dialysis, and how those results informed the appropriate use of
    ESAs in patients with CKD. Prior to the CRDAC meeting, we
    submitted proposed labeling changes regarding the use of ESAs in
    CRF patients not on dialysis that would limit treatment to
    patients who are most likely to benefit, specifically those with
    significant anemia
     ( 10 g/dL), 
    and who are at high risk for transfusion and for whom
    transfusion avoidance is

46

Table of Contents   

considered clinically important, including those in whom it is
    important to preserve kidney transplant eligibility. A variety
    of opinions regarding the appropriate use of ESAs in patients
    with CKD were offered at the CRDAC meeting by the various
    meeting participants. On January 19, 2011, CMS held another
    MEDCAC meeting, this time to review the available evidence on
    the impact of ESA use on renal transplant graft survival. (See
    Our sales depend on coverage and reimbursement from third-party
    payers.) We are working with the FDA to determine the
    appropriate use of ESAs in CKD patients and we continue to
    cooperate with CMS in determining appropriate reimbursement for
    our ESAs. Although we cannot predict what impact all of these
    activities (including the revised ESA labeling; any future ESA
    labeling changes required in connection with TREAT or the CRDAC
    meeting or from our ongoing discussions with the FDA regarding
    the conversion of the format of our ESA U.S. labels in
    accordance with the Physician s Labeling Rule; the outcome
    from the NCA or MEDCAC meetings, including an NCD; and the
    impact of the approved REMS for ESAs) could have on our
    business, these activities could, individually or together, have
    a material adverse impact on the coverage, reimbursement, use
     and/or  sales
    of our ESAs, which would have a material adverse effect on our
    business and results of operations. (See Our current products
    and products in development cannot be sold if we do not maintain
    or gain regulatory approval.)

We also have ongoing PMCs for our ESAs that must be conducted to
    maintain regulatory approval and marketing authorization. We
    have agreed with the FDA to a robust pharmacovigilance program
    to continue to study the safety surrounding the use of ESAs in
    the oncology setting and we initiated Study 782 as part of
    our
    Aranesp   

    pharmacovigilance program, a phase 3 non-inferiority study
    evaluating overall survival when comparing NSCLC patients on
    Aranesp   

    to patients receiving placebo. We continue to identify clinical
    sites for Study 782 and to enroll patients in the study. In
    addition, J JPRD s EPO-ANE-3010 study, which evaluates
    the use of Epoetin alfa in patients with breast cancer, is
    ongoing and is designated as an FDA PMC. Further, in 2008 the
    FDA and the EMA reviewed interim results from the Preoperative
    Epirubicin Paclitaxel
    Aranesp   

    ( PREPARE ) study in neo-adjuvant breast cancer, a PMC
    study, which were ultimately incorporated into the ESA labeling
    in both the United States and the EU. We received the final
    results from the PREPARE study in 2009, which were substantially
    consistent with the interim results, and provided that data to
    the FDA and EMA. Although we cannot predict the results or the
    outcomes of ongoing clinical trials, or the extent to which
    regulatory authorities may require additional labeling changes
    as a result of these or other trials, we cannot exclude the
    possibility that adverse results from clinical trials, including
    PMCs, could have a material adverse impact on the reimbursement,
    use and sales of our ESAs, which would have a material adverse
    effect on our business and results of operations.

Regulatory authorities outside the United States have also
    reviewed and scrutinized the use of our ESA products. In June
    2008, the EMA recommended updating the product information for
    ESAs with a new warning for their use in cancer patients, which
    was approved by the EC in October 2008. The product information
    for all ESAs was updated to advise that, in some clinical
    situations, blood transfusions should be the preferred treatment
    for the management of anemia in patients with cancer and that
    the decision to administer ESAs should be based on a
    benefit-risk assessment with the participation of the individual
    patient. Since the October 2008 revision, we have experienced a
    reduction of
    Aranesp   

    sales in the supportive cancer care setting in the EU and,
    although we cannot predict what further impact the revised EU
    ESA product information could have on our business, the
    coverage, reimbursement, use and sales of
    Aranesp   

    in Europe could further be materially adversely affected, which
    would have a material adverse effect on our business and results
    of operations.

Moreover, we continue to receive results from meta-analyses or
    previously initiated clinical trials using ESAs, including PMCs,
    and adverse results could negatively impact the use and sales of
    our ESAs. For example, in September 2008, we announced that we
    had received a summary of preliminary results from the Cochrane
    Collaboration s independent meta-analysis of patient-level
    data from previously conducted, randomized, controlled, clinical
    studies evaluating ESAs in cancer patients which we submitted to
    the FDA and the EMA. This Cochrane meta-analysis of
    patient-level data from previous studies corroborates prior
    analyses indicating that the use of ESAs may increase the risk
    of death in cancer patients. The studies in the analysis all
    predate the current label, which advises using the least amount
    of ESA necessary to avoid transfusion but they do not exclude
    the potential for adverse outcomes when ESAs are prescribed
    according to the current label.

47

Table of Contents   

We must
    conduct clinical trials in humans before we can commercialize
    and sell any of our product candidates or existing products for
    new indications.  

Before we can sell any products, we must conduct clinical trials
    to demonstrate that our product candidates are safe and
    effective for use in humans. The results of those clinical
    trials are used as the basis to obtain approval from regulatory
    authorities such as the FDA and EMA. (See Our current products
    and products in development cannot be sold if we do not maintain
    or gain regulatory approval.) We are required to conduct
    clinical trials using an appropriate number of trial sites and
    patients to support the product label claims. The length of
    time, number of trial sites and patients required for clinical
    trials vary substantially and therefore, we may spend several
    years and incur substantial expense in completing certain
    clinical trials. Delays in planned clinical trials can result in
    increased development costs, delays in regulatory approvals,
    associated delays in product candidates reaching the market and
    revisions to existing product labels. For example, in 2006 we
    delayed the start of our phase 3 trial in first-line NSCLC due
    to an increased frequency of cholecystitis (inflammation of the
    gall bladder) in patients treated with our late-stage product
    candidate motesanib. Following initiation of the trial in
    November 2008, enrollment in this phase 3 trial was temporarily
    suspended following a planned safety data review of
    600 patients by the study s independent DMC. In
    February 2009, the DMC recommended the trial resume enrollment
    of patients with non-squamous NSCLC only, and in June 2009, we
    reinitiated enrollment in this patient population following an
    FDA-approved revision to the study protocol.

In addition, in order to increase the number of patients
    available for enrollment for our clinical trials, we have and
    will continue to open clinical sites and enroll patients in a
    number of new geographic locations where our experience
    conducting clinical trials is more limited, including Russia,
    India, East Asia and some Central and South American countries
    either through utilization of third-party contract clinical
    trial providers entirely or in combination with local staff.
    Conducting clinical trials in locations where we have limited
    experience requires substantial time and resources to identify
    and understand the unique regulatory environments of individual
    countries. Further, we must ensure the timely production,
    distribution and delivery of the clinical supply of our product
    candidates to the numerous and varied clinical trial sites. If
    we fail to adequately manage the design, execution and
    regulatory aspects of our large, complex and regulatorily
    diverse clinical trials or manage the production or distribution
    of our clinical supply, corresponding regulatory approvals may
    be delayed or we may fail to gain approval for our product
    candidates or could lose our ability to market existing products
    in certain therapeutic areas or altogether. If we are unable to
    market and sell our product candidates or are unable to obtain
    approvals in the timeframe needed to execute our product
    strategies, our business and results of operations would be
    materially adversely affected. Additional information on our
    clinical trials can be found on our website at www.amgen.com.
    (This website address is not intended to function as a
    hyperlink, and the information contained on our website is not
    intended to be a part of this filing.)

Further, we rely on unaffiliated third-party vendors to perform
    certain aspects of our clinical trial operations. In the event
    that any of these vendors has unforeseen issues that negatively
    impact the quality of its work, our ability to evaluate clinical
    results may also be negatively impacted. As a result, this could
    adversely affect our ability to file for, gain or maintain
    regulatory approvals worldwide on a timely basis.

Patients may also suffer adverse medical events or side effects
    in the course of our, our licensees, partners or independent
    investigator s clinical trials which could:

delay the clinical trial program

require additional or longer trials to gain approval

prohibit regulatory approval of our product candidates or new
    indications for existing products

render the product candidate commercially unfeasible or limit
    our ability to market existing products completely or in certain
    therapeutic areas.

Clinical trials must be designed based on the current standard
    of medical care. However in certain diseases, such as cancer,
    the standard of care is evolving rapidly. In these diseases, the
    duration of time needed to complete certain clinical trials may
    result in the design of such clinical trials being based on an
    out of date standard of medical

48

Table of Contents   

care, limiting the utility and application of such trials. We
    may not obtain favorable clinical trial results and may not be
    able to obtain regulatory approval for new product candidates,
    new indications for existing products or maintenance of our
    current labels on this basis. Further, clinical trials conducted
    by others, including our licensees, partners or independent
    investigators, may result in unfavorable clinical trials results
    that may call into question the safety of our products in
    off-label or on label uses that may result in label restrictions
     and/or 
    additional trials.

Even after a product is on the market, safety concerns may
    require additional or more extensive clinical trials as part of
    a pharmacovigilance program of our product or for approval of a
    new indication. For example, we have initiated Study 782 as
    part of our
    Aranesp   

    pharmacovigilance program. (See Our ESA products continue to be
    under review and receive scrutiny by regulatory authorities.)
    Additional clinical trials we initiate, including those required
    by the FDA, could result in substantial additional expense and
    the outcomes could result in additional label restrictions or
    the loss of regulatory approval for an approved indication, each
    of which may have a material adverse effect on our business and
    results of operations. Additionally, any negative results from
    such trials could materially affect the extent of approvals, the
    use, reimbursement and sales of our products.

We expect
    to face increasing competition from biosimilar products which
    could impact our profitability.  

We currently face competition in Europe from biosimilar
    products, and we expect to face increasing competition from
    biosimilars in the future. Lawmakers in the United States have
    recently enacted healthcare reform legislation which included an
    abbreviated regulatory pathway for the approval of biosimilars.
    The EU has already created such a regulatory pathway. To the
    extent that governments adopt more permissive approval
    frameworks and competitors are able to obtain broader marketing
    approval for biosimilars, our products will become subject to
    increased competition. Expiration or successful challenge of
    applicable patent rights could trigger such competition, and we
    could face more litigation regarding the validity
     and/or  scope
    of our patents.

In the EU, the EC has granted marketing authorizations for
    several biosimilars pursuant to a set of general and product
     class-specific 
    guidelines for biosimilar approvals issued over the past few
    years. In 2006, the EMA developed and issued final regulatory
    guidelines related to the development and approval of biosimilar
    products. The final guidelines included clinical trial guidance
    for certain biosimilar products, including erythropoietins and
    G-CSFs, recommending that applicants seeking approval of such
    biosimilar products conduct pharmacodynamic, toxicological and
    clinical safety studies as well as a pharmacovigilance program.
    Some companies have received and other companies are seeking
    approval to market erythropoietin and G-CSF biosimilars in the
    EU, presenting additional competition for our products. (See Our
    marketed products face substantial competition.) For example,
    following the expiration of the principal European patent
    relating to recombinant G-CSF in August 2006, the EC issued
    marketing authorizations for the first G-CSF biosimilar products
    and the products were launched in certain EU countries in 2008
    and 2009. There are now several G-CSF biosimilars available in
    the EU marketed by different companies and these G-CSF
    biosimilar products compete with
    NEUPOGEN   

    and
    Neulasta   .

    Further, as in an effort to reduce costs, countries in the EU
    may in the future permit the automatic substitution by
    pharmacists of biosimilars for the corresponding innovator
    products. We cannot predict to what extent the entry of
    biosimilar products or other competing products will impact
    future sales of our products in the EU. Our inability to compete
    effectively could reduce sales, which could have a material
    adverse effect on our results of operations.

On March 23, 2010, President Obama signed into law the
    PPACA which authorized the FDA to approve biosimilar products
    under a new abbreviated pathway. The new law established a
    period of 12 years of data exclusivity for reference
    products in order to preserve incentives for future innovation
    and outlined statutory criteria for science-based biosimilar
    approval standards that take into account patient safety
    considerations. Under this framework, data exclusivity protects
    the data in the innovator s regulatory application by
    prohibiting, for a period of 12 years, others from gaining
    FDA approval based in part on reliance or reference to the
    innovator s data in their application to the FDA. The new
    law does not change the duration of patents granted on biologic
    products. As part of the implementation process, the FDA
    published several questions in the Federal Register for public
    comment. The FDA held a public meeting in November 2010 to seek
    stakeholder input on the subject and accepted written comments
    through 2010. The agency has the authority to approve biosimilar
    products but has not announced whether it will first publish
    guidance or rules for biosimilar applicants before approving
    biosimilar products. With the likely introduction of biosimilars
    in the United States, we expect in the future to face greater
    competition from

49

Table of Contents   

biosimilar products and downward pressure on our product prices,
    sales and revenues, subject to our ability to enforce our
    patents. Further, biosimilar manufacturers with approved
    products in Europe may seek to quickly obtain U.S. approval
    now that the regulatory pathway for biosimilars has been
    enacted. In addition, critics of the 12-year exclusivity period
    in the biosimilar pathway law will likely seek to shorten the
    data exclusivity period. President Obama s proposed 2012
    budget includes a proposal to lower the data exclusivity period
    to seven years, but this would require new legislation be passed
    by the Congress. Critics may also encourage the FDA to interpret
    narrowly the law s provisions regarding which new products
    receive data exclusivity.

We may
    not be able to develop commercial products.  

Successful product development in the biotechnology industry is
    highly uncertain, and very few R D projects produce a
    commercial product. We intend to continue to make significant
    R D investments. Product candidates or new indications for
    existing products (collectively,  product candidates )
    that appear promising in the early phases of development may
    fail to reach the market for a number of reasons, such as:

the product candidate did not demonstrate acceptable clinical
    trial results even though it demonstrated positive preclinical
    trial results, for reasons that could include changes in the
    standard of care of medicine

the product candidate was not effective or more effective than
    currently available therapies in treating a specified condition
    or illness

the product candidate is not cost effective in light of existing
    therapeutics

the product candidate had harmful side effects in humans or
    animals

the necessary regulatory bodies, such as the FDA or EMA, did not
    approve our product candidate for an intended use

the product candidate was not economical for us to manufacture
    and commercialize

other parties have or may have proprietary rights relating to
    our product candidate, such as patent rights, and will not let
    us sell it on reasonable terms, or at all

we and certain of our licensees, partners or independent
    investigators may fail to effectively conduct clinical
    development or clinical manufacturing activities

the regulatory pathway to approval for product candidates is
    uncertain or not well-defined

For example, after discussions with the FDA we have decided not
    to file for approval of motesanib in refractory thyroid cancer
    until there is more clarity on what would constitute an
    appropriate regulatory filing package for that indication.
    Further, several of our product candidates have failed or been
    discontinued at various stages in the product development
    process. For example, in June 2004, we announced that the phase
    2 study of Glial Cell Lined-Derived Neurotrophic Factor
    ( GDNF ) for the treatment of advanced
    Parkinson s disease did not meet the primary study endpoint
    upon completion of nine months of the double-blind treatment
    phase of the study. The conclusion was reached even though a
    small phase 1 pilot investigator-initiated open-label study over
    a three-year period appeared to result in improvements for
    advanced Parkinson s disease patients. Subsequently, we
    discontinued clinical development of GDNF in patients with
    advanced Parkinson s disease.

Our
    marketed products face substantial competition.  

We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our products
    compete with other products or treatments for diseases for which
    our products may be indicated. Our competitors market products
    or are actively engaged in R D in areas where we have
    products, where we are developing product candidates or new
    indications for existing products. In the future, we expect that
    our products will compete with new drugs currently in
    development, drugs currently approved for other indications that
    may later be approved for the same indications as those of our
    products and drugs approved for other indications that are used
    off-label. Large pharmaceutical companies and generic
    manufacturers of pharmaceutical products are expanding into the
    biotechnology field with increasing frequency. These companies
    may have greater resources than we do. In addition, some of our
    competitors may have technical

50

Table of Contents   

or competitive advantages over us for the development of
    technologies and processes. These resources may make it
    difficult for us to compete with them to successfully discover,
    develop and market new products and for our current products to
    compete with new products or new product indications that these
    competitors may bring to market. As a result, our products may
    compete against products that have lower prices, equivalent or
    superior performance, better safety profile, are easier to
    administer or that are otherwise competitive with our products.

Concentration
    of sales at certain of our wholesaler distributors and
    consolidation of free-standing dialysis clinic businesses may
    negatively impact our bargaining power and profit
    margins.  

The substantial majority of our U.S. product sales are made
    to three pharmaceutical product wholesaler distributors,
    AmerisourceBergen Corporation, Cardinal Health, Inc. and
    McKesson Corporation. These distributors, in turn, sell our
    products to their customers, which include physicians or their
    clinics, dialysis centers, hospitals and pharmacies. In
    addition, one of our products,
    EPOGEN   ,

    is sold primarily to free-standing dialysis clinics, which have
    experienced significant consolidation. Two organizations, DaVita
    Inc. and Fresenius North America own or manage a large
    number of the outpatient dialysis facilities located in the
    United States and account for a substantial majority of all
    EPOGEN   

    sales in the free-standing dialysis clinic setting. Due to this
    concentration, these entities have substantial purchasing
    leverage, which may put pressure on our pricing by their
    potential ability to extract price discounts on our products or
    fees for other services, correspondingly negatively impacting
    our bargaining position and profit margins. In October 2006, we
    entered into a five-year sole sourcing and supply agreement with
    an affiliate of Fresenius North America, on its behalf and on
    behalf of certain of its affiliates, whereby they have agreed to
    purchase, and we have agreed to supply, all of Fresenius North
    America s commercial requirements for ESAs for use in
    managing the anemia of its hemodialysis patients in the United
    States and Puerto Rico, based on forecasts provided by Fresenius
    North America and subject to the terms and conditions of the
    agreement.

We rely
    on third-party suppliers for certain of our raw materials,
    medical devices and components.  

We rely on unaffiliated third-party suppliers for certain raw
    materials, medical devices and components necessary for the
    manufacturing of our commercial and clinical products. Certain
    of those raw materials, medical devices and components are the
    proprietary products of those unaffiliated third-party suppliers
    and are specifically cited in our drug application with
    regulatory agencies so that they must be obtained from that
    specific sole source or sources and could not be obtained from
    another supplier unless and until the regulatory agency approved
    such supplier.

Among the reasons we may be unable to obtain these raw
    materials, medical devices and components include:

regulatory requirements or action by regulatory agencies or
    others

adverse financial or other strategic developments at or
    affecting the supplier

unexpected demand for or shortage of raw materials, medical
    devices or components

labor disputes or shortages, including the effects of a pandemic
    flu outbreak, natural disaster, or otherwise

failure to comply with our quality standards which results in
    quality and product failures, product contamination
     and/or  recall

discovery of previously unknown or undetected imperfections in
    raw materials, medical devices or components

These events could adversely affect our ability to satisfy
    demand for our products, which could adversely affect our
    product use, sales and operating results materially. For
    example, we have experienced shortages in certain components
    necessary for the formulation, fill and finish of certain of our
    products in our Puerto Rico facility without impact on our
    ability to supply these products. Further, quality issues which
    result in unexpected additional demand for certain components
    may lead to shortages of required raw materials or components
    (such as we have experienced with
    EPOGEN   

    glass vials). We may experience or continue to experience these
    or other shortages in the future resulting in delayed shipments,
    supply constraints, contract disputes
     and/or 
    stock-outs of our products.

51

Table of Contents   

Also, certain of the raw materials required in the commercial
    and clinical manufacturing of our products are sourced from
    other countries
     and/or 
    derived from biological sources, including mammalian tissues. In
    addition, one of our marketed products also uses bovine serum
    and human serum albumin. Some countries in which we market our
    products may restrict the use of certain biologically derived
    substances in the manufacture of drugs. We continue to
    investigate alternatives to certain biological sources and
    alternative manufacturing processes that do not require the use
    of certain biologically derived substances because such raw
    materials may be subject to contamination
     and/or 
    recall.

A material shortage, contamination, recall
     and/or 
    restriction of the use of certain biologically derived
    substances or other raw materials, which may be sourced from
    other countries and that are used in the manufacture of our
    products could adversely impact or disrupt the commercial
    manufacturing of our products or could result in a mandated
    withdrawal of our products from the market. This could adversely
    affect our ability to satisfy demand for our products, which
    could adversely affect our product sales and operating results
    materially. Further, any disruptions or delays by us or by
    third-party suppliers or partners in converting to alternatives
    to certain biologically derived substances and alternative
    manufacturing processes or our ability to gain regulatory
    approval for the alternative materials and manufacturing
    processes could increase our associated costs or result in the
    recognition of an impairment in the carrying value of certain
    related assets, which could have a material and adverse affect
    on our results of operations.

Manufacturing
    difficulties, disruptions or delays could limit supply of our
    products and limit our product sales.  

Manufacturing biologic human therapeutic products is difficult,
    complex and highly regulated. We currently manufacture all of
    our principal products and plan to manufacture many of our
    product candidates. In addition, we currently use third-party
    contract manufacturers to produce or assist in the production of
    ENBREL,
    Prolia   ,

    Sensipar   /Mimpara   ,

    Nplate   

    and
    XGEVA  tm  

    and plan to use contract manufacturers to produce or assist in
    the production of a number of our late-stage product candidates.
    Our ability to adequately and timely manufacture and supply our
    products is dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient
    operation of our facilities and those of our third-party
    contract manufacturers, which may be impacted by:

availability or contamination of raw materials, components and
    equipment used in the manufacturing process, particularly those
    for which we have no other source or supplier

capacity of our facilities and those of our contract
    manufacturers

contamination by microorganisms or viruses

natural or other disasters, including hurricanes, earthquakes or
    fires

labor disputes or shortages, including the effects of a pandemic
    flu outbreak, natural disaster, or otherwise

degree of compliance with regulatory requirements

changes in forecasts of future demand

timing and actual number of production runs

updating of manufacturing specifications

production success rates and yields

timing and outcome of product quality testing

If the efficient manufacture and supply of our products is
    interrupted, we may experience delayed shipments, supply
    constraints, stock-outs
     and/or 
    recalls of our products. For example, over the past several
    years we have initiated a number of voluntary recalls of certain
    lots of our products. (See Our current products and products in
    development cannot be sold if we do not maintain or gain
    regulatory approval.) If we are at any time unable to provide an
    uninterrupted supply of our products to patients, we may lose
    patients and physicians may elect to prescribe competing
    therapeutics instead of our products, which could materially and
    adversely affect our product sales and results of operations.

52

Table of Contents   

Our manufacturing processes and those of our third-party
    contract manufacturers must undergo a potentially lengthy FDA or
    other regulatory approval process and are subject to continued
    review by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. It can take
    longer than five years to build, validate and license a new
    manufacturing plant and it can take longer than three years to
    qualify and license a new contract manufacturer. For example, in
    order to maintain supply and to satisfy anticipated future
    demand for denosumab, we are qualifying the expansion of our
    existing bulk protein facilities at our Puerto Rico site. In
    addition, we are completing the construction and qualification
    of a new formulation and filling facility at our Puerto Rico
    site in order mitigate the risk associated with the majority of
    our formulation and fill operations being performed in a single
    facility. Upon completion, these facilities will require
    licensure by the various regulatory authorities.

If regulatory authorities determine that we or our third-party
    contract manufacturers or certain of our third-party service
    providers have violated regulations or if they restrict, suspend
    or revoke our prior approvals, they could prohibit us from
    manufacturing our products or conducting clinical trials or
    selling our marketed products until we or the affected
    third-party contract manufacturers or third-party service
    providers comply, or indefinitely. Because our third-party
    contract manufacturers and certain of our third-party service
    providers are subject to the FDA and foreign regulatory
    authorities, alternative qualified third-party contract
    manufacturers and third-party service providers may not be
    available on a timely basis or at all. If we or our third-party
    contract manufacturers or third-party service providers cease or
    interrupt production or if our third-party contract
    manufacturers and third-party service providers fail to supply
    materials, products or services to us, we may experience delayed
    shipments, supply constraints, stock-outs
     and/or 
    recalls of our products. Additionally, we distribute a
    substantial volume of our commercial products through a single
    distribution center in Louisville, Kentucky for the United
    States and another in Breda, the Netherlands for Europe and much
    of the rest of the world. We also conduct all the labeling and
    packaging of our products distributed in Europe and much of the
    rest of the world in Breda, the Netherlands. Our ability to
    timely supply products is dependent on the uninterrupted and
    efficient operations of our distribution and logistics centers,
    our third-party logistics providers and our labeling and
    packaging facility in Breda. Further, we rely on commercial
    transportation for the distribution of our products to our
    customers which may be negatively impacted by natural disasters,
    such as earthquakes or volcanic eruptions, or security threats.

We
    perform a substantial amount of our commercial manufacturing
    activities at our Puerto Rico manufacturing facility and a
    substantial amount of our clinical manufacturing activities at
    our Thousand Oaks, California manufacturing facility; if
    significant natural disasters or production failures occur at
    the Puerto Rico facility, we may not be able to supply these
    products or, at the Thousand Oaks facility, we may not be able
    to continue our clinical trials.  

We currently perform all of the formulation, fill and finish for
    EPOGEN   ,

    Aranesp   ,

    Neulasta   ,

    NEUPOGEN   ,

    Prolia   

    and
    XGEVA  tm  

    and substantially all of the formulation, fill and finish
    operations for ENBREL, and all of the bulk manufacturing for
    Aranesp   ,

    Neulasta   ,

    and
    NEUPOGEN   

    at our manufacturing facility in Juncos, Puerto Rico. In
    addition, we expect/plan to perform substantially all of the
    bulk manufacturing for
    Prolia   

    and
    XGEVA  tm  

    at the Puerto Rico facility once the facility has been approved
    by the FDA for that purpose. We also perform substantially all
    of the bulk manufacturing and formulation, fill and finish, and
    packaging for product candidates to be used in clinical trials
    at our manufacturing facility in Thousand Oaks, California. The
    global supply of our products and product candidates is
    significantly dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient
    operation of these facilities. A number of factors could
    adversely affect our operations, including:

power failures
     and/or  other
    utility failures

breakdown, failure or substandard performance of equipment

improper installation or operation of equipment

labor disputes or shortages, including the effects of a pandemic
    flu outbreak

inability or unwillingness of third-party suppliers to provide
    raw materials and components

natural or other disasters, including hurricanes, earthquakes or
    fires

53

Table of Contents   

failures to comply with regulatory requirements, including those
    of the FDA

In the past, the Puerto Rico facility has experienced
    manufacturing component shortages and there was evidence of
    adverse trends in the microbial bioburden of the production
    environment that reduced the production output. The same or
    other problems may result in our being unable to supply these
    products, which could adversely affect our product sales and
    operating results materially. Although we have obtained limited
    insurance to protect against certain business interruption
    losses, there can be no assurance that such coverage will be
    adequate or that such coverage will continue to remain available
    on acceptable terms, if at all. The extent of the coverage of
    our insurance could limit our ability to mitigate for lost sales
    and such losses could materially adversely affect our product
    sales and operating results. Our Puerto Rico facility is also
    subject to the same difficulties, disruptions or delays in
    manufacturing experienced in our other manufacturing facilities.
    For example, the limited number of lots of ENBREL and
    EPOGEN   

    voluntarily recalled in 2009 and 2010 were manufactured at our
    Puerto Rico facility. In future inspections, our failure to
    adequately address the FDA s expectations could lead to
    further inspections of the facility or regulatory actions. (See
    Manufacturing difficulties, disruptions or delays could limit
    supply of our products and limit our product sales.)

If our
    intellectual property positions are challenged, invalidated,
    circumvented or expire, or if we fail to prevail in present and
    future intellectual property litigation, our business could be
    adversely affected.  

Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and defend
    patent rights and other intellectual property rights that are
    important to the commercialization of our products and product
    candidates. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and
    biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and often
    involve complex legal, scientific and factual questions. Third
    parties may challenge, invalidate or circumvent our patents and
    patent applications relating to our products, product candidates
    and technologies. In addition, our patent positions might not
    protect us against competitors with similar products or
    technologies because competing products or technologies may not
    infringe our patents. For certain of our product candidates,
    there are third parties who have patents or pending patent
    applications that they may claim necessitate payment of a
    royalty or prevent us from commercializing these product
    candidates in certain territories. Patent disputes are frequent,
    costly and can preclude, delay or increase the cost of
    commercialization of products. We are currently, and in the
    future may be, involved in patent litigation. (See
    Note 19 ,  Contingencies and commitments in the notes
    to our consolidated financial statements in our annual report.)
    A patent dispute or litigation may not discourage a potential
    violator from bringing the product that is alleged to infringe
    to market prior to a final resolution of the dispute or
    litigation. For example, despite the ongoing litigation, Teva
    has stated that it intends to sell its filgrastim product, upon
    approval from the FDA, in the United States without a license
    from us and prior to the expiration of our G-CSF patents. The
    period of time from inception until resolution of a patent
    dispute or litigation is subject to the availability and
    schedule of the court, agency or tribunal before which the
    dispute or litigation is pending. We may be subject to
    competition during this period and may not be able to fully
    recover for the losses, damages, and harms we incur from
    infringement by the competitor product even if we prevail.
    Moreover, if we lose or settle current or future litigations at
    certain stages or entirely, we could be subject to competition
     and/or 
    significant liabilities, be required to enter into third-party
    licenses for the infringed product or technology or be required
    to cease using the technology or product in dispute. In
    addition, we cannot guarantee that such licenses will be
    available on terms acceptable to us, or at all.

Further, under the Hatch-Waxman Act, products approved by the
    FDA under a NDA may be the subject of patent litigation with
    generic competitors before the five year period of data
    exclusivity provided for under the Hatch-Waxman Act has expired
    and prior to the expiration of the patents listed for the
    product.

Over the next several years, the existing patents on our
    principal products will begin to expire. (See Item 1.
    Business   Marketed Products.) As our patents expire,
    competitors may be able to legally produce and market similar
    products or technologies, including biosimilars, which may
    result in a reduction in the use and sales of our products.
    While we have, and we continue to seek, additional patent
    protection on certain of our products, including for specific
    processes for making our products, formulations and particular
    uses of our products, competitors may be able to design around
    or otherwise circumvent any such additional patents and sell
    competing products. Although we continue to develop and obtain
    patent protection for new product candidates, we may not be able
    to replace the revenue lost upon the expiration of the patents
    on our current products.

54

Table of Contents   

In recent years, policymakers have proposed reforming
    U.S. patent laws and regulations. For example, patent
    reform legislation was introduced in both the House and the
    Senate during the 111th Congress in 2009 but was not
    adopted into law. Legislation was again introduced in the Senate
    and passed the Senate Judiciary Committee on February 3,
    2011. In general, the proposed legislation attempts to address
    issues surrounding the increase in patent litigation by, among
    other things, establishing new procedures for challenging
    patents. While we cannot predict what form any new patent reform
    laws or regulations may ultimately take, final legislation could
    introduce new substantive rules and procedures for challenging
    patents, and certain reforms that make it easier for competitors
    to challenge our patents could have a material adverse effect on
    our business.

Our
    business may be affected by litigation and government
    investigations.  

We and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in legal
    proceedings. (See Note 19, Contingencies and commitments in
    the notes to our consolidated financial statements in our annual
    report.) Civil and criminal litigation is inherently
    unpredictable, and the outcome can result in excessive verdicts,
    fines, penalties, exclusion from the federal healthcare programs
     and/or 
    injunctive relief that affect how we operate our business.
    Defense of litigation claims can be expensive, time-consuming
    and distracting and it is possible that we could incur judgments
    or enter into settlements of claims for monetary damages or
    change the way we operate our business, which could have a
    material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial
    position or cash flows. In addition, product liability is a
    major risk in testing and marketing biotechnology and
    pharmaceutical products. We may face substantial product
    liability exposure in human clinical trials and for products
    that we sell after regulatory approval. Product liability
    claims, regardless of their merits, could be costly and divert
    management s attention, and adversely affect our reputation
    and the demand for our products. Amgen and Immunex have
    previously been named as defendants in product liability actions
    for certain of our products.

We are also involved in government investigations that arise in
    the ordinary course of our business. We have received subpoenas
    from a number of government entities, including the
    U.S. Attorney s Offices for the Eastern District of
    New York and the Western District of Washington, as well as the
    Attorneys General of New York and New Jersey. The federal
    subpoenas have been issued pursuant to the Health Insurance
    Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (18 U.S.C.
    3486), and by a federal grand jury, while the Attorneys General
    subpoenas have been issued pursuant to state specific statutes
    relating to consumer fraud laws and state false claims acts. The
    government is allowed to use materials produced in response to a
    section 3486 administrative subpoena in both criminal and
    civil investigations. In general, the subpoenas request
    documents relating to the sales and marketing of our products,
    and our collection and dissemination of information reflecting
    clinical research as to the safety and efficacy of our ESAs.
    Based on representations in a U.S. government filing, that
    became public in May 2009 relating to the Massachusetts Qui Tam
    Action, we now believe the subpoenas we received from the
    U.S. Attorney s Offices for the Eastern District of
    New York and the Western District of Washington also relate to
    nine additional Qui Tam Actions which are purportedly pending
    against Amgen, including eight pending in the U.S. District
    Court for the Eastern District of New York and one pending in
    the U.S. District Court for the Western District of
    Washington. The U.S. government filing further alleges that
    a large number of states are involved in the Qui Tam
    investigations, led by the State of New York. These
    investigations are represented to be joint criminal and civil
    investigations.

Throughout these investigations, and in litigation, the
    government entities are asserting that we violated various state
    and federal laws. These investigations are very burdensome,
    expensive and time-consuming for us to explain and defend to
    these entities. Although we cannot predict whether additional
    proceedings may be initiated against us, or predict when these
    matters may be resolved, it is not unusual for investigations
    such as these to continue for a considerable period of time and
    to require management s attention and significant legal
    expense. A determination that we are in violation of the various
    federal and state laws that govern the sales and marketing of
    our products could result in federal criminal liability
     and/or 
    federal or state civil or administrative liability, and thus
    could result in substantial financial damages or criminal
    penalties and possible exclusion from future participation in
    the Medicare and Medicaid programs. In addition, we may see new
    governmental investigations of or actions against us citing
    novel theories of recovery. Any of these results could have a
    material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial
    position or cash flows in the period in which such liabilities
    are incurred.

55

Table of Contents   

Our stock
    price is volatile.  

Our stock price, like that of our peers in the biotechnology
    industry, is volatile. Our revenues and operating results may
    fluctuate from period to period for a number of reasons. Events
    such as a delay in product development or even a relatively
    small revenue shortfall may cause financial results for a period
    to be below our expectations or projections. As a result, our
    revenues and operating results and, in turn, our stock price may
    be subject to significant fluctuations.

The capital and credit markets may experience extreme volatility
    and disruption which may lead to uncertainty and liquidity
    issues for both borrowers and investors. Historically, we have
    occasionally and opportunistically accessed the capital markets
    to support certain business activities including acquisitions,
    in-licensing activities, share repurchases and to refinance
    existing debt. In the event of adverse capital and credit market
    conditions, we may not be able to obtain capital market
    financing on similar favorable terms, or at all, which could
    have a material adverse effect on our business and results of
    operations. Changes in credit ratings issued by nationally
    recognized credit rating agencies could adversely affect our
    cost of financing and have an adverse effect on the market price
    of our securities.

Current
    economic conditions may magnify certain risks that affect our
    business.  

Our operations and performance have been, and may continue to
    be, affected by economic conditions. Sales of our principal
    products are dependent, in part, on the availability and extent
    of reimbursement from third-party payers, including government
    programs such as Medicare and Medicaid and private payer
    healthcare and insurance programs. (See Our sales depend on
    coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers.) In the
    United States, there is an increased focus from the federal
    government and others on analyzing the impact of various
    regulatory programs on the federal deficit, which could result
    in increased pressure on federal programs to reduce costs.
    Financial pressures may cause government or other third-party
    payers to more aggressively seek cost containment through
    mandatory discounts on our products, policies requiring the
    automatic substitution of biosimilar or generic products or
    other similar measures. (See We expect to face increasing
    competition from biosimilar products which could impact our
    profitability.) Additionally, as a result of the current global
    economic downturn, our third-party payers may delay or be unable
    to satisfy their reimbursement obligations. A reduction in the
    availability or extent of reimbursement from government
     and/or 
    private payer healthcare programs or increased competition from
    lower cost biosimilar products could have a material adverse
    affect on the sales of our products, our business and results of
    operations.

We are exposed to sovereign risk in some European countries
    where we sell directly to public healthcare systems. Economic
    and fiscal conditions in these countries could affect the amount
    and timing of the collection of our receivables. For example,
    the government of Greece has issued one-, two- and three-year
    zero-coupon bonds to various pharmaceutical vendors in lieu of
    payment of past due receivables dating from 2007 to 2009.

In addition, as a result of the economic downturn, some
    employers may seek to reduce costs by reducing or eliminating
    employer group healthcare plans or transferring a greater
    portion of healthcare costs to their employees. Job losses or
    other economic hardships may also result in reduced levels of
    coverage for some individuals, potentially resulting in lower
    levels of healthcare coverage for themselves or their families.
    These economic conditions may affect patients  ability to
    afford healthcare as a result of increased co-pay or deductible
    obligations, greater cost sensitivity to existing co-pay or
    deductible obligations, lost healthcare insurance coverage or
    for other reasons. We believe such conditions have led and could
    continue to lead to changes in patient behavior and spending
    patterns that negatively affect usage of certain of our
    products, including delaying treatment, rationing prescription
    medications, leaving prescriptions unfilled, reducing the
    frequency of visits to healthcare facilities, utilizing
    alternative therapies
     and/or 
    foregoing healthcare insurance coverage. In addition to its
    effects on consumers, the economic downturn may have also
    increased cost sensitivities among medical providers in the
    United States, such as oncology clinics, particularly in
    circumstances where providers may experience challenges in the
    collection of patient co-pays or be forced to absorb treatment
    costs as a result of coverage decisions or reimbursement terms.
    Collectively, we believe these changes have resulted and may
    continue to result in reduced demand for our products, which
    could continue to adversely affect our business and results of
    operations. Any resulting decrease in demand

56

Table of Contents   

for our products could also cause us to experience excess
    inventory write-offs
     and/or 
    excess capacity or impairment charges at certain of our
    manufacturing facilities.

Additionally, we rely upon third-parties for certain parts of
    our business, including licensees and partners, wholesale
    distributors of our products, contract clinical trial providers,
    contract manufacturers and single third-party suppliers. Because
    of the recent volatility in the financial markets, there may be
    a disruption or delay in the performance or satisfaction of
    commitments to us by these third-parties which could have a
    material adverse affect on our business and results of
    operations. Current economic conditions may adversely affect the
    ability of our distributors, customers and suppliers to obtain
    liquidity required to buy inventory or raw materials and to
    perform their obligations under agreements with us, which could
    disrupt our operations. Further, economic conditions appear to
    have affected, and may continue to affect, the business
    practices of our wholesale distributors in a manner that has and
    may continue to contribute to lower sales of our products. For
    example, in the first quarter of 2009, certain of our wholesale
    distributors lowered their levels of inventory on hand, which we
    believe was done to reduce their carrying costs and improve
    their results of operations. Although we monitor our
    distributors , customers  and suppliers 
    financial condition and their liquidity in order to mitigate our
    business risks, some of our distributors, customers and
    suppliers may become insolvent, which could negatively impact
    our business and results of operations.

We maintain a significant portfolio of investments disclosed as
    cash equivalents and marketable securities on our Consolidated
    Balance Sheet. The value of our investments may be adversely
    affected by interest rate fluctuations, downgrades in credit
    ratings, illiquidity in the capital markets and other factors
    that may result in other than temporary declines in the value of
    our investments. Any of those events could cause us to record
    impairment charges with respect to our investment portfolio or
    to realize losses on the sale of investments.

Guidelines
    and recommendations published by various organizations can
    reduce the use of our products.  

Government agencies promulgate regulations and guidelines
    directly applicable to us and to our products. However,
    professional societies, health technology assessment
    organizations, practice management groups, insurance carriers,
    physicians, private health/science foundations and organizations
    involved in various diseases from time to time may also publish
    guidelines or recommendations to healthcare providers,
    administrators and payers, and patient communities.
    Recommendations by government agencies or those other
    groups/organizations may relate to such matters as usage,
    dosage, route of administration and use of related therapies as
    well as reimbursement of our products by government and private
    payers. Recommendations or guidelines that are followed by
    patients, healthcare providers and payers could result in
    decreased use
     and/or 
    dosage of our products. Some examples of agency and
    organizational guidelines include:

In August 2007, the National Kidney Foundation ( NKF )
    distributed to the nephrology community final updated Kidney
    Disease Outcomes Quality Initiative ( KDOQI ) clinical
    practice guidelines and clinical practice recommendations for
    anemia in CKD. The
    NKF-KDOQI  tm  

    Anemia Work Group recommended in its 2007 Update to the
    NKF-KDOQI  tm  

    Anemia Management Guidelines that physicians target Hb in the
    range of 11 g/dL to 12 g/dL, and also stipulated that the target
    not be above 13 g/dL.

In December 2008, the Kidney Disease: Improving Global Outcomes
    group ( KDIGO ), a
     not-for-profit 
    foundation managed by NKF, announced that it was developing a
    new global anemia guideline. The announcement stated that an
    updated anemia guideline is necessary in light of new study
    results, particularly the data from the TREAT trial, which had
    become available since the
    NKF-KDOQI  tm   s

    clinical practice guidelines and clinical practice
    recommendations for anemia in CKD were released. KDIGO has
    stated that its new guidelines are expected to be released for
    public review and comment in early to mid-2011 and that final
    guidelines could be available by early 2012.

In February 2007, following the reported results from our Anemia
    of Cancer 103 Study, the U.S. Pharmacopoeia Dispensing
    Information Drug Reference Guides removed
    Aranesp   

    in the treatment of anemia of cancer.

57

Table of Contents   

In addition, Health Technology Assessment organizations, such as
    NICE in the United Kingdom and the Canadian Agency for Drugs and
    Technologies in Health, make reimbursement recommendations to
    payers in their jurisdictions based on the clinical
    effectiveness, cost-effectiveness and service impact of new,
    emerging and existing medicines and treatments.

Any recommendations or guidelines that result in decreased use,
    dosage or reimbursement of our products could adversely affect
    our product sales and operating results materially. In addition,
    the perception by the investment community or stockholders that
    such recommendations or guidelines will result in decreased use
    and dosage of our products could adversely affect the market
    price for our common stock.

The
    commercialization of certain of our product candidates and the
    marketing of certain of our products is dependent in part on our
    partners.  

We have entered into agreements with third parties to assist in
    the commercialization of certain of our product candidates and
    the marketing of certain of our products in specified geographic
    areas. (See Business Relationships.) Many of these agreements
    involve the sharing of certain decisions and a division of
    responsibilities, costs and benefits. If our partners fail to
    effectively deliver on their marketing and commercialization
    commitments to us or if we and our partners fail to coordinate
    our efforts effectively, sales of our products may be materially
    adversely affected.

Our corporate compliance and risk mitigation programs cannot
    guarantee that we are in compliance with all potentially
    applicable U.S. federal and state regulations and all
    potentially applicable foreign regulations
     and/or  that
    we effectively manage all operational risks. 

The development, manufacturing, distribution, pricing, sales,
    marketing and reimbursement of our products, together with our
    general operations, are subject to extensive federal and state
    regulation in the United States and to extensive regulation in
    foreign countries. (See Our current products and products in
    development cannot be sold if we do not maintain or gain
    regulatory approval and Manufacturing difficulties, disruptions
    or delays could limit supply of our products and limit our
    product sales.) While we have developed and instituted a
    corporate compliance program, we cannot guarantee that we, our
    employees, our consultants or our contractors are or will be in
    compliance with all potentially applicable U.S. federal and
    state regulations
     and/or  laws
    or all potentially applicable foreign regulations
     and/or  laws.
    If we or our agents fail to comply with any of those regulations
     and/or  laws,
    a range of actions could result, including, but not limited to,
    the termination of clinical trials, the failure to approve a
    product candidate, restrictions on our products or manufacturing
    processes, withdrawal of our products from the market,
    significant fines, exclusion from government healthcare programs
    or other sanctions or litigation. Additionally, while we have
    implemented numerous risk mitigation measures, we cannot
    guarantee that we will be able to effectively mitigate all
    operational risks. If we fail to effectively mitigate all
    operational risks, our product supply may be materially
    adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect
    on our product sales and results of operations.

Continual
    process improvement efforts may result in the carrying value of
    certain existing manufacturing facilities or other assets
    becoming impaired or other related charges being
    incurred  

Our business continues to face many challenges. In response to
    these challenges, we have worked and continue to work to improve
    cost efficiencies and to reduce discretionary expenditures. As
    part of those efforts, we undertake continuous process
    improvement activities to evaluate our processes and procedures
    in order to identify opportunities for achieving greater
    efficiencies in how we conduct our business. In particular, we
    evaluate our manufacturing operations to identify opportunities
    to increase production yields
     and/or 
    success rates as well as capacity utilization. Depending on the
    timing and outcomes of these process improvement initiatives,
    the carrying value of certain manufacturing or other assets may
    not be fully recoverable and could result in the recognition of
    impairment
     and/or  other
    related charges. The recognition of such charges, if any, could
    have a material adverse affect on our results of operations.

58

Table of Contents   

The
    adoption of new tax legislation or exposure to additional tax
    liabilities could affect our profitability.  

We are subject to income and other taxes in the United States
    and other jurisdictions in which we do business. Our provision
    for income taxes and results of operations in the future could
    be adversely affected by changes to our operating structure,
    changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing
    statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax
    assets and liabilities, and changes in applicable tax laws. In
    addition, President Obama s administration has announced
    proposals for U.S. tax legislation that, if adopted, could
    adversely affect our provision for income taxes. There are also
    other tax proposals that have been introduced, that are being
    considered, or that have been enacted by the U.S. Congress
    or the legislative bodies in foreign jurisdictions that could
    materially adversely affect our provision for income taxes, tax
    liabilities or our results of operations. For example, the
    Commonwealth of Puerto Rico recently enacted tax legislation
    effective on January 1, 2011 that, in certain
    circumstances, imposes a temporary excise tax for companies that
    purchase products from related Puerto Rico manufacturers.

Item 1B.  UNRESOLVED
    STAFF COMMENTS   

None.

59

Table of Contents   

Item 2.  

PROPERTIES  

The following table summarizes our significant properties and
    their primary functions as of December 31, 2010. For
    additional information regarding manufacturing initiatives, see
    Item 1. Business   Manufacturing, Distribution
    and Raw Materials.

60

Table of Contents   

Our corporate headquarters are located in Thousand Oaks,
    California. In addition to the properties listed above, we have
    undeveloped land at certain U.S. locations, principally in
    Thousand Oaks, California; Longmont, Colorado; Louisville,
    Kentucky; Allentown, Pennsylvania; West Greenwich, Rhode Island;
    Seattle and Bothell, Washington; and in Juncos, Puerto Rico, to
    accommodate future expansion, as required. Excluded from the
    table above are leased properties that have been abandoned and
    certain buildings that we still own but are no longer used in
    our business. There are no material encumbrances on our
    properties.

We believe our facilities are suitable for their intended use
    and, in conjunction with our third-party contracting
    manufacturing agreements, provide adequate capacity. We also
    believe that our existing facilities, third-party contract
    manufacturing agreements and our anticipated additions are
    sufficient to meet our expected needs. (See Item 1A. Risk
    Factors   We perform a substantial amount of our
    commercial manufacturing activities at our Puerto Rico
    manufacturing facility and a substantial amount of our clinical
    manufacturing activities at our Thousand Oaks, California
    manufacturing facility; if significant natural disasters or
    production failures occur at the Puerto Rico facility, we may
    not be able to supply these products or, at the Thousand Oaks
    facility, we may not be able to continue our clinical
    trials,   We rely on third-party suppliers for certain
    of our raw materials, medical devices and components
    and   Manufacturing difficulties, disruptions or
    delays could limit supply of our products and limit our product
    sales.)

Item 3.  

LEGAL
    PROCEEDINGS  

Certain of the legal proceedings in which we are involved are
    discussed in Note 19, Contingencies and commitments to our
    Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2010
     Form 10-K 
    and are hereby incorporated by reference.

Item 4.  

RESERVED  

61

Table of Contents   

PART II   

Item 5.  

MARKET
    FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
    AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES  

Common
    stock  

Our common stock trades on The NASDAQ Global Select Market under
    the symbol AMGN. As of February 11, 2011, there were
    approximately 10,156 holders of record of our common stock. No
    cash dividends have been paid on the common stock to date.

The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the
    range of high and low quarterly closing sales prices of the
    common stock as quoted on The NASDAQ Global Select Market:

62

Table of Contents   

Performance
    graph  

The following graph shows the value of an investment of $100 on
    December 31, 2005 in each of Amgen common stock, the Amex
    Biotech Index, the Amex Pharmaceutical Index and
    Standard   Poor s 500 Index ( S P
    500 ). All values assume reinvestment of the pretax value
    of dividends paid by companies included in these indices and are
    calculated as of December 31 of each year. The historical stock
    price performance of the Company s common stock shown in
    the performance graph is not necessarily indicative of future
    stock price performance.

Amgen vs.
    Amex Biotech, Amex Pharmaceutical and S P 500 Indices 
       Comparison
    of Five-Year Cumulative Total Return 
    Value of Investment of $100 on December 31, 2005

The material in this performance graph is not soliciting
    material, is not deemed filed with the SEC, and is not
    incorporated by reference in any filing of the Company under the
    Securities Act or the Exchange Act, whether made on, before or
    after the date of this filing and irrespective of any general
    incorporation language in such filing.

63

Table of Contents   

Stock
    repurchase program  

Repurchases under our stock repurchase program reflect, in part,
    our confidence in the long-term value of our common stock.
    Additionally, we believe it is an effective way of returning
    cash to our stockholders. The manner of purchases, the amount we
    spend and the number of shares repurchased will vary based on a
    number of factors including stock price, blackout periods in
    which we are restricted from repurchasing shares, and the impact
    of repurchases on our credit rating and may include private
    block purchases as well as market transactions.

During the three months ended December 31, 2010, we had one
    outstanding stock repurchase program. A summary of our
    repurchase activity for the three months ended December 31,
    2010 is as follows:

(1)  

In December 2009, the Board of Directors authorized us to
    repurchase up to an additional $5.0 billion of common stock. 

64

Table of Contents   

Item 6.  

SELECTED
    FINANCIAL DATA  

In addition to the following notes, see Item 7.
    Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations and the consolidated financial
    statements and accompanying notes and previously filed
     Form 10-K s 
    for further information regarding our consolidated results of
    operations and financial position for periods reported therein
    and for known factors that will impact comparability of future
    results.

(1)  

In 2009, 2008 and 2007, we incurred restructuring charges of
    $70 million ($44 million, net of tax),
    $148 million ($111 million, net of tax) and
    $739 million ($576 million, net of tax), respectively,
    related primarily to staff separation costs, asset impairment
    charges, accelerated depreciation (primarily in 2007) and
    loss accruals for leases for certain facilities that will not be
    used in our business. 

(2)  

In 2008, we completed the acquisition of Domp  Biotec,
    S.p.A ( Domp  ). The purchase price paid was
    approximately $168 million, which included the carrying
    value of our existing 49% ownership in Domp . In July 2007,
    we acquired all of the outstanding shares of Ilypsa, Inc.
    ( Ilypsa ) for a net purchase price of approximately
    $400 million. Also in July 2007, we acquired all of the
    outstanding shares of Alantos Pharmaceuticals Holding, Inc.
    ( Alantos ) for a net purchase price of approximately
    $300 million. In October 2006, we acquired all of the
    outstanding stock of Avidia, Inc. ( Avidia ) for a net
    purchase price of approximately $275 million. In April
    2006, we acquired all of the outstanding common stock of Abgenix
    for a purchase price of approximately $2.2 billion. 

(3)  

Included in cost of sales (excludes amortization of certain
    acquired intangible assets) for 2007 is a charge of
    $30 million related to the write-off of the cost of a
    semi-completed manufacturing asset that will not be used due to
    a change in manufacturing strategy. 

65

Table of Contents   

(4)  

Included in R D expenses for 2010, 2009, 2008, 2007 and
    2006 is the ongoing, non-cash amortization of the R D
    technology intangible assets acquired with alternative future
    uses of $70 million ($44 million, net of tax),
    $70 million ($44 million, net of tax),
    $70 million ($44 million, net of tax),
    $71 million ($44 million, net of tax) and
    $48 million ($30 million, net of tax), respectively,
    acquired with the acquisitions of Avidia and Abgenix in 2006. 

(5)  

Primarily represents the non-cash amortization of acquired
    product technology rights, related primarily to ENBREL, acquired
    in the Immunex acquisition. Amortization charges, net of tax,
    for the five years ended December 31, 2010 were
    $186 million, $186 million, $183 million,
    $185 million and $200 million, respectively. 

(6)  

As part of the accounting for the business combinations of
    Alantos and Ilypsa in 2007 and Avidia and Abgenix in 2006, under
    the then existing accounting rules we recorded charges to
    write-off acquired in-process R D ( IPR D )
    of $270 million and $320 million in 2007,
    respectively, and $130 million and $1.1 billion in
    2006, respectively. The charges represent the estimated fair
    values of the IPR D that, as of the respective acquisition
    dates, had not reached technological feasibility and had no
    alternative future use. 

(7)  

In 2010 we incurred an asset impairment charge of
    $118 million ($74 million, net of tax) associated with
    a strategic decision to optimize our network of manufacturing
    facilities. In 2009, we recorded loss accruals for settlements
    of certain legal proceedings aggregating $33 million. In
    2008, we recorded loss accruals for settlements of certain
    commercial legal proceedings aggregating $288 million,
    related principally to the settlement of the Ortho Biotech
    Products L.P. ( Ortho Biotech ) antitrust suit. In
    2007, we recorded a loss accrual for an ongoing commercial legal
    proceeding and recorded an expense of $34 million. The
    remaining amounts included in  Other charges  in 2009,
    2008 and 2007, related primarily to charges for cost saving
    initiatives and restructuring. (See Note 8, Cost savings
    initiatives and restructuring to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements.) 

(8)  

In 2010, we issued $900 million aggregate principal amount
    of notes due in October 2020 (the  October 2020
    Notes ), $700 million aggregate principal amount of
    notes due in 2040 (the  2040 Notes ),
    $600 million aggregate principal amount of notes due in
    2041 (the  2041 Notes ) and $300 million
    aggregate principal amount of notes due in March 2020 (the
     March 2020 Notes ). In 2009, we issued
    $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of notes due in
    2019 (the  2019 Notes ) and $1.0 billion
    aggregate principal amount of notes due in 2039 (the  2039
    Notes ). In 2009, we repaid our $1.0 billion
    4.00% notes. In 2008, we issued $500 million aggregate
    principal amount of notes due in 2018 (the  2018
    Notes ) and $500 million aggregate principal amount of
    notes due in 2038 (the  2038 Notes ). In 2008, we
    repaid our $2.0 billion of floating rate notes. 

(9)  

In 2007, as a result of holders of substantially all of our
    outstanding 2032 Modified Convertible Notes exercising their put
    option, we repurchased the majority of the then outstanding
    convertible notes, at their then-accreted value of
    $1.7 billion. In 2007, we issued $2.0 billion
    aggregate principal amount of floating rate notes due in 2008,
    $1.1 billion aggregate principal amount of notes due in
    2017 and $900 million aggregate principal amount of notes
    due in 2037. A total of $3.2 billion of the net proceeds
    raised from the issuance of those notes was used to repurchase
    shares of our common stock under an accelerated share repurchase
    program entered into in May 2007. In 2006, we issued
    $2.5 billion aggregate principal amount of convertible
    notes due in 2011 (the  2011 Notes ) and
    $2.5 billion aggregate principal amount of convertible
    notes due in 2013 (the  2013 Notes ). In connection
    with the issuance of those notes, a total of $3.0 billion
    of our common stock was repurchased under our stock repurchase
    program. Also, concurrent with the issuance of those notes, we
    purchased convertible note hedges in private transactions. The
    cost of the convertible note hedges, which aggregated
    approximately $1.5 billion, was recorded as a reduction of
    equity. Also, concurrent with the issuance of those notes, we
    sold warrants to acquire shares of our common stock. Proceeds
    received from the issuance of the warrants totaled approximately
    $774 million. 

(10)  

Throughout the five years ended December 31, 2010, we had
    share repurchase programs authorized by the Board of Directors
    through which we repurchased $3.8 billion,
    $3.2 billion, $2.3 billion, $5.1 billion and
    $5.0 billion, respectively, of Amgen common stock. 

66

Table of Contents   

(11)  

Effective January 1, 2009, we adopted a new accounting
    standard that changed the method of accounting for convertible
    debt that may be partially or wholly settled in cash. As
    required by this standard, we retrospectively applied this
    change in accounting to all prior periods for which we had
    applicable outstanding convertible debt. Under this method of
    accounting, the debt and equity components of our convertible
    notes are bifurcated and accounted for separately. The equity
    components of our convertible notes, including our 2011
    Convertible Notes, 2013 Convertible Notes and zero coupon
    convertible notes, are included in  Common stock and
    additional paid-in capital  in the Consolidated Balance
    Sheets, with a corresponding reduction in the carrying values of
    these convertible notes as of the date of issuance or
    modification, as applicable. The reduced carrying values of our
    convertible notes are being accreted back to their principal
    amounts through the recognition of non-cash interest expense.
    This results in recognizing interest expense on these borrowings
    at effective rates approximating what we would have incurred had
    we issued nonconvertible debt with otherwise similar terms.
    Included in net income for 2010, 2009, 2008, 2007 and 2006 is
    the incremental non-cash interest expense of $266 million
    ($168 million, net of tax), $250 million
    ($155 million, net of tax), $235 million
    ($144 million, net of tax), $168 million
    ($88 million, net of tax) and $197 million
    ($141 million, net of tax), respectively, related to the
    adoption of the new accounting standard. 

67

Table of Contents   

Item 7.  

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS  

Forward
    looking statements  

This report and other documents we file with the SEC contain
    forward looking statements that are based on current
    expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about us, our
    future performance, our business or others on our behalf, our
    beliefs and our management s assumptions. In addition, we,
    or others on our behalf, may make forward looking statements in
    press releases or written statements, or in our communications
    and discussions with investors and analysts in the normal course
    of business through meetings, webcasts, phone calls and
    conference calls. Such words as  expect, 
     anticipate,   outlook,   could, 
     target,   project,   intend, 
     plan,   believe,   seek, 
     estimate,   should,   may, 
     assume  and  continue,  as well as
    variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to
    identify such forward looking statements. These statements are
    not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks,
    uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. We
    describe our respective risks, uncertainties and assumptions
    that could affect the outcome or results of operations in
    Item 1A. Risk Factors. We have based our forward looking
    statements on our management s beliefs and assumptions
    based on information available to our management at the time the
    statements are made. We caution you that actual outcomes and
    results may differ materially from what is expressed, implied or
    forecast by our forward looking statements. Reference is made in
    particular to forward looking statements regarding product
    sales, regulatory activities, clinical trial results,
    reimbursement, expenses, earnings per share ( EPS ),
    liquidity and capital resources and trends. Except as required
    under the federal securities laws and the rules and regulations
    of the SEC, we do not have any intention or obligation to update
    publicly any forward looking statements after the distribution
    of this report, whether as a result of new information, future
    events, changes in assumptions or otherwise.

Overview  

The following management s discussion and analysis
    ( MD A ) is intended to assist the reader in
    understanding Amgen s business. MD A is provided as a
    supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our
    consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Our
    results of operations discussed in MD A are presented in
    conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
    United States ( GAAP ).

We are the largest independent biotechnology medicines company.
    We discover, develop, manufacture and market medicines for
    grievous illnesses. We concentrate on innovative novel medicines
    based on advances in cellular and molecular biology. Our mission
    is to serve patients. We operate in one business
    segment   human therapeutics. Therefore, our results
    of operations are discussed on a consolidated basis.

We earn revenues and income and generate cash primarily from
    sales of human therapeutic products in the areas of supportive
    cancer care, nephrology and inflammation. Our principal products
    include
    Aranesp   ,

    EPOGEN   ,

    Neulasta   ,

    NEUPOGEN   

    and ENBREL, all of which are sold in the United States. ENBREL
    is marketed under a collaboration agreement with Pfizer in the
    United States and Canada. Our international product sales
    consist principally of European sales of
    Aranesp   ,

    Neulasta   

    and
    NEUPOGEN   .

    For additional information about our products, their approved
    indications and where they are marketed, see Item 1.
    Business   Marketed Products.

Throughout 2010 and early 2011, various developments occurred
    regarding our business, including regulatory and reimbursement
    developments associated with certain of our marketed products
    and product candidates. Most notably, the FDA approved
    Prolia   

    and
    XGEVA  tm  ,

    and the EC granted marketing authorization for
    Prolia   

    for certain indications. In addition, healthcare reform
    legislation was enacted in the United States. As a result of
    these and other developments, we have various opportunities to
    grow our business but will also continue to face various
    challenges. The following summarizes certain key opportunities
    and challenges.

We have various opportunities to grow our business. In the near
    term, we believe the currently approved indications for
    Prolia   

    and
    XGEVA  tm  

    represent significant commercial opportunities. In addition,
    receipt of regulatory approvals in new geographic territories or
    for additional indications for these products may also provide
    further significant opportunities. For example, the results of
    our recently announced phase 3 trial evaluating

68

Table of Contents   

XGEVA  tm  

    versus placebo in men with castrate-resistant prostate cancer
    met its primary endpoint. This study will form the basis of
    planned marketing applications, which we expect to submit to
    regulatory authorities beginning in the first half of 2011, for
    the prevention of bone metastases in prostate cancer.
    Longer-term growth may also be achieved by the successful
    development of our late-stage pipeline and strategic business
    development opportunities, such as our recently announced
    agreement to acquire BioVex. In addition, longer-term growth may
    also be achieved by expansion into emerging markets and Japan.

Looking forward, we believe our products will continue to face
    various regulatory, reimbursement and competitive challenges.
    Our ESA products, in particular, have several near-term
    challenges that could result in further reductions in sales. For
    example,
    EPOGEN   

    sales will be impacted by the Final Rule on Bundling in Dialysis
    that became effective in 2011. Further, the NCA opened by CMS in
    June 2010 and the results of the MEDCAC meetings held in March
    2010 and January 2011 could lead to an NCD for the use of ESAs
    in patients with kidney disease, which could impact the use of
    or reimbursement for ESAs to manage anemia in patients with CKD
     and/or 
    dialysis-related anemia. In addition, the FDA-approved REMS for
    ESAs may continue to impact
    Aranesp   

    sales in the supportive cancer care setting. Future product
    label changes (including those we proposed prior to the 2010
    CRDAC meeting, any others required in connection with TREAT or
    the CRDAC meeting and any from the PLR conversion process), may
    also impact the use of ESAs in CKD. Since we rely in large part
    on the reimbursement of our products through government programs
    such as Medicare and Medicaid, the recently enacted healthcare
    reform law has had and will continue to have a material adverse
    impact on sales of our products in the United States and on our
    results of operations. The provisions of the new legislation
    impacted our U.S. product sales by approximately
    $200 million in 2010, and we anticipate that our
    U.S. product sales in 2011 will be impacted by
    $250 million to $300 million. Furthermore, we estimate
    that our results of operations for 2011 will be impacted by an
    additional $150 million to $200 million related to a
    new fee on manufacturers and importers of  branded
    prescription drugs  established by that legislation, which
    is not deductible for U.S. federal income tax purposes.
    Certain of our products will also continue to face increasing
    competitive pressure, in particular ENBREL in the United States,
    as well as
    Aranesp   ,

    Neulasta   

    and
    NEUPOGEN   

    in Europe as a result of biosimilars. In addition, over the next
    several years, the existing patents on our principal products
    will begin to expire, and we expect to face increasing
    competition thereafter. (See Item 1. Business  
    Marketed Products.)

Certain of these developments are expected to have a material
    adverse impact on our sales and results of operations. However,
    these effects may be mitigated by certain of the opportunities
    we have to grow our business, discussed above, by other
    strategic initiatives or by increased efforts to manage our
    expenses.

Selected
    Financial Data  

The following table presents selected financial data for the
    years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 (amounts in
    millions, except percentages and per share data):

The following discusses certain key changes in our results of
    operations for the year ended December 31, 2010 as well as
    our financial condition as of December 31, 2010.

69

Table of Contents   

The increase in our U.S. product sales for 2010 reflects
    overall growth for all of our marketed products, except for our
    ESA products, which declined 5%. The growth in sales of our
    non-ESA products reflects increases primarily in average net
    sales prices and, to a lesser extent, favorable changes in
    wholesaler inventories. U.S. product sales in 2010 were
    unfavorably impacted by $198 million as a result of the
    recently enacted U.S. healthcare reform law.

The increase in our international product sales for 2010
    reflects overall growth for all of our marketed products, except
    for
    Aranesp   ,

    which declined 1%.

The increase in other revenues for 2010 was due primarily to
    milestone payments earned from Glaxo in connection with certain
    commercial milestones for
    Prolia   

    in the EU and from Takeda in connection with certain regulatory
    milestones for
    Vectibix   

    in Japan.

The increase in operating expenses for 2010 was due principally
    to higher cost of sales, due primarily to higher bulk
    manufacturing costs, as well as higher selling, general and
    administrative ( SG A ) expenses, due primarily
    to increased promotional costs for
    Prolia   

    and our other marketed products.

Net income was relatively unchanged in 2010 as the increases in
    operating income, discussed above, and interest and other income
    were offset substantially by an increase in our provision for
    income taxes. The increase in interest and other income was due
    primarily to higher net realized gains on sales of investments
    and higher interest income. The increase in our provision for
    income taxes was due principally to reduced benefits resulting
    from settlements with tax authorities in 2010.

The increase in diluted EPS for 2010 principally reflects a
    reduction in our weighted-average shares used to compute diluted
    EPS resulting from our stock repurchase program, including
    approximately 67 million shares repurchased in 2010 at a
    total cost of $3.8 billion.

Although changes in foreign currency rates result in increases
    or decreases in our reported international product sales, the
    benefit or detriment that such movements have on our
    international product sales is offset partially by corresponding
    increases or decreases in our international operating expenses
    and our related foreign currency hedging activities. Our hedging
    activities seek to offset the impact, both positive and
    negative, that foreign currency exchange rate changes may have
    on our net income by hedging our net foreign currency exposure,
    primarily with respect to product sales denominated in the Euro.

As of December 31, 2010, our cash, cash equivalents and
    marketable securities totaled $17.4 billion, and total debt
    outstanding was $13.4 billion, including $2.5 billion
    which was repaid in February 2011. Of our total cash, cash
    equivalents and marketable securities balance as of
    December 31, 2010, approximately $15.1 billion was
    generated from operations in foreign tax jurisdictions and is
    intended to be invested indefinitely outside of the United
    States. Under current tax laws, if those funds were repatriated
    for use in our U.S. operations, we would be required to pay
    additional U.S. federal and state income taxes at the
    applicable marginal tax rates.

70

Table of Contents   

Results
    of Operations  

Product
    sales  

For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    worldwide product sales and total product sales by geographic
    region were as follows (dollar amounts in millions):

Product sales are influenced by a number of factors, some of
    which may impact the sales of certain of our existing products
    more significantly than others, including, but not necessarily
    limited to:

our contracting and pricing strategies;

recent and future reimbursement changes resulting from:

governmental or private organization regulations or guidelines
    relating to the use of our products;

legislative reform in federal, state and foreign jurisdictions;

cost containment pressures; and

the mix of reimbursement from governmental and private payers;

clinical trial outcomes, including adverse events or results
    from clinical trials, including
     sub-analyses, 
    studies or meta-analyses performed by us or by others (including
    our licensees or independent investigators), which could impact
    product safety labeling and may negatively impact healthcare
    provider prescribing behavior, use of our products, regulatory
    or private healthcare organization medical guidelines and
    reimbursement practices;

changes in clinical practice, including those resulting from the
    development of new protocols, tests
     and/or 
    treatments;

adoption of and adherence to risk management activities, such as
    a REMS, undertaken by us or required by the FDA or other
    regulatory authorities;

product label changes;

patient population growth;

segment growth and penetration;

new product launches and indications;

expansion into new international markets;

71

Table of Contents   

competitive products, including biosimilars;

patent expirations and our ability to obtain and defend our
    patent and other intellectual property rights;

fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates;

adequacy of product supply and distribution;

effectiveness of our marketing efforts, including those
    conducted under collaboration agreements;

concentration of customer purchasing power; and

acquisitions.

Our U.S. product sales are also subject to certain other
    influences throughout the year, including wholesaler and
    end-user buying patterns (eg, holiday-driven wholesaler and
    end-user stocking, contract-driven buying and patients
    purchasing products later in the year after satisfying their
    annual insurance deductibles). Such factors can result in higher
    demand for our products
     and/or 
    higher wholesaler inventory levels and, therefore, higher
    product sales for a given three-month period, generally followed
    by a reduction in demand
     and/or  a
    drawdown in wholesaler inventories and a corresponding decline
    in product sales in the subsequent three-month period. For
    example, sales of our products in the United States for the
    three months ended March 31 have been slightly lower relative to
    the immediately preceding three-month period, which we believe
    to be due, in part, to certain of these factors. While this can
    result in variability in quarterly product sales on a sequential
    basis, these effects have generally not been significant when
    comparing product sales in the three months ended March 31 with
    product sales in the corresponding period of the prior year.

In addition, general economic conditions may affect, or in some
    cases amplify, certain of these factors with a corresponding
    impact on our product sales. (See Item 1.
    Business   Marketed Products for a discussion of our
    principal products and their approved indications.)

Aranesp     

For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, total
    Aranesp   

    sales by geographic region were as follows (dollar amounts in
    millions):

The decrease in
    U.S. Aranesp   

    sales for 2010 was due primarily to a decline in unit demand,
    reflecting an overall decline in the segment. The decrease in
    international
    Aranesp   

    sales for 2010 was due primarily to a decrease in demand.

U.S. sales of
    Aranesp   

    for 2008 benefited from certain changes in accounting estimates
    related to product sales return reserves. Excluding the positive
    impact of these changes in accounting estimates, the decrease in
    U.S. Aranesp   

    sales of approximately 21% for 2009 was due primarily to a
    decline in unit demand and a low single-digit percentage point
    decrease in the average net sales price. The decline in unit
    demand reflects the negative impact, primarily in the supportive
    cancer care setting, of a product safety-related label change in
    August 2008 as well as an overall decline in the segment and a
    slight loss of segment share. Excluding an $85 million
    unfavorable foreign exchange impact, international
    Aranesp   

    sales for 2009 remained unchanged.

72

Table of Contents   

In addition to other factors mentioned in the Product sales
    section above, future
    Aranesp   

    sales will depend, in part, on such factors as:

regulatory developments, including:

the REMS for our ESAs approved by the FDA in February 2010;

product label changes, including those proposed prior to the
    October 2010 CRDAC meeting and any others required in connection
    with TREAT or the CRDAC meeting, as well as any from the PLR
    conversion process;

reimbursement developments, including the potential imposition
    of an NCD or other developments resulting from the NCA opened by
    CMS in June 2010 and the associated MEDCAC meetings; and

development of new protocols, tests
     and/or 
    treatments for cancer
     and/or  new
    chemotherapy treatments or alternatives to chemotherapy that may
    have reduced and may continue to reduce the use of chemotherapy
    in some patients.

Certain of the above factors could have a material adverse
    impact on future sales of
    Aranesp   .

See Item 1. Business   Significant Developments,
    Item 1. Business   Marketed Products and
    Item 1A. Risk Factors herein for further discussion of
    certain of the above factors that could impact our future
    product sales.

EPOGEN     

For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, total
    EPOGEN   

    sales were as follows (dollar amounts in millions):

The decrease in
    EPOGEN   

    sales for 2010 was due primarily to a decrease in unit demand
    and certain changes in accounting estimates. The decrease in
    unit demand reflects a decrease in dose utilization, offset
    partially by patient population growth.

The increase in
    EPOGEN   

    sales for 2009 was due primarily to an increase in unit demand
    and, to a lesser extent, an increase in the average net sales
    price. The increase in unit demand was due principally to
    patient population growth and increased dose utilization.

In addition to other factors mentioned in the Product sales
    section above, future
    EPOGEN   

    sales will depend, in part, on such factors as:

reimbursement developments, including those resulting from:

CMS s Final Rule on Bundling in Dialysis;

Other CMS activities, including the potential imposition of an
    NCD or other developments resulting from the NCA opened by CMS
    in June 2010 and the associated MEDCAC meetings;

regulatory developments, such as those resulting from product
    label changes, including those proposed prior to the October
    2010 CRDAC meeting and any others required in connection with
    TREAT or the CRDAC meeting, as well as any from the PLR
    conversion process;

changes in dose fluctuations as healthcare providers continue to
    refine their treatment practices in accordance with approved
    labeling; and

adoption of alternative therapies or development of new
    modalities to treat anemia associated with CRF.

Certain of the above factors are expected to have a material
    adverse impact on future sales of
    EPOGEN   .

See Item 1. Business   Significant Developments,
    Item 1. Business   Marketed Products and
    Item 1A. Risk Factors for further discussion of certain of
    the above factors that could impact our future product sales.

73

Table of Contents   

Neulasta   /NEUPOGEN     

For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, total
    Neulasta   /NEUPOGEN   

    sales by geographic region were as follows (dollar amounts in
    millions):

The increase in U.S. sales of
    Neulasta   /NEUPOGEN   

    for 2010 was driven principally by an increase in the average
    net sales price and, to a lesser extent, favorable changes in
    wholesaler inventories. The increase in international
    Neulasta   /NEUPOGEN   

    sales for 2010 reflects primarily growth in
    Neulasta   

    principally from the continued conversion from
    NEUPOGEN   

    to
    Neulasta   ,

    offset partially by a decline in
    NEUPOGEN   

    as a result of biosimilar competition.

The increase in U.S. sales of
    Neulasta   /NEUPOGEN   

    for 2009 was due primarily to a low single-digit percentage
    point increase in the average net sales price, offset partially
    by unfavorable changes in wholesaler inventories. Excluding a
    $94 million unfavorable foreign exchange impact,
    international
    Neulasta   /NEUPOGEN   

    sales increased 4% for 2009, due primarily to an increase in
    demand, reflecting the continued conversion from
    NEUPOGEN   

    to
    Neulasta   .

In addition to other factors mentioned in the Product sales
    section above, future
    Neulasta   /NEUPOGEN   

    sales will depend, in part, on the development of new protocols,
    tests  and/or 
    treatments for cancer
     and/or  new
    chemotherapy treatments or alternatives to chemotherapy that may
    have reduced and may continue to reduce the use of chemotherapy
    in some patients.

See Item 1. Business   Marketed Products and
    Item 1A. Risk Factors for further discussion of certain of
    the above factors that could impact our future product sales.

ENBREL  

For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, total
    ENBREL sales by geographic region were as follows (dollar
    amounts in millions):

The increase in ENBREL sales for 2010 reflects an increase in
    the average net sales price, offset partially by a low
    single-digit percentage point decline in unit demand, resulting
    primarily from share declines in dermatology. ENBREL continues
    to maintain a leading position in both the rheumatology and
    dermatology segments.

The decrease in ENBREL sales for 2009 was due primarily to an
    unfavorable change in wholesaler inventories resulting from an
    approximate $100 million wholesaler inventory build in 2008
    related to a shift of ENBREL to a wholesaler distribution model
    and a decline in unit demand as a result of competitive
    activity, offset partially by a mid single-digit percentage
    point increase in the average net sales price.

See Item 1. Business   Marketed Products and
    Item 1A. Risk Factors for further discussion of certain of
    the above factors that could impact our future product sales.

74

Table of Contents   

Selected
    operating expenses  

The following table summarizes our operating expenses for the
    years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 (dollar
    amounts in millions):

Cost of
    sales  

Cost of sales, which excludes the amortization of certain
    acquired intangible assets, increased to 15.1% of product sales
    for 2010, driven primarily by higher bulk material costs and
    higher inventory write-offs due to voluntary
    EPOGEN   ,

    PROCRIT   

    (Epoetin alfa) and ENBREL recalls. These increases were offset
    partially by lower excess capacity charges and lower royalties,
    primarily for ENBREL.

Cost of sales decreased to 14.6% of product sales for 2009,
    driven primarily by lower excess capacity charges, lower excess
    inventory write-offs, due primarily to the $84 million
    write-off of inventory in 2008 resulting from a strategic
    decision to change manufacturing processes, and lower royalty
    expenses. These decreases were offset partially by less
    favorable product mix and higher fill and finish costs resulting
    from lower utilization at our manufacturing facility in Puerto
    Rico.

Research
    and development  

R D costs are expensed as incurred and include primarily
    salaries, benefits and other staff-related costs; facilities and
    overhead costs; clinical trial and related clinical
    manufacturing costs; contract services and other outside costs;
    information systems  costs and amortization of acquired
    technology used in R D with alternative future uses.
    R D expenses include costs incurred under R D
    arrangements with our corporate partners, such as activities
    performed on behalf of KA, and costs and cost recoveries
    associated with collaborative R D and in-licensing
    arrangements, including upfront fees and milestones paid to
    collaboration partners in connection with technologies which
    have not reached technological feasibility and did not have an
    alternative future use. Net payment or reimbursement of R D
    costs for arrangements with our corporate partners is recognized
    when the obligations are incurred or as we become entitled to
    the cost recovery.

The increase in R D expenses for 2010 was driven primarily
    by $110 million of lower expense recoveries associated with
    ongoing collaborations and higher staff-related costs of
    $84 million. These increases were offset largely by lower
    licensing fees of $115 million, associated principally with
    payments made in 2009 under the Cytokinetics and Array BioPharma
    Inc. ( Array ) agreements, and reduced denosumab
    clinical trial costs of $73 million in 2010.

The decrease in R D expenses for 2009 was driven primarily
    by lower clinical trial costs of $128 million, including
    those associated with our denosumab and
    Vectibix   

    registrational studies, our marketed products and the delay of
    the phase 3 motesanib NSCLC trial, and $14 million lower
    staff-related costs. The higher licensing fees incurred in 2009,
    which were related to the $60 million expense associated
    with the Array agreement and the $50 million expense
    resulting from the payment to Cytokinetics, were offset
    substantially by the $100 million expense in 2008 resulting
    from the upfront payment associated with the Kyowa Hakko Kirin
    Co. Ltd. collaboration.

75

Table of Contents   

Selling,
    general and administrative  

SG A expenses are comprised primarily of salaries, benefits
    and other staff-related costs associated with sales and
    marketing, finance, legal and other administrative personnel;
    facilities and overhead costs; outside marketing, advertising
    and legal expenses and other general and administrative costs.
    SG A expenses also include costs and cost recoveries
    associated with marketing and promotion efforts under certain
    collaboration arrangements. Net payment or reimbursement of
    SG A costs for collaborations is recognized when the
    obligations are incurred or as we become entitled to the cost
    recovery. In connection with a collaboration agreement, we and
    Pfizer market and sell ENBREL in the United States and Canada,
    and Pfizer is paid a share of the related profits, as defined.
    The share of ENBREL s profits owed to Pfizer is included in
    SG A expenses.

The increase in SG A expenses for 2010 was due primarily to
    higher promotional costs for
    Prolia   

    and other marketed products of $148 million, higher
    staff-related costs of $46 million and higher litigation
    expenses of $45 million, offset partially by charges of
    $29 million in 2009 for certain cost savings initiatives
    related to our 2007 restructuring plan.

The increase in SG A expenses for 2009 was due primarily to
    higher product promotional expenses of $207 million,
    including increased spending for activities in anticipation of
    the launch of
    Prolia   .

    This increase was offset substantially by lower litigation
    expenses of $38 million, lower expenses associated with the
    ENBREL profit share of $32 million, expense recoveries
    associated with our Glaxo collaboration agreement for
    Prolia   

    in PMO in Europe, Australia, New Zealand and Mexico of
    $29 million, lower staff-related costs of $28 million,
    lower global enterprise resource planning ( ERP )
    system related expenses of $28 million and lower
    restructuring and related costs of $8 million.

For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, the
    expense associated with the ENBREL profit share was
    $1,184 million, $1,163 million and
    $1,195 million, respectively.

Amortization
    of certain acquired intangible assets  

Amortization of certain acquired intangible assets relates to
    products technology rights acquired in connection with the
    Immunex acquisition.

Other
    charges  

In 2010, we recorded a $118 million asset impairment charge
    for our manufacturing operations located in Fremont, California,
    associated with our continuing efforts to optimize our network
    of manufacturing facilities and improve cost efficiencies. In
    2009, the Company recorded loss accruals for settlements of
    certain legal proceedings aggregating $33 million. In 2008,
    the Company recorded loss accruals for settlements of certain
    commercial legal proceedings aggregating $288 million,
    related principally to the settlement of the Ortho Biotech
    antitrust suit.

Non-operating
    expenses/income and provision for income taxes  

The following table presents non-operating expenses/income and
    the provisions for income taxes for the years ended
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 (dollar amounts in
    millions):

76

Table of Contents   

Interest
    expense, net  

Included in interest expense, net for the years ended
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 is the impact of non-cash
    interest expense of $266 million, $250 million and
    $235 million, respectively, resulting from the change in
    the accounting for our convertible debt effective
    January 1, 2009.

Interest
    and other income, net  

The increase in interest and other income, net for 2010 was due
    primarily to higher net realized gains on sales of investments
    of $48 million and higher interest income of
    $51 million, due principally to higher average cash, cash
    equivalents and marketable securities balances. The decrease in
    interest and other income, net for 2009 was due primarily to:
    lower interest income of $45 million, due principally to
    lower portfolio investment returns; lower net gains on sales of
    investments of $28 million; and higher losses on certain
    leased facilities that will no longer be used in our operations
    of $31 million; offset partially by higher foreign currency
    exchange net gains of $27 million.

Income
    taxes  

The increase in our effective tax rate for 2010 was due
    primarily to: the incremental favorable impact resulting from
    the resolution of certain prior years  matters with tax
    authorities in 2009 compared to 2010; the unfavorable tax impact
    of changes in revenue and expense mix in 2010; and the tax
    impact from adjustments to deferred taxes arising from changes
    in California tax law enacted in 2009 and effective for
    subsequent periods. The resolution of prior years  tax
    matters recognized in 2010 and 2009 reduced the effective tax
    rate by 3.1% and 4.2%, respectively.

The decrease in our effective tax rate for 2009 was due
    principally to: the favorable resolution of certain income tax
    examinations; higher profits and manufacturing in Puerto Rico,
    which are taxed under an incentive grant; and a tax benefit from
    adjustments to previously established deferred taxes arising
    from changes in California tax law enacted in 2009.

As permitted under U.S. GAAP, we do not provide for
    U.S. income taxes on undistributed earnings of our foreign
    operations that are intended to be invested indefinitely outside
    of the United States.

(See Summary of Critical Accounting Policies   Income
    taxes and Note 4, Income taxes to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements for further discussion.)

Recent
    accounting pronouncements  

In January 2010, we adopted a newly issued accounting standard
    which requires additional disclosure about the amounts of and
    reasons for significant transfers between levels of the fair
    value hierarchy discussed in Note 17, Fair value
    measurement. This standard also clarifies existing disclosure
    requirements related to the level of disaggregation of fair
    value measurements for each class of assets and liabilities and
    disclosures about inputs and valuation techniques used to
    measure fair value for both recurring and nonrecurring
    Level 2 and Level 3 measurements. In addition,
    effective for interim and annual periods beginning after
    December 15, 2010, this standard requires additional
    disclosure and requires an entity to present disaggregated
    information about activity for Level 3 fair value
    measurements on a gross as opposed to a net basis. As this
    accounting standard only requires enhanced disclosure, its
    adoption did not impact our consolidated financial position,
    results of operations or cash flows.

In January 2011, we adopted a newly issued accounting standard
    which addresses the accounting for the annual fee due from the
    pharmaceutical manufacturing industry beginning January 1,
    2011, mandated by the PPACA and the companion Health Care and
    Education Reconciliation Act, which made certain changes and
    adjustments to PPACA. We refer to these two laws collectively as
    the  new healthcare reform law.  The new healthcare
    reform law obligates a pharmaceutical manufacturer, upon the
    first gross receipt during a calendar year from prescription
    drug sales under any specified government program, to pay an
    annual fee to the U.S. government. The new accounting
    standard requires the liability for the annual fee to be
    estimated and recorded in full upon the first qualifying sale
    with a corresponding deferred cost established that is to be
    amortized and recognized as an operating expense over

77

Table of Contents   

the calendar year that it is payable using a straight-line
    method of allocation unless another method better allocates the
    fee. We have elected to amortize this fee on a straight-line
    basis and it will be recorded in SG A expense.

Financial
    Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources  

The following table summarizes selected financial data for the
    years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 (in millions):

We believe existing funds, cash generated from operations and
    existing sources of and access to financing are adequate to
    satisfy our working capital, capital expenditure and debt
    service requirements for the foreseeable future. In addition, we
    plan to opportunistically pursue our stock repurchase program
    and other business initiatives, including acquisitions and
    licensing activities. We anticipate that our liquidity needs can
    be met through a variety of sources, including cash provided by
    operating activities, sale of marketable securities, borrowings
    through commercial paper
     and/or  our
    syndicated credit facility and access to other debt markets and
    equity markets. In February 2011, our 2011 Convertible Notes
    with an aggregate principal balance of $2.5 billion were
    repaid in full. (See Item 1A. Risk Factors  
    Current economic conditions may magnify certain risks that
    affect our business.)

Cash,
    cash equivalents and marketable securities  

Of our total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities
    balances as of December 31, 2010, approximately
    $15.1 billion was generated from operations in foreign tax
    jurisdictions and is intended to be invested indefinitely
    outside of the United States. Under current tax laws, if these
    funds were repatriated for use in our U.S. operations, we
    would be required to pay additional U.S. federal and state
    income taxes at the applicable marginal tax rates.

The primary objective of our investment portfolio is to enhance
    overall returns in an efficient manner while maintaining safety
    of principal, prudent levels of liquidity and acceptable levels
    of risk. Our investment policy limits debt security investments
    to certain types of debt and money market instruments issued by
    institutions with primarily investment grade credit ratings and
    places restrictions on maturities and concentration by type and
    issuer.

78

Table of Contents   

Financing
    arrangements  

The following table reflects the carrying value of our long-term
    borrowings under our various financing arrangements as of
    December 31, 2010 and 2009 (dollar amounts in millions):

We issued debt securities in various offerings during the three
    years ended December 31, 2010, including: in 2010,
    $300 million principal amount of March 2020 Notes,
    $700 million principal amount of 2040 Notes,
    $900 million principal amount of October 2020 Notes and
    $600 million principal amount of 2041 Notes; in 2009,
    $1.0 billion principal amount of 2019 Notes and
    $1.0 billion principal amount of 2039 Notes; and in 2008,
    $500 million principal amount of 2018 Notes and
    $500 million principal amount of 2038 Notes. Debt issuance
    costs incurred in connection with these debt offerings totaled
    $17 million, $13 million and $6 million for debt
    issued in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and are being
    amortized over the respective lives of the notes.

All of these debt issuances as well as the 2017 Notes and the
    2037 Notes may be redeemed at any time at our option, in whole
    or in part, at the principal amount of the notes being redeemed
    plus accrued interest and a  make-whole  amount, as
    defined. In the event of a change in control triggering event,
    as defined, we may be required to purchase for cash all or a
    portion of these debt issuances at a price equal to 101% of the
    principal amount of the notes plus accrued interest.

In 2009, we repaid $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount
    of notes with a fixed interest rate of 4.00% and in 2008, we
    repaid $2.0 billion aggregate principal amount of floating
    London Interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ) based notes.

See Note 15, Financing arrangements to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements for further discussion of our Convertible
    Notes.

To achieve a desired mix of fixed and floating interest rate
    debt, we enter into interest rate swap agreements that
    effectively convert a fixed rate interest coupon to a floating
    LIBOR-based coupon over the life of the respective note. These
    interest rate swap agreements qualify and are designated as fair
    value hedges. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, we had
    interest rate swap agreements with an aggregate face value of
    $3.6 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively. The
    effective rates on these swaps range from LIBOR plus 0.3% to
    LIBOR plus 2.6%. See Note 15, Financing arrangements and
    Note 18, Derivative instruments to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements for further discussion of our interest rate
    swap agreements.

79

Table of Contents   

As of December 31, 2010, we have a commercial paper program
    that allows us to issue up to $2.3 billion of unsecured
    commercial paper to fund our working capital needs. At
    December 31, 2010, no amounts were outstanding under our
    commercial paper program.

As of December 31, 2010, we have a $2.3 billion
    syndicated, unsecured, revolving credit facility that matures in
    November 2012 and is available for general corporate purposes or
    as a liquidity backstop to our commercial paper program. Annual
    commitment fees for this facility are 0.05% based on our current
    credit rating. As of December 31, 2010, no amounts were
    outstanding under this facility.

We have filed a shelf registration statement with the SEC, which
    allows us to issue an unspecified amount of debt securities;
    common stock; preferred stock; warrants to purchase debt
    securities, common stock, preferred stock or depository shares;
    rights to purchase common stock or preferred stock; securities
    purchase contracts; securities purchase units and depository
    shares. Under this registration statement, all of the securities
    available for issuance may be offered from time to time with
    terms to be determined at the time of issuance. This shelf
    registration expires in April 2011.

As of December 31, 2010, we have $400 million
    remaining under a shelf registration statement that was
    established in 1997. In connection with this shelf registration,
    we established a $400 million medium-term note program
    under which medium-term debt securities may be offered from time
    to time with terms to be determined at the time of issuance. As
    of December 31, 2010, no securities were outstanding under
    this medium-term note program.

Certain of our financing arrangements contain non-financial
    covenants and we were in compliance with all applicable
    covenants as of December 31, 2010. None of our financing
    arrangements contain any financial covenants.

Cash
    flows  

The following table summarizes our cash flow activity for the
    years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 (in millions):

Operating  

Cash provided by operating activities has been and is expected
    to continue to be our primary recurring source of funds. Cash
    provided by operating activities during 2010 decreased due
    primarily to the timing and amount of payments to taxing
    authorities. Cash provided by operating activities during 2009
    increased due primarily to higher net income of
    $553 million and a higher dividend payment from KA of
    $102 million, offset partially by the prior-year receipt of
    $300 million for an upfront milestone payment related to
    our licensing agreement with Takeda, and the negative impact of
    the timing and amounts of receipts from customers and payments
    to vendors and others.

Investing  

Net purchases of marketable securities were $3.5 billion
    for 2010 compared to net purchases of $2.7 billion and
    $2.6 billion for 2009 and 2008, respectively.

Capital expenditures totaled $580 million,
    $530 million and $672 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively. Capital expenditures in 2010 and 2009 were
    associated primarily with manufacturing capacity expansions in
    Puerto Rico and other site developments. Capital expenditures in
    2008 were associated primarily with manufacturing capacity
    expansions in Puerto Rico, Fremont and other site developments
    and with investment in our global ERP system and other
    information systems  projects. We currently estimate 2011
    spending on capital projects and equipment to be approximately
    $600 million.

80

Table of Contents   

Financing  

In December 2009, the Board of Directors authorized us to
    repurchase up to an additional $5.0 billion of common stock
    of which a total of $2.2 billion remains available as of
    December 31, 2010. The manner of purchases, the amount we
    spend and the number of shares repurchased will vary based on a
    variety of factors, including stock price, blackout periods in
    which we are restricted from repurchasing shares and the impact
    of repurchases on our credit rating, and may include private
    block purchases as well as market transactions. A summary of our
    repurchase activity under our stock repurchase program for the
    years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 is as follows
    (in millions):

(1)  

The total cost of shares repurchased during the three months
    ended June 30, 2008 excludes approximately $19 million
    paid in July 2008 in connection with the final settlement of an
    accelerated share repurchase program entered into in May 2008. 

As discussed above, we issued debt securities in various
    offerings that resulted in net proceeds of $2.5 billion,
    $2.0 billion and $1.0 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively. In addition, we repaid $1.0 billion and
    $2.0 billion of notes in 2009 and 2008, respectively.

We receive cash from the exercise of employee stock options.
    Employee stock option exercises provided $80 million,
    $171 million and $155 million of cash in 2010, 2009
    and 2008, respectively. Proceeds from the exercise of employee
    stock options will vary from period to period based upon, among
    other factors, fluctuations in the market value of our stock
    relative to the exercise price of such options.

Off-Balance
    Sheet Arrangements  

We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that are
    material or reasonably likely to become material to our
    consolidated financial position or consolidated results of
    operations.

Contractual
    Obligations  

Contractual obligations represent future cash commitments and
    liabilities under agreements with third parties, and exclude
    contingent liabilities for which we cannot reasonably predict
    future payment. Additionally, the expected timing of payment of
    the obligations presented below is estimated based on current
    information. Timing of payments and actual amounts paid may be
    different depending on the timing of receipt of goods or
    services or changes to
     agreed-upon 
    terms or amounts for some obligations.

81

Table of Contents   

The following table represents our contractual obligations as of
    December 31, 2010, aggregated by type (in millions):

(1)  

The long-term debt obligation amounts include future interest
    payments. Future interest payments are included on our financing
    arrangements at the fixed contractual coupon rates. To achieve a
    desired mix of fixed and floating interest rate debt, we enter
    into interest rate swap agreements, which effectively convert a
    fixed rate interest coupon to a floating LIBOR-based coupon over
    the life of the respective note. We used an interest rate
    forward curve at December 31, 2010 to compute the net
    amounts to be included in the table above for future interest
    payments on our variable rate interest rate swaps. See
    Note 15, Financing arrangements to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements for further discussion of our long-term
    debt obligations and our interest swap agreements. 

(2)  

Purchase obligations relate primarily to (i) our long-term
    supply agreements with third party manufacturers, which are
    based on firm commitments for the purchase of production
    capacity; (ii) R D commitments (including those
    related to clinical trials) for new and existing products;
    (iii) capital expenditures; and (iv) open purchase
    orders for the acquisition of goods and services in the ordinary
    course of business. Our obligation to pay certain of these
    amounts may be reduced based on certain future events. 

(3)  

Long-term liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits
    ( UTBs ) (net of foreign tax credits and federal tax
    benefit of state taxes) and related accrued interest and
    penalties totaling approximately $625 million at
    December 31, 2010 are not included in the table above
    because, due to their nature, there is a high degree of
    uncertainty regarding the timing of future cash outflows and
    other events that extinguish these liabilities. 

In addition to the above table, we are contractually obligated
    to pay additional amounts, which in the aggregate are
    significant, upon the achievement of various development,
    regulatory and commercial milestones in conjunction with
    collaborative agreements we have entered into with third
    parties. These payments are contingent upon the occurrence of
    various future events, which have a high degree of uncertainty
    of occurring. These contingent payments have not been included
    in the table above or recorded on our Consolidated Balance
    Sheets. As of December 31, 2010, the maximum amount that
    may be payable in the future under all such arrangements is
    approximately $2.1 billion.

Summary
    of Critical Accounting Policies  

The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in
    conformity with US GAAP requires management to make
    estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in
    the financial statements and the notes to the financial
    statements. Some of those judgments can be subjective and
    complex, and therefore, actual results could differ materially
    from those estimates under different assumptions or conditions.

Product
    sales, sales deductions and returns  

Revenues from sales of our products are recognized when the
    products are shipped and title and risk of loss have passed.
    Product sales are recorded net of accruals for estimated
    rebates, wholesaler chargebacks, cash discounts and other
    deductions (collectively,  sales deductions ) and
    returns, which are established at the time of sale.

We analyze the adequacy of our accruals for sales deductions
    quarterly. Amounts accrued for sales deductions are adjusted
    when trends or significant events indicate that adjustment is
    appropriate. Accruals are also adjusted to

82

Table of Contents   

reflect actual results. The following table summarizes amounts
    recorded in  Accrued liabilities  in the Consolidated
    Balance Sheets for sales deductions (in millions):

For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, total
    sales deductions were 25%, 24% and 22% of gross product sales,
    respectively. Included in these amounts are immaterial
    adjustments related to prior-year sales due to changes in
    estimates. Such amounts represent less than 1% of the aggregate
    sales deductions charged against product sales for 2010 and 2009
    and less than 2% for 2008. In late 2008, we began shifting our
    discount structure as a component of broader contracting
    revisions to be more heavily weighted toward fixed prices to
    healthcare providers (reflected as chargebacks in the table
    above) instead of rebates, resulting in a corresponding
    reduction in rebates and an increase in chargebacks, as noted in
    the table above.

In the United States, we utilize wholesalers as the principal
    means of distributing our products to healthcare providers, such
    as physicians or their clinics, dialysis centers, hospitals and
    pharmacies. Products we sell in the EU are distributed
    principally to hospitals
     and/or 
    wholesalers depending on the distribution practice in each
    country where the product is sold. We monitor the inventory
    levels of our products at our wholesalers by using data from our
    wholesalers and other third parties, and we believe wholesaler
    inventories have been maintained at appropriate levels
    (generally two to three weeks) given end-user demand.
    Accordingly, historical fluctuations in wholesaler inventory
    levels have not significantly impacted our method of estimating
    sales deductions and returns.

Accruals for sales deductions are based primarily on estimates
    of the amounts earned or to be claimed on the related sales.
    These estimates take into consideration current contractual and
    statutory requirements, specific known market events and trends,
    internal and external historical data and forecasted customer
    buying patterns. Sales deductions are substantially
    product-specific and, therefore, for any given year, can be
    impacted by the mix of products sold.

Rebates primarily include amounts paid to payers in the United
    States and are based on contractual arrangements which vary by
    product, by payer and individual payer plans. We estimate the
    amount of rebate that will be paid based on the product sold,
    contractual terms, historical experience and wholesaler
    inventory levels and accrue these rebates in the period the
    related sale is recorded. We adjust the accrual as more
    information becomes available and to reflect actual experience.
    Estimating such rebates is complicated due to the time delay
    between the date of sale and the actual settlement of the
    liability, which could take up to one year. Those rebates
    totaled $1.5 billion, $1.5 billion and
    $1.8 billion for the years ended December 31, 2010,
    2009 and 2008, respectively. We believe the methodology we use
    to accrue for rebates is reasonable and appropriate given
    current facts and circumstances. However, actual results may
    differ. Based on our recent experience, changes in annual
    estimates related to prior annual periods have been less than 2%
    of the estimated rebate amounts charged against product sales
    for 2010 and 2009 and less than 3.5% for 2008. These changes in
    annual estimates relate substantially to sales made in the
    immediately preceding annual period. A 2% change in our rebate
    estimate attributable to rebates recognized in 2010 would have
    had an impact of approximately $30 million on our 2010
    product sales and a corresponding impact on our financial
    condition and liquidity.

Wholesaler chargebacks relate to our contractual agreements to
    sell products to healthcare providers in the United States at
    fixed prices that are lower than the prices we charge
    wholesalers. When the healthcare providers

83

Table of Contents   

purchase our products through wholesalers at these reduced
    prices, the wholesaler charges us for the difference between the
    prices it pays us and the prices it charges the healthcare
    providers. The provision for chargebacks is based on the
    expected sales by our wholesaler customers to healthcare
    providers. Those chargebacks from wholesalers totaled
    $2.6 billion, $2.4 billion and $1.6 billion for
    the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively. Accruals for wholesaler chargebacks are less
    difficult to estimate than rebates and closely approximate
    actual results since chargeback amounts are fixed at the date of
    purchase by the healthcare provider, and we generally settle the
    liability for these deductions within a few weeks.

Included in other deductions in the table above are rebates and
    discounts paid to state Medicaid offices to participate in the
    Medicaid program. In 2010, healthcare reform legislation was
    enacted in the United States which has and will continue to
    significantly increase our Medicaid rebates and discounts.
    Certain provisions of this new legislation became effective in
    2010, while others will become effective in later years. The
    provisions of this new legislation reduced our U.S. product
    sales in 2010 by approximately $200 million, and we
    anticipate that our U.S. product sales in 2011 will be
    negatively impacted by $250 million to $300 million by
    this legislation.

Product
    returns  

Returns are estimated through comparison of historical return
    data to their related sales on a production lot basis.
    Historical rates of return are determined for each product and
    are adjusted for known or expected changes in the marketplace
    specific to each product, when appropriate. Historically, sales
    return provisions have been insignificant, amounting to less
    than 1.5% of gross product sales. Furthermore, changes in
    estimates for prior year sales return provisions have
    historically also been insignificant.

Inventories
    produced in preparation for product launches  

The Company capitalizes inventories produced in preparation for
    product launches when the related product candidates are
    considered to have a high probability of regulatory approval and
    the related costs are expected to be recoverable through the
    commercialization of the product. In connection with the
    decision to capitalize such inventory, we evaluate among other
    factors any identified risks or concerns with respect to the
    product candidate s safety and efficacy, the status of
    related discussions with regulatory authorities and the outlook
    for commercial success, including the existence of current or
    anticipated competitive products and any reimbursement concerns.
    In addition, we evaluate any risks associated with the
    manufacturing of the product candidate as well as consider the
    remaining shelf life of the inventory in relation to the
    expected launch date. Upon capitalization, we continue to
    monitor any changes in these factors. In the event of any
    significant negative developments, we may be required to impair
    previously capitalized costs. At December 31, 2009, we had
    capitalized approximately $258 million of inventory costs
    related to our then late-stage product candidate, denosumab.
    During 2010, we received various approvals for denosumab from
    regulatory authorities in the United States, the EU and various
    other countries and commenced selling the product in certain
    geographic markets.

Income
    taxes  

The Company provides for income taxes based on pretax income,
    applicable tax rates and tax planning opportunities available in
    the various jurisdictions in which it operates.

We recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only
    if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be
    sustained on examination by the taxing authorities based on the
    technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in
    the financial statements on a particular tax position are
    measured based on the largest benefit that is more likely than
    not to be realized upon settlement. The amount of UTBs is
    adjusted as appropriate for changes in facts and circumstances,
    such as significant amendments to existing tax law, new
    regulations or interpretations by the taxing authorities, new
    information obtained during a tax examination, or resolution of
    an examination. We believe our estimates for uncertain tax
    positions are appropriate and sufficient for any assessments
    that may result from examinations of our tax returns. We
    recognize both accrued interest and penalties, where
    appropriate, related to UTBs in income tax expense.

84

Table of Contents   

Certain items are included in the Company s tax return at
    different times than they are reflected in the financial
    statements. Such timing differences create deferred tax assets
    and liabilities. Deferred tax assets are generally items that
    can be used as a tax deduction or credit in the tax return in
    future years but for which the Company has already recorded the
    tax benefit in the financial statements. The Company establishes
    valuation allowances against its deferred tax assets when the
    amount of expected future taxable income is not likely to
    support the use of the deduction or credit. Deferred tax
    liabilities are either: (i) a tax expense recognized in the
    financial statements for which payment has been deferred; or
    (ii) an expense for which the Company has already taken a
    deduction on the tax return, but has not yet recognized the
    expense in the financial statements.

Our effective tax rate reflects the impact of undistributed
    foreign earnings for which no U.S. taxes have been provided
    because such earnings are intended to be invested indefinitely
    outside the United States based on our projected cash flow,
    working capital and long-term investment requirements of our
    U.S. and foreign operations. If future events, including
    material changes in estimates of cash, working capital and
    long-term investment requirements necessitate that certain
    assets associated with these earnings be repatriated to the
    United States, under current tax laws an additional tax
    provision and related liability would be required at the
    applicable U.S. and state marginal income tax rates which
    could have a material adverse effect on both our future
    effective tax rate and our financial results.

Our operations are subject to the tax laws, regulations and
    administrative practices of the United States, U.S. state
    jurisdictions and other countries in which we do business.
    Significant changes in these rules could have a material adverse
    effect on the results of operations. For example, substantial
    reform of U.S. tax law regarding tax on certain foreign
    profits could result in an increase in our effective tax rate,
    which could have a material adverse effect on our financial
    results.

Contingencies  

In the ordinary course of business, we are involved in various
    legal proceedings such as intellectual property disputes,
    contractual disputes, governmental investigations and class
    action suits. Certain of these proceedings are discussed in
    Note 19, Contingencies and commitments to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements. We record accruals for such contingencies
    to the extent we conclude their occurrence is both probable and
    estimable. We consider all relevant factors when making
    assessments regarding these contingencies.

While it is not possible to accurately predict or determine the
    eventual outcome of these items, one or more of these items
    currently pending could have a material adverse effect on our
    consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash
    flows.

Item 7A.  

QUANTITATIVE
    AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  

We are exposed to market risks that may result from changes in
    interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and prices of
    equity instruments as well as changes in the general economic
    conditions in the countries where we conduct business. To reduce
    certain of these risks, we monitor the financial condition of
    our larger customers and limit our credit exposure by setting
    credit limits, requiring letters of credit and obtaining credit
    insurance, as we deem appropriate. In addition, we have an
    investment policy that limits investments to certain types of
    debt and money market instruments issued by institutions
    primarily with investment grade credit ratings and places
    restriction on maturities and concentrations by type and issuer.
    We also enter into various types of foreign exchange and
    interest rate derivative hedging transactions with
    counterparties with investment grade credit ratings as part of
    our risk management program. We do not use derivatives for
    speculative trading purposes.

In the capital and credit markets, strong demand for fixed
    income led to historically low interest rates on corporate debt
    issuances during 2010. Short-term interest rates on
    U.S. Treasury instruments continued to decline as a result
    of the Federal Reserve s monetary policy, which included a
    program to buy back U.S. Treasury instruments. As a result,
    in the discussion that follows, we have assumed a hypothetical
    change in interest rates of 100 basis points from those at
    December 31, 2010 and 2009. Continued uncertainty
    surrounding European sovereign debt resulted in ongoing
    volatility in the foreign exchange markets, and we have
    consequentially assumed a hypothetical

85

Table of Contents   

20% change in foreign exchange rates against the
    U.S. dollar based on its position relative to other
    currencies as of December 31, 2010 and 2009.

Interest
    rate sensitive financial instruments  

Our investment portfolio of
     available-for-sale 
    debt securities at December 31, 2010 and 2009 was comprised
    of: U.S. Treasury securities and other government
    obligations; corporate debt securities; mortgage and asset
    backed securities; money market mutual funds; and other
    short-term interest bearing securities, composed principally of
    commercial paper. The fair value of our investment portfolio of
    debt securities was $17.3 billion and $13.3 billion at
    December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Duration is a
    sensitivity measure that can be used to approximate the change
    in the value of a security that will result from a
    100 basis point change in interest rates. Applying a
    duration model, a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in
    interest rates at December 31, 2010 and 2009, would not
    have resulted in a material effect on the fair values of these
    securities on these dates. In addition, a hypothetical
    100 basis point decrease in interest rates at
    December 31, 2010 and 2009 would not result in a material
    effect on the related income or cash flows in the respective
    ensuing year.

As of December 31, 2010 we had outstanding debt with a
    carrying value of $13.4 billion and a fair value of
    $14.5 billion. As of December 31, 2009 we had
    outstanding debt with a carrying value of $10.6 billion and
    a fair value of $11.6 billion. Our outstanding debt at
    December 31, 2010 and 2009 was comprised entirely of debt
    with fixed interest rates. Changes in interest rates do not
    affect interest expense or cash flows on fixed rate debt.
    Changes in interest rates would, however, affect the fair values
    of fixed rate debt. A hypothetical 100 basis point decrease
    in interest rates relative to interest rates at
    December 31, 2010 would have resulted in an increase of
    approximately $1.0 billion in the aggregate fair value of
    our outstanding debt on this date. A hypothetical 100 basis
    point decrease in interest rates relative to the interest rates
    at December 31, 2009 would have resulted in an increase of
    approximately $760 million in the aggregate fair value of
    our outstanding debt on this date.

To achieve a desired mix of fixed and floating interest rate
    debt, we have entered into interest rate swap agreements, which
    qualify and have been designated as fair value hedges, for
    certain of our fixed rate debt with notional amounts totaling
    $3.6 billion and $1.5 billion at December 31,
    2010 and 2009, respectively. These derivative contracts
    effectively convert a fixed rate interest coupon to a floating
    LIBOR-based coupon over the life of the respective note. A
    hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates
    relative to interest rates at December 31, 2010 and 2009,
    would have resulted in a $213 million and $78 million,
    respectively, reduction in the fair value of our interest rate
    swap agreements on these dates and would not result in a
    material effect on the related income or cash flows in the
    respective ensuing year.

Foreign
    currency sensitive instruments  

Our operating results are affected by fluctuations in the value
    of the U.S. dollar as compared to foreign currencies,
    predominately the Euro, as a result of the sale of our products
    in foreign markets. Increases and decreases in our international
    product sales from movements in foreign exchange rates are
    offset partially by the corresponding increases or decreases in
    our international operating expenses. To further reduce our net
    exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations on our results of
    operations, we enter into foreign currency forward and option
    contracts.

We enter into foreign currency forward and options contracts
    that are designated for accounting purposes as cash flow hedges
    of certain anticipated foreign currency transactions. As of
    December 31, 2010 we had open foreign currency forward and
    options contracts, primarily Euro based, with notional amounts
    of $3.2 billion and $398 million, respectively. As of
    December 31, 2009 we had open foreign currency forward and
    options contracts, primarily Euro based, with notional amounts
    of $3.4 billion and $376 million, respectively. As of
    December 31, 2010 the net unrealized gains and at
    December 31, 2009 the net unrealized losses on these
    contracts were not material. With regard to foreign currency
    forward and option contracts that were open at December 31,
    2010, a hypothetical 20% adverse movement in foreign exchange
    rates compared with the U.S. dollar relative to exchange
    rates at December 31, 2010 would have resulted in a
    reduction in fair value of these contracts of approximately

86

Table of Contents   

$670 million on this date and, in the ensuing year, a
    reduction in income and cash flows of approximately
    $330 million. With regard to contracts that were open at
    December 31, 2009 a hypothetical 20% adverse movement in
    foreign exchange rates compared with the U.S. dollar
    relative to exchange rates at December 31, 2009 would have
    resulted in a reduction in fair value of these contracts of
    approximately $720 million on this date and, in the ensuing
    year, a reduction in income and cash flows of approximately
    $330 million.

Also at December 31, 2010 and 2009, we had open foreign
    currency forward contracts with notional amounts totaling
    $670 million and $414 million, respectively, that
    hedged fluctuations of certain assets and liabilities
    denominated in foreign currencies but were not designated as
    hedges for accounting purposes. These contracts had no material
    net unrealized gains or losses at December 31, 2010 and
    2009. With regard to these foreign currency forward contracts
    that were open at December 31, 2010 and 2009, a
    hypothetical 20% adverse movement in foreign exchange rates
    compared with the U.S. dollar relative to exchange rates at
    December 31, 2010 and 2009, would have resulted in a
    reduction in fair value of these contracts on these dates of
    $134 million and $83 million, respectively, and would
    not result in a material effect on the related income or cash
    flows in the respective ensuing year.

The analysis above does not consider the impact that
    hypothetical changes in foreign currency exchange rates would
    have on anticipated transactions or on assets and liabilities
    that these foreign currency sensitive instruments were designed
    to offset.

Market
    price sensitive instruments  

As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, we were also exposed to
    price risk on equity securities included in our portfolio of
    investments, which were acquired primarily for the promotion of
    business and strategic objectives. These investments are
    generally in small capitalization stocks in the biotechnology
    industry sector. Price risk relative to our equity investment
    portfolio at December 31, 2010 and 2009 was not material.

Counterparty
    credit risks  

Our financial instruments, including derivatives, are subject to
    counterparty credit risk which we consider as part of the
    overall fair value measurement. We attempt to mitigate that risk
    through credit monitoring procedures.

Item 8.  

FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA  

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by
    reference to the financial statements and schedule listed in
    Item 15(a)1 and (a)2 of Part IV and included in this
     Form 10-K 
    Annual Report.

Item 9.  

CHANGES
    IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
    FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES  

None.

Item 9A.  

CONTROLS
    AND PROCEDURES  

We maintain  disclosure controls and procedures,  as
    such term is defined under Exchange Act
     Rule 13a-15(e), 
    that are designed to ensure that information required to be
    disclosed in Amgen s Exchange Act reports is recorded,
    processed, summarized and reported within the time periods
    specified in the SEC s rules and forms, and that such
    information is accumulated and communicated to Amgen s
    management, including its Chief Executive Officer and Chief
    Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions
    regarding required disclosures. In designing and evaluating the
    disclosure controls and procedures, Amgen s management
    recognized that any controls and procedures, no matter how well
    designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of
    achieving the desired control objectives and in reaching a
    reasonable level of assurance Amgen s management
    necessarily was required to apply its judgment in evaluating the
    cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures.
    We have carried out an evaluation under the supervision and with
    the participation of our management, including Amgen s
    Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the
    effectiveness of the design and operation of Amgen s
    disclosure controls and procedures. Based upon their evaluation
    and subject to the foregoing,

87

Table of Contents   

the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer
    concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were
    effective as of December 31, 2010.

Management determined that, as of December 31, 2010, there
    were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting
    that occurred during the fiscal quarter then ended that have
    materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially
    affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

Management s
    Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting  

Management of the Company is responsible for establishing and
    maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting,
    as such term is defined in
     Rule 13a-15(f) 
    under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company s
    internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide
    reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
    reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
    external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
    accounting principles in the United States. However, all
    internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have
    inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined
    to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with
    respect to financial statement preparation and reporting.

Management assessed the effectiveness of the Company s
    internal control over financial reporting as of
    December 31, 2010. In making this assessment, management
    used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring
    Organizations of the Treadway Commission ( COSO ) in
    Internal Control-Integrated Framework. Based on our assessment,
    management believes that the Company maintained effective
    internal control over financial reporting as of
    December 31, 2010, based on the COSO criteria.

The effectiveness of the Company s internal control over
    financial reporting has been audited by Ernst   Young
    LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated
    in their report appearing below, which expresses an unqualified
    opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal
    control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010.

88

Table of Contents   

Report of
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

The Board
    of Directors and Stockholders of Amgen Inc.  

We have audited Amgen Inc. s (the  Company )
    internal control over financial reporting as of
    December 31, 2010, based on criteria established in
    Internal Control   Integrated Framework issued by the
    Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
    (the COSO criteria). Amgen Inc. s management is responsible
    for maintaining effective internal control over financial
    reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of
    internal control over financial reporting included in the
    accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control over
    Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion
    on the Company s internal control over financial reporting
    based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control
    over financial reporting was maintained in all material
    respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of
    internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk
    that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the
    design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on
    the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we
    considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our
    audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a
    process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles. A company s
    internal control over financial reporting includes those
    policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance
    of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
    reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
    company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions
    are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
    statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
    principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
    are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
    management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
    reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
    unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
    company s assets that could have a material effect on the
    financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
    periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, Amgen Inc. maintained, in all material respects,
    effective internal control over financial reporting as of
    December 31, 2010, based on the COSO criteria.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
    Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2010 and
    2009, and the related Consolidated Statements of Income,
    Stockholders  Equity, and Cash Flows for each of the three
    years in the period ended December 31, 2010 of Amgen Inc.
    and our report dated February 25, 2011 expressed an
    unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/  Ernst  
    Young LLP

Los Angeles, California

February 25, 2011

89

Table of Contents   

Item 9B.  

OTHER
    INFORMATION  

Not applicable.

PART III   

Item 10.  

DIRECTORS,
    EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OF THE
    REGISTRANT  

Information about our Directors is incorporated by reference
    from the section entitled
     ITEM 1   ELECTION OF DIRECTORS 
    in our Proxy Statement for the 2011 Annual Meeting of
    Stockholders to be filed with the SEC within 120 days of
    December 31, 2010 (the  Proxy Statement ).
    Information about compliance with Section 16(a) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is incorporated by reference
    from the section entitled  OTHER MATTERS  
    Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
    Compliance  in our Proxy Statement. Information about the
    procedures by which stockholders may recommend nominees for the
    Board of Directors is incorporated by reference from
     Appendix A   AMGEN INC. BOARD OF DIRECTORS
    GUIDELINES FOR DIRECTOR QUALIFICATIONS AND EVALUATIONS  in
    our Proxy Statement. Information about our Audit Committee,
    members of the committee and our Audit Committee financial
    experts is incorporated by reference from the section entitled
     CORPORATE GOVERNANCE   Board
    Committees   Audit Committee  in our Proxy
    Statement. Information about our executive officers is contained
    in the discussion entitled  Item 1.
    Business   Executive Officers of the Registrant. 

Code of
    Ethics  

We maintain a code of ethics applicable to our principal
    executive officer, principal financial officer, principal
    accounting officer or controller, and other persons performing
    similar functions. To view this code of ethics free of charge,
    please visit our website at www.amgen.com (This website address
    is not intended to function as a hyperlink, and the information
    contained in our website is not intended to be a part of this
    filing). We intend to satisfy the disclosure requirements under
    Item 5.05 of
     Form 8-K 
    regarding an amendment to, or waiver from, a provision of this
    code of ethics, if any, by posting such information on our
    website as set forth above.

Item 11.  

EXECUTIVE
    COMPENSATION  

Information about director and executive compensation is
    incorporated by reference from the sections entitled
     EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION  and  CORPORATE
    GOVERNANCE  in our Proxy Statement. Information about
    compensation committee matters is incorporated by reference from
    the sections entitled  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  
    Compensation and Management Development Committee  and
     CORPORATE GOVERNANCE   Compensation Committee
    Report  in our Proxy Statement.

90

Table of Contents   

Item 12.  

SECURITY
    OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND
    RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS  

Securities
    Authorized for Issuance Under Existing Equity Compensation
    Plans  

The following table sets forth certain information as of
    December 31, 2010 concerning our common stock that may be
    issued under any form of award granted under all of our equity
    compensation plans approved by stockholders and equity
    compensation plans not approved by stockholders in effect as of
    December 31, 2010 (including upon the exercise of options,
    pursuant to purchases of stock or upon vesting of awards of
    restricted stock units or performance units).

(1)  

The number under column (a) with respect to this plan
    includes approximately 12.57 million shares issuable upon
    the exercise of outstanding options with a weighted average
    exercise price of approximately $54.61, approximately
    6.42 million shares issuable upon the vesting of
    outstanding restricted stock units and approximately
    1.83 million shares issuable upon the vesting of
    outstanding performance units. The performance units awarded in
    2009 and 2010 continue to be subject to performance goals and
    the maximum number of units that could be earned is 200% of the
    units awarded in 2009 and 2010. The number under column
    (c) with respect to this plan represents the maximum number
    of shares that remain available for future issuance under this
    plan. This number may fluctuate depending on the nature of the
    award granted. Shares that are subject to awards of options or
    stock appreciation rights granted under the 2009 Plan will be
    counted against the pool of available shares under the 2009 Plan
    as one (1) share for every one (1) share granted.
    Shares that are subject to awards granted under the 2009 Plan
    other than options or stock appreciation rights will be counted
    against the pool of available shares under the 2009 Plan as
    1.9 shares for every one (1) share granted.
    Furthermore, if any shares subject to an award under the 2009
    Plan are forfeited or expire or an award under the 2009 Plan is
    settled for cash, then any shares subject to such award may, to
    the extent of  

91

Table of Contents   

such forfeiture, expiration or cash settlement, be used again
    for new grants under the 2009 Plan and the shares subject to
    such awards will be added back to the pool of available shares
    under the 2009 Plan as (i) one (1) share if such
    shares were subject to an option or stock appreciation right
    granted under the 2009 Plan and (ii) as 1.9 shares if
    such shares were subject to awards other than options or stock
    appreciation rights granted under the 2009 Plan. 

(2)  

This plan has terminated as to future grants. The number under
    column (a) with respect to this plan includes approximately
    13.95 million shares issuable upon the exercise of
    outstanding options with a weighted average exercise price of
    approximately $57.69, approximately 2.45 million shares
    issuable upon the vesting of outstanding restricted stock units
    and approximately 0.85 million shares issuable for
    outstanding performance units granted in 2008 based on a target
    performance. The maximum that could be earned would be 200% of
    the units granted in 2008. 

(3)  

The purchases occurred on June 15, 2010 and
    December 15, 2010 (the  Purchase Dates ) with a
    purchase of 217,009 shares of Common Stock at a purchase
    price of $52.36 per shares on June 15, 2010 and
    158,204 shares of Common Stock at a purchase price of
    $52.89 per share on December 15, 2010. Such purchases
    reflect 95% of the closing price of the Common Stock on the
    applicable Purchase Date. 

(4)  

These plans have terminated as to future grants. These Plans
    were originally assumed pursuant to the terms of the merger
    agreement between Amgen and Immunex which was approved by our
    stockholders in May 2002. Both plans were previously approved by
    Immunex s shareholders. The number under column
    (a) with respect to the Amended and Restated 1999 Equity
    Incentive Plan includes approximately 11.64 million shares
    issuable upon the exercise of outstanding options with a
    weighted average exercise price of approximately $61.62 and
    approximately 27,000 shares issuable upon the vesting of
    outstanding restricted stock units. 

(5)  

This plan has terminated as to future grants. This plan was
    originally assumed by Amgen in connection with the merger of
    Tularik with and into Amgen SF, LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary
    of Amgen, on August 13, 2004. This plan was previously
    approved by Tularik s shareholders. 

(6)  

This plan terminated as to future grants. The number under
    column (a) with respect to this plan includes approximately
    5.49 million shares issuable upon the exercise of
    outstanding options with a weighted average exercise price of
    approximately $63.44 and approximately 132,000 shares
    issuable upon the vesting of outstanding restricted stock units. 

(7)  

These plans have terminated as to future grants. These plans
    were originally assumed by Amgen in connection with the merger
    of Abgenix with and into Amgen Fremont Inc., a wholly owned
    subsidiary of Amgen, on April 1, 2006. The Amended and
    Restated 1996 Incentive Stock Plan (1996 Plan) was previously
    approved by Abgenix s shareholders. The number under column
    (a) with respect to the 1996 Plan includes approximately
    311,000 shares issuable upon the exercise of outstanding
    options with a weighted average exercise price of approximately
    $68.81. The number under column (a) with respect to the
    Amended and Restated 1999 Incentive Stock Plan includes
    approximately 1.42 million shares issuable upon the
    exercise of outstanding options with a weighted average exercise
    price of approximately $65.66 and approximately
    259,000 shares issuable upon the vesting of outstanding
    restricted stock units. 

(8)  

This plan has terminated as to future grants. This plan was
    originally assumed by Amgen in connection with the merger of
    Avidia, Inc. with and into Amgen Mountain View Inc., a wholly
    owned subsidiary of Amgen, on October 24, 2006. 

Security
    Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers and Certain
    Beneficial Owners  

Information about security ownership of certain beneficial
    owners and management is incorporated by reference from the
    sections entitled  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF DIRECTORS AND
    EXECUTIVE OFFICERS and SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL
    OWNERS  in our Proxy Statement.

92

Table of Contents   

Item 13.  

CERTAIN
    RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS AND DIRECTOR
    INDEPENDENCE  

Information about certain relationships and related transactions
    and directors independence is incorporated by reference from the
    sections entitled  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED
    TRANSACTIONS  and  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  
    Board Independence  in our Proxy Statement.

Item 14.  

PRINCIPAL
    ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES  

Information about the fees for professional services rendered by
    our independent registered public accountants is incorporated by
    reference from the section entitled  AUDIT
    MATTERS   Independent Registered Public
    Accountants  in our Proxy Statement.

93

Table of Contents   

PART IV   

Item 15.  

EXHIBITS AND
    FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES  

(a)1.     Index
    to Financial Statements  

The following Consolidated Financial Statements are included
    herein:

Page 

number 

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

F-1

Consolidated Statements of Income for each of the three years in
    the period ended 
    December 31, 2010

F-2

Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2010 and 2009

F-3

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders  Equity for each of
    the three years in the period ended December 31, 2010

F-4

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of the three
    years in the period ended December 31, 2010

F-5

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

F-6 - F-51

(a)2.     Index
    to Financial Statement Schedules  

The following Schedule is filed as part of this
     Form 10-K 
    Annual Report:

Page 

number 

II. Valuation Accounts

F-52

All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable,
    not required or because the required information is included in
    the Consolidated Financial Statements or notes thereto.

(a)3.     Exhibits  

94

Table of Contents   

95

Table of Contents   

96

Table of Contents   

97

Table of Contents   

Exhibit No. 

Description 

10.22

Amendment No. 13 to the Shareholders  Agreement, dated
    June 28, 2007 (with certain confidential information
    deleted therefrom). (Filed as an exhibit to
     Form 10-Q 
    for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 on August 9, 2007
    and incorporated herein by reference.)

10.23

Product License Agreement, dated September 30, 1985, and
    Technology License Agreement, dated September 30, 1985,
    between
     Kirin-Amgen, 
    Inc. and Ortho Pharmaceutical Corporation. (Filed as an exhibit
    to
     Form 10-Q 
    for the quarter ended June 30, 2000 on August 1, 2000
    and incorporated herein by reference.)

10.24

Research, Development Technology Disclosure and License
    Agreement: PPO, dated January 20, 1986, by and between
    Kirin Brewery Co., Ltd. and Amgen Inc. (Filed as an exhibit to
    Amendment No. 1 to
     Form S-1 
    Registration Statement on March 11, 1986 and incorporated
    herein by reference.)

10.25

Assignment and License Agreement, dated October 16, 1986
    (effective July 1, 1986, between Amgen and
     Kirin-Amgen, 
    Inc. (Filed as an exhibit to
     Form 10-K 
    for the year ended December 31, 2000 on March 7, 2001
    and incorporated herein by reference.)

10.26

G-CSF United States License Agreement, dated June 1, 1987
    (effective July 1, 1986), Amendment No. 1, dated
    October 20, 1988, and Amendment No. 2, dated
    October 17, 1991 (effective November 13, 1990),
    between
     Kirin-Amgen, 
    Inc. and Amgen Inc. (Filed as exhibits to
     Form 10-K 
    for the year ended December 31, 2000 on March 7, 2001
    and incorporated herein by reference.)

10.27

G-CSF European License Agreement, dated December 30, 1986,
    between
     Kirin-Amgen 
    and Amgen, Amendment No. 1 to
     Kirin-Amgen, 
    Inc. / Amgen G-CSF European License Agreement, dated
    June 1, 1987, Amendment No. 2 to
     Kirin-Amgen, 
    Inc. / Amgen G-CSF European License Agreement, dated
    March 15, 1998, Amendment No. 3 to
     Kirin-Amgen, 
    Inc. / Amgen G-CSF European License Agreement, dated
    October 20, 1988, and Amendment No. 4 to
     Kirin-Amgen, 
    Inc. / Amgen G-CSF European License Agreement, dated
    December 29, 1989, between
     Kirin-Amgen, 
    Inc. and Amgen Inc. (Filed as exhibits to
     Form 10-K 
    for the year ended December 31, 2000 on March 7, 2001
    and incorporated herein by reference.)

10.28

Agreement Regarding Governance and Commercial Matters, dated
    December 16, 2001, by and among American Home Products
    Corporation, American Cyanamid Company and Amgen Inc. (with
    certain confidential information deleted therefrom). (Filed as
    an exhibit to Amendment No. 1 to
     Form S-4 
    Registration Statement on March 22, 2002 and incorporated
    herein by reference.)

10.29

Amended and Restated Promotion Agreement, dated as of
    December 16, 2001, by and among Immunex Corporation,
    American Home Products Corporation and Amgen Inc. (with certain
    confidential information deleted therefrom). (Filed as an
    exhibit to Amendment No. 1 to
     Form S-4 
    Registration Statement on March 22, 2002 and incorporated
    herein by reference.)

10.30

Description of Amendment No. 1 to Amended and Restated
    Promotion Agreement, effective as of July 8, 2003, among
    Wyeth, Amgen Inc. and Immunex Corporation (with certain
    confidential information deleted therefrom). (Filed as an
    exhibit to
     Form 10-K 
    for the year ended December 31, 2003 on March 11, 2004
    and incorporated herein by reference.)

10.31

Description of Amendment No. 2 to Amended and Restated
    Promotion Agreement, effective as of April 20, 2004, by and
    among Wyeth, Amgen Inc. and Immunex Corporation. (Filed as an
    exhibit to
     Form S-4/A 
    on June 29, 2004 and incorporated herein by reference.)

10.32

Amendment No. 3 to Amended and Restated Promotion
    Agreement, effective as of January 1, 2005, by and among
    Wyeth, Amgen Inc. and Immunex Corporation (with certain
    confidential information deleted therefrom). (Filed as an
    exhibit to
     Form 10-Q 
    for the quarter ended March 31, 2005 on May 4, 2005
    and incorporated herein by reference.)

98

Table of Contents   

Exhibit No. 

Description 

10.33

Confirmation of OTC Convertible Note Hedge related to 2013
    Notes, dated February 14, 2006, to Amgen Inc. from Merrill
    Lynch International related to 0.375% Convertible Senior
    Notes Due 2013. (Filed as an exhibit to
     Form 10-K 
    for the year ended December 31, 2005 on March 10, 2006
    and incorporated herein by reference.)

10.34

Confirmation of OTC Warrant Transaction, dated February 14,
    2006, to Amgen Inc. from Merrill Lynch International for
    warrants expiring in 2011. (Filed as an exhibit to
     Form 10-K 
    for the year ended December 31, 2005 on March 10, 2006
    and incorporated herein by reference.)

10.35

Confirmation of OTC Warrant Transaction, dated February 14,
    2006, to Amgen Inc. from Merrill Lynch International for
    warrants expiring in 2013. (Filed as an exhibit to
     Form 10-K 
    for the year ended December 31, 2005 on March 10, 2006
    and incorporated herein by reference.)

10.36

Confirmation of OTC Warrant Transaction, dated February 14,
    2006, to Amgen Inc. from Morgan Stanley   Co.
    International Limited for warrants maturing in 2011. (Filed as
    an exhibit to
     Form 10-K 
    for the year ended December 31, 2005 on March 10, 2006
    and incorporated herein by reference.)

10.37

Collaboration Agreement, dated July 11, 2007, between Amgen
    Inc. and Daiichi Sankyo Company (with certain confidential
    information deleted therefrom). (Filed as an exhibit to
     Form 10-Q 
    for the quarter ended September 30, 2007 on
    November 9, 2007 and incorporated herein by reference.)

10.38

Credit Agreement, dated November 2, 2007, among Amgen Inc.,
    with Citicorp USA, Inc., as administrative agent, Barclays Bank
    PLC, as syndication agent, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. and
    Barclays Capital, as joint lead arrangers and joint book
    runners, and the other banks party thereto. (Filed as an exhibit
    to
     Form 8-K 
    filed on November 2, 2007 and incorporated herein by
    reference.)

10.39

Amendment No. 1, dated May 18, 2009, to the Credit
    Agreement dated November 2, 2007, among Amgen Inc., with
    Citicorp USA, Inc., as administrative agent, Barclays Bank PLC,
    as syndication agent, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. and
    Barclays Capital, as joint lead arrangers and joint book
    runners, and the other banks party thereto. (Filed as an exhibit
    to
     Form 10-Q 
    for the quarter ended June 30, 2009 on August 10, 2009
    and incorporated herein by reference.)

10.40

Multi-product License Agreement with Respect to Japan between
    Amgen Inc. and Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited dated
    February 1, 2008 (with certain confidential information
    deleted therefrom). (Filed as an exhibit to
     Form 10-Q 
    for the quarter ended March 31, 2008 on May 12, 2008
    and incorporated herein by reference.)

10.41

License Agreement for motesanib diphosphate between Amgen Inc.
    and Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited dated February 1,
    2008 (with certain confidential information deleted therefrom).
    (Filed as an exhibit to
     Form 10-Q 
    for the quarter ended March 31, 2008 on May 12, 2008
    and incorporated herein by reference.)

10.42

Supply Agreement between Amgen Inc. and Takeda Pharmaceutical
    Company Limited dated February 1, 2008 (with certain
    confidential information deleted therefrom). (Filed as an
    exhibit to
     Form 10-Q 
    for the quarter ended March 31, 2008 on May 12, 2008
    and incorporated herein by reference.)

10.43

Sale and Purchase Agreement between Amgen Inc. and Takeda
    Pharmaceutical Company Limited dated February 1, 2008 (with
    certain confidential information deleted therefrom). (Filed as
    an exhibit to
     Form 10-Q 
    for the quarter ended March 31, 2008 on May 12, 2008
    and incorporated herein by reference.)

10.44

Master Services Agreement, dated October 22, 2008, between
    Amgen Inc. and International Business Machines Corporation (with
    certain confidential information deleted therefrom). (Filed as
    an exhibit to
     Form 10-K 
    for the year ended December 31, 2008 on February 27,
    2009 and incorporated herein by reference.)

99

Table of Contents   

Exhibit No. 

Description 

10.45

Amendment, dated December 11, 2009, to Master Services
    Agreement, dated October 22, 2009, between Amgen Inc. and
    International Business Machines Corporation (with certain
    confidential information deleted therefrom). (Filed as an
    exhibit to
     Form 10-K 
    for the year ended December 31, 2009 on March 1, 2010
    and incorporated herein by reference.)

10.46

Amendment Number 6, dated September 23, 2010, to Master
    Services Agreement, dated October 22, 2009, between Amgen
    Inc. and International Business Machines Corporation (with
    certain confidential information deleted therefrom). (Filed as
    an exhibit to
     Form 10-Q 
    for the quarter ended September 30, 2010 on
    November 8, 2010 and incorporated herein by reference.)

10.47

Integrated Facilities Management Services Agreement, dated
    February 4, 2009 between Amgen Inc. and Jones Lang
    LaSalle Americas, Inc. (with certain confidential information
    deleted therefrom). (Filed as an exhibit to
     Form 10-K 
    for the year ended December 31, 2008 on February 27,
    2009 and incorporated herein by reference.)

10.48

Collaboration Agreement dated July 27, 2009 between Amgen
    Inc. and Glaxo Group Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of
    GlaxoSmithKline plc (with certain confidential information
    deleted therefrom). (Filed as an exhibit to
     Form 10-Q 
    for the quarter ended September 30, 2009 on
    November 6, 2009 and incorporated herein by reference.)

10.49

Expansion Agreement dated July 27, 2009 between Amgen Inc.
    and Glaxo Group Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of
    GlaxoSmithKline plc (with certain confidential information
    deleted therefrom). (Filed as an exhibit to
     Form 10-Q 
    for the quarter ended September 30, 2009 on
    November 6, 2009 and incorporated herein by reference.)

10.50

Amendment Number 1, dated September 20, 2010, to Expansion
    Agreement dated July 27, 2009 between Amgen Inc. and Glaxo
    Group Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of GlaxoSmithKline plc
    (with certain confidential information deleted therefrom).
    (Filed as an exhibit to
     Form 10-Q 
    for the quarter ended September 30, 2010 on
    November 8, 2010 and incorporated herein by reference.)

10.51

Underwriting Agreement, dated March 12, 2010, by and among
    the Company and Banc of America Securities LLC, Barclays Capital
    Inc. and Morgan Stanley   Co. Incorporated, as
    representatives of the several underwriters named therein.
    (Filed as an exhibit to
     Form 8-K 
    on March 15, 2010 and incorporated herein by reference.)

10.52

Underwriting Agreement, dated September 13, 2010, by and
    among the Company and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Goldman,
    Sachs   Co. and Morgan Stanley   Co.
    Incorporated, as representatives of the several underwriters
    named therein. (Filed as an exhibit to
     Form 8-K 
    on September 17, 2010 and incorporated herein by reference.)

21*

Subsidiaries of the Company.

23

Consent of the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.
    The consent is set forth on pages 105 and 106 of this
    Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

24

Power of Attorney. The Power of Attorney is set forth on pages
    103 and 104 of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

31*

Rule 13a-14(a) 
    Certifications.

32**

Section 1350 Certifications.

101.INS**

XBRL Instance Document.

101.SCH**

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document.

101.CAL**

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document.

101.LAB**

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document.

100

Table of Contents   

Exhibit No. 

Description 

101.PRE**

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document.

101.DEF**

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase.

(*  

= filed herewith) 

(**  

= furnished herewith and not  filed  for purposes of
    Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
    amended)

(+  

= management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.) 

101

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES   

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, the registrant has duly caused this Annual Report to be
    signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
    authorized.

AMGEN INC. 
    (Registrant)

Date: 02/25/2011

By:      /s/   Jonathan
    m. peacock 

Jonathan
    M. Peacock 
    Executive Vice President 
    and Chief Financial Officer  

102

Table of Contents   

EXHIBIT 24  

POWER OF
    ATTORNEY  

KNOW ALL MEN AND WOMEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose
    signature appears below constitutes and appoints Jonathan M.
    Peacock and Thomas J.W. Dittrich, or either of them, his or her
    attorney-in-fact, each with the power of substitution, for him
    or her in any and all capacities, to sign any amendments to this
    Report, and to file the same, with exhibits thereto and other
    documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and
    Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming all that
    each of said attorneys-in-fact, or his or her substitute or
    substitutes, may do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons
    on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the
    dates indicated:

103

Table of Contents   

104

Table of Contents   

EXHIBIT 23  

CONSENT
    OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following
    Registration Statements:

105

Table of Contents   

Registration Statement
     (Form S-3 
     No. 333-132286) 
    relating to the potential resale of securities acquired from
    Amgen Inc. by selling security holders in unregistered private
    offerings;

Registration Statement
     (Form S-8 
     No. 333-132932) 
    pertaining to the Amgen Inc. Amended and Restated 1996 Incentive
    Stock Plan (formerly known as Abgenix, Inc. 1996 Incentive Stock
    Plan, as amended and restated), the Amgen Inc. Amended and
    Restated 1999 Incentive Stock Plan (formerly known as Abgenix,
    Inc. 1999 Nonstatutory Stock Option Plan, as amended and
    restated);

Registration Statement
     (Form S-8 
     No. 333-133002) 
    pertaining to the Amgen Inc. Amended and Restated 1999 Incentive
    Stock Plan (formerly known as Abgenix, Inc. 1999 Nonstatutory
    Stock Option Plan, as amended and restated);

Registration Statement
     (Form S-8 
     No. 333-138325) 
    pertaining to the Amgen Inc. Amended and Restated Assumed Avidia
    Equity Incentive Plan (formerly known as the Avidia, Inc.
    Amended and Restated 2003 Equity Incentive Plan);

Registration Statement
     (Form S-4 
     No. 333-147482) 
    relating to the possible exchange of unregistered Senior
    Floating Notes for registered Senior Floating Notes relating to
    the Prospectus of Amgen Inc. for the registration of Senior
    Floating Rate Notes due 2008, 5.85% Senior Notes due 2017,
    6.375% Senior Notes Due 2037; and

Registration Statement
     (Form S-3 
     No. 333-150290) 
    relating to debt securities, common stock, preferred stock,
    warrants to purchase debt securities, common stock, preferred
    stock or depositary shares, rights to purchase common stock or
    preferred stock, securities purchase contracts, securities
    purchase units and depositary shares of Amgen Inc. and in the
    related Prospectuses.

of our reports dated February 25, 2011, with respect to the
    consolidated financial statements and schedule of Amgen Inc. and
    the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting
    of Amgen Inc. included in this Annual Report
     (Form 10-K) 
    of Amgen Inc. for the year ended December 31, 2010.

/s/  Ernst  
    Young LLP

Los Angeles, California

February 25, 2011

106

Table of Contents   

Report of
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

The Board
    of Directors and Stockholders of Amgen Inc.  

We have audited the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets of
    Amgen Inc. (the  Company ) as of December 31,
    2010 and 2009, and the related Consolidated Statements of
    Income, Stockholders  Equity, and Cash Flows for each of
    the three years in the period ended December 31, 2010. Our
    audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in
    the Index at Item 15(a) 2. These financial statements and
    schedule are the responsibility of the Company s
    management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
    financial statements and schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
    free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
    test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
    the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
    accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
    management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
    statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
    reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above
    present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated
    financial position of Amgen Inc. at December 31, 2010 and
    2009, and the consolidated results of its operations and its
    cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
    December 31, 2010, in conformity with U.S. generally
    accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the
    related financial statement schedule, when considered in
    relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole,
    presents fairly in all material respects the information set
    forth therein.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Amgen
    Inc. s internal control over financial reporting as of
    December 31, 2010, based on criteria established in
    Internal Control   Integrated Framework issued by the
    Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
    and our report dated February 25, 2011 expressed an
    unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/  Ernst  
    Young LLP

Los Angeles, California

February 25, 2011

F-1

Table of Contents   

AMGEN
    INC. 

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF INCOME   

Years
    ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 

(In
    millions, except per share data)  

See accompanying notes.

F-2

Table of Contents   

AMGEN
    INC. 
     
         CONSOLIDATED
    BALANCE SHEETS 
       
    December 31, 2010 and 2009 
     
    (In millions, except per share data) 

See accompanying notes.

F-3

Table of Contents   

AMGEN
    INC. 
     
         CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY 
       
    Years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 
     
    (In millions) 

See accompanying notes.

F-4

Table of Contents   

AMGEN
    INC. 
     
         CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
       
    Years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 

(In millions) 

See accompanying notes.

F-5

Table of Contents   

AMGEN
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

December 31, 2010 

1.   

Summary
    of significant accounting policies  

Business  

Amgen Inc. (including its subsidiaries, referred to as
     Amgen,   the Company,   we, 
     our  or  us ) is a global biotechnology
    medicines company that discovers, develops, manufactures and
    markets medicines for grievous illnesses. We concentrate on
    innovating novel medicines based on advances in cellular and
    molecular biology and we operate in one business
    segment   human therapeutics.

Principles
    of consolidation  

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of
    Amgen as well as its wholly owned subsidiaries. We do not have
    any significant interests in any variable interest entities. All
    material intercompany transactions and balances have been
    eliminated in consolidation.

Use of
    estimates  

The preparation of consolidated financial statements in
    conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
    United States requires management to make estimates and
    assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated
    financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results may
    differ from those estimates.

Product
    sales  

Product sales primarily consist of sales of
    Aranesp   

    (darbepoetin alfa),
    EPOGEN   

    (Epoetin alfa),
    Neulasta   

    (pegfilgrastim),
    NEUPOGEN   

    (Filgrastim) and
    Enbrel   

    (etanercept). Sales of our products are recognized when shipped
    and title and risk of loss have passed. Product sales are
    recorded net of accruals for estimated rebates, wholesaler
    chargebacks, discounts and other deductions (collectively
     sales deductions ) and returns. Taxes collected from
    customers and remitted to government authorities related to the
    sales of the Company s products, primarily in Europe, are
    excluded from revenues.

We have the exclusive right to sell Epoetin alfa for dialysis,
    certain diagnostics and all non-human, non-research uses in the
    United States. We sell Epoetin alfa under the brand name
    EPOGEN   .

    We granted to Ortho Pharmaceutical Corporation (which has
    assigned its rights under the product license agreement to
    Centocor Ortho Biotech Products, L.P.), a subsidiary of
    Johnson   Johnson ( J J ), a license
    relating to Epoetin alfa for sales in the United States for all
    human uses except dialysis and diagnostics. This license
    agreement, which is perpetual, may be terminated for various
    reasons, including upon mutual agreement of the parties, or
    default. The parties are required to compensate each other for
    Epoetin alfa sales that either party makes into the other
    party s exclusive market, sometimes referred to as
     spillover.  Accordingly, we do not recognize product
    sales we make into the exclusive market of J J and do
    recognize the product sales made by J J into our exclusive
    market. Sales in our exclusive market are derived from our sales
    to our customers, as adjusted for spillover. We are employing an
    arbitrated audit methodology to measure each party s
    spillover based on estimates of and subsequent adjustments
    thereto of third-party data on shipments to end users and their
    usage.

Other
    revenues  

Other revenues primarily consist of royalty income and corporate
    partner revenues. Royalties from licensees are based on
    third-party sales of licensed products and are recorded in
    accordance with contract terms when third-party results are
    reliably measurable and collectability is reasonably assured.
    Royalty estimates are made in advance of amounts collected using
    historical and forecasted trends. Pursuant to the license
    agreement with J J, noted

F-6

Table of Contents   

AMGEN
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

above, we earn a 10% royalty on net sales, as defined, of
    Epoetin alfa by J J in the United States. For the years
    ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, we recognized
    royalty income from J J of $111 million,
    $128 million and $126 million, respectively. Corporate
    partner revenues are comprised of amounts earned from
     Kirin-Amgen, 
    Inc. ( KA ) for certain research and development
    ( R D ) activities and are generally earned as
    the R D activities are performed and the amounts become
    due. Corporate partner revenues also include license fees and
    milestone payments earned from KA and from collaborations with
    third parties. Revenue from non-refundable, upfront license fees
    where we have continuing involvement is recognized ratably over
    the estimated period of ongoing involvement. Revenue associated
    with at risk performance milestones is recognized based upon the
    achievement of the milestone, as defined in the respective
    agreements. See Note 6, Collaborative arrangements and
    Note 7, Related party transactions.

Research
    and development costs  

R D costs are expensed as incurred and include primarily
    salaries, benefits and other staff-related costs; facilities and
    overhead costs; clinical trial and related clinical
    manufacturing costs; contract services and other outside costs;
    information systems  costs and amortization of acquired
    technology used in R D with alternative future uses.
    R D expenses include costs incurred under R D
    arrangements with our corporate partners, such as activities
    performed on behalf of KA, and costs and cost recoveries
    associated with collaborative R D and in-licensing
    arrangements, including upfront fees and milestones paid to
    collaboration partners in connection with technologies which
    have not reached technological feasibility and did not have an
    alternative future use. Net payment or reimbursement of R D
    costs for arrangements with our corporate partners is recognized
    when the obligations are incurred or as we become entitled to
    the cost recovery. See Note 6, Collaborative arrangements
    and Note 7, Related party transactions.

Selling,
    general and administrative costs  

Selling, general and administrative ( SG A )
    expenses are comprised primarily of salaries, benefits and other
    staff-related costs associated with sales and marketing,
    finance, legal and other administrative personnel; facilities
    and overhead costs; outside marketing, advertising and legal
    expenses and other general and administrative costs. SG A
    expenses also include costs and cost recoveries associated with
    marketing and promotion efforts under certain collaboration
    arrangements. Net payment or reimbursement of SG A costs
    for collaborations is recognized when the obligations are
    incurred or as we become entitled to the cost recovery. See
    Note 6, Collaborative arrangements.

Advertising costs are expensed as incurred. For the years ended
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, advertising costs were
    $98 million, $95 million and $81 million,
    respectively.

Stock-based
    compensation  

We have stock-based compensation plans under which various types
    of equity-based awards are granted, including stock options,
    restricted stock units and performance units. The estimated fair
    values of stock option and restricted stock unit awards which
    are subject only to service conditions with graded vesting are
    generally recognized as compensation expense on a straight-line
    basis over the service period. The estimated fair values of
    performance unit awards are generally recognized as compensation
    expense on a straight-line basis over the period from the grant
    date to the end of the performance period based on the probable
    outcomes of the award s performance conditions. See
    Note 3, Stock-based compensation.

Income
    taxes  

We provide for income taxes based on pretax income, applicable
    tax rates and tax planning opportunities available in the
    various jurisdictions in which we operate.

F-7

Table of Contents   

AMGEN
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

We recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only
    if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be
    sustained on examination by the taxing authorities based on the
    technical merits of the position. The tax benefit recognized in
    the financial statements for a particular tax position is based
    on the largest benefit that is more likely than not to be
    realized upon settlement. The amount of unrecognized tax
    benefits ( UTBs ) is adjusted as appropriate for
    changes in facts and circumstances, such as significant
    amendments to existing tax law, new regulations or
    interpretations by the taxing authorities, new information
    obtained during a tax examination, or resolution of an
    examination. We recognize both accrued interest and penalties,
    where appropriate, related to UTBs in income tax expense. See
    Note 4, Income taxes.

Collaborative
    arrangements  

Certain arrangements we have entered into regarding the
    R D, manufacture
     and/or 
    commercialization of products and product candidates are
    considered collaborative arrangements. A collaborative
    arrangement is defined as a contractual arrangement that
    involves a joint operating activity. These arrangements involve
    two or more parties who are both (i) active participants in
    the activity and (ii) exposed to significant risks and
    rewards dependent on the commercial success of the activity. For
    collaborative arrangements where it is determined that we are
    the principal participant, revenue generated and costs incurred
    with third parties are recorded on a gross basis in our
    consolidated financial statements. See Note 6,
    Collaborative arrangements.

Cash
    equivalents  

We consider cash equivalents to be only those investments which
    are highly liquid, readily convertible to cash and which mature
    within three months from date of purchase.

Available-for-sale 
    investments  

We consider our investment portfolio
     available-for-sale 
    and, accordingly, these investments are recorded at fair value
    with unrealized gains and losses generally recorded in other
    comprehensive income. See Note 10,
     Available-for-sale 
    securities and Note 17, Fair value measurement.

Inventories  

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost,
    which includes amounts related to materials, labor and overhead,
    is determined in a manner which approximates the
     first-in, 
    first-out method. The Company capitalizes inventories produced
    in preparation for product launches when the related product
    candidates are considered to have a high probability of
    regulatory approval and the related costs are expected to be
    recoverable through the commercialization of the product. See
    Note 11, Inventories.

Derivatives  

We recognize all of our derivative instruments as either assets
    or liabilities at fair value in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
    The accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative
    instrument depends on whether it has been formally designated
    and qualifies as part of a hedging relationship under the
    applicable accounting standards and, further, on the type of
    hedging relationship. For derivatives formally designated as
    hedges, we assess both at inception and quarterly thereafter,
    whether the hedging derivatives are highly effective in
    offsetting changes in either the fair value or cash flows of the
    hedged item. Our derivatives that are not designated and do not
    qualify as hedges are adjusted to fair value through current
    earnings. See Note 17, Fair value measurement and
    Note 18, Derivative instruments.

F-8

Table of Contents   

AMGEN
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Property,
    plant and equipment, net  

Property, plant and equipment is recorded at historical cost,
    net of accumulated depreciation, amortization and, if
    applicable, impairment charges. We review our property, plant
    and equipment assets for impairment whenever events or changes
    in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset
    may not be recoverable.

Depreciation of buildings, equipment, furniture and fixtures is
    provided over their estimated useful lives on a straight-line
    basis. Leasehold improvements are amortized on a straight-line
    basis over the shorter of their estimated useful lives or lease
    terms.  Useful
    lives by asset category are as follows:

See Note 12, Property, plant and equipment.

Intangible
    assets and goodwill  

Finite-lived intangible assets are recorded at cost, net of
    accumulated amortization and, if applicable, impairment charges.
    Amortization of finite-lived intangible assets is provided over
    their estimated useful lives on a straight-line basis. We review
    our finite-lived intangible assets for impairment whenever
    events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
    amount of an asset may not be recoverable. See Note 13,
    Intangible assets.

The estimated fair values of in-process R D projects
    acquired in a business combination which have not reached
    technological feasibility and were acquired on and after
    January 1, 2009 are capitalized and accounted for as
    indefinite-lived intangible assets subject to impairment testing
    until completion or abandonment of the project. Capitalized
    in-process R D projects are tested for impairment annually
    and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that
    the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Upon successful
    completion of the project, the capitalized amount is amortized
    over its estimated useful life. If a project is abandoned, all
    remaining capitalized amounts are written-off immediately. The
    estimated fair values of in-process R D projects acquired
    in a business combination prior to January 1, 2009, which
    had not reached technological feasibility at the date of
    acquisition and which did not have an alternative future use,
    were immediately expensed as required by accounting principles
    then in effect.

Goodwill principally relates to our 2002 acquisition of Immunex
    Corporation ( Immunex ). We perform an impairment test
    annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances
    indicate that the carrying amount of goodwill may not be
    recoverable.

Convertible
    debt  

The debt and equity components of convertible debt instruments
    that may be partially or wholly cash settled ( cash
    settleable convertible notes ), including our 2011
    Convertible Notes and 2013 Convertible Notes, are bifurcated and
    accounted for separately. The debt component of cash settleable
    convertible notes, which excludes the associated equity
    conversion option, is recorded at fair value as of the issuance
    date. The difference between the amount allocated to the debt
    component and the proceeds received upon issuance of the debt is
    allocated to the equity component and recorded in  Common
    stock and additional paid-in capital  in the Consolidated
    Balance Sheets. The reduced or discounted carrying value of cash
    settleable convertible notes resulting from bifurcation is
    subsequently accreted back to its principal amount through the
    recognition of non-cash interest expense. This results in
    recognizing interest expense on the borrowing at an effective
    rate approximating what would have been incurred had
    nonconvertible debt with otherwise similar terms been issued.
    See Note 15, Financing arrangements.

F-9

Table of Contents   

AMGEN
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Recent
    accounting pronouncements  

In January 2010, we adopted a newly issued accounting standard
    which requires additional disclosure about the amounts of and
    reasons for significant transfers between levels of the fair
    value hierarchy discussed in Note 17, Fair value
    measurement. This standard also clarifies existing disclosure
    requirements related to the level of disaggregation of fair
    value measurements for each class of assets and liabilities and
    disclosures about inputs and valuation techniques used to
    measure fair value for both recurring and nonrecurring
    Level 2 and Level 3 measurements. In addition,
    effective for interim and annual periods beginning after
    December 15, 2010, this standard requires additional
    disclosure and requires an entity to present disaggregated
    information about activity for Level 3 fair value
    measurements on a gross as opposed to a net basis. As this
    accounting standard only requires enhanced disclosure, its
    adoption did not impact our consolidated financial position,
    results of operations or cash flows.

In January 2011, we adopted a newly issued accounting standard
    which addresses the accounting for the annual fee due from the
    pharmaceutical manufacturing industry beginning January 1,
    2011, mandated by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act
    (the  PPACA ) and the companion Health Care and
    Education Reconciliation Act, which made certain changes and
    adjustments to PPACA. We refer to these two laws collectively as
    the  new healthcare reform law . The new healthcare
    reform law obligates a pharmaceutical manufacturer, upon the
    first gross receipt during a calendar year from prescription
    drug sales under any specified government program, to pay an
    annual fee to the U.S. government. The new accounting
    standard requires the liability for the annual fee to be
    estimated and recorded in full upon the first qualifying sale
    with a corresponding deferred cost established that is to be
    amortized and recognized as an operating expense over the
    calendar year that it is payable using a straight-line method of
    allocation unless another method better allocates the fee. We
    have elected to amortize this fee on a straight-line basis and
    it will be recorded in SG A expense.

2.

Acquisitions  

Domp 
    Biotec, S.p.A  

On January 4, 2008, we completed the acquisition of
    Domp  Biotec, S.p.A ( Domp  ), a privately
    held company that marketed certain of our products in Italy.
    This acquisition was accounted for as a business combination.
    The purchase price was approximately $168 million, which
    included the carrying value of our existing 49% ownership in
    Domp . The purchase price paid was allocated to the net
    assets acquired of approximately $63 million, principally
    comprised of marketing rights to marketed products, based on
    their estimated fair values at the acquisition date and the
    excess of the purchase price over the fair values of net assets
    acquired of approximately $105 million was assigned to
    goodwill. There was no material gain or loss related to the
    reacquisition of marketing rights previously granted to
    Domp  as a result of this business combination. The results
    of Domp  s operations have been included in the
    consolidated financial statements commencing January 4,
    2008. Pro forma results of operations for the year ended
    December 31, 2008 assuming the acquisition of Domp 
    had taken place at the beginning of 2008 would not differ
    significantly from the actual reported results.

3.   

Stock-based
    compensation  

Our 2009 Equity Incentive Plan (the  2009 Plan )
    provides for the grant of equity-based awards, including stock
    options, restricted stock units and performance units, to
    employees and consultants of Amgen, its subsidiaries and
    non-employee members of our Board of Directors. The 2009 Plan,
    which was approved by our stockholders on May 6, 2009,
    replaced our existing equity plans (the  Prior Plans )
    and no further awards may be made under these Prior Plans. The
    2009 Plan authorizes the issuance of 100 million shares of
    our common stock. Under the terms of the 2009 Plan, the pool of
    available shares that may be used for all types of awards,
    including those issued under our Prior Plans after
    December 31, 2008 and before May 6, 2009 (the stub
    period) is reduced by one share for each stock option granted
    and by 1.9 shares for other types of awards granted,
    including restricted stock units and performance

F-10

Table of Contents   

AMGEN
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

units. If any shares subject to an award granted under our Prior
    Plans during the stub period or any awards granted under the
    2009 Plan expire, or are forfeited, terminated or cancelled
    without the issuance of shares, the shares subject to such
    awards are added back to the pool of available shares under the
    2009 Plan on the same basis that they were removed. As of
    December 31, 2010, the 2009 Plan provides for future grants
     and/or 
    issuances of up to approximately 70 million shares of our common
    stock. Stock-based awards under our employee compensation plans
    are made with newly issued shares reserved for this purpose.

The following table reflects the components of stock-based
    compensation expense recognized in our Consolidated Statements
    of Income for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and
    2008 (in millions):

Employee
    stock option and restricted stock unit grants  

Eligible employees generally receive a grant of stock options
     and/or 
    restricted stock units annually with the size and type of award
    generally determined by the employee s salary grade and
    performance level. In addition, certain management and
    professional level employees typically receive stock options
     and/or 
    restricted stock unit grants upon commencement of employment.
    Our stock option and restricted stock unit grants provide for
    accelerated or continued vesting in certain circumstances as
    defined in the plans, including upon death, disability, a change
    in control, or retirement of employees who meet certain service
     and/or  age
    requirements. Grants of stock options and restricted stock units
    generally vest over a four year period.

Stock
    option grants  

The exercise price for stock options granted under our 2009 Plan
    and Prior Plans is set at the closing price of our common stock
    on the date of grant and the related number of shares granted is
    fixed at that point in time. Awards granted to employees on and
    after April 26, 2010 expire 10 years from the date of
    grant; options granted to employees prior to that date expire
    seven years from the date of grant.

We use the Black-Scholes option valuation model to estimate the
    grant date fair value of our employee stock options. The
    weighted-average assumptions used in the Black-Scholes option
    valuation model and the resulting weighted-average estimated
    grant date fair values of our employee stock options were as
    follows for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and
    2008:

The expected volatility reflects the consideration of the
    implied volatility in publicly traded instruments associated
    with Amgen s common stock during the period the options
    were granted. We believe implied volatility in these instruments
    is more indicative of expected future volatility than the
    historical volatility in the price of our

F-11

Table of Contents   

AMGEN
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

common stock. We use historical data to estimate the expected
    life of the options. The risk-free interest rates for periods
    within the expected life of the option are based on the
    U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect during the period the
    options were granted.

The following summarizes select information regarding our stock
    options during the year ended December 31, 2010:

The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the three
    years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 was
    $15 million, $57 million and $68 million,
    respectively.

Restricted
    stock unit grants  

The fair value of a restricted stock unit is equal to the
    closing price of our common stock on the grant date. The
    weighted-average grant date fair values of restricted stock
    units granted in 2010, 2009 and 2008 were $58.19, $51.24 and
    $42.63, respectively. The following summarizes select
    information regarding our restricted stock units during the year
    ended December 31, 2010:

The total fair values of shares of restricted stock units that
    vested during the year ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and
    2008 was $184 million, $139 million and
    $77 million, respectively.

As of December 31, 2010, there was approximately
    $499 million of unrecognized compensation costs related to
    nonvested stock option and restricted stock unit awards, which
    is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of
    1.7 years.

Performance
    award program  

Certain management-level employees also receive annual grants of
    performance units, which give the recipient the right to receive
    common stock that is contingent upon achievement of specified
    pre-established performance goals over the performance period,
    which is generally three years. The performance goals for the
    units granted in 2010, 2009 and 2008, which are accounted for as
    equity awards, are based upon one or more of the

F-12

Table of Contents   

AMGEN
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

following, as defined in the program: (i) Amgen s
    standalone financial performance, (ii) Amgen s annual
    stockholder return and (iii) Amgen s annual
    stockholder return compared to a comparator group of companies.
    Depending on the outcome of these performance goals, a recipient
    may ultimately earn a number of units greater or less than the
    number of units granted. Shares of our common stock are issued
    on a
     one-for-one 
    basis for each performance unit earned. In general, participants
    vest in their performance unit awards at the end of the
    performance period. The performance award program provides for
    accelerated or continued vesting in certain circumstances as
    defined in the plan, including upon death, disability, a change
    in control, or retirement of employees who meet certain service
     and/or  age
    requirements.

The performance units granted in 2010, 2009 and 2008 include
    stockholder return performance goals, which are considered
    market conditions and are reflected in the grant date fair value
    of the units. The performance units granted in 2010 and 2009
    also included performance goals based on the Company s
    standalone financial performance, which are considered
    performance conditions. The expense recognized for the awards
    granted in 2010 and 2009 was based on the grant date fair value
    of a unit multiplied by the number of units to be earned with
    respect to the performance conditions, net of estimated
    forfeitures. The expense recognized for the awards granted in
    2008 is based on the grant date fair value of a unit multiplied
    by the number of units granted, net of estimated forfeitures.

We used a Monte Carlo simulation model to estimate the grant
    date fair value of performance units granted in 2010 and 2009.
    We used a lattice model to estimate the grant date fair value of
    performance units granted in 2008. The assumptions used in these
    models and the resulting grant date fair values of our
    performance units were as follows for the years ended
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008:

The valuation models also use terms based on the length of the
    performance period and compound annual growth rate goals for
    total stockholder return based on the terms of the award. For
    the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Monte Carlo
    simulation model also assumed correlations of returns of the
    stock prices of our common stock and the common stocks of a
    comparator group of companies and stock price volatilities of
    the comparator group of companies.

As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, a total of
    2.7 million and 2.9 million performance units were
    outstanding with weighted-average grant date fair values of
    $49.49 and $53.46 per unit, respectively. During the year ended
    December 31, 2010, 1.0 million performance units with
    a grant date fair value of $62.06 were granted, 0.6 million
    performance units with a grant date fair value of $36.91 vested
    and 0.1 million performance units with a weighted-average
    grant date fair value of $47.97 were forfeited.

The total fair values of performance units that vested during
    2010 and 2009 were $34 million and $29 million,
    respectively, based upon the number of performance units earned
    multiplied by the closing stock price of our common stock on the
    last day of the performance period. Performance unit awards
    granted for performance periods that ended prior to 2009 were
    accounted for as liability awards and were paid in the year
    after the performance period ended. Performance unit liability
    awards paid in 2009 and 2008 aggregated $30 million and
    $70 million, respectively.

As of December 31, 2010, there was approximately
    $48 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to
    the 2010 and 2009 performance unit grants that is expected to be
    recognized over a weighted-average period of approximately
    1 year.

F-13

Table of Contents   

AMGEN
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

4.   

Income
    taxes  

The provision for income taxes for the years ended
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 includes the following (in
    millions):

Deferred income taxes reflect the temporary differences between
    the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial
    reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes,
    tax credit carryforwards and the tax effects of net operating
    loss carryforwards.

Significant components of our deferred tax assets and
    liabilities as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 are as follows
    (in millions):

The valuation allowance for deferred tax assets decreased by
    $12 million in 2010, due primarily to the utilization and
    expiration of certain acquired net operating loss carryforwards.
    Valuation allowances are provided

F-14

Table of Contents   

AMGEN
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

when we believe our deferred tax assets are not recoverable
    based on an assessment of estimated future taxable income that
    incorporates ongoing, prudent and feasible tax planning
    strategies.

At December 31, 2010, we had net operating loss
    carryforwards of $303 million available to reduce future
    taxable income in various state taxing jurisdictions. We have
    provided a valuation allowance against $44 million of the
    state operating loss carryforwards. The state operating loss
    carryforwards expire between 2010 and 2018.

At December 31, 2010, we had $110 million of tax
    credit carryforwards available to reduce future state income
    taxes which have no expiration date, and $80 million of
    state tax credit carryforwards for which a full valuation
    allowance has been provided.

The reconciliation of the total gross amounts of UTBs (excluding
    interest, penalties, foreign tax credits and the federal tax
    benefit of state taxes related to UTBs) for the years ended
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 is as follows (in
    millions):

Substantially all of the UTBs as of December 31, 2010, if
    recognized, would affect our effective tax rate.

During the year ended December 31, 2010, we settled our
    examination with the Internal Revenue Service ( IRS )
    related to certain transfer pricing tax positions for the years
    ended December 31, 2007 and 2008. In addition, we also
    settled issues under appeal with the IRS for the years ended
    December 31, 2005 and 2006 primarily related to the impact
    of transfer pricing adjustments on the repatriation of funds.
    During the year ended December 31, 2010, the IRS also
    agreed to Competent Authority relief for certain transfer
    pricing tax positions for the years ended December 31, 2002
    through December 31, 2006. As a result of these
    developments, we remeasured our UTBs accordingly.

During the year ended December 31, 2009, we settled the
    examination of our U.S. income tax returns with the IRS for
    certain matters, primarily related to transfer pricing tax
    positions, for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2006.
    Also during the year ended December 31, 2009, we settled
    the examination of our California state income tax returns for
    certain matters for the years ended December 31, 2004 and
    2005. As a result of these developments, we remeasured our UTBs
    accordingly.

During the year ended December 31, 2008, we reached an
    agreement with the IRS as to the amount of certain transfer
    pricing adjustments for the years ended December 31, 2005
    and 2006 which were covered by the closing agreement entered
    into in 2007.

As of December 31, 2010, we believe it is reasonably
    possible that our gross liabilities for UTBs may decrease by
    $200 million within the succeeding twelve months due to
    potential tax settlements.

Interest and penalties related to UTBs are included in our
    provision for income taxes. During 2010, 2009, and 2008, we
    accrued approximately $41 million, $57 million, and
    $71 million, respectively, of interest and penalties
    through the income tax provision in the Consolidated Statements
    of Income. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, accrued interest
    and penalties associated with UTBs totaled approximately
    $90 million and $125 million, respectively.

F-15

Table of Contents   

AMGEN
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The reconciliation between the federal statutory rate and our
    effective tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2010,
    2009 and 2008 is as follows:

We do not provide for U.S. income taxes on undistributed
    earnings of our foreign operations that are intended to be
    invested indefinitely outside of the United States. At
    December 31, 2010, these earnings amounted to approximately
    $17.2 billion. If these earnings were repatriated to the
    United States, we would be required to accrue and pay
    approximately $6.1 billion of additional income taxes based
    on the current tax rates in effect. For the years ended
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, our total foreign income
    before income taxes was approximately $3.1 billion,
    $3.1 billion and $2.6 billion, respectively. These
    earnings include income from manufacturing operations in Puerto
    Rico under tax incentive grants that expire in 2020.

One or more of our legal entities file income tax returns in the
    U.S. federal jurisdiction, various U.S. state
    jurisdictions and certain foreign jurisdictions. Our income tax
    returns are routinely audited by the tax authorities in those
    jurisdictions. Significant disputes may arise with these tax
    authorities involving issues of the timing and amount of
    deductions, the use of tax credits and allocations of income
    among various tax jurisdictions because of differing
    interpretations of tax laws and regulations. We are no longer
    subject to U.S. federal income tax examinations for tax
    years ending on or before December 31, 2006 or to
    California state income tax examinations for tax years ending on
    or before December 31, 2003.

Income taxes paid during the years ended December 31, 2010,
    2009 and 2008, totaled $1,344 million, $497 million
    and $673 million, respectively.

5.   

Earnings
    per share  

The computation of basic earnings per share ( EPS ) is
    based upon the weighted-average number of our common shares
    outstanding. The computation of diluted EPS is based upon the
    weighted-average number of our common shares and dilutive
    potential common shares outstanding. Potential common shares
    outstanding, determined using the treasury stock method,
    principally include: shares that may be issued under our stock
    option, restricted stock and performance unit awards; our 2011
    Convertible Notes and 2013 Convertible Notes, as discussed
    below; and our outstanding warrants (collectively  dilutive
    securities ). The convertible note hedges purchased in
    connection with the issuance of our 2011 Convertible Notes and
    2013 Convertible Notes are excluded from the calculation of
    diluted EPS as their impact is always anti-dilutive. For further
    information regarding our convertible notes and warrants, see
    Note 15, Financing arrangements.

Upon conversion of our 2011 Convertible Notes and 2013
    Convertible Notes, the principal amount would be settled in cash
    and the excess of the conversion value, as defined, over the
    principal amount may be settled in cash
     and/or 
    shares of our common stock. Therefore, only the shares of our
    common stock potentially issuable with respect to the excess of
    the notes  conversion value over their principal amount, if
    any, are considered as dilutive potential common shares for
    purposes of calculating diluted EPS. For the years ended
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, the conversion values for
    our convertible notes were less than the related principal
    amounts and, accordingly, no shares were assumed to be issued
    for purposes of computing diluted EPS. For further information
    regarding our convertible notes, see Note 15, Financing
    arrangements.

F-16

Table of Contents   

AMGEN
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The following table sets forth the computation for basic and
    diluted EPS for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and
    2008 (in millions, except per share data):

For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, there
    were employee stock options, calculated on a weighted average
    basis, to purchase 43 million, 42 million and
    45 million shares of our common stock, respectively, with
    exercise prices greater than the average market prices of our
    common stock for these periods that are not included in the
    computation of diluted EPS as their impact would have been
    anti-dilutive. In addition, shares of our common stock which may
    be issued upon exercise of our warrants are not included in the
    computation of diluted EPS for any of the periods presented
    above as their impact would have been anti-dilutive.

6.   

Collaborative
    arrangements  

From time to time, we enter into collaborative arrangements for
    the R D, manufacture
     and/or 
    commercialization of products and product candidates. These
    collaborations generally provide for non-refundable upfront
    license fees, R D and commercial performance milestone
    payments, cost sharing, royalty payments
     and/or 
    profit sharing. Our collaboration agreements with third parties
    are performed on a  best efforts  basis with no
    guarantee of either technological or commercial success. Each
    collaboration is unique in nature and our significant
    arrangements are discussed below except for our arrangements
    with KA, which are discussed in Note 7, Related party
    transactions.

Pfizer
    Inc.  

Amgen and Pfizer are in a collaboration agreement to co-promote
    ENBREL in the United States and Canada. The rights to market
    ENBREL outside of the United States and Canada are reserved to
    Pfizer. Under the agreement, a management committee comprised of
    equal representation from Amgen and Pfizer is responsible for
    overseeing the marketing and sales of ENBREL, including
    strategic planning, the approval of an annual marketing plan and
    product pricing. Amgen and Pfizer share in the agreed upon
    selling and marketing expenses approved by the joint management
    committee. We currently pay Pfizer a percentage of the annual
    gross profits on our ENBREL sales in the United States and
    Canada attributable to all approved indications for ENBREL on a
    scale that increases as gross profits increase; however, we
    maintain a majority share of ENBREL profits. After expiration of
    the collaboration agreement in the fourth quarter of 2013, we
    are required to pay Pfizer a percentage of net ENBREL sales in
    the United States and Canada for three years. The annual amount
    of such payments is anticipated to be significantly less than
    the current ENBREL profit share.

We have determined that we are the principal participant in the
    collaboration with Pfizer to market ENBREL in the United States
    and Canada. Accordingly, we record our product sales of ENBREL
    to third parties net of estimated returns, rebates and other
    deductions. For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and
    2008, ENBREL sales aggregated $3.5 billion,
    $3.5 billion and $3.6 billion, respectively.

During the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    the ENBREL profit share expense was $1,184 million,
    $1,163 million and $1,195 million, respectively, and
    is included in  Selling, general and

F-17

Table of Contents   

AMGEN
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

administrative  expense in the Consolidated Statements of
    Income. In addition, cost recoveries from Pfizer for their share
    of the selling and marketing expense were $87 million,
    $75 million and $77 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and are
    included in  Selling, general and administrative 
    expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income.

Glaxo
    Group Limited  

In July 2009, we entered into a collaboration agreement with
    Glaxo Group Limited ( Glaxo ) a wholly owned
    subsidiary of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the commercialization of
    denosumab for osteoporosis indications in Europe, Australia, New
    Zealand and Mexico (the  Primary Territories ). We
    retained the rights to commercialize denosumab for all
    indications in the United States and Canada and for
    oncology indications in the Primary Territories.

Under a related agreement, Glaxo will commercialize denosumab
    for all indications in countries, excluding Japan, where we do
    not currently have a commercial presence, including China,
    Brazil, India, Taiwan and South Korea (the  Expansion
    Territories ). In the Expansion Territories, Glaxo will be
    responsible for all development and commercialization costs and
    will purchase denosumab from us to meet demand. We will record
    product sales to Glaxo in the Expansion Territories. We have the
    option of expanding our role in the future in the
    commercialization of denosumab in the Primary Territories and
    certain of the Expansion Territories.

In the Primary Territories, we share equally in the
    commercialization profits and losses related to the
    collaboration after accounting for expenses, including an amount
    payable to us in recognition of our discovery and development of
    denosumab. Glaxo will also be responsible for bearing a portion
    of the cost of certain specified development activities in the
    Primary Territories.

The collaboration agreement with Glaxo for the Primary
    Territories will expire in 2022 and the related agreement for
    the Expansion Territories will expire in 2024 unless either
    agreement is terminated earlier in accordance with its terms.

We have determined that we are the principal participant in the
    Primary Territories. Accordingly, we will record related product
    sales to third parties net of estimated returns, rebates and
    other deductions. During the year ended December 31, 2010,
    product sales in the Primary Territories for osteoporosis
    indications were not material.

During the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, cost
    recoveries from Glaxo were $46 million and
    $29 million, respectively, and are included in
     Selling, general and administrative  expense in the
    Consolidated Statements of Income. In addition, during 2010, we
    received payments aggregating $75 million for the
    achievement of certain commercial milestones. The 2010 payments
    were recognized as revenue upon the achievement of the related
    milestones and are included in  Other revenue  in our
    Consolidated Statement of Income. Under these agreements, we
    also received an initial payment of $45 million during the
    year ended December 31, 2009 which is being amortized and
    recognized as revenue over our estimated period of continuing
    involvement of approximately 13 years in  Other
    revenue  in our Consolidated Statements of Income.

Takeda
    Pharmaceutical Company Limited  

In February 2008, we entered into a collaboration agreement with
    Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited ( Takeda ),
    which provides Takeda the exclusive rights to develop and
    commercialize for the Japanese market up to 12 clinical stage
    molecules from our pipeline across a range of therapeutic areas,
    including oncology and inflammation, (collectively the
     products ). The products include
    Vectibix   

    which received regulatory approval in Japan in 2010 for
    unresectable, advanced or recurrent colorectal cancer with
    wild-type  KRAS , AMG 386, which is in a phase 3 trial in
    the United States for recurrent ovarian cancer, and ganitumab
    (AMG 479) which is expected to enter into a phase 3 trial in the
    United States for first-line metastatic pancreatic cancer in
    2011. Under this agreement, Amgen received an upfront payment of
    $200 million in 2008 and may receive up to
    $307 million of additional amounts upon the achievement of
    various success-based development and regulatory approval

F-18

Table of Contents   

AMGEN
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

milestones. In addition, Takeda is obligated to pay Amgen up to
    an additional $120 million of future worldwide development
    costs for these products through 2012 and a reduced amount of
    such costs, thereafter. Takeda will be solely responsible for
    all development and commercialization costs of these products in
    Japan and will pay us royalties on future sales of these
    products in Japan. Amgen has the right to participate in the
    promotion of the products in Japan.

In February 2008, we also entered into a collaboration agreement
    with Takeda for the worldwide development and commercialization
    of our product candidate, motesanib, in the oncology area. Under
    this agreement, the parties will share responsibility for the
    development of motesanib outside Japan and Takeda shall be
    responsible for development in Japan. Amgen shall be responsible
    for commercialization of motesanib in North America and Takeda
    shall be responsible for commercialization outside of North
    America. Each party has the right to participate in the
    commercialization of motesanib in the other party s
    territory. Under this agreement, Amgen received an upfront
    payment of $100 million in 2008 and may receive up to
    $175 million of additional amounts upon the achievement of
    various success-based regulatory approval and sales milestones.
    In addition, Takeda is obligated to pay 60% of future worldwide
    development costs (excluding Japan, for which Takeda shall bear
    all such costs), and the parties will share equally all other
    costs and profits resulting from the commercialization of
    motesanib outside Japan. If approved for sale, Amgen will
    receive royalties on future sales of motesanib in Japan.

The collaboration agreements will continue in effect unless
    terminated earlier in accordance with their terms.

During the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    cost recoveries from Takeda were $91 million,
    $112 million and $120 million, respectively, and are
    included in  Research and development  expense in the
    Consolidated Statements of Income. In addition, during 2010, we
    received payments aggregating $55 million for the
    achievement of certain regulatory milestones. The 2010 payments
    were recognized as revenue upon the achievement of the related
    milestones and are included in  Other revenue  in our
    Consolidated Statement of Income. The upfront payments,
    aggregating $300 million, are being amortized over our
    estimated period of continuing involvement of approximately
    20 years and are recognized as revenue in  Other
    revenues  in our Consolidated Statements of Income. In
    2010, royalties received on sales of
    Vectibix   

    in Japan were not material.

Daiichi
    Sankyo Company, Limited  

In July 2007, we entered into a collaboration and license
    agreement with Daiichi Sankyo Company, Limited ( Daiichi
    Sankyo ), which provides Daiichi Sankyo the exclusive
    rights to develop and commercialize denosumab in Japan in
    postmenopausal osteoporosis, oncology and certain other
    indications. As part of the agreement, Amgen received exclusive
    worldwide rights to certain Daiichi Sankyo intellectual property
    to the extent applicable to denosumab. Under the terms of the
    agreement, Daiichi Sankyo assumed all related development and
    commercialization costs in Japan and agreed to reimburse Amgen
    for certain worldwide development costs related to denosumab. As
    of December 31, 2009, Daiichi Sankyo had substantially
    satisfied its obligations to reimburse Amgen for these costs. If
    approved for sale, Amgen will receive royalties on future sales
    of denosumab recorded by Daiichi Sankyo in Japan. Pursuant to
    the terms of the agreement we paid Daiichi Sankyo milestone
    payments aggregating $60 million, in 2010, as a result of
    various regulatory approvals of denosumab. The milestone
    payments were capitalized and are being amortized over
    11 years and the amortization expense is included in
     Cost of sales (excludes amortization of certain acquired
    intangible assets)  expense in the Consolidated Statements
    of Income.

The collaboration and license agreement will expire in 2027
    unless terminated earlier in accordance with its terms.

During the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    cost recoveries from Daiichi Sankyo were $3 million,
    $64 million and $60 million, respectively. The cost
    recoveries are included in  Research and development 
    expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income.

F-19

Table of Contents   

AMGEN
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Other  

We have various other collaborations in addition to those
    discussed above including our collaborations with Array
    BioPharma Inc. ( Array ), Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co. Ltd.
    (  KHK ) and Cytokinetics, Inc.
    ( Cytokinetics ), discussed below.

We entered into our collaboration agreement with Array in
    December 2009, which granted us exclusive worldwide rights to
    Array s small-molecule glucokinase activator program,
    including ARRY-403 (AMG 151), which at the time of the agreement
    was and currently is being tested in a phase 1 clinical trial in
    patients with Type 2 diabetes. In connection with entering the
    agreement, we paid Array $60 million which we expensed when
    paid and included in  Research and development 
    expense in the Consolidated Statement of Income.

We entered into our collaboration agreement with KHK in March
    2008, which granted us an exclusive license to develop and
    commercialize KHK s humanized monoclonal antibody KW-0761
    (AMG 761) worldwide, except in Japan, Korea, China and
    Taiwan. KW-0761 (AMG 761) is being studied in inflammation and
    oncology settings and at the time the agreement was entered into
    was and currently is in a phase 1 clinical trial for both
    settings. In connection with entering the agreement, we paid KHK
    $100 million. In 2010, KHK paid us $20 million to
    reacquire our rights for
     KW-0761  (AMG
    761) in the oncology setting. Both amounts were recognized when
    paid and included in  Research and development 
    expense in the Consolidated Statement of Income.

We entered into a collaboration agreement with Cytokinetics in
    December 2006, to discover, develop and commercialize novel
    small-molecule therapeutics that activate cardiac muscle
    contractility for potential applications in the treatment of
    heart failure. In addition, Amgen obtained an option to
    participate in future development and commercialization of
    Cytokinetics  lead drug candidate arising from this
    program, Omecamtiv mecarbil (AMG 423), which at the time
    the agreement was entered into was in a phase 1 clinical trial
    and currently is in a phase 2 clinical trial. The collaboration
    is worldwide, excluding Japan. In connection with entering into
    the agreement, we paid Cytokinetics $42 million. In 2009,
    we exercised our option under the agreement and paid
    Cytokinetics an additional $50 million, to assume
    responsibility for development and commercialization of the lead
    drug candidate and related compounds, subject to certain
    participation rights of Cytokinetics. Both payments were
    expensed when paid and included in  Research and
    development  expense in the Consolidated Statements of
    Income.

Pursuant to the terms of these agreements, we may also be
    required to pay additional amounts upon the achievement of
    various development, regulatory and commercial milestones which
    in the aggregate are significant. In addition, if any products
    related to these collaborations are approved for sale, we would
    be required to pay royalties on future sales. The payment of
    these amounts, however, is contingent upon the occurrence of
    various future events, which have a high degree of uncertainty
    of occurring.

7.   

Related
    party transactions  

We own a 50% interest in KA, a corporation formed in 1984 with
    Kirin Holdings Company, Limited ( Kirin ) for the
    development and commercialization of certain products based on
    advanced biotechnology. We account for our interest in KA under
    the equity method and include our share of KA s profits or
    losses in  Selling, general and administrative 
    expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income. For the years
    ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, our share of
    KA s profits was $71 million, $72 million and
    $72 million, respectively. At December 31, 2010 and
    2009, the carrying value of our equity method investment in KA,
    net of dividends received, was $377 million and
    $306 million, respectively, and is included in non-current
     Other assets  in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The
    amount of dividends received was $110 million and
    $8 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and
    2008, respectively. We did not receive any dividend payments in
    2010. KA s revenues consist of royalty income related to
    its licensed technology rights. All of our rights to manufacture
    and market certain products including darbepoetin alfa,
    recombinant human erythropoietin, pegfilgrastim, granulocyte
    colony-stimulating factor, and romiplostim are pursuant to
    exclusive licenses from KA, which we currently market under

F-20

Table of Contents   

AMGEN
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

the brand names
    Aranesp   ,

    EPOGEN   ,

    Neulasta   ,

    NEUPOGEN   

    and
    Nplate   ,

    respectively. KA receives royalty income from us, as well as
    from Kirin, J J and F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd.
    ( Roche ) under separate product license agreements
    for certain geographic areas outside of the United States.
    During the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, KA
    earned royalties from us of $322 million, $327 million
    and $321 million, respectively. These amounts are included
    in  Cost of sales (excludes amortization of certain
    acquired intangible assets)  in the Consolidated Statements
    of Income. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, we owed KA
    $62 million and $104 million, respectively, which are
    included in  Accrued liabilities  in the Consolidated
    Balance Sheets.

KA s expenses consist primarily of costs related to
    R D activities conducted on its behalf by Amgen and Kirin.
    KA pays Amgen and Kirin for such services at negotiated rates.
    During the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, we
    earned revenues from KA of $96 million, $102 million
    and $124 million, respectively, for certain R D
    activities performed on KA s behalf. These amounts are
    included in  Other revenues  in the Consolidated
    Statements of Income. During the years ended December 31,
    2010, 2009 and 2008, we recorded cost recoveries from KA of
    $88 million, $96 million and $82 million,
    respectively, related to certain third-party costs. These
    amounts are included in  Research and development 
    expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income.

8.   

Cost
    savings initiatives and restructuring  

As part of continuing efforts to optimize our network of
    manufacturing facilities and improve costs efficiencies, on
    January 18, 2011, we entered into an agreement whereby
    Boehringer Ingelheim ( BI ) will acquire all our
    rights in and substantially all assets at our manufacturing
    operations located in Fremont, California. The transaction was
    approved by Amgen s Board of Directors in December 2010 and
    is anticipated to close in March 2011. Upon the closing of this
    transaction, BI will assume our obligations under the
    facilities  operating lease agreements and will enter into
    an agreement to manufacture certain quantities of our marketed
    product,
    Vectibix   ,

    for us at this facility through December 31, 2012 (the
     supply agreement ).

Due to the lack of sufficient initial investment by BI in the
    acquisition of this facility and our ongoing involvement with
    these operations, the transaction does not meet the accounting
    requirements to be treated as a sale involving real estate. As a
    result, the related assets will continue to be carried on our
    Consolidated Balance Sheet and will be depreciated over the
    period of the supply agreement.

We considered this transaction with BI to be a potential
    indicator of impairment and, accordingly, we performed an
    impairment analysis of the carrying values of the related assets
    as of December 31, 2010. Based on this analysis, we
    determined that no future economic benefit would be received
    from a manufacturing line at the facility that had not yet been
    completed. As a result, we wrote off its entire carrying value,
    which aggregated $118 million. This impairment charge is
    included in  Other charges  in our Consolidated
    Statement of Income for the year ended December 31, 2010.
    The carrying values of the remaining assets, aggregating
    approximately $133 million, were determined to be fully
    recoverable.

On August 15, 2007, we announced a plan to restructure our
    worldwide operations in order to improve our cost structure.
    This restructuring plan was primarily the result of regulatory
    and reimbursement developments that began in 2007 involving
    erythropoiesis-stimulating agent ( ESA ) products,
    including our marketed ESA products
    Aranesp   

    and
    EPOGEN   ,

    and the resulting impact on our operations. Key components of
    our restructuring plan initially included: (i) worldwide
    staff reductions, (ii) rationalization of our worldwide
    network of manufacturing facilities and, to a lesser degree,
    changes to certain R D capital projects and
    (iii) abandoning leases primarily for certain R D
    facilities that will not be used in our operations.
    Subsequently, we identified certain additional initiatives
    designed to further assist in improving our cost structure,
    including outsourcing certain non-core business functions, most
    notably certain of our information systems  infrastructure
    services, as well as abandoning leases for certain additional
    facilities that will no longer be used in our operations. As of
    December 31, 2009, we completed all of the actions included
    in our restructuring plan and subsequently identified
    initiatives. During the year ended

F-21

Table of Contents   

AMGEN
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

December 31, 2009, we recorded charges associated with
    these actions aggregating $70 million, primarily comprised
    of staff separation costs of $25 million, principally
    included in  Other charges  in the Consolidated
    Statement of Income, and integration related costs of
    $32 million, which were principally included in
     Selling, general and administrative  expenses in the
    Consolidated Statement of Income. During the year ended
    December 31, 2008, we recorded charges associated with
    these actions aggregating $148 million, primarily comprised
    of loss accruals for certain leases that will not be used in our
    business of $59 million, asset impairment charges of
    $59 million and staff separation costs of $10 million,
    all of which were primarily included in  Other
    charges  in the Consolidated Statement of Income. The asset
    impairment charges principally represent the write-off of the
    total cost of the manufacturing-related assets as they were
    abandoned with no alternative future uses or residual value.

9.   

Other
    charges  

For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, we
    recorded charges associated with cost savings initiatives
     and/or 
    restructuring totaling $118 million, $34 million and
    $92 million, respectively. Such expenses are included in
     Other charges  in the Consolidated Statements of
    Income. (See Note 8, Cost savings initiatives and
    restructuring for further discussion.)

For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, we recorded
    loss accruals for settlements of certain legal proceedings
    aggregating $33 million and $288 million,
    respectively. The loss accruals for 2008 principally related to
    the settlement of the Ortho Biotech Products L.P. antitrust
    suit. These amounts are included in  Other charges  in
    the Consolidated Statements of Income.

10.   

Available-for-sale 
    investments  

The fair values of
     available-for-sale 
    investments by type of security, contractual maturity and
    classification in the Consolidated Balance Sheets were as
    follows as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 (in millions):

F-22

Table of Contents   

AMGEN
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    realized gains totaled $115 million, $104 million and
    $124 million, respectively, and realized losses totaled
    $25 million, $62 million and $49 million,
    respectively. The cost of securities sold is based on the
    specific identification method.

The primary objective of our investment portfolio is to enhance
    overall returns in an efficient manner while maintaining safety
    of principal, prudent levels of liquidity and acceptable levels
    of risk. Our investment policy limits debt security investments
    to certain types of debt and money market instruments issued by
    institutions with primarily investment grade credit ratings and
    places restrictions on maturities and concentration by type and
    issuer.

We review our
     available-for-sale 
    investments for
     other-than-temporary 
    declines in fair value below our cost basis on a quarterly basis
    and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that
    the cost basis of an asset may not be recoverable. This
    evaluation is based on a number of factors including, the length
    of time and extent to which the fair value has been below our
    cost basis and adverse conditions related specifically to the
    security including any changes to the credit rating of the
    security by a rating agency. As of December 31, 2010 and
    2009, we believe the cost bases for our
     available-for-sale 
    investments were recoverable in all material respects.

F-23

Table of Contents   

AMGEN
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Inventories consisted of the following as of December 31,
    2010 and 2009 (in millions):

As of December 31, 2009, work in process included
    $258 million of denosumab inventory capitalized in
    preparation for its anticipated product launch upon regulatory
    approval. During 2010, we received various approvals for
    denosumab from regulatory authorities in the United States, the
    European Union and various other countries and commenced selling
    the product in certain geographic markets.

During 2008, we wrote-off $84 million of inventory
    resulting from a strategic decision to change manufacturing
    processes. This charge is included in  Cost of sales
    (excludes amortization of certain acquired intangible
    assets)  in our Consolidated Statement of Income.

12.   

Property,
    plant and equipment  

Property, plant and equipment consisted of the following as of
    December 31, 2010 and 2009 (in millions):

During the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, we
    recognized depreciation and amortization charges associated with
    our property, plant and equipment of $594 million,
    $624 million and $648 million, respectively.

F-24

Table of Contents   

AMGEN
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Amortization of finite-lived intangible assets is provided over
    their estimated useful lives ranging from 5 to 15 years on
    a straight-line basis (weighted average remaining amortization
    period of 6 years at December 31, 2010). Finite-lived
    intangible assets consisted of the following as of
    December 31, 2010 and 2009 (in millions):

Acquired product technology rights relate to the identifiable
    intangible assets acquired in connection with the 2002 Immunex
    acquisition and the amortization is included in
     Amortization of certain acquired intangible assets 
    in the Consolidated Statements of Income. Intangible assets also
    include acquired R D technology rights consisting of
    technology used in R D with alternative future uses and the
    amortization is included in  Research and development 
    expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income. The
    amortization of other intangible assets is included principally
    in  Cost of sales (excludes amortization of certain
    acquired intangible assets)  and  Selling, general and
    administrative  expense in the Consolidated Statements of
    Income. During the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and
    2008, we recognized amortization charges associated with our
    intangible assets of $423 million, $425 million and
    $425 million, respectively. The total estimated
    amortization for each of the next five years for our intangible
    assets is $353 million, $331 million,
    $331 million, $316 million and $309 million in
    2011, 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015, respectively.

14.   

Accrued
    liabilities  

Accrued liabilities consisted of the following as of
    December 31, 2010 and 2009 (in millions):

F-25

Table of Contents   

AMGEN
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

15.   

Financing
    arrangements  

The following table reflects the carrying values and the fixed
    contractual coupon rates of our borrowings under our various
    financing arrangements as of December 31, 2010 and 2009
    (dollar amounts in millions):

Debt
    issuances  

We issued debt securities in various offerings during the three
    years ended December 31, 2010, including: in 2010,
    $300 million principal amount of March 2020 Notes,
    $700 million principal amount of 2040 Notes,
    $900 million principal amount of October 2020 Notes and
    $600 million principal amount of 2041 Notes; in 2009,
    $1.0 billion principal amount of 2019 Notes and
    $1.0 billion principal amount of 2039 Notes; and in 2008,
    $500 million principal amount of 2018 Notes and
    $500 million principal amount of 2038 Notes. Debt issuance
    costs incurred in connection with these debt offerings totaled
    $17 million, $13 million and $6 million for debt
    issued in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and are being
    amortized over the respective lives of the notes and the related
    charge is included in  Interest expense, net  in the
    Consolidated Statements of Income.

All of these debt securities as well as the 2017 Notes and the
    2037 Notes may be redeemed at any time at our option, in whole
    or in part, at the principal amount of the notes being redeemed
    plus accrued interest and a  make-whole  amount, as
    defined. In the event of a change in control triggering event,
    as defined, we may be required to purchase for cash all or a
    portion of these debt issuances at a price equal to 101% of the
    principal amount of the notes plus accrued interest.

Debt
    repayments  

We repaid $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of notes
    with a fixed interest rate of 4.00% in 2009 and
    $2.0 billion aggregate principal amount of floating London
    Interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ) based notes in 2008.
    No debt was due or repaid in 2010.

F-26

Table of Contents   

AMGEN
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

2011 and
    2013 Convertible Notes  

In 2006, we issued $2.5 billion principal amount of
    convertible notes (the  2011 Convertible Notes ) at
    par that became due and were repaid in February, 2011. While
    outstanding, the 2011 Convertible Notes were convertible into
    shares of our common stock at a conversion rate of
    12.5247 shares per $1,000 principal amount of notes, which
    represents a conversion price of approximately $79.84 per share.

Concurrent with the issuance of the 2011 Convertible Notes, we
    issued $2.5 billion principal amount of convertible notes
    due in February 2013 (the  2013 Convertible Notes ) at
    par. The 2013 Convertible Notes may be converted into shares of
    our common stock based on an initial conversion rate of
    12.5814 shares per $1,000 principal amount of notes, which
    represents a conversion price of approximately $79.48 per share.
    This conversion rate will be adjusted if we make specified types
    of distributions or enter into certain other transactions with
    respect to our common stock. The 2013 Convertible Notes may only
    be converted: (i) during any calendar quarter if the
    closing price of our common stock exceeds 130% of the conversion
    price per share during a defined period at the end of the
    previous quarter, (ii) if we make specified distributions
    to holders of our common stock or specified corporate
    transactions occur or (iii) one month prior to the maturity
    date. Upon conversion, a holder would receive the conversion
    value equal to the conversion rate multiplied by the volume
    weighted average price of our common stock during a specified
    period following the conversion date. The conversion value will
    be paid in: (i) cash equal to the lesser of the principal
    amount of the note or the conversion value, as defined, and
    (ii) cash, shares of our common stock, or a combination of
    cash and shares of our common stock, at our option, to the
    extent the conversion value exceeds the principal amount of the
    note (the  excess conversion value ). In addition,
    upon a change in control, as defined, the holders may require us
    to purchase for cash all or a portion of their notes for the
    principal amount of the notes plus accrued interest. The 2011
    Convertible Notes had similar conversion terms. As of
    December 31, 2010, the 2011 Convertible Notes and the 2013
    Convertible Notes were not convertible.

Concurrent with the issuance of the 2013 Convertible Notes, we
    purchased a convertible note hedge. The convertible note hedge
    allows us to receive shares of our common stock
     and/or  cash
    from the counterparty to the transaction equal to the amounts of
    common stock
     and/or  cash
    related to the excess conversion value that we would issue
     and/or  pay
    to the holders of the 2013 Convertible Notes upon conversion.
    This convertible note hedge will terminate at the earlier of the
    maturity of the 2013 Convertible Notes or the first day none of
    these notes remain outstanding due to conversion or otherwise.
    We also purchased convertible note hedges with similar terms in
    connection with the issuance of the 2011 Convertible Notes which
    terminated when these notes were repaid.

Also concurrent with the issuance of the 2011 Convertible Notes
    and 2013 Convertible Notes, we sold warrants to acquire shares
    of our common stock at an exercise price of $107.90 per share.
    Pursuant to these transactions, warrants for approximately
    31.3 million shares of our common stock may be settled in
    May 2011 and warrants for approximately 31.5 million shares
    of our common stock may be settled in May 2013 (the
     settlement dates ). If the average price of our
    common stock during a defined period ending on or about the
    respective settlement dates exceeds the exercise price of the
    warrants, the warrants will be net settled, at our option, in
    cash or shares of our common stock.

Because the convertible note hedges and warrants can be settled
    at our option in cash or shares of our common stock, and these
    contracts meet all of the applicable criteria for equity
    classification under the applicable accounting standards, the
    cost of the convertible note hedges and net proceeds from the
    sale of the warrants are classified in  Stockholders 
    equity  in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. In addition,
    because both of these contracts are classified in
     Stockholders  equity  and are indexed to our
    common stock, they are not accounted for as derivatives.

As required for cash settleable convertible notes, the debt and
    equity components of the 2011 Convertible Notes and 2013
    Convertible Notes were bifurcated and accounted for separately.
    While the notes are outstanding, their discounted carrying
    values resulting from the bifurcation are accreted back to their
    principal amounts over periods that end on the scheduled
    maturity dates, resulting in the recognition of non-cash
    interest expense. After

F-27

Table of Contents   

AMGEN
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

giving effect to this bifurcation, the effective interest rates
    on these borrowings are 6.24% for the 2011 Convertible Notes and
    6.35% for the 2013 Convertible Notes. For the years ended
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, total interest expense
    for the 2011 Convertible Notes was $149 million,
    $140 million and $132 million, respectively, including
    non-cash interest expense of $146 million,
    $136 million and $128 million, respectively. For the
    years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, total
    interest expense for the 2013 Convertible Notes was
    $134 million, $127 million and $120 million,
    respectively, including non-cash interest expense of
    $125 million, $118 million and $110 million,
    respectively. The difference between the total interest expense
    and non-cash interest expense for the 2011 Convertible Notes and
    the 2013 Convertible Notes in each year is the interest expense
    related to the contractual coupon rates.

The principal balances, unamortized discounts and net carrying
    amounts of the liability components and the equity components of
    our 2011 Convertible Notes and our 2013 Convertible Notes were
    as follows as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 (in millions):

Other  

Other notes include zero coupon convertible notes due in 2032
    with a carrying value of $83 million and $82 million
    at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and notes due
    in 2097 with a carrying value of $100 million.

Interest
    rate swaps  

To achieve a desired mix of fixed and floating interest rate
    debt, we enter into interest rate swap agreements that
    effectively convert a fixed rate interest coupon for certain of
    our debt issuances to a floating LIBOR-based coupon over the
    life of the respective note. These interest rate swap agreements
    qualify and are designated as fair value hedges. The effective
    interest rates on these notes as of December 31, 2010 and
    2009 after giving effect to the related interest rate swap
    agreements and the notional amounts of these interest rate swap
    agreements were as follows as of December 31, 2010 and 2009
    (dollar amounts in millions):

F-28

Table of Contents   

AMGEN
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Shelf
    registration statements and other facilities  

As of December 31, 2010, we have a commercial paper program
    that allows us to issue up to $2.3 billion of unsecured
    commercial paper to fund our working capital needs. At
    December 31, 2010, no amounts were outstanding under our
    commercial paper program.

As of December 31, 2010, we have a $2.3 billion
    syndicated, unsecured, revolving credit facility which matures
    in November 2012 and is available for general corporate purposes
    or as a liquidity backstop to our commercial paper program.
    Annual commitment fees for this facility are 0.05% based on our
    current credit rating. As of December 31, 2010, no amounts
    were outstanding under this facility.

We have filed a shelf registration statement with the SEC, which
    allows us to issue an unspecified amount of debt securities;
    common stock; preferred stock; warrants to purchase debt
    securities, common stock, preferred stock or depository shares;
    rights to purchase common stock or preferred stock; securities
    purchase contracts; securities purchase units and depository
    shares. Under this registration statement, all of the securities
    available for issuance may be offered from time to time with
    terms to be determined at the time of issuance. This shelf
    registration expires in April 2011.

As of December 31, 2010, we have $400 million
    remaining under a shelf registration statement that was
    established in 1997. In connection with this shelf registration,
    we established a $400 million medium-term note program
    under which medium-term debt securities may be offered from time
    to time with terms to be determined at the time of issuance. As
    of December 31, 2010, no securities were outstanding under
    this medium-term note program.

Certain of our financing arrangements contain non-financial
    covenants and we were in compliance with all applicable
    covenants as of December 31, 2010. None of our financing
    arrangements contain any financial covenants.

Contractual
    maturities of long-term debt obligations  

The aggregate contractual maturities of all long-term debt
    obligations due subsequent to December 31, 2010 are as
    follows (in millions):

(1)  

This amount represents the principal amount due for our 2011
    Convertible Notes after full accretion of the debt discount. 

(2)  

This amount represents the accreted value of our zero coupon
    convertible notes due in 2032 as of March 1, 2012, the next
    date on which holders may put the debt to us for repayment. 

(3)  

This amount represents the principal amount due for our 2013
    Convertible Notes after full accretion of the debt discount. 

F-29

Table of Contents   

AMGEN
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Interest
    costs  

Interest costs are expensed as incurred, except to the extent
    such interest is related to construction in progress, in which
    case interest is capitalized. Interest expense, net for the
    years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 was
    $604 million, $578 million and $551 million,
    respectively. Interest costs capitalized for the years ended
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 were $33 million,
    $32 million and $22 million, respectively. Interest
    paid, net of interest rate swaps, during the years ended
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, totaled
    $323 million, $293 million and $303 million,
    respectively.

16.   

Stockholders 
    equity  

Stock
    repurchase program  

The following table is a summary of activity under our stock
    repurchase program for the years ended December 31, 2010,
    2009 and 2008 (in millions):

(1)  

The total cost of shares repurchased during the three months
    ended June 30, 2008 excludes approximately $19 million
    paid in July 2008 in connection with the final settlement of an
    accelerated share repurchase program entered into in May 2008. 

In December 2009, the Board of Directors authorized us to
    repurchase up to an additional $5.0 billion of common stock
    of which a total of $2.2 billion remains available as of
    December 31, 2010. The manner of purchases, the amount we
    spend and the number of shares repurchased will vary based on a
    variety of factors, including the stock price, blackout periods
    in which we are restricted from repurchasing shares and the
    impact of repurchases on our credit rating, and may include
    private block purchases as well as market transactions.

F-30

Table of Contents   

AMGEN
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Accumulated
    other comprehensive income  

The components of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income
    ( AOCI ) are as follows for the years ended
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 (in millions):

Other  

In addition to common stock, our authorized capital includes
    5 million shares of preferred stock, $0.0001 par
    value. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, no shares of
    preferred stock were issued or outstanding.

17.   

Fair
    value measurement  

We use various valuation approaches in determining the fair
    value of our financial assets and liabilities within a hierarchy
    that maximizes the use of observable inputs and minimizes the
    use of unobservable inputs by requiring that observable inputs
    be used when available. Observable inputs are inputs that market
    participants would use in pricing the asset or liability based
    on market data obtained from sources independent of the Company.
    Unobservable inputs are inputs that reflect the Company s
    assumptions about the inputs that market participants would use
    in pricing the asset or liability and are developed based on the
    best information available in the circumstances. The fair value
    hierarchy is broken down into three levels based on the source
    of inputs as follows:

Level
    1                                
 
         Valuations based on unadjusted quoted prices in active markets
    for identical assets or liabilities that the Company has the
    ability to access

Level 2                                
 
         Valuations for which all significant inputs are observable,
    either directly or indirectly, other than level 1 inputs

F-31

Table of Contents   

AMGEN
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Level 3                                 
     
    Valuations based on inputs that are unobservable and significant
    to the overall fair value measurement

The availability of observable inputs can vary among the various
    types of financial assets and liabilities. To the extent that
    the valuation is based on models or inputs that are less
    observable or unobservable in the market, the determination of
    fair value requires more judgment. In certain cases, the inputs
    used to measure fair value may fall into different levels of the
    fair value hierarchy. In such cases, for financial statement
    disclosure purposes, the level in the fair value hierarchy
    within which the fair value measurement is categorized is based
    on the lowest level of input used that is significant to the
    overall fair value measurement.

The following fair value hierarchy tables present information
    about each major class/category of the Company s financial
    assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring
    basis as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 (in millions):

F-32

Table of Contents   

AMGEN
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The fair value of our U.S. Treasury securities, money
    market mutual funds and equity securities are based on quoted
    market prices in active markets with no valuation adjustment.

Substantially all of our other government related and corporate
    debt securities are investment grade with maturity dates of five
    years or less. Our other government related debt securities
    portfolio is comprised of securities with a weighted average
    credit rating of  AAA  or equivalent by Standard and
    Poor s ( S P ), Moody s Investors
    Services, Inc. ( Moody s ) or Fitch, Inc.
    ( Fitch ), and our corporate debt securities portfolio
    has a weighted average credit rating of  A  or
    equivalent by S P, Moody s or Fitch. We estimate the
    fair value of these securities taking into consideration
    valuations obtained from third-party pricing services. The
    pricing services utilize industry standard valuation models,
    including both income and market based approaches, for which all
    significant inputs are observable, either directly or
    indirectly, to estimate fair value. These inputs include
    reported trades and broker/dealer quotes of the same or similar
    securities, issuer credit spreads, benchmark securities and
    other observable inputs.

Our mortgage and asset backed securities portfolio is comprised
    entirely of senior tranches, with a credit rating of
     AAA  or equivalent by S P, Moody s or
    Fitch. We estimate the fair value of these securities taking
    into consideration valuations obtained from third-party pricing
    services. The pricing services utilize industry standard
    valuation models, including both income and market based
    approaches, for which all significant inputs are observable,
    either directly or indirectly, to estimate fair value. These
    inputs include reported trades and broker/dealer quotes of the
    same or similar securities, issuer credit spreads, benchmark
    securities, prepayment/default projections based on historical
    data and other observable inputs.

We value our other short-term interest bearing securities at
    amortized cost which approximates fair value given their near
    term maturity dates.

Substantially all of our foreign currency forward and option
    derivatives contracts have maturities of three years or less and
    all are entered into with counterparties that have a minimum
    credit rating of  A-  or equivalent by S P,
    Moody s or Fitch. We estimate the fair value of these
    contracts taking into consideration valuations obtained from a
    third-party valuation service that utilizes an income-based
    industry standard valuation model for which all significant
    inputs are observable, either directly or indirectly. These
    inputs include quoted foreign currency

F-33

Table of Contents   

AMGEN
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

spot rates, forward points, LIBOR and swap curves and obligor
    credit default swap rates. In addition, inputs for our foreign
    currency option contracts also include implied volatility
    measures. These inputs, where applicable, are at commonly quoted
    intervals. As of December 31, 2010 and December 31,
    2009, we had open foreign currency forward contracts with
    notional amounts of $3.2 billion and $3.4 billion,
    respectively, and open foreign currency option contracts with
    notional amounts of $398 million and $376 million,
    respectively, that were primarily Euro-based and were designated
    as cash flow hedges. In addition, as of December 31, 2010
    and December 31, 2009, we had $670 million and
    $414 million, respectively, of open foreign currency
    forward contracts to reduce exposure to fluctuations in value of
    certain assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies
    that were primarily Euro-based and that were not designated as
    hedges. (See Note 18, Derivative instruments.)

Our interest rate swap contracts are entered into with
    counterparties that have a minimum credit rating of
     A-  or equivalent by S P, Moody s or Fitch.
    We estimate the fair value of these contracts using an
    income-based industry standard valuation model for which all
    significant inputs are observable either directly or indirectly.
    These inputs include LIBOR and swap curves and obligor credit
    default swap rates. We had interest rate swap agreements with an
    aggregate notional amount of $3.6 billion and
    $1.5 billion as of December 31, 2010 and
    December 31, 2009, respectively, that were designated as
    fair value hedges. (See Note 18, Derivative instruments.)

There have been no transfers of assets or liabilities between
    the fair value measurement levels and there were no material
    remeasurements to fair value during the year ended 2009 of
    assets and liabilities that are not measured at fair value on a
    recurring basis. See Note 8, Cost savings initiatives and
    restructuring for further discussion on an impairment that we
    recognized in 2010.

Summary
    of the fair value of other financial instruments  

Short-term
    assets and liabilities  

The estimated fair values of cash equivalents, accounts
    receivable and accounts payable approximate their carrying
    values due to the short-term nature of these financial
    instruments.

Borrowings  

We estimate the fair value of our convertible notes using an
    income-based industry standard valuation model for which all
    significant inputs are observable either directly or indirectly,
    including benchmark yields adjusted for our credit risk
    (Level 2). The fair values of our convertible notes exclude
    their equity components and represent only the liability
    components of these instruments as their equity components are
    included in  Common stock and additional paid-in
    capital  in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. We estimate
    the fair value of our other long-term notes taking into
    consideration indicative prices obtained from a third party
    financial institution that utilizes industry standard valuation
    models, including both income and market based approaches, for
    which all significant inputs are observable, either directly or
    indirectly. These inputs include reported trades and
    broker/dealer quotes of the same or similar securities, credit
    spreads, benchmark yields and other observable inputs
    (Level 2). The

F-34

Table of Contents   

AMGEN
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

following tables present the carrying values and estimated fair
    values of our borrowings as of December 31, 2010 and 2009
    (in millions):

18.   

Derivative
    instruments  

The Company is exposed to risks related to its business
    operations, certain of which are managed through derivative
    instruments. The risks that we manage by using derivative
    instruments are foreign exchange rate risk and interest rate
    risk. We use financial instruments including foreign currency
    forward, foreign currency option, forward interest rate and
    interest rate swap contracts, to reduce our risk to these
    exposures. We do not use derivatives for speculative trading
    purposes.

We recognize all of our derivative instruments as either assets
    or liabilities at fair value in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
    (See Note 17, Fair value measurement.) The accounting for
    changes in the fair value of a derivative instrument depends on
    whether it has been formally designated and qualifies as part of
    a hedging relationship under the applicable accounting standards
    and, further, on the type of hedging relationship. For
    derivatives formally designated as hedges, we assess both at
    inception and quarterly thereafter, whether the hedging
    derivatives are highly effective in offsetting changes in either
    the fair value or cash flows of the hedged item. Our derivatives
    that are not designated and do not qualify as hedges are
    adjusted to fair value through current earnings.

Cash flow
    hedges  

We are exposed to possible changes in values of certain
    anticipated foreign currency cash flows resulting from changes
    in foreign currency exchange rates, associated primarily with
    our international product sales denominated in Euros. Increases
    or decreases in the cash flows associated with our international
    product sales due to movements in foreign currency exchange
    rates are partially offset by the corresponding increases and
    decreases in our international operating expenses resulting from
    these foreign currency exchange rate movements. To further
    reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate
    fluctuations on our international product sales, we enter into
    foreign currency forward and option contracts to hedge a portion
    of our projected international product sales primarily over a
    three-year time horizon with, at any given point in time, a
    higher percentage of nearer term projected product sales being
    hedged than successive periods. As of December 31, 2010 and
    2009, we had open foreign currency forward contracts with
    notional amounts of $3.2 billion and $3.4 billion,
    respectively, and open foreign currency option contracts with
    notional amounts of $398 million and $376 million,
    respectively. These foreign currency forward and

F-35

Table of Contents   

AMGEN
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

option contracts, primarily Euro-based, have been designated as
    cash flow hedges, and accordingly, the effective portion of the
    unrealized gains and losses on these contracts are reported in
    AOCI in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and reclassified to
    earnings in the same periods during which the hedged
    transactions affect earnings.

In connection with the anticipated issuance of long-term
    fixed-rate debt, we occasionally enter into forward interest
    rate contracts in order to hedge the variability in cash flows
    due to changes in the applicable Treasury rate between the time
    we enter into these contracts and the time the related debt is
    issued. Gains and losses on such contracts, which are designated
    as cash flow hedges, are recorded in Other Comprehensive Income
    ( OCI ) and amortized into earnings over the lives of
    the associated debt issuances.

The following table reflects the effective portion of the
    unrealized gain/(loss) recognized in OCI for our cash flow hedge
    contracts for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009
    (in millions):

The following table reflects the location in the Consolidated
    Statements of Income and the effective portion of the
    gain/(loss) reclassified from AOCI into earnings for our cash
    flow hedge contracts for the years ended December 31, 2010
    and 2009 (in millions):

Derivatives in cash flow hedging relationships 

Statements of Income location 

2010 

2009 

Foreign currency contracts

Product sales

$

47

$

(7

)

Forward interest rate contracts

Interest expense, net

(1

)

(1

)

Total

$

46

$

(8

)

No portions of our cash flow hedge contracts are excluded from
    the assessment of hedge effectiveness and the ineffective
    portions of these hedging instruments were approximately
    $1 million of expense for the years ended December 31,
    2010 and 2009. As of December 31, 2010, the amounts
    expected to be reclassified from AOCI into earnings over the
    next 12 months are approximately $8 million of losses
    on foreign currency forward and option contracts and
    approximately $1 million of losses on forward interest rate
    contracts.

Fair
    value hedges  

To achieve a desired mix of fixed and floating interest rate
    debt, we have entered into interest rate swap agreements, which
    qualify and have been designated as fair value hedges. The terms
    of these interest rate swap agreements correspond to the related
    hedged debt instruments and effectively convert a fixed interest
    rate coupon to a floating LIBOR-based coupon over the lives of
    the respective notes. The rates on these swaps range from LIBOR
    plus 0.3% to LIBOR plus 2.6%. We had interest rate swap
    agreements with aggregate notional amounts of $3.6 billion
    and $1.5 billion as of December 31, 2010 and 2009,
    respectively. The interest rate swap agreements as of
    December 31, 2010 were for our notes due in 2014, 2017,
    2018 and 2019 and, as of December 31, 2009 for our notes
    due in 2014 and 2018. For derivative instruments that are
    designated and qualify as a fair value hedge, the unrealized
    gain or loss on the derivative resulting from the change in fair
    value during the period as well as the offsetting unrealized
    loss or gain of the hedged item resulting from the change in
    fair value during the period attributable to the hedged risk are
    recognized in current earnings. For the year ended
    December 31, 2010, we included the unrealized loss on the
    hedged debt of $105 million in the same line item,
     Interest expense, net  in the Consolidated Statement
    of Income, as the offsetting unrealized gain of
    $105 million on the related interest rate swap agreements.
    For the year ended December 31, 2009, we included the
    unrealized gain on the hedged debt of

F-36

Table of Contents   

AMGEN
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

$116 million in the same line item,  Interest expense,
    net  in the Consolidated Statement of Income, as the
    offsetting unrealized loss of $116 million on the related
    interest rate swap agreements.

Derivatives
    not designated as hedges  

We enter into foreign currency forward contracts to reduce our
    exposure to foreign currency fluctuations of certain assets and
    liabilities denominated in foreign currencies which are not
    designated as hedging transactions. These exposures are hedged
    on a
     month-to-month 
    basis. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the total notional
    amounts of these foreign currency forward contracts, primarily
    Euro-based, were $670 million and $414 million,
    respectively.

The following table reflects the location in the Consolidated
    Statements of Income and the amount of gain/(loss) recognized in
    earnings for the derivative instruments not designated as
    hedging instruments for the years ended December 31, 2010
    and 2009 (in millions):

Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments 

Statements of Income location 

2010 

2009 

Foreign currency contracts

Interest and other income, net

$

32

$

(24

)

The following tables reflect the fair values of both derivatives
    designated as hedging instruments and not designated as hedging
    instruments included in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of
    December 31, 2010 and 2009 (in millions):

Derivative assets 

Derivative liabilities 

December 31, 2010 

Balance Sheet location 

Fair value 

Balance Sheet location 

Fair value 

Derivatives designated as
    hedging instruments:  

Interest rate swap contracts

Other current assets/ 
    Other non-current 
    assets

$

195

Accrued liabilities/ 
    Other non-current 
    liabilities

$

Foreign currency contracts

Other current assets/ 
    Other non-current 
    assets

154

Accrued liabilities/ 
    Other non-current 
    liabilities

103

Total derivatives designated as hedging instruments

349

103

Derivatives not designated as
    hedging instruments:  

Foreign currency contracts

Other current assets

Accrued liabilities

Total derivatives not designated as hedging instruments

Total derivatives

$

349

$

103

F-37

Table of Contents   

AMGEN
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Derivative assets 

Derivative liabilities 

December 31, 2009 

Balance Sheet location 

Fair value 

Balance Sheet location 

Fair value 

Derivatives designated as
    hedging instruments:  

Interest rate swap contracts

Other current 
    assets/Other 
    non-current assets

$

90

Accrued liabilities/ 
    Other non-current 
    liabilities

$

Foreign currency contracts

Other current 
    assets/Other non- 
    current assets

63

Accrued liabilities/ 
    Other non-current 
    liabilities

152

Total derivatives designated as hedging instruments

153

152

Derivatives not designated as
    hedging instruments:  

Foreign currency contracts

Other current assets

Accrued liabilities

Total derivatives not designated as hedging instruments

Total derivatives

$

153

$

152

Our derivative contracts that were in a liability position as of
    December 31, 2010 contain certain credit risk related
    contingent provisions that are triggered if (i) we were to
    undergo a change in control and (ii) our or the surviving
    entity s creditworthiness deteriorates, which is generally
    defined as having either a credit rating that is below
    investment grade or a materially weaker creditworthiness after
    the change in control. If these events were to occur, the
    counterparties would have the right, but not the obligation, to
    close the contracts under early termination provisions. In such
    circumstances, the counterparties could request immediate
    settlement of these contracts for amounts that approximate the
    then current fair values of the contracts.

The cash flow effects of our derivatives contracts are included
    within  Net cash provided by operating activities  in
    the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.

19.   

Contingencies
    and commitments  

Contingencies  

In the ordinary course of business, we are involved in various
    legal proceedings and other matters, including those discussed
    in this Note, which are complex in nature and have outcomes that
    are difficult to predict. We record accruals for such
    contingencies to the extent that we conclude that it is probable
    that a liability will be incurred and the amount of the related
    loss can be reasonably estimated. While it is not possible to
    accurately predict or determine the eventual outcome of these
    items, one or more of these items currently pending could have a
    material adverse effect on our consolidated results of
    operations, financial position or cash flows.

Certain of our legal proceedings and other matters are discussed
    below:

Roche
    U.S. International Trade Commission Complaint  

On April 11, 2006, Amgen filed a complaint with the
    U.S. International Trade Commission ( ITC ) in
    Washington D.C. requesting that the ITC institute an
    investigation of the importation of pegylated erythropoietin
    (alternatively referred to as peg-EPO or
    MIRCERA   )

    into the United States as Amgen believes that importation of
    peg-EPO is unlawful because peg-EPO, and the method of its
    manufacture, are covered by Amgen s EPO patents. Amgen
    asked the ITC to issue a permanent exclusion order that would
    prohibit importation of peg-EPO into the United States. The ITC
    instituted an investigation naming Roche Holding Ltd., F.
    Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd., Roche

F-38

Table of Contents   

AMGEN
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Diagnostics GmbH, and Hoffmann-La Roche Inc. (collectively,
     Roche ) as respondents in the investigation. On
    July 7, 2006, the Administrative Law Judge
    ( ALJ ) at the ITC issued a summary determination that
    Roche s importation and use of peg-EPO in the United States
    had been subject to a clinical trial exemption to patent
    infringement under 35 U.S.C. 271(e)(1). On August 31,
    2006, the ITC adopted the ALJ s summary determination
    terminating the investigation.

On October 11, 2006, Amgen filed a petition for review of
    the ITC s decision with the U.S. Court of Appeals for
    the Federal Circuit (the  Federal Circuit Court ). On
    March 19, 2008, the Federal Circuit Court reversed the
    ITC s dismissal of the investigation on jurisdictional
    grounds. In response to Roche s request for rehearing, on
    April 30, 2009, the Federal Circuit Court vacated the
    ITC s dismissal of the ITC investigation for
    non-infringement. The Federal Circuit Court remanded the case
    back to the ITC for further proceedings to determine if patent
    infringement had occurred and to provide a remedy, if
    appropriate.

Amgen had previously filed a separate lawsuit in November 2006
    in the United States District Court for the District of
    Massachusetts (the  Massachusetts District Court )
    against F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd., Roche Diagnostics GmbH
    and Hoffmann-La Roche Inc. (collectively,  Roche
    Defendants ) seeking a declaration by the Massachusetts
    District Court that the importation, use, sale or offer to sell
    peg-EPO infringes Amgen s EPO patents, specifically
    U.S. Patent Nos. 5,547,933; 5,621,080; 5,955,422;
    5,756,349; 5,618,698 and 5,441,868. After a jury trial and an
    appeal, on December 22, 2009, the Massachusetts District
    Court entered final judgment and a permanent injunction against
    the Roche Defendants prohibiting the Roche Defendants from
    infringing the five Amgen
     patents-in-suit. 
    The judgment was accompanied by the Roche Defendants 
    admission that the patents involved in the lawsuit are valid,
    enforceable and infringed by the Roche Defendant s peg-EPO
    product, and by Amgen allowing Roche to begin selling peg-EPO in
    the United States in mid-2014 under terms of a limited license
    agreement. The settlement terms did not include any financial
    payments between the parties. Thereafter, in the ITC matter
    Amgen filed a motion for summary determination of violation with
    a request for entry of a limited exclusion order. The Roche
    respondents notified the ITC that they were not opposing
    Amgen s motion. The ITC has not yet issued a decision on
    Amgen s motion.

Teva
    Matters  

Sensipar   

    Abbreviated New Drug Application ( ANDA )
    Litigation  

On July 25, 2008, Amgen, NPS Pharmaceuticals
    ( NPS ) and Brigham and Women s Hospital
    ( BWH ), filed a lawsuit against Teva Pharmaceuticals
    USA, Inc. ( Teva USA ), Teva Pharmaceutical Industries
    Ltd. ( Teva Ltd. , and together with Teva USA,
     Teva ) and Barr Laboratories, Inc. ( Barr )
    in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware
    (the  Delaware District Court ) for infringement of
    four patents   U.S. Patent Nos. 6,001,068 (the
      068 Patent  6,031,003 (the   003
    Patent  6,313,146 (the   146 Patent ) and
    6,211,244 (the   244 Patent ). The lawsuit is
    based on ANDAs filed by Teva and Barr which seek approval to
    market generic versions of
    Sensipar   

    (cinacalcet hydrochloride). Amgen s filing of the lawsuit
    stays any U.S. Food and Drug Administration
    ( FDA ) approval of the Teva or Barr ANDA until
    September 2011.

Trial in this action commenced on November 30, 2010 on
    Teva s and Barr s invalidity and inequitable conduct
    defenses. Prior to commencement of trial and based on agreement
    between the parties, the Delaware District Court entered an
    order that Teva and Barr infringe
    the  068,  003 and  244 patents
    and dismissed all claims relating to the  146 patent.
    The Delaware District Court issued its Memorandum Decision and
    Order on January 7, 2011 rejecting Teva s and
    Barr s defenses, finding the  068,  003
    and  244 patents valid, enforceable and infringed, and
    enjoining Teva and Barr from the commercial manufacture, use,
    import or sale of their generic version of cinacalcet
    hydrochloride until the last of the three patents expires. On
    February 4, 2011, Teva and Barr filed a notice of appeal of
    the Delaware District Court s Memorandum Decision and Order.

F-39

Table of Contents   

AMGEN
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Teva v.
    Amgen, the  603 Patent Litigation  

On May 20, 2009, Teva Ltd. filed a lawsuit against Amgen in
    the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of
    Pennsylvania (the  Pennsylvania District Court )
    alleging infringement of Teva s U.S. Patent
    No. 7,449,603 by its manufacture, importation, use, sale
     and/or  offer
    for sale of
    Sensipar   

    (cinacalcet hydrochloride). Amgen filed an answer and
    counterclaims of noninfringement and patent invalidity. Pretrial
    discovery is ongoing.

Teva v.
    Amgen, the G-CSF Patent Litigation  

On November 30, 2009, Teva USA filed a lawsuit in the
    Pennsylvania District Court requesting that Amgen s
    U.S. Patent Nos. 5,580,755 and 5,582,823 (the
      755 patent  and the   823
    patent , respectively) relating to human G-CSF and methods
    for its use, be declared invalid
     and/or  not
    infringed by Teva USA s G-CSF product, a filgrastim
    molecule. Also on November 30, 2009, Teva Ltd. announced
    that it had filed a biologics license application with the FDA
    seeking approval to market its G-CSF product in the United
    States. On January 15, 2010, Amgen filed an answer and
    brought counterclaims against Teva USA and Teva Ltd. seeking a
    declaration that Amgen s patents are valid and will be
    infringed by Teva s G-CSF product. On May 4, 2010,
    Teva withdrew its non-infringement affirmative defense and Teva
    USA withdrew its non-infringement counterclaim. On
    September 10, 2010, the Pennsylvania District Court issued
    its claim construction ruling. On September 24, 2010, Amgen
    moved for summary judgment of infringement of certain claims of
    the  755 patent and the  823 patent, and on
    September 29, 2010, Teva USA sought leave to amend its
    pleadings to re-allege non-infringement of the
     patents-in-suit. 
    The Court denied both motions on November 19, 2010. Teva
    announced on September 30, 2010 that it received a complete
    response letter from the FDA for its G-CSF product
    Neutroval  tm  ,

    indicating that the FDA wanted further information but that Teva
    believed that no further pre-marketing clinical trials would be
    necessary. Discovery is ongoing and no trial date has yet been
    set.

Simonian v.
    Amgen Inc.  

On March 9, 2010, Thomas A. Simonian filed a lawsuit in the
    U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois
    alleging that Amgen violated a false marking statute by marking
    product packaging or product inserts of its
    NEUPOGEN   

    product with U.S. Patent Nos. 4,810,643 and 4,999,291, now
    both expired. After a three month stay, plaintiff s
    amendment of its complaint, and denial of Amgen s motion to
    dismiss, Amgen filed an answer to the complaint on
    December 7, 2010 denying the allegation that Amgen violated
    the false marking statute. Pretrial proceedings are ongoing.

Average
    Wholesale Price ( AWP ) Litigation  

Amgen and its wholly-owned subsidiary Immunex Inc. are named as
    defendants, either separately or together, in numerous civil
    actions broadly alleging that they, together with many other
    pharmaceutical manufacturers, reported prices for certain
    products in a manner that allegedly inflated reimbursement under
    Medicare
     and/or 
    Medicaid programs and commercial insurance plans, including
    co-payments paid to providers who prescribe and administer the
    products. The complaints generally assert varying claims under
    the Medicare and Medicaid statutes, as well as state law claims
    for deceptive trade practices, common law fraud and various
    related state law claims. The complaints seek an undetermined
    amount of damages, as well as other relief, including
    declaratory and injunctive relief.

The AWP litigation was commenced against Amgen and Immunex on
    December 19, 2001 with the filing of Citizens for Consumer
    Justice, et al. v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et al.
    Additional cases have been filed since that time. Most of these
    actions, as discussed below, have been consolidated, or are in
    the process of being consolidated, in a federal Multi-District
    Litigation proceeding (the  MDL Proceeding ),
    captioned In Re: Pharmaceutical Industry Average Wholesale Price
    Litigation MDL No. 1456 and pending in the Massachusetts
    District Court.

F-40

Table of Contents   

AMGEN
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The following cases have been consolidated into the MDL
    Proceeding, and include cases brought by consumer classes and
    certain state and local governmental entities:

Citizens
    for Consumer Justice, et al., v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc.,
    et al.; Teamsters Health   Welfare Fund of
    Philadelphia, et al., v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et al.;
    Action Alliance of Senior Citizens of Greater
    Philadelphia v. Immunex Corporation; Constance Thompson, et
    al., v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et al.; Ronald Turner,
    et al., v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et al.; Congress
    of California Seniors v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et
    al.  

In the MDL Proceeding, the Massachusetts District Court has set
    various deadlines relating to motions to dismiss the complaints,
    discovery, class certification, summary judgment and other
    pre-trial issues. For the private class action cases, the
    Massachusetts District Court has divided the defendant companies
    into a Track I group and a Track II group. Both Amgen and
    Immunex are in the Track II group. On March 2, 2006,
    plaintiffs filed a fourth amended master consolidated complaint,
    which did not include their motion for class certification as to
    the Track II group. On September 12, 2006, a hearing
    before the Massachusetts District Court was held on
    plaintiffs  motion for class certification as to the
    Track II group defendants, which include Amgen and Immunex.
    On March 7, 2008, the Track II defendants reached a
    tentative class settlement of the MDL Proceeding, which was
    subsequently amended on April 3, 2008. The tentative
    Track II settlement relates to claims against numerous
    defendants, including Abbott Laboratories, Inc., Amgen Inc.,
    Aventis Pharmaceuticals Inc., Hoechst Marion Roussel, Inc.,
    Baxter Healthcare Corporation, Baxter International Inc., Bayer
    Corporation, Dey, Inc., Fujisawa Healthcare, Inc., Fujisawa USA,
    Inc., Immunex Corporation, Pharmacia Corporation,
    Pharmacia   Upjohn LLC (f/k/a Pharmacia  
    Upjohn, Inc.), Sicor, Inc., Gensia, Inc., Gensia Sicor
    Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and ZLB
    Behring, L.L.C. Plaintiffs continue to file for extensions for
    the final approval hearing of the Track II settlement due
    to continued deficiencies in executing notices, and the final
    approval hearing is now expected to occur in the spring of 2011.

Certain AWP litigation cases are not a part of the MDL
    Proceeding. These cases are:

County of Erie v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et
    al.   This case was filed against Amgen and
    Immunex, along with several other pharmaceutical manufacturers,
    on March 8, 2005 in the Supreme Court of New York, Erie
    County. On August 11, 2010, Amgen and Immunex reached a
    settlement with the County of Erie, and on November 19,
    2010, the county discontinued proceedings against the companies
    with prejudice.

County of Schenectady v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et
    al.   This case was filed against Amgen and
    Immunex, along with several other pharmaceutical manufacturers,
    on May 9, 2006 in the Supreme Court of New York,
    Schenectady County. On August 11, 2010, Amgen and Immunex
    reached a settlement with the County of Schenectady, and on
    November 19, 2010, the county discontinued proceedings
    against the companies with prejudice.

County of Oswego v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et
    al.   This case was filed against Amgen and
    Immunex, along with several other pharmaceutical manufacturers,
    on May 9, 2006 in the Supreme Court of New York, Oswego
    County. On August 11, 2010, Amgen and Immunex reached a
    settlement with the County of Oswego, and on November 19,
    2010, the county discontinued proceedings against the companies
    with prejudice.

State of Louisiana v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et
    al.   The State of Louisiana filed a complaint
    against Amgen and several other pharmaceutical manufacturers, on
    November 3, 2010, in the Parish of East Baton Rouge,
    19th Judicial District. Amgen was served the complaint on
    November 9, 2010. The complaint alleges that the
    manufacturers misrepresented product pricing information
    reported to the state by falsely inflating those prices.

Federal
    Securities Litigation   In re Amgen Inc. Securities
    Litigation  

The six federal class action stockholder complaints filed
    against Amgen Inc., Kevin W. Sharer, Richard D. Nanula, Dennis
    M. Fenton, Roger M. Perlmutter, Brian M. McNamee, George J.
    Morrow, Edward V. Fritzky,

F-41

Table of Contents   

AMGEN
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Gilbert S. Omenn and Franklin P. Johnson, Jr., (the
     Federal Defendants ) in the U.S. District Court
    for the Central District of California (the  California
    Central District Court ) on April 17, 2007
    (Kairalla v. Amgen Inc., et al.), May 1, 2007
    (Mendall v. Amgen Inc., et al.,   Jaffe v. Amgen
    Inc., et al.), May 11, 2007 (Eldon v. Amgen Inc., et
    al.), May 21, 2007 (Rosenfield v. Amgen Inc., et al.)
    and June 18, 2007 (Public Employees  Retirement
    Association of Colorado v. Amgen Inc., et al.) were
    consolidated by the California Central District Court into one
    action captioned  In re Amgen Inc. Securities Litigation .
    The consolidated complaint was filed with the California Central
    District Court on October 2, 2007. The consolidated
    complaint alleges that Amgen and these officers and directors
    made false statements that resulted in: (i) deceiving the
    investing public regarding Amgen s prospects and business;
    (ii) artificially inflating the prices of Amgen s
    publicly traded securities and (iii) causing plaintiff and
    other members of the class to purchase Amgen publicly traded
    securities at inflated prices. The complaint also makes
    off-label marketing allegations that, throughout the class
    period, the Federal Defendants improperly marketed
    Aranesp   

    and
    EPOGEN   

    for off-label uses while aware that there were alleged safety
    signals with these products. The plaintiffs seek class
    certification, compensatory damages, legal fees and other relief
    deemed proper. The Federal Defendants filed a motion to dismiss
    on November 8, 2007. On February 4, 2008, the
    California Central District Court granted in part, and denied in
    part, the Federal Defendants  motion to dismiss the
    consolidated amended complaint. Specifically, the California
    Central District Court granted the Federal Defendants 
    motion to dismiss as to individual defendants Fritzky, Omenn,
    Johnson, Fenton and McNamee, but denied the Federal
    Defendants  motion to dismiss as to individual defendants
    Sharer, Nanula, Perlmutter and Morrow.

A class certification hearing before the California Central
    District Court, was held on July 17, 2009 and on
    August 12, 2009, the California Central District Court
    granted plaintiffs  motion for class certification. On
    August 28, 2009, Amgen filed a petition for permission to
    appeal with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit
    (the  Ninth Circuit ) under Rule 23(f), regarding
    the Order on Class Certification and the Ninth Circuit
    granted Amgen s appeal on December 11, 2009. Amgen
    filed its brief on March 29, 2010 and plaintiff filed its
    brief on April 27, 2010. No date has been set for oral
    argument before the Ninth Circuit. On February 2, 2010, the
    lower court granted Amgen s motion to stay the underlying
    action pending the outcome of the Ninth Circuit 23(f) appeal.

State
    Derivative Litigation  

Larson v.
    Sharer, et al.  

The three state stockholder derivative complaints filed against
    Amgen Inc., Kevin W. Sharer, George J. Morrow, Dennis M. Fenton,
    Brian M. McNamee, Roger M. Perlmutter, David Baltimore, Gilbert
    S. Omenn, Judith C. Pelham, Frederick W. Gluck, Jerry D.
    Choate, J. Paul Reason, Frank J. Biondi, Jr., Leonard D.
    Schaeffer, Frank C. Herringer, Richard D. Nanula, Willard H.
    Dere, Edward V. Fritzky, Franklin P. Johnson, Jr. and
    Donald B. Rice as defendants (the  State Defendants )
    on May 1, 2007 ( Larson v. Sharer, et al. ,
       Anderson v. Sharer, et al. ), and
    August 13, 2007 ( Weil v. Sharer, et al. ) in the
    Superior Court of the State of California, Ventura County (the
     Superior Court ) were consolidated by the Superior
    Court under one action captioned  Larson v. Sharer, et
    al . The consolidated complaint was filed on July 5,
    2007. The complaint alleges that the State Defendants breached
    their fiduciary duties, wasted corporate assets, were unjustly
    enriched and violated the California Corporations Code.
    Plaintiffs allege that the State Defendants failed to disclose
     and/or 
    misrepresented results of
    Aranesp   

    clinical studies, marketed both
    Aranesp   

    and
    EPOGEN   

    for off-label uses and that these actions or inactions caused
    stockholders to suffer damages. The complaints also allege
    insider trading by the State Defendants. The plaintiffs seek
    treble damages based on various causes of action, reformed
    corporate governance, equitable
     and/or 
    injunctive relief, restitution, disgorgement of profits,
    benefits and other compensation, and legal costs.

An amended consolidated complaint was filed on March 13,
    2008, adding Anthony Gringeri as a State Defendant and removing
    the causes of action for insider selling and misappropriation of
    information, violation of California Corporations Code
    Section 25402 and violation of California Corporations Code
    Section 25403. On July 14, 2008, the Superior Court
    dismissed without prejudice the consolidated state derivative
    class action. The

F-42

Table of Contents   

AMGEN
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

judge also ordered a stay of any re-filing of an amended
    complaint until the federal court has determined whether any
    securities fraud occurred.

Birch v.
    Sharer, et al.  

On January 23, 2009, a stockholder derivative lawsuit
    titled  Birch v. Sharer, et al.  was filed in the
    Superior Court of the State of California, Los Angeles County
    (the  Los Angeles Superior Court ) naming Amgen Inc.,
    Kevin W. Sharer, David Baltimore, Frank J. Biondi, Jr.,
    Jerry D. Choate, Vance D. Coffman, Frederick W. Gluck, Frank C.
    Herringer, Gilbert S. Omenn, Judith C. Pelham, J. Paul Reason,
    Leonard D. Schaeffer and Tom Zindrick as defendants. The
    complaint alleges derivative claims for breach of fiduciary duty
    based on a purported failure to implement adequate internal
    controls and to oversee the Company s operations, which
    plaintiff claims resulted in numerous lawsuits and
    investigations over a number of years. Plaintiff seeks damages
    on behalf of Amgen, including costs and expenses, allegedly
    incurred, among other things, in connection with wrongful
    termination lawsuits and potential violations of the Health
    Insurance Portability and Accountability Act. On
    February 25, 2009, the case was reassigned to a judge in
    the Complex Department of the Los Angeles Superior Court. Amgen
    and the individual defendants filed motions to dismiss on
    June 23, 2009.

Oral argument on Amgen and the individual defendants 
    motions to dismiss were heard on September 25, 2009 before
    the Los Angeles Superior Court and the court granted the motions
    to dismiss but allowed the plaintiff an opportunity to amend her
    complaint by October 21, 2009. Plaintiff filed a request
    for dismissal without prejudice with the court on
    October 23, 2009. On October 29, 2009, Amgen received
    from plaintiff a stockholder demand on the Board of Directors to
    take action to remedy breaches of fiduciary duties by the
    directors and certain executive officers of the Company.
    Ms. Birch alleged that the directors and certain executive
    officers violated their core fiduciary principles, causing Amgen
    to suffer damages. She demanded that the Board of Directors take
    action against each of the officers and directors to recover
    damages and to correct deficiencies in the Company s
    internal controls that allowed the misconduct to occur. The
    Board of Directors completed its investigation and determined in
    its business judgment that it was not in the best interests of
    the Company to pursue the claims made in the demand against any
    of the individuals mentioned in the demand. Therefore, the Board
    voted to reject the demand and communicated this to
    Ms. Birch on May 19, 2010.

On February 8, 2010, plaintiff filed another stockholder
    demand lawsuit in the Los Angeles Superior Court against the
    same defendants in the original lawsuit but also added Board of
    Director members Fran ois de Carbonnel and Rebecca
    Henderson. The allegations in the new complaint are nearly
    identical to those in the previously filed complaint. The case
    filed on February 8, 2010 by plaintiff Birch was assigned
    to the Complex Division of the Los Angeles Superior Court. On
    June 30, 2010, Amgen filed its demurrer to plaintiff s
    complaint with the Complex Division of the Los Angeles Superior
    Court. On September 29, 2010, the Complex Division of the
    Los Angeles Superior Court denied Amgen s and the
    individual defendants  demurrers finding that the plaintiff
    had adequately pled wrongful refusal. Amgen and the individual
    defendants filed answers on October 29, 2010. On
    December 9, 2010, the Complex Division of the Los Angeles
    Superior Court stayed the underlying action and Amgen and the
    individual defendants filed a motion for judgment on the
    pleadings/motion for summary judgment. The motion for the
    judgment on the pleadings was heard on January 31, 2011 and
    the Complex Division of the Los Angeles Superior Court dismissed
    the entire lawsuit with prejudice against both Amgen and the
    individual defendants without leave to amend.

Federal
    Derivative Litigation  

On May 7, 2007, the stockholder derivative lawsuit of
     Durgin v. Sharer, et al. , was filed in the
    California Central District Court and named Amgen Inc., Kevin W.
    Sharer, George J. Morrow, Dennis M. Fenton, Brian M. McNamee,
    Roger M. Perlmutter, David Baltimore, Gilbert S. Omenn, Judith
    C. Pelham, Frederick W. Gluck, Jerry D. Choate, J. Paul
    Reason, Frank J. Biondi, Jr., Leonard D. Schaeffer, Frank
    C. Herringer, Richard D. Nanula,

F-43

Table of Contents   

AMGEN
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Edward V. Fritzky and Franklin P. Johnson, Jr. as
    defendants. The complaint alleges the same claims and requests
    the same relief as in the three state stockholder derivative
    complaints now consolidated as  Larson v. Sharer, et
    al . The case has been stayed for all purposes until thirty
    days after a final ruling on the motion to dismiss by the
    California Central District Court in the  In re Amgen Inc.
    Securities Litigation  action.

On September 21, 2007, the stockholder derivative lawsuit
    of  Rosenblum v. Sharer, et al. , was filed in the
    California Central District Court. This lawsuit was brought by
    the stockholder who previously made a demand on the Amgen Board
    on May 14, 2007. The complaint alleges that the defendants
    breached their fiduciary duties, wasted corporate assets and
    were unjustly enriched. Plaintiffs allege that the defendants
    failed to disclose
     and/or 
    misrepresented results of
    Aranesp   

    clinical studies, marketed both
    Aranesp   

    and
    EPOGEN   

    for off-label uses and that these actions or inactions as well
    as the Amgen market strategy caused damage to the Company
    resulting in several inquiries, investigations and lawsuits that
    are costly to defend. The complaint also alleges insider trading
    by the defendants. The plaintiffs seek treble damages based on
    various causes of action, reformed corporate governance,
    equitable
     and/or 
    injunctive relief, restitution, disgorgement of profits,
    benefits and other compensation, and legal costs. The case was
    stayed for all purposes until thirty days after a final ruling
    on the motion to dismiss by the California Central District
    Court in the  In re Amgen Inc. Securities Litigation 
    action.

Thereafter, on May 1, 2008, plaintiff in
     Rosenblum v. Sharer, et al. , filed an amended
    complaint which removed Dennis Fenton as a defendant and also
    eliminated the claims for insider selling by defendants. On
    July 28, 2008, the California Central District Court heard
    Amgen and the defendants  motion to dismiss and motion to
    stay. On July 30, 2008, the California Central District
    Court granted Amgen and the defendants  motion to dismiss
    without prejudice and also granted a stay of the case pending
    resolution of the  In re Amgen Inc. Securities Litigation
     action.

Stockholder
    Demand  

On August 20, 2010, Amgen received a stockholder demand on
    the Board of Directors to take action to remedy alleged breaches
    of fiduciary duty and related violations by the Board and
    certain officers of the Company. The stockholder, Dr. Mark
    Victor, alleged that the directors and certain executive
    officers caused the Company to issue false or misleading
    statements regarding the safety of
    EPOGEN   

    and
    Aranesp   

    and promotional practices regarding these drugs. The Board of
    Directors undertook an investigation into the allegations made
    by the stockholder and on October 11, 2010, the Board of
    Directors notified Dr. Victor that it had rejected his
    demand.

ERISA
    Litigation  

On August 20, 2007, the ERISA class action lawsuit of
     Harris v. Amgen Inc., et al.,  was filed in the
    California Central District Court and named Amgen Inc., Kevin W.
    Sharer, Frank J. Biondi, Jr., Jerry Choate, Frank C.
    Herringer, Gilbert S. Omenn, David Baltimore, Judith C. Pelham,
    Frederick W. Gluck, Leonard D. Schaeffer, Jacqueline Allred,
    Raul Cermeno, Jackie Crouse, Lori Johnston, Michael Kelly and
    Charles Bell as defendants. Plaintiffs claim that Amgen and the
    individual defendants breached their fiduciary duties by failing
    to inform current and former employees who participated in the
    Amgen Retirement and Savings Plan and the Retirement and Savings
    Plan for Amgen Manufacturing Limited of the alleged off-label
    promotion of both
    Aranesp   

    and
    EPOGEN   

    while a number of studies allegedly demonstrated safety concerns
    in patients using ESAs. On February 4, 2008, the California
    Central District Court dismissed the complaint with prejudice as
    to plaintiff Harris, who had filed claims against Amgen Inc. The
    claims alleged by the second plaintiff, Ramos, were also
    dismissed but the court granted the plaintiff leave to amend his
    complaint. On February 1, 2008, the plaintiffs appealed the
    decision by the California Central District Court to dismiss the
    claims of both plaintiffs Harris and Ramos to the Ninth Circuit,
    which remains pending before the Ninth Circuit. On May 19,
    2008, plaintiff Ramos in the  Harris v. Amgen Inc., et
    al.,  action filed another lawsuit captioned  Ramos v.
    Amgen Inc., et al.,  in the California Central District
    Court. The lawsuit is another ERISA class action. The
     Ramos v. Amgen Inc., et al ., matter names the same
    defendants in the  Harris v. Amgen Inc., et al.,
     matter plus four new defendants: Amgen Manufacturing
    Limited, Richard Nanula, Dennis Fenton and the

F-44

Table of Contents   

AMGEN
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Fiduciary Committee. Pursuant to the parties  stipulation,
    the Ramos matter has been stayed pending the outcome of the
    Harris matter appeal. Oral argument before the Ninth Circuit on
    the plaintiffs  appeal of the California Central District
    Court s dismissal of the plaintiffs  claims occurred
    on May 8, 2009. On July 14, 2009, the Ninth Circuit
    reversed the California Central District Court s decision
    and remanded the case back to the district court. In the
    meantime, a third ERISA class action was filed by Don Hanks on
    June 2, 2009 in the California Central District Court
    alleging the same ERISA violations as in the Harris and Ramos
    lawsuits.

On October 13, 2009, the California Central District Court
    granted plaintiffs Harris  and Ramos  motion to be
    appointed interim co-lead counsel. Plaintiffs filed an amended
    complaint on November 11, 2009 and added two additional
    plaintiffs, Jorge Torres and Albert Cappa. Amgen filed a motion
    to dismiss the amended/consolidated complaint on
    December 16, 2009. Plaintiffs filed their opposition on
    January 19, 2010. The motion to dismiss was argued on
    February 11, 2010. On March 2, 2010, the California
    Central District Court dismissed the entire lawsuit without
    prejudice. Plaintiffs filed an amended complaint on
    March 23, 2010. Amgen then filed another motion to dismiss
    on April 20, 2010. On June 16, 2010, the California
    Central District Court entered an order dismissing the entire
    lawsuit with prejudice. On June 24, 2010, the plaintiffs
    filed a notice of appeal with the Ninth Circuit.
    Petitioner s opening brief was served on December 20,
    2010 and Amgen s answering brief was filed on
    February 2, 2011. No date has been set for oral argument.

Third-Party
    Payers Litigation  

On June 5, 2007, the  United Food   Commercial
    Workers Central Pennsylvania and Regional Health  
    Welfare Fund v. Amgen Inc.  (the  United Food
    Matter ), on June 7, 2007 the  Vista Healthplan
    Inc. v. Amgen Inc.  (the  Vista Healthplan
    Matter ), on June 14, 2007, the  Painters District
    Council No. 30 Health   Welfare Fund v.
    Amgen. Inc.  (the  Painters Matter ), on
    August 8, 2007, the  Ironworkers v. Amgen Inc.
     (the  Ironworkers Matter ), on August 15,
    2007,  Watters (State of Michigan) v. Amgen Inc.  (the
     Watters Matter ), and on August 28, 2007,
     Sheet Metal v. Amgen Inc.  (the  Sheet Metal
    Matter ), putative class action lawsuits, were filed by
    third-party payers against Amgen in the California Central
    District Court. In each action, the plaintiff alleges that Amgen
    marketed its anemia medicines,
    EPOGEN   

    and
    Aranesp   ,

    for  off-label  uses, or uses that are not approved by
    the FDA, and claims that, as a result, the plaintiff paid for
    unwarranted prescriptions. Specifically, the complaints allege
    that Amgen promoted
    EPOGEN   

    and
    Aranesp   

    for: treating cancer patients who are not on chemotherapy;
    treating quality of life symptoms associated with anemia, such
    as fatigue; and reaching hemoglobin targets above the
    FDA-approved level. Each plaintiff asserts claims under
    California s consumer protection statutes and for breach of
    implied warranty and unjust enrichment and plaintiffs seek to
    represent a nationwide class of individuals and entities.

On October 29, 2007, in the United Food Matter, the Vista
    Healthplan Matter and the Painters Matter, a motion to dismiss
    and a motion to transfer each of the three cases were heard
    before California Central District Court. On November 13,
    2007, the United Food Matter was transferred to the
    U.S. District Court for the Middle District of
    Pennsylvania, the Vista Healthplan Matter was transferred to the
    U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida
    and the Painters Matter was transferred to the
    U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois.
    On December 4, 2007, the Watters Matter was transferred to
    the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of
    Michigan. On January 25, 2008, the Ironworkers Matter was
    transferred back to the U.S. District Court for the
    District of New Jersey (the  New Jersey District
    Court ). On February 4, 2008, the California Central
    District Court heard defendants  motion to dismiss and
    motion to transfer the Sheet Metal Matter back to the
    U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Pennsylvania.

On January 10, 2008, plaintiffs in the United Food Matter
    brought a motion before the Judicial Panel on MDL seeking to
    have the five third-party payer lawsuits consolidated into one
    MDL case and assigned to the U.S. District Court for the
    Northern District of Illinois. Defendants filed an opposition to
    the MDL consolidation motion on February 3, 2008.

F-45

Table of Contents   

AMGEN
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

On January 11, 2008, the Vista Healthplan Matter was
    voluntarily dismissed. On April 8, 2008, the Judicial Panel
    on MDL granted plaintiffs  motion in the United Food Matter
    to centralize the five third-party payer lawsuits into one MDL
    case for the purpose of consolidated pre-trial proceedings and
    the five cases were transferred back to the California Central
    District Court. On December 17, 2008, the Judicial Panel on
    MDL granted defendants  motion to dismiss without prejudice
    and, on January 30, 2009, plaintiffs filed an Amended
    Consolidated Class Action Complaint, which is predicated on
    similar underlying allegations. Amgen filed its motion to
    dismiss the amended and consolidated MDL complaint on
    March 6, 2009. On June 17, 2009, the California
    Central District Court granted Amgen s motion and dismissed
    the entire action with prejudice.

On July 17, 2009, plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal with
    the Ninth Circuit. On October 8, 2010, oral argument was
    heard before the Ninth Circuit and on October 21, 2010, the
    Ninth Circuit affirmed the California Central District
    Court s decision dismissing the action with prejudice.

Qui Tam
    Actions  

A U.S. government filing in the Massachusetts District
    Court concerning the partially unsealed complaint filed pursuant
    to the Qui Tam provisions of the Federal Civil False Claims Act
    and on behalf of 17 named states and the District of Columbia
    under their respective State False Claims Acts (the
     Massachusetts Qui Tam Action ) became public on or
    about May 7, 2009. The filing states that the relator in
    the Massachusetts Qui Tam Action is a former Amgen employee.
    Further, the filing represents that, in addition to the
    Massachusetts Qui Tam Action, there are currently nine other
    actions under the False Claim Act ( Qui Tam Actions )
    pending under seal against Amgen, including eight pending in the
    U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York
    and one pending in the U.S. District Court for the Western
    District of Washington. While the Massachusetts Qui Tam Action
    has been partially unsealed, the other nine Qui Tam Actions
    remain under seal and have not been provided to Amgen. In the
    filing made public on May 7, 2009, the U.S. government
    represents that these ten Qui Tam Actions allege that Amgen
    engaged in a wide variety of illegal marketing practices with
    respect to various Amgen products and that these are joint civil
    and criminal investigations being conducted by a wide variety
    and large number of federal and state agencies.

On September 1, 2009, the U.S. government filed a
    notice of non-intervention and 14 states and the District
    of Columbia filed notices of intervention. On October 30,
    2009, 14 states and the District of Columbia filed an
    amended complaint in the Massachusetts District Court entitled
     The United States of America, States of California, Delaware,
    Florida, Georgia, Hawaii, Illinois, Indiana, Louisiana,
    Michigan, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Mexico, New York,
    Tennessee and Texas and the Commonwealths of Massachusetts and
    Virginia and the District of Columbia, ex rel Kassie
    Westmoreland v. Amgen Inc., Integrated Nephrology Network,
    AmerisourceBergen Specialty Group, ASD Healthcare and
    AmerisourceBergen Corporation.  The relator, Kassie
    Westmoreland, also filed a second amended complaint with the
    Massachusetts District Court on the same day. The complaints
    allege violations of the federal
     Anti-Kickback 
    Statute and violations of state false claims act statutes with
    regard to Amgen s marketing of overfill in vials of
    Aranesp   

    and with regard to Amgen s relationship with the Integrated
    Nephrology Network ( INN ), a group purchasing
    organization. The relator s seconded amended complaint also
    alleges that Amgen retaliated against and wrongfully terminated
    Westmoreland.

On January 20, 2010, the states of Florida and Texas
    voluntarily dismissed their complaints against Amgen. On
    February 12, 2010, February 16, 2010 and
    February 18, 2010, respectively, the states of New
    Hampshire, Louisiana and Nevada voluntarily dismissed their
    complaints against Amgen. On February 23, 2010, the state
    of Delaware voluntarily dismissed its complaint against Amgen.
    Also, on February 23, 2010, the Massachusetts District
    Court granted Amgen s motion to stay and sever the
    relator s employment claims.

On April 23, 2010, the Massachusetts District Court
    dismissed all of the claims of the relator, on behalf of the
    federal government and the states of New Mexico and Georgia, and
    all of the claims of the remaining states, for failure to state
    valid legal grounds upon which relief could be granted. On
    May 26, 2010, the Massachusetts District

F-46

Table of Contents   

AMGEN
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Court granted leave for the relator to file a fourth amended
    complaint. On May 24, 2010, the states of New York,
    Massachusetts, Michigan, California, Illinois, and Indiana (the
     States ) filed notices of intent to appeal the
    Massachusetts District Court s judgment to the
    U.S. Court of Appeals for the First Circuit (the
     First Circuit ). On June 11, 2010, the
    Massachusetts District Court held a scheduling conference
    related to the relator s fourth amended complaint and
    ordered that a jury trial be set for the running trial list
    starting on July 5, 2011.

On September 20, 2010, the Massachusetts District Court
    entered a written ruling denying Amgen s motions to dismiss
    the relator s fourth amended complaint. On October 22,
    2010, the states of New York, Massachusetts, Michigan,
    California, Illinois and Indiana, on behalf of the states of
    Georgia and New Mexico, and the relator filed opening briefs
    with the First Circuit. On January 10, 2011, Amgen and
    co-defendant INN filed response briefs with the First Circuit.
    Oral argument has been scheduled for April 6, 2011.

Warren
    General Hospital v. Amgen  

On September 25, 2009, Warren General Hospital of Warren,
    Pennsylvania (on its behalf and all others similarly situated)
    filed a class action in the New Jersey District Court against
    Amgen alleging federal antitrust violations under Section 1
    of the Sherman Act and Section 3 of the Clayton Act based
    on Amgen s contracting practices. The complaint seeks
    damages including treble damages, attorneys  fees and
    costs. Amgen filed a motion to dismiss the complaint on
    December 9, 2009. Following briefing by the parties,
    Amgen s motion to dismiss was granted by the New Jersey
    District Court on June 7, 2010 and plaintiffs filed their
    notice of appeal to the motion to dismiss on June 14, 2010
    with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit (the
     Third Circuit ). Plaintiff filed their opening brief
    on August 23, 2010 and Amgen s response brief was
    filed on September 22, 2010. Plaintiff filed its reply
    brief on October 6, 2010. Oral argument before the Third
    Circuit was held on January 25, 2011.

Other  

On May 10, 2007, Amgen received a subpoena from the
    Attorney General of the State of New York seeking documents
    related to Amgen s promotional activities, sales and
    marketing activities, medical education, clinical studies,
    pricing and contracting, license and distribution agreements and
    corporate communications. Amgen continues to fully cooperate in
    responding to the subpoena.

Beginning in October 2007, Amgen has received a number of
    subpoenas from the U.S. Attorney s Office, Eastern
    District of New York, pursuant to the Health Insurance
    Portability and Accountability Act (18 U.S.C. 3486), for
    broad production of documents relating to its products and
    clinical trials. The government is allowed to use materials
    produced in response to a section 3486 administrative
    subpoena in both criminal and civil investigations. Amgen
    continues to cooperate with the government s document
    requests. Additionally, numerous current and former Amgen
    employees have and continue to receive civil and grand jury
    subpoenas to provide testimony on a wide variety of subjects.

Beginning in November 2007, Amgen has received a number of
    subpoenas from the U.S. Attorney s Office, Western
    District of Washington pursuant to the Health Insurance
    Portability and Accountability Act (18 U.S.C. 3486), for
    broad production of documents relating to its products and
    clinical trials. The government is allowed to use materials
    produced in response to a section 3486 administrative
    subpoena in both criminal and civil investigations. Amgen
    continues to cooperate with the government s document
    requests. Also in 2010, a former Amgen employee was notified by
    the U.S. Attorney s Office of the Western District of
    Washington that the former employee was a target of the
    investigation. Amgen continues to cooperate with the
    government s document requests. Additionally, numerous
    current and former Amgen employees, including some executive
    vice presidents and other officers of the Company, have and
    continue to receive grand jury subpoenas to provide testimony on
    a wide variety of subjects.

F-47

Table of Contents   

AMGEN
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

On January 14, 2008, Amgen received a subpoena from the New
    Jersey Attorney General s Office for production of
    documents relating to one of its products. Amgen has completed
    its response per the terms of the subpoena.

Commitments  

We lease certain administrative, R D, sales and marketing
    and manufacturing facilities and equipment under non-cancelable
    operating leases that expire through 2032. The following table
    summarizes the minimum future rental commitments under
    non-cancelable operating leases as of December 31, 2010 (in
    millions):

Included in the table above are future rental commitments for
    abandoned leases in the amount of $284 million. Rental
    expense on operating leases for the years ended
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 was $115 million,
    $114 million and $120 million, respectively.

In addition, we have minimum contractual purchase commitments
    with third party manufacturers through 2012 that total
    $121 million. Amounts purchased under these contractual
    purchase commitments for the years ended December 31, 2010,
    2009 and 2008 were $68 million, $207 million and
    $196 million, respectively.

20.   

Segment
    information  

We operate in one business segment   human
    therapeutics. Therefore, results of our operations are reported
    on a consolidated basis for purposes of segment reporting,
    consistent with internal management reporting. Enterprise-wide
    disclosures about product sales, revenues and long-lived assets
    by geographic area, and revenues from major customers are
    presented below.

F-48

Table of Contents   

AMGEN
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Revenues  

Revenues for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and
    2008 consisted of the following (in millions):

Geographic
    information  

Outside the United States, we principally sell products in
    Europe and Canada. Information regarding revenues and long-lived
    assets (consisting of property, plant and equipment)
    attributable to the United States and to all international
    countries collectively is stated below. Information regarding
    long-lived assets for Puerto Rico is also stated below. The
    geographic classification of product sales was based upon the
    location of the customer. The geographic classification of all
    other revenues was based upon the domicile of the entity from
    which the revenues were earned.

Certain geographical information with respect to revenues and
    long-lived assets is as follows (in millions):

F-49

Table of Contents   

AMGEN
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Major
    customers  

In the United States, we sell primarily to wholesale
    distributors of pharmaceutical products. We utilize these
    wholesale distributors as the principal means of distributing
    our products to healthcare providers, such as physicians or
    their clinics, dialysis centers, hospitals and pharmacies. In
    Europe, our products are sold principally to healthcare
    providers
     and/or 
    wholesalers depending upon the distribution practice in each
    country. We monitor the financial condition of our larger
    customers and limit our credit exposure by setting credit
    limits, requiring letters of credit and obtaining credit
    insurance, as we deem appropriate. We had product sales to three
    large wholesaler customers each accounting for more than 10% of
    total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009
    and 2008. On a combined basis, these distributors accounted for
    71% and 88% of worldwide gross revenues and U.S. gross
    product sales, respectively, for 2010, as noted in the table
    below. Certain information with respect to these distributors
    for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 is as
    follows (dollar amounts in millions):

At December 31, 2010 and 2009, amounts due from these three
    large wholesalers each exceeded 10% of gross trade receivables,
    and accounted for 54% and 53%, respectively, of net trade
    receivables on a combined basis. At December 31, 2010 and
    2009, 44% and 45%, respectively, of trade receivables, net were
    due from customers located outside the United States, primarily
    in Europe. Our total allowance for doubtful accounts as of
    December 31, 2010 and 2009 was not material.

On January 24, 2011, we announced that we had entered into
    an agreement to acquire BioVex Group, Inc. ( BioVex ),
    a privately held biotechnology company developing treatments for
    cancer and the prevention of infectious disease, including
    OncoVEX GM-CSF ,

    a novel oncolytic vaccine in phase 3 clinical development
    for the treatment of melanoma and head and neck cancer. In
    connection with this acquisition, which will be accounted for as
    a business combination, we will make an upfront payment of
    $425 million and will be obligated to pay up to an
    additional $575 million contingent upon the achievement of
    certain regulatory and sales milestones with regard

F-50

Table of Contents   

AMGEN
    INC. 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

to
    OncoVEX GM-CSF .

    Upon its acquisition, BioVex will become a wholly owned
    subsidiary of Amgen. This acquisition will provide us with an
    opportunity to expand our development efforts to bring novel
    therapeutics to market. BioVex will be included in our
    consolidated financial statements commencing on the acquisition
    date. The contingent consideration obligations regarding
    OncoVEX GM-CSF 

    regulatory and sales milestones will be recorded at their fair
    values on the acquisition date and will be subsequently
    remeasured to their fair values through earnings each reporting
    period until the contingencies are resolved. The acquisition,
    which is subject to customary closing conditions, is expected to
    close during the three months ended March 31, 2011.

22.   

Quarterly
    financial data   (unaudited)  

(1)  

We recorded $113 million of income tax benefit as the
    result of resolving certain transfer pricing issues with tax
    authorities for prior periods and a $118 million
    ($74 million, net of tax) asset impairment charge
    associated with a strategic decision to optimize our network of
    manufacturing facilities and improve cost efficiencies. 

(2)  

We recorded $38 million of income tax benefit as the result
    of resolving certain transfer pricing issues with tax
    authorities for prior periods. 

(3)  

We recorded $100 million of income tax benefit, net due to
    the favorable resolution of certain prior years  matters
    with tax authorities, net of a $28 million tax provision
    associated with certain prior period transfer pricing matters. 

(4)  

We recorded $115 million of income tax benefit as the
    result of resolving certain transfer pricing issues with the IRS
    for prior periods. 

(5)  

We recorded $25 million of income tax benefit, net
    resulting from adjustments to previously established deferred
    taxes, primarily related to prior acquisitions and stock option
    expense, due to changes in California tax law effective for
    future periods. 

See Notes 4 and 8 for further discussion of the items
    described above.

F-51

Table of Contents   

Schedule

SCHEDULE II  

AMGEN
    INC.  

VALUATION ACCOUNTS 

Years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 

(In millions) 

F-52

<EX-21>
 2
 v57113exv21.htm
 EX-21

exv21 

Exhibit 21 

AMGEN INC. 

STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION OF  

SUBSIDIARY  
       
      INCORPORATION  

(Name under which subsidiary does business)  
       
      OR ORGANIZATION  

Immunex Corporation

Washington 

Amgen Manufacturing, Limited

Bermuda 

Amgen USA Inc.

Delaware 

</EX-21>

<EX-31>
 3
 v57113exv31.htm
 EX-31

exv31 

Exhibit 31

CERTIFICATIONS 

I, Kevin W. Sharer, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Amgen Inc., certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Amgen Inc.; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with
respect to the period covered by this annual report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this annual report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the
periods presented in this annual report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

(a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is
made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in
which this annual report is being prepared; 

(b) 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such
internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles; 

(c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this annual
report based on such evaluation; and 

(d) 
       
     Disclosed in this annual report any change in the registrant s internal control
over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that
has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons
performing the equivalent functions): 

(a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation
of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial
information; and 

(b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting. 

Date: February 25, 2011  
      /s/ Kevin W. Sharer 

Kevin W. Sharer  

Chairman of the Board  
and Chief Executive Officer   

CERTIFICATIONS 

I, Jonathan M. Peacock, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Amgen Inc., certify
that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Amgen Inc.; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with
respect to the period covered by this annual report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this annual report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the
periods presented in this annual report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

(a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is
made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in
which this annual report is being prepared; 

(b) 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such
internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles; 

(c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this annual
report based on such evaluation; and 

(d) 
       
     Disclosed in this annual report any change in the registrant s internal control
over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that
has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons
performing the equivalent functions): 

(b) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation
of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial
information; and 

(b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting. 

Date: February 25, 2011  
      /s/ Jonathan M. Peacock 

Jonathan M. Peacock  

Executive Vice President 
 and Chief Financial Officer   

</EX-31>

<EX-32>
 4
 v57113exv32.htm
 EX-32

exv32 

Exhibit 32

Certification of Chief Executive Officer 

Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as created by Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
of 2002, the undersigned officer of Amgen Inc. (the  Company ) hereby certifies that:

(i) 
       
     the accompanying Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the period ended
December 31, 2010 (the  Report ) fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a)
or Section 15(d), as applicable, of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended;
and 

(ii) 
       
     information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects,
the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

Dated: February 25, 2011  
      /s/ Kevin W. Sharer 

Kevin W. Sharer  

Chairman of the Board  
and Chief Executive Officer   

A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
of 2002 ( Section 906 ), or other document authenticating, acknowledging, or otherwise adopting the
signature that appears in typed form within the electronic version of this written statement
required by Section 906, has been provided to Amgen Inc. and will be retained by Amgen Inc. and
furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.

Certification of Chief Financial Officer 

Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as created by Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the
undersigned officer of Amgen Inc. (the  Company ) hereby certifies that:

(i) 
       
     the accompanying Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the period ended
December 31, 2010 (the  Report ) fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a)
or Section 15(d), as applicable, of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and 

(ii) 
       
     information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects,
the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

Dated: February 25, 2011  
      /s/ Jonathan M. Peacock 

Jonathan M. Peacock  

Executive Vice President  
and Chief Financial Officer   

A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
of 2002 ( Section 906 ), or other document authenticating, acknowledging, or otherwise adopting the
signature that appears in typed form within the electronic version of this written statement
required by Section 906, has been provided to Amgen Inc. and will be retained by Amgen Inc. and
furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.

</EX-32>

<EX-101.INS>
 5
 amgn-20101231.xml
 EX-101 INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 6
 amgn-20101231.xsd
 EX-101 SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 7
 amgn-20101231_cal.xml
 EX-101 CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.LAB>
 8
 amgn-20101231_lab.xml
 EX-101 LABELS LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 9
 amgn-20101231_pre.xml
 EX-101 PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

<EX-101.DEF>
 10
 amgn-20101231_def.xml
 EX-101 DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

