<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20090629_10-K_edgar_data_1341439_0000950123-09-018689_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>2166365</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>464294</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>7517</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1222661</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>79</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>6</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950123-09-018689.hdr.sgml : 20090629
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20090629170521
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950123-09-018689
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		8
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20090531
FILED AS OF DATE:		20090629
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20090629

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			ORACLE CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001341439
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE [7372]
		IRS NUMBER:				542185193
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0531

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-51788
		FILM NUMBER:		09916980

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		500 ORACLE PARKWAY
		STREET 2:		MAIL STOP 5 OP 7
		CITY:			REDWOOD CITY
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94065
		BUSINESS PHONE:		6505067000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		500 ORACLE PARKWAY
		STREET 2:		MAIL STOP 5 OP 7
		CITY:			REDWOOD CITY
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94065

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	Ozark Holding Inc.
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	20051013

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 S7RyXrhIEAqaRFpOUa3Rvd0jvbQaIwRek10vnE/A3/kamN2hOkmjdQnmtEq2MCH6
 QRJasOkQFTvi53DsPH+dYQ==

 0000950123-09-018689.txt : 20090629

10-K
 1
 f52658e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES  

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
    COMMISSION  

Washington, D.C.
    20549  

FORM 10-K   

Commission file number:
     000-51788  

Oracle Corporation  

(Exact name of registrant as
    specified in its charter)  

Delaware 

54-2185193 

(State or other jurisdiction
    of 
    incorporation or organization)  

(I.R.S. Employer 
    Identification No.)   

500 Oracle Parkway 

Redwood City, California 94065 

(Address of principal executive
    offices, including zip code)  

(650) 506-7000  

(Registrant s telephone
    number, including area code)  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
    Act: 

Title of Each Class  

Name of Each Exchange on Which
    Registered  

Common Stock, par value $0.01 per
    share

The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
    Act: 

None 

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
    seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
    Act.  YES         NO   

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
    reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
    Act.  YES         NO   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
    all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
    12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
    was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
    subject to such filing requirements for the past
    90 days.  YES         NO   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted
    electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any,
    every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted
    pursuant to Rule 405 of
     Regulation S-T 
    during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
    that the registrant was required to submit and post such
    files).  YES
            NO

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
    pursuant to Item 405 of
     Regulation S-K 
    is not contained herein and will not be contained, to the best
    of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
    information statements incorporated by reference in
    Part III of this
     Form 10-K 
    or any amendment to this
     Form 10-K.     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
    accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated
    filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of
     large accelerated filer,   accelerated
    filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule
     12b-2  of the
    Exchange Act.

Large Accelerated
    filer    

Accelerated
    filer    

Non-accelerated
    filer       (Do
    not check if a smaller reporting company)

Smaller reporting company

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
    (as defined in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange
    Act).  YES         NO   

The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by
    non-affiliates of the registrant was $61,831,796,000 based on
    the number of shares held by non-affiliates of the registrant as
    of May 31, 2009, and based on the closing sale price of
    common stock as reported by the NASDAQ Global Select Market on
    November 28, 2008, which is the last business day of the
    registrant s most recently completed second fiscal quarter.
    This calculation does not reflect a determination that persons
    are affiliates for any other purposes.

Number of shares of common stock outstanding as of June 22,
    2009: 5,007,230,000

Documents Incorporated by
    Reference:  

Portions of the registrant s definitive proxy statement
    relating to its 2009 annual stockholders  meeting are
    incorporated by reference into Part III of this Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K 
    where indicated.

ORACLE
    CORPORATION  

FISCAL
    YEAR 2009 
     FORM 10-K  
    ANNUAL REPORT  

TABLE OF
    CONTENTS  

Page 

PART I.  

Item 1. 

Business 

1

Item 1A. 

Risk Factors 

14

Item 1B. 

Unresolved Staff Comments 

24

Item 2. 

Properties 

24

Item 3. 

Legal Proceedings 

24

Item 4. 

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
    Holders 

24

PART II.  

Item 5. 

Market for Registrant s Common Equity,
    Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
    Securities 

25

Item 6. 

Selected Financial Data 

27

Item 7. 

Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

27

Item 7A. 

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
    Market Risk 

61

Item 8. 

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 

63

Item 9. 

Changes In and Disagreements with Accountants on
    Accounting and Financial Disclosure 

64

Item 9A. 

Controls and Procedures 

64

Item 9B. 

Other Information 

65

PART III.  

Item 10. 

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate
    Governance 

65

Item 11. 

Executive Compensation 

65

Item 12. 

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
    and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 

66

Item 13. 

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions,
    and Director Independence 

66

Item 14. 

Principal Accountant Fees and Services 

66

PART IV.  

Item 15. 

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 

66

Signatures 

119

EXHIBIT 12.01    
     EXHIBIT 21.01    
     EXHIBIT 23.01    
     EXHIBIT 31.01    
     EXHIBIT 31.02    
     EXHIBIT 32.01    

Table of Contents   

Forward-Looking
    Statements  

For purposes of this Annual Report, the terms
     Oracle,   we,   us  and
     our  refer to Oracle Corporation and its consolidated
    subsidiaries. In addition to historical information, this Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K 
    contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and
    uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ
    materially. Factors that might cause or contribute to such
    differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in
    Item 1A. Risk Factors. When used in this report, the words
     expects,   anticipates, 
     intends,   plans,   believes, 
     seeks,   estimates  and similar expressions
    are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements.
    You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking
    statements, which reflect our opinions only as of the date of
    this Annual Report. We undertake no obligation to publicly
    release any revisions to the forward-looking statements after
    the date of this document. You should carefully review the risk
    factors described in other documents we file from time to time
    with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including
    the Quarterly Reports on
     Form 10-Q 
    to be filed by us in our 2010 fiscal year, which runs from
    June 1, 2009 to May 31, 2010.

PART I  

Item 1.    

Business  

General  

We are the world s largest enterprise software company. We
    develop, manufacture, market, distribute and service database
    and middleware software as well as applications software
    designed to help our customers manage and grow their business
    operations.

Our goal is to offer customers scalable, reliable, secure and
    integrated software solutions that improve transactional
    efficiencies, adapt to an organization s unique needs and
    allow better ways to access and manage information and automate
    business processes at a lower total cost of ownership. We seek
    to be an industry leader in each of the specific product
    categories in which we compete and to expand into new and
    emerging markets.

We believe our internal, or organic, growth and continued
    innovation with respect to our core database, middleware and
    applications technologies provide the foundation for our
    long-term strategic plan. In fiscal 2009, we invested
    $2.8 billion in research and development to enhance our
    existing portfolio of products and services and to develop new
    products, features and services.

An active acquisition program is another important element of
    our corporate strategy. In recent years, we have invested
    billions of dollars to acquire a number of complementary
    companies, products, services and technologies. We believe our
    acquisition program supports our long-term strategic direction,
    strengthens our competitive position, expands our customer base,
    provides greater scale to accelerate innovation, grows our
    revenues and earnings, and increases stockholder value. We
    expect to continue to acquire companies, products, services and
    technologies.

On April 19, 2009, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of
    Merger with Sun Microsystems, Inc. (Sun), a provider of
    enterprise computing systems, software and services, under which
    we have agreed to acquire all outstanding shares of Sun for
    $9.50 per share in cash. The estimated total purchase price for
    Sun is approximately $7.4 billion. The transaction is
    subject to Sun stockholder approval, regulatory clearances and
    other customary closing conditions.

Oracle Corporation was incorporated in 2005 as a Delaware
    corporation and is the successor to operations originally begun
    in June 1977.

Software
    and Services  

We are organized into two businesses, software and services,
    which are further divided into five operating segments. Our
    software business is comprised of two operating segments:
    (1) new software licenses and (2) software license
    updates and product support. Our services business is comprised
    of three operating segments: (1) consulting, (2) On
    Demand and (3) education. Our software and services
    businesses represented 81% and 19% of our total revenues,
    respectively, in fiscal 2009, 80% and 20% of our total revenues,
    respectively, in fiscal 2008 and 79% and 21% of our

1

Table of Contents   

total revenues, respectively, in fiscal 2007. See Note 15
    of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
    information related to our operating segments.

Software
    Business    

New
    Software Licenses   

The new software licenses operating segment of our software
    business includes the licensing of database and middleware
    software, which consists of Oracle Databases and Oracle Fusion
    Middleware, as well as applications software. Our technology and
    business solutions are based on an internet model comprised of
    interconnected databases, application servers, as well as mobile
    devices. This architecture enables users to access business data
    and applications through a web browser interface, and is
    designed to provide customers with the most efficient and cost
    effective method of managing business information and
    applications.

In an internet model, database servers manage and protect a
    customer s underlying business information, while
    application servers run the business applications that automate
    a myriad of business functions. Our architecture provides high
    quality business information and can be adapted to the specific
    needs of any industry or application. Oracle technology operates
    on both single server and clustered server configurations, which
    we refer to as  grid  software, and supports a choice
    of operating systems including Linux, Windows and UNIX. Our
    applications software is designed to help customers reduce the
    cost and complexity of their IT infrastructures by delivering
    industry solutions via an open, integrated and standards-based
    architecture that supports customer choice and reduces customer
    risk by automating business functions.

New software license revenues include fees earned from granting
    customers licenses to use our software products and exclude
    revenues derived from software license updates and product
    support. The standard end user software license agreement for
    our products provides for an initial fee to use the product in
    perpetuity based on a maximum number of processors, named users
    or other metrics. We also have other types of software license
    agreements restricted by the number of employees or the license
    term. New software license revenues represented 31%, 34% and 33%
    of total revenues in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

Database
    and Middleware Software  

Our database and middleware software offerings provide a
    cost-effective, high-performance platform for running and
    managing business applications for mid-size businesses and large
    global enterprises. With an increasing focus by enterprises on
    reducing their total cost of IT infrastructure, our software is
    designed to accommodate demanding, non-stop business
    environments, using low cost server, storage and application
    grids that can incrementally scale as required. The ability to
    assign computing resources as required simplifies our
    customers  IT capacity, planning and procurement to support
    all of their business applications. With an Oracle grid
    infrastructure, our customers can lower their investment in
    servers and storage, reduce their risk of data loss and IT
    infrastructure downtime and efficiently utilize available IT
    resources to meet business users  quality of service
    expectations. New software license revenues from database and
    middleware products represented 72%, 68% and 71% of our new
    software license revenues in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively.

Databases  

As the world s most popular database, Oracle Database
    enables the secure storage, retrieval and manipulation of all
    forms of data, including business application and analytics
    data, and unstructured data in the form of XML files, office
    documents, images, video and spatial data. Designed for
    enterprise grid computing, the Oracle Database is available in
    four editions: Express Edition, Standard Edition One, Standard
    Edition and Enterprise Edition. All editions are built using the
    same underlying code, which means that our database software can
    easily scale from small, single processor servers to clusters of
    multi-processor servers.

2

Table of Contents   

A number of optional offerings are available with Oracle
    Database Enterprise Edition to address specific customer
    requirements in the areas of performance and scalability, high
    availability, data security and compliance, data warehousing,
    information management and systems management. Examples of these
    options include:

Oracle Real Application Clusters, which enables any Oracle
    Database application to share more efficiently the processing
    power and memory capacity of a fault tolerant cluster of servers;

Oracle Advanced Compression, which enables customers to reduce
    the amount of disk space required to store all their business
    information and improve query performance;

Oracle Partitioning, which breaks down large database tables
    into smaller segments for faster query performance and easier
    management of data throughout its lifecycle; and

Oracle In-Memory Database Cache, which improves application
    performance by caching or storing critical parts of Oracle
    Database in the main memory of the application tier.

In addition to the four editions of Oracle Database, we also
    offer a selection of specialized databases:

Oracle TimesTen In-Memory Database, which is a memory-optimized
    relational database that delivers low latency and high
    throughput for applications requiring real-time performance in
    industries such as communications, financial services and
    defense;

Oracle Berkeley DB, which is a family of open source,
    embeddable, non-relational databases that allows developers to
    incorporate a fast, scalable and reliable database engine within
    their applications and devices; and

Oracle Database Lite, which is a comprehensive solution for
    developing, deploying and managing applications for mobile and
    embedded environments. It consists of a small footprint
    relational database that runs on many devices and platforms, a
    mobile server that synchronizes data between the mobile devices
    and Oracle Database, and mobile application development tools.

We also offer a selection of products that are complementary to
    our database offerings. These include Oracle Exadata, Oracle
    Enterprise Manager and Oracle Audit Vault.

Oracle
    Exadata

Oracle Exadata is a family of high performance storage software
    and hardware products that is designed to improve data warehouse
    query performance. Built using smart storage software from
    Oracle and industry-standard hardware from Hewlett-Packard
    Company (HP), it uses a parallel architecture to increase data
    bandwidth between database servers and storage. In addition, it
    enables query processing closer to the data, resulting in faster
    query processing and less data movement through high bandwidth
    connections. The Oracle Exadata Storage Server is based on HP
    servers with Oracle Exadata software pre-installed. It is
    designed to be an industry-standard storage server, which offers
    linear scalability and mission-critical reliability, in addition
    to fast query processing. Oracle Exadata Storage Servers are
    also the building block for the Oracle Database Machine that is
    designed for large, multi-terabyte data warehouses. The Oracle
    Database Machine packages together software, servers, and
    storage that can scale to support data warehouses and business
    intelligence applications.

Oracle
    Enterprise Manager

Oracle Enterprise Manager is designed to deliver top-down
    applications and software infrastructure management. Our
    customers use Oracle Enterprise Manager to monitor and manage
    their applications and underlying software infrastructure,
    including both Oracle and non-Oracle infrastructure products.
    Oracle Enterprise Manager can be used to manage packaged
    applications, such as our Siebel, PeopleSoft, Oracle
     E-Business 
    Suite or custom applications including Service-Oriented
    Architecture applications. In addition to managing Oracle
    software infrastructure products including the Oracle Database,
    Oracle Fusion Middleware and Oracle WebLogic Server, Oracle
    Enterprise Manager also supports other third-party
    infrastructure products.

Oracle Enterprise Manager is designed to monitor service levels
    and performance, automate tasks, manage configuration
    information, and provide change management in a unified way
    across groups of computers or grids.

3

Table of Contents   

Oracle Enterprise Manager s provisioning automates the
    discovery, tracking and scheduling of software patches and
    allows IT administrators to apply patches without taking their
    system down. Additionally, IT administrators can manage systems
    from anywhere through an HTML browser or through wireless mobile
    devices.

Oracle Audit
    Vault

Oracle Audit Vault is designed to reduce the cost and complexity
    of compliance reporting and detection of unauthorized activities
    by automating the collection and consolidation of enterprise
    audit data. Oracle Database provides one of the most advanced
    auditing capabilities of any database management system. With
    Oracle Audit Vault, security and database administrators can
    manage audit policies across their enterprise and automatically
    collect audit data from Oracle and non-Oracle databases into a
    centralized, tamper resistant repository. This secure repository
    is built on Oracle s scalable architecture to allow
    retention and aggregation of terabytes of audit data for
    analysis and reporting. Audit Vault analyzes audit data in
    real-time based upon enterprise defined policies, issues alerts
    for unauthorized activities, and provides built-in reports for
    demonstrating the IT controls required to comply with internal
    control assessments, including provisions of the
    U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other data privacy and
    protection regulations.

Middleware  

Oracle Fusion Middleware is a broad family of application
    infrastructure products that forms a reliable and scalable
    foundation on which customers can build, deploy, secure, access
    and integrate business applications and automate their business
    processes. Oracle Fusion Middleware suites and products can be
    used in conjunction with custom, packaged and composite
    applications. Oracle Fusion Middleware is available in various
    products and suites, including the below functional areas:

Application Server and Application Grid;

Business Intelligence;

Identity and Access Management;

Content Management;

Portal and User Interaction;

Service-Oriented Architecture and Business Process Management;

Data Integration; and

Development Tools

Oracle Fusion Middleware is designed to protect customers 
    IT investments and work with both Oracle and non-Oracle
    database, middleware and applications products through its
     hot-pluggable  architecture (which enables customers
    to easily install and use Oracle Fusion Middleware products
    within their existing IT environments) and adherence to industry
    standards such as Java EE (formerly J2EE) and Business Process
    Execution Language (BPEL), among others.

By using Oracle Fusion Middleware, our customers increase their
    capacity to adapt to business changes rapidly, reduce their
    risks related to security and compliance, increase user
    productivity and drive better business decisions. Specifically,
    Oracle Fusion Middleware enables customers to easily integrate
    heterogeneous business applications, automate business
    processes, scale applications to meet customer demand, simplify
    security and compliance, manage lifecycles of documents and get
    actionable, targeted business intelligence, while continuing to
    utilize their existing IT systems. In addition, Oracle Fusion
    Middleware supports multiple development languages and tools,
    which allows developers to build and deploy web services, web
    sites, portals and web-based applications. Oracle s Fusion
    Middleware is used to support Oracle applications, other
    enterprise applications, independent software vendors that build
    their own custom applications and business processes that span
    multiple application environments.

4

Table of Contents   

Application
    Server and Application Grid

The foundation of Oracle Fusion Middleware is Oracle WebLogic
    Server. Designed for grid computing, Oracle WebLogic Server
    incorporates clustering and caching technology, which increases
    application reliability, performance, security and scalability.
    Our ongoing development of existing Oracle Fusion Middleware
    products, combined with our acquisition of BEA Systems, Inc. in
    fiscal 2008, enables us to provide our customers with additional
    application grid capabilities, including Oracle Coherence for
    rapid access to information, Oracle JRockit to create Java
    virtual machines and the scalable messaging and transaction
    processing platform products of Oracle Tuxedo.

Business
    Intelligence

Oracle Business Intelligence (BI) provides visibility into how
    customers  businesses are performing and helps them plan
    and model to improve that performance. BI is a portfolio of
    technology and applications that provides an integrated
     end-to-end 
    system called Enterprise Performance Management (EPM) that
    unites our BI foundation and data warehousing products with our
    BI and EPM applications (described further below) to offer our
    customers an enterprise-wide business intelligence platform.

Our BI foundation products include Oracle BI
    Suite Enterprise Edition Plus, Oracle BI Standard Edition
    One, Oracle Essbase and Oracle BI Publisher. Our BI foundation
    products deliver customers a comprehensive set of business
    intelligence tools, including interactive dashboards, ad hoc
    query and analysis, proactive detection and alerts, advanced
    reporting and publishing, real-time predictive intelligence,
    mobile analytics and desktop gadgets.

Our data integration and warehousing products enable the
    extraction, transformation and loading of quality data in order
    for that data to be accurately searched and analyzed.

Identity and
    Access Management

Oracle Identity and Access Management products and suites make
    it easier for our customers to manage multiple user identities,
    provision users in multiple enterprise applications and systems
    and manage access privileges for customers, employees and
    partners. Our customers use Oracle Identity and Access
    Management offerings to secure their information from potential
    threats and increase compliance levels, while lowering the total
    cost of their security and compliance initiatives.

Content
    Management

Unstructured information, which is data that is not easily
    readable or has not been stored so that it can be used
    efficiently, makes up a large portion of all the information
    residing in most businesses and public sector entities. Oracle
    Content Management solutions provide a comprehensive set of
    capabilities to create, capture, publish, share and collaborate
    on, archive, retain, manage business process flows and manage
    information access rights to documents and other unstructured
    content file types. Oracle Content Management solutions support
    an extensive set of document and image formats. Specific
    benefits include the ability to use external facing websites as
    strategic marketing assets and rapid communication channels, to
    automate paper-based processes and to enforce document retention
    and security policies.

Portal and
    User Interaction

Oracle WebCenter Suite enables personalized web portals and
    task-oriented web applications to be developed and deployed, all
    with single sign-on access and security. These features provide
    users with a single interface through which they can access
    information from any number of enterprise applications, systems,
    information sources and processes. Oracle WebCenter also
    includes integrated Enterprise 2.0 capabilities that enable
    customers to work together in teams via the internet and
    capitalize on  collective intelligence  within their
    enterprise and with their partners and customers. The addition
    of Oracle WebCenter Services in fiscal 2009 includes the ability
    to incorporate these Enterprise 2.0 capabilities into existing
    portal environments, including those built with Oracle Portal,
    Oracle WebLogic Portal and Oracle WebCenter Interaction
    (formerly AquaLogic User Interaction).

5

Table of Contents   

Service-Oriented
    Architecture Suite and Business Process Management

Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA) is an IT strategy that
    creates a modular, re-usable approach to applications
    development and reduces the need for costly custom development.
    Oracle SOA Suite is a complete set of service infrastructure
    components for creating, deploying, and managing SOAs, including
    Oracle JDeveloper, Oracle BPEL Process Manager, Oracle Web
    Services Manager, Oracle Business Rules, Oracle Business
    Activity Monitoring, and Oracle Service Bus. The combination of
    Oracle Business Process Management and Oracle SOA Suite enables
    business and IT professionals to collaborate, implement,
    automate and change business processes in a comprehensive
    fashion, which accelerates development and transition time and
    reduces costly quality assurance cycles. Oracle SOA Suite is
     hot-pluggable , enabling customers to easily extend
    and evolve their architectures instead of replacing existing
    investments. Oracle SOA Governance maintains the security and
    integrity of our customers  SOA deployments.

Data
    Integration

Through Oracle Data Integration Suite, we offer
     best-of-breed 
    and unified data integration technologies that enable customers
    to build, deploy and manage enterprise business data. Our Data
    Integration foundation allows enterprise data architects to
    unify, manage, replicate, migrate and distribute data into
    enterprise applications and orchestrated business processes.
    With our open and  hot-pluggable  data integration
    components, organizations can continue to use and evolve their
    IT infrastructure instead of replacing it. Oracle Data
    Integration Suite can extract data from one system and load it
    into another (such as a data warehouse) and then rapidly
    transform the data into a new format. It also includes
    technology to address data quality and data profiling.

Developer
    Tools

Oracle JDeveloper is an integrated software environment designed
    to facilitate rapid development of Java applications, portlets,
    web services, process models and Rich Internet Applications
    (RIA) such as Flash and AJAX, among others. Oracle JDeveloper
    provides a comprehensive Java development environment for
    modeling, building, debugging and testing
    enterprise-class Java EE applications and web services. It
    is also integrated with the Oracle Application Development
    Framework (ADF), which provides a framework for building
    applications, including a set of components that enable
    developers to build RIA based on Java user interface standards
    and deploy the applications to take advantage of modern RIA
    technologies.

Applications
    Software  

Our applications software strategy is designed to help customers
    reduce the cost and complexity of their IT infrastructures, by
    delivering industry solutions that are complete, open, and
    integrated. Through a focused strategy of investments in organic
    research and development and strategic acquisitions, we provide
    industry-specific solutions for customers in over 20 industries,
    from retail and communications to financial services and the
    public sector. Our solutions are delivered on an open,
    standards-based architecture to support customer choice, reduce
    customer risk and enable customers to differentiate their
    businesses using our technologies. New software license revenues
    from applications software represented 28%, 32% and 29% of new
    software license revenues in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively.

Central to our applications strategy is our Applications
    Unlimited program, which is our commitment to offer customers
    that purchase software license updates and product support
    contracts a choice as to when they wish to upgrade to the next
    generation of the products they own. Until our customers reach a
    decision to upgrade to the next generation of the products they
    own, we protect their investments in their applications by
    offering them the ability to purchase software license updates
    and product support contracts for their existing products.
    Solutions such as Oracle Fusion Middleware, Oracle Business
    Intelligence Suite, Oracle WebCenter, and Oracle User
    Productivity Kit are designed to help customers extend the
    benefits of their IT investments in our applications, to reduce
    their investment risk, and to support their evolution to the
    next generation of enterprise software that best fits their
    needs.

We also protect our customers  investments in Oracle
    applications by delivering new product releases that incorporate
    customer-specific and industry-specific innovations across
    product lines. Since announcing our Applications Unlimited
    program in fiscal 2005, we have delivered a number of new
    product releases and

6

Table of Contents   

enhancements. In fiscal 2009, we continued our product
    investment with new versions of Oracle
     E-Business 
    Suite, JD Edwards EnterpriseOne, JD Edwards World and Siebel
    Customer Relationship Management, including CRM On Demand.

Our applications software products combine business
    functionality with innovative technologies such as role-based
    analytics, secure search, identity management, self-service and
    workflow to deliver adaptive industry processes, business
    intelligence and insights, and optimal end-user productivity.
    Our applications software products enable efficient management
    of all core business functions, including:

Enterprise resource planning (ERP),

Customer relationship management (CRM),

Enterprise performance management (EPM),

Enterprise project portfolio management (EPPM),

Product lifecycle management (PLM), and

Industry-specific applications.

Our applications software products are offered as integrated
    suites or available on a component basis, and all are built on
    open architectures that are designed for flexible configuration
    and open, multi-vendor integration. Our applications are
    available in multiple languages, and support a broad range of
    location specific requirements, enabling companies to support
    both global and local business practices and legal requirements.

Oracle Application Integration Architecture provides an open,
    standards-based framework for creating adaptable,
    cross-application business processes. For customers looking to
    quickly deploy integrations between Oracle applications, Oracle
    Application Integration Architecture also offers packaged
    integrations, allowing for rapid implementation of
    mission-critical business applications.

Enterprise
    Resource Planning (ERP)

Companies use our ERP applications to automate and integrate a
    variety of their key global business processes, including:
    manufacturing, order entry, accounts receivable and payable,
    general ledger, purchasing, warehousing, transportation and
    human resources. Our ERP applications combine business
    functionality with innovative technologies such as workflow and
    self-service applications in order to enable companies to lower
    the cost of their business operations by providing their
    customers, suppliers and employees with self-service internet
    access to both transaction processing and critical business
    information.

Customer
    Relationship Management (CRM)

We offer a complete set of CRM applications that manage all of
    the business processes and associated systems that touch a
    customer, including:

Billing and delivery;

Sales solutions that provide a single repository for customer
    and supply chain information; and

Service solutions that increase customer satisfaction by
    providing visibility into customer billing and order information.

Enterprise
    Performance Management (EPM)

We offer a full spectrum of EPM applications that are open,
    industry-specific analytic applications with capabilities such
    as interactive dashboarding and embedded analytic functionality
    for delivering insight across the enterprise. Our business
    analytics solution is tailored to 20 industries, giving
    customers the ability to monitor, analyze and act upon business
    intelligence while providing
     end-to-end 
    visibility into a customer s operations and financial
    performance. Our performance management applications, combined
    with our BI analytics, BI foundation and data warehousing
    products, enable us to offer our customers an integrated,
     end-to-end 
    EPM system that spans

7

Table of Contents   

planning, consolidation, operational analytic applications,
    business intelligence tools, reporting and data integration, all
    on a unified business intelligence platform.

Enterprise
    Project Portfolio Management (EPPM)

With our acquisition of Primavera Software, Inc. in the second
    quarter of fiscal 2009, we added EPPM software solutions for
    project-intensive industries such as engineering and
    construction, aerospace and defense, utilities, oil and gas,
    manufacturing, and professional services. Our EPPM solutions
    help companies propose, prioritize and select project
    investments and plan, manage and control the most complex
    projects and project portfolios.

Industry
    Applications

Our applications can be tailored to offer customers a variety of
    industry-specific solutions. As a part of our strategy, we
    strive to ensure that our applications portfolio addresses the
    major industry-influenced technology challenges of customers in
    key industries. We continue to expand our offerings in a number
    of other key industries we view as strategic to our future
    growth, including retail, banking and financial services,
    communications, utilities, health sciences, insurance,
    manufacturing, education, professional services, and the public
    sector. In fiscal 2009, we added expertise in the social
    services industry through our acquisition of Haley Limited, a
    leading provider of policy modeling and automation software for
    legislative and regulated industries such as public sector,
    financial services, and insurance.

Software
    License Updates and Product Support   

We seek to protect and enhance our customers  current
    investments in Oracle technology and applications by offering
    proactive and personalized support services, including our
    Lifetime Support policy, product enhancements and upgrades.
    Software license updates provide customers with rights to
    unspecified software product upgrades and maintenance releases
    and patches released during the term of the support period.
    Product support includes internet and telephone access to
    technical support personnel located in our global support
    centers, as well as internet access to technical content through
    My Oracle Support. Software license updates and product support
    are generally priced as a percentage of the new software license
    fees. Substantially all of our customers purchase software
    license updates and product support when they acquire new
    software licenses. In addition, substantially all of our
    customers renew their software license updates and product
    support contracts annually. We also offer Oracle Unbreakable
    Linux Support, which provides enterprise level support for the
    Linux operating system and Oracle VM server virtualization
    software support.

Our software license updates and product support revenues
    represented 50% of total revenues in fiscal 2009, and 46% of
    total revenues in both fiscal 2008 and 2007.

Services
    Business    

Consulting   

Oracle Consulting assists our customers in successfully
    deploying our applications and technology products. Our
    consulting services include: business/IT strategy alignment;
    business process simplification; solution integration; and
    product implementation, enhancements, and upgrades. These
    services help our customers achieve measurable business results,
    manage their total cost of ownership and reduce the risk
    associated with their product deployment.

Oracle Consulting employs consulting professionals globally to
    engage our customers directly, as well as to provide specialized
    expertise to our global systems integrator partners. Oracle
    Consulting utilizes a global blended delivery model to achieve
    economies of scale for our customers. This global delivery model
    consists of onsite consultants within the customer s local
    geography as well as consultants in our global delivery and
    solution centers. Consulting revenues represented 14%, 15% and
    16% of total revenues in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively.

On
    Demand   

On Demand includes our Oracle On Demand and Advanced Customer
    Services offerings. Oracle On Demand provides multi-featured
    software and hardware management, and maintenance services for
    customers that deploy

8

Table of Contents   

over the internet our database, middleware and applications
    software delivered at our data center facilities, select partner
    data centers or physically
     on-site  at
    customer facilities. Advanced Customer Services consists of
    solution lifecycle management services, database and application
    management services, industry-specific solution support centers,
    and remote and
     on-site 
    expert services. On Demand revenues represented 3% of total
    revenues in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007.

Education   

We provide training to customers, partners and employees as a
    part of our mission of accelerating the adoption of our
    technology around the world. We currently offer thousands of
    courses covering all of our product offerings. Our training is
    provided primarily through public and private instructor-led
    classroom events, but is also made available through a variety
    of online courses and self paced media training on CD-ROMs. Most
    recently, Oracle University launched live virtual class
    offerings that allow students anywhere in the world to connect
    to a live instructor-led class. In addition, we also offer a
    certification program certifying database administrators,
    developers and implementers. Oracle University also offers user
    adoption services designed to provide comprehensive training
    services to help customers get the most out of their investment
    in Oracle. Education revenues represented 2% of total revenues
    in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007.

Marketing
    and Sales  

Sales
    Distribution Channels   

We directly market and sell our products and services primarily
    through our subsidiary sales and service organizations. In the
    United States, our sales and service employees are based in our
    headquarters and in field offices throughout the country.
    Outside the United States, our international subsidiaries
    license and support our products in their local countries as
    well as within other foreign countries where we do not operate
    through a direct sales subsidiary.

We also market our products worldwide through indirect channels.
    The companies that comprise our indirect channel network are
    members of the Oracle PartnerNetwork. The Oracle PartnerNetwork
    is a global program that manages our business relationships with
    a large, broad-based network of companies, including independent
    software vendors, system integrators and resellers who deliver
    innovative solutions and services based upon our products. By
    offering our partners access to our premier products,
    educational information, technical services, marketing and sales
    support, the Oracle PartnerNetwork program extends our market
    reach by providing our partners with the resources they need to
    be successful in delivering solutions to customers globally.

International
    Markets   

We sell our products and provide services globally. Our
    geographic coverage allows us to draw on business and technical
    expertise from a global workforce, provides stability to our
    operations and revenue streams to offset geography-specific
    economic trends and offers us an opportunity to take advantage
    of new markets for our products. A summary of our domestic and
    international revenues and long-lived assets is set forth in
    Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Seasonality
    and Cyclicality   

Our quarterly results reflect distinct seasonality in the sale
    of our products and services. Our revenues and operating margins
    are typically highest in our fourth fiscal quarter and lowest in
    our first fiscal quarter. General economic conditions also have
    an impact on our business and financial results. The markets in
    which we sell our products and services have, at times,
    experienced weak economic conditions that have negatively
    affected our revenues. See  Selected Quarterly Financial
    Data  in Item 7 of this Annual Report for a more
    complete description of the seasonality and cyclicality of our
    revenues, expenses and margins.

9

Table of Contents   

Customers   

Our customer base consists of a significant number of businesses
    of many sizes and industries, government agencies, educational
    institutions and resellers. No single customer accounted for 10%
    or more of our total revenues in fiscal 2009, 2008 or 2007.

Competition  

The enterprise software industry is highly fragmented, intensely
    competitive and evolving rapidly. We compete in various segments
    of this industry including, but not limited to:

database software (including the sale of our Exadata database
    machine, which is hardware sold with preconfigured Oracle
    database software and is more fully described above);

middleware (including application server, business intelligence,
    data integration, portal server and identity management);

enterprise applications;

content management and collaboration;

development tools;

enterprise management software;

Software-as-a-Service;

hosted and On Demand solutions;

operating systems (by virtue of our distribution of Enterprise
    Linux);

virtualization software; and

consulting/systems integration.

Key competitive factors in each of the segments that we compete
    include: total cost of ownership, performance, scalability,
    functionality, ease of use, compliance with open standards,
    product reliability, Service-Oriented Architecture, security and
    quality of technical support. Our customers are also demanding
    less complexity and lower total cost in the implementation,
    sourcing, integration and ongoing maintenance of their
    enterprise software, which has led increasingly to our product
    offerings (particularly our database, middleware and
    applications) being viewed as a  stack  of software
    designed to work together in a standards-compliant environment.

Our product sales (and the relative strength of our products
    versus our competitors  products) are also directly and
    indirectly affected by the following, among other things:

the broader  platform  competition between industry
    standard Java EE (formerly, J2EE) programming platform by Sun
    Microsystems, Inc. (Sun) and the .NET programming environment of
    Microsoft Corporation (Microsoft);

operating system competition among, primarily, Microsoft s
    Windows Server, Unix (including Sun s Solaris, HP-UX from
    Hewlett Packard Company (HP) and AIX from International Business
    Machines Corporation (IBM)) and Linux;

open source alternatives to commercial software, which are
    typically offered free of charge, subject to certain
    restrictions, and are readily available over the internet. Open
    source vendors will typically charge fees for commercial
    versions or unrestricted licenses of these products and for
    technical support of these products; and

Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) offerings, which also continue to
    alter the competitive landscape.

10

Table of Contents   

The following lists of competitors are necessarily incomplete
    due to the nature of the enterprise software industry, where the
    competitive landscape is constantly evolving as firms emerge,
    expand or are acquired, as technology evolves and as customer
    demands and competitive pressures otherwise change:

In the sale of database software, scalability, reliability,
    availability and security are key competitive differentiators
    for us. Our competitors include IBM, Microsoft, Sybase, Inc.
    (Sybase), NCR Corporation s Teradata division, SAS
    Institute, Inc., Netezza Corporation, Progress Software
    Corporation (Progress Software) and open source databases such
    as Sun s MySQL, Ingres and PostgreSQL, among others. Our
    ability to continually innovate and differentiate our database
    product offerings has enabled us to maintain our leading
    position in database software over our competitors.

In the sale of middleware products, our offerings include
    application server and application grid, business intelligence,
    identity and access management, portal and user interaction,
    Service-Oriented Architecture and business process management,
    and data integration. Our ability to offer a full range of rich
    functionality in a standards-based, open architecture has been a
    key competitive differentiator which has contributed to rapid
    growth of our middleware solutions in recent years relative to
    our competitors. Our middleware competitors include IBM,
    Microsoft, SAP AG, Sun, Progress Software, Fujitsu Software
    Corporation, Hitachi Software Engineering Co., Ltd., open source
    vendors such as Red Hat, Inc. (JBoss), Apache Geronimo, Liferay,
    Inc., SpringSource, Inc., MuleSource, Inc. and JasperSoft
    Corporation, as well as several other competitors in each
    element of our packaged functions such as TIBCO Software, Inc.,
    Software AG, SOA Software, Inc., Savvion, Inc., MicroStrategy,
    Inc., CA, Inc. (CA), Siemens AG, Courion Corporation, EMC
    Corporation (RSA), Informatica Corporation, Novell, Inc.
    (Novell), Lombardi Software, Inc. and Pegasystems, Inc., among
    others.

Competition in the sale of applications software, in particular,
    is multifaceted and subject to rapid change. We currently offer
    several application product lines that are designed to address
    functions applicable to customers across many industries (e.g.,
    enterprise resource planning (ERP) or customer relationship
    management (CRM)), as well as applications specific to
    operations in particular industry verticals, such as retail,
    financial services, communications, tax and utilities, health
    sciences, public sector and others. One of the main competitive
    differentiators in applications software is our ability to
    combine  best-of-breed  software, suite software and
    our application integration architecture, without adding
    complexity for the end user.

Our applications offerings (including our On Demand/Hosted and
    SaaS offerings) typically compete with commercial software
    vendors  pre-packaged applications, applications offered as
    On Demand, SaaS, or hosted offerings, open source applications,
    applications developed in-house by customers, applications that
    were custom developed by other software vendors or systems
    integrators, applications consisting of a variety of discrete
    pieces of functionality from multiple providers that have been
    customized and implemented by systems integrators or consultants
    (such as IBM Global Services and Accenture Ltd.) and business
    process outsourcers (such as Automatic Data Processing, Inc.
    (ADP), Fidelity Investments, Ceridian Corporation, Hewitt
    Associates, Inc., Accero Software (formerly Cyborg Systems
    Limited) and others). The variety of competing offerings is even
    more pronounced in industry verticals where complete industry
    solutions either do not exist or are addressed by combining
    offerings of multiple software offerings. As a result, our
    applications compete against offerings from the vendors listed
    above as well as SAP AG, IBM (through Maximo, MRO Software,
    Ascential Software, Cognos), Microsoft (through Dynamics GP,
    Dynamics NAV, Dynamics AX, Dynamics CRM, Dynamics Snap, Dynamics
    SL), Lawson Software, Inc., Infor Global Solutions (with
    numerous independent product lines coming from acquisitions
    including Agilisys, Baan, infor GmbH, SSA Global Technologies,
    Extensity and Datastream), Ariba, Inc., IFS AB, JDA Software
    Group, Inc., I2 Technologies, Inc., Manhattan Associates, Inc.
    The Sage Group plc, salesforce.com, Inc., Taleo Corporation,
    SuccessFactors, Inc., as well as many other application
    providers and point solution providers.

In the sale of content management and collaboration products, we
    compete with Microsoft, IBM (through Domino/Notes/FileNet), EMC
    Corporation (Documentum), Open Text Corporation, Autonomy
    Corporation plc (Interwoven), HP (through Tower Software), SAP
    AG and Vignette Corporation, as well as open source vendors such
    as Alfresco Software, Inc., among others.

In the sale of development tools, ease of use,
    standards-compliance and the level of abstraction (automated
    code generation) are key competitive differentiators. In this
    area, we compete against IBM (through WebSphere Studio),
    Microsoft (through VisualStudio.NET), Sun (through Sun Studio),
    Sybase (through PowerBuilder) and others,

11

Table of Contents   

including Eclipse Foundation, Inc. (Eclipse), an open source
    vendor. The success of our development tools is closely related
    to the relative popularity of our other offerings (database and
    middleware and applications) compared to our competitors as well
    as the larger platform competition between Sun s Java and
    Microsoft s .NET.

In the sale of enterprise management software, we compete with
    BMC Software, Inc., Quest Software, Inc., IBM Tivoli, HP,
    CA, Compuware Corporation, Embarcadero Technologies, Inc., and
    open source vendors such as Hyperic, Inc.

In the sale of operating systems, we introduced a support and
    service offering for Red Hat s open source Linux operating
    system in fiscal 2007. This placed us in competition with others
    who offer support for the Linux operating system, including Red
    Hat, Novell, Inc. and Canonical Ltd. (through Ubuntu); as well
    as with the Unix operating systems of IBM, Sun, HP and others
    and the Windows Server operating systems of Microsoft.

In the sale of virtualization products, our offerings compete
    with those of VMware, Inc., IBM, Microsoft, Sun and Citrix
    Systems, Inc., among others, including other vendors of open
    source virtualization products.

In the sale of consulting and systems integration services, we
    both partner with and compete against Accenture Ltd., HP, IBM
    Global Services, Bearing Point, Inc., Capgemini Group, and many
    others (both large and small).

In the sale of many of our products, we also compete with
    products and features developed internally by customers and
    their IT staff.

Research
    and Development  

We develop the substantial majority of our products internally.
    In addition, we have acquired technology through business
    acquisitions. We also purchase or license intellectual property
    rights in certain circumstances. Internal development allows us
    to maintain technical control over the design and development of
    our products. We have a number of United States and foreign
    patents and pending applications that relate to various aspects
    of our products and technology. While we believe that our
    patents have value, no single patent is essential to us or to
    any of our principal business segments.

Research and development expenditures were $2.8 billion,
    $2.7 billion and $2.2 billion, in fiscal 2009, 2008
    and 2007, respectively, or 12% of total revenues in each of the
    aforementioned fiscal years. As a percentage of new software
    license revenues, research and development expenditures were
    39%, 36% and 37% in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
    Rapid technological advances in hardware and software
    development, evolving standards in computer hardware and
    software technology, changing customer needs and frequent new
    product introductions and enhancements characterize the software
    markets in which we compete. We plan on continuing to dedicate a
    significant amount of resources to research and development
    efforts to maintain and improve our current product offerings
    including our database, middleware and applications software
    products.

Employees  

As of May 31, 2009, we employed approximately
    86,000 full-time employees, including 20,000 in sales and
    marketing, 8,000 in software license updates and product
    support, 28,000 in services, 22,000 in research and development
    and 8,000 in general and administrative positions. Of these
    employees, approximately 28,000 were located in the United
    States and 58,000 were employed internationally. None of our
    employees in the United States is represented by a labor union;
    however, in certain international subsidiaries workers 
    councils represent our employees.

Available
    Information  

Our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K, 
    Quarterly Reports on
     Form 10-Q, 
    Current Reports on
     Form 8-K 
    and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a)
    and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,
    are available, free of charge, on our Investor Relations web
    site at www.oracle.com/investor as soon as reasonably
    practicable after we electronically file such material with, or
    furnish it to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
    The information posted on our web site is not incorporated into
    this Annual Report.

12

Table of Contents   

Executive
    Officers of the Registrant  

Our executive officers are listed below.

Name 

Office(s) 

Lawrence J. Ellison

Chief Executive Officer and Director

Jeffrey O. Henley

Chairman of the Board of Directors

Safra A. Catz

President and Director

Charles E. Phillips, Jr. 

President and Director

Keith G. Block

Executive Vice President, North America Sales and Consulting

Jeff Epstein

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Loic Le Guisquet

Executive Vice President, Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA)
    Sales and Consulting

Luiz Meisler

Executive Vice President, Latin America Sales and Consulting

Juergen Rottler

Executive Vice President, Oracle Customer Services

Charles A. Rozwat

Executive Vice President, Product Development

Derek H. Williams

Executive Vice President, Japan Sales and Consulting

Dorian E. Daley

Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary

William Corey West

Senior Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting
    Officer

Mr. Ellison, 64, has been Chief Executive Officer and a
    Director since he founded Oracle in June 1977. He served as
    Chairman of the Board from May 1995 to January 2004.

Mr. Henley, 64, has served as the Chairman of the Board
    since January 2004 and as a Director since June 1995. He served
    as an Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from
    March 1991 to July 2004. He also serves as a director of
    Callwave, Inc.

Ms. Catz, 47, has been a President since January 2004 and
    has served as a Director since October 2001. She was Chief
    Financial Officer from November 2005 until September 2008 and
    Interim Chief Financial Officer from April 2005 until July
    2005. She served as an Executive Vice President from November
    1999 to January 2004 and Senior Vice President from April 1999
    to October 1999. She also serves as a director of HSBC Holdings
    plc.

Mr. Phillips, 50, has been a President and has served as a
    Director since January 2004. He served as Executive Vice
    President, Strategy, Partnerships, and Business Development,
    from May 2003 to January 2004. He also serves as a director of
    Morgan Stanley and Viacom, Inc.

Mr. Block, 48, has been Executive Vice President, North
    America Sales and Consulting since September 2002 and Executive
    Vice President, North America Consulting since February 2002. He
    served as Senior Vice President of North America Commercial
    Consulting and Global Service Lines from June 1999 until January
    2002. He served as Senior Vice President of the Commercial
    Consulting Practice from April 1999 until May 1999.
    Mr. Block was Group Vice President, East Consulting from
    June 1997 until March 1999.

Mr. Epstein, 52, has been Executive Vice President and
    Chief Financial Officer since September 2008. Prior to joining
    us, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
    Officer of Oberon Media, Inc., a privately held internet game
    technology provider and publisher from April 2007 to June 2008.
    From June 2005 until its sale in March 2007, Mr. Epstein
    was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of
    ADVO, Inc., a direct mail media company. Mr. Epstein was a
    member of the Board of Directors of Revonet, Inc., a
    business-to-business marketing and database company, from
    January 2004 to December 2005, Chairman of the Board from
    December 2004 to December 2005 and the Acting President and
    Chief Executive Officer from June 2004 through December 2004.
    Mr. Epstein also serves as a director of priceline.com
    Incorporated.

Mr. Le Guisquet, 47, has been Executive Vice President,
    Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) Sales and Consulting since
    December 2008. He served as Senior Vice President, Western
    Central Europe Applications from June 2006 until November 2008.
    He served as Senior Vice President, Oracle Customer Relationship
    Management EMEA from January 2006 until June 2006. He served as
    Senior Vice President, EMEA Consulting from August 2003 until
    January 2006. He also held various other EMEA regional executive
    positions with us since January 1990.

13

Table of Contents   

Mr. Meisler, 56, has been Executive Vice President, Latin
    America Sales and Consulting since July 2008. He served as
    Senior Vice President, Latin America Sales and Consulting from
    December 2001 to July 2008; as Vice President, Latin America
    Sales and Consulting from June 2001 to December 2001; and as
    Managing Director of Oracle Brazil from January 2000 to May
    2001. He served as Vice President, Latin America Consulting from
    June 1999 to January 2000 and as Vice President, Oracle Brazil
    Consulting from March 1998 to May 1999.

Mr. Rottler, 42, has been Executive Vice President, Oracle
    Customer Services since September 2006. He was Executive Vice
    President, Oracle Support and Oracle On Demand, from January
    2005 to September 2006 and was Executive Vice President, Oracle
    On Demand, from September 2004 to January 2005. Prior to joining
    us, he served as Senior Vice President, Public Sector, Customer
    Solutions Group at Hewlett-Packard Company (HP), from December
    2003 to September 2004, where he was responsible for HP s
    worldwide Public Sector, Health and Education business. He also
    held various other global and regional executive positions in
    HP s Services and Software business units since 1997.

Mr. Rozwat, 61, has been Executive Vice President, Product
    Development, since October 2007. He served as Executive Vice
    President, Server Technologies from November 1999 to October
    2007 and served as Senior Vice President, Database Server from
    December 1996 to October 1999. He served as Vice President of
    Development from December 1994 to November 1996.

Mr. Williams, 64, has been Executive Vice President, Japan
    Sales and Consulting since June 2008 and was Executive Vice
    President, Asia Pacific Sales and Consulting from October 2000
    to May 2008. He served as Senior Vice President, Asia Pacific
    from July 1993 to October 2000 and as Vice President, Asia
    Pacific from April 1991 to July 1993. He joined Oracle United
    Kingdom in October 1988 and served as Regional Director,
    Strategic Accounts from October 1988 to April 1991.

Ms. Daley, 50, has been Senior Vice President, General
    Counsel and Secretary since October 2007. She served as Vice
    President, Legal, Associate General Counsel and Assistant
    Secretary from June 2004 to October 2007, as Associate General
    Counsel and Assistant Secretary from October 2001 to June 2004,
    and as Associate General Counsel from February 2001 to October
    2001. She joined Oracle s Legal Department in 1992.

Mr. West, 47, has been Senior Vice President, Corporate
    Controller and Chief Accounting Officer since February 2008
    and was Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief
    Accounting Officer from April 2007 to February 2008. Prior to
    joining us, he served as Intuit Inc. s Director of
    Accounting from August 2005 to March 2007, as The Gap,
    Inc. s Assistant Controller from April 2005 to August 2005,
    and as Vice President, Finance, at Cadence Design Systems,
    Inc. s product business from June 2001 to April 2005. He
    also spent 14 years with Arthur Andersen LLP, most recently
    as a partner.

Item 1A.    

Risk
    Factors  

We operate in a rapidly changing economic and technological
    environment that presents numerous risks, many of which are
    driven by factors that we cannot control or predict. The
    following discussion, as well as our  Critical Accounting
    Policies and Estimates  discussion in Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations (Item 7), highlights some of these risks.

The effects of the current recession and the recent global
    economic crisis may impact our business, results of operations,
    financial condition or stock price.    The
    current recession and recent global economic crisis have caused
    a general tightening in the credit markets, lower levels of
    liquidity, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy, and
    extreme volatility in credit, equity and fixed income markets.
    These macroeconomic developments could negatively affect our
    business, operating results or financial condition in a number
    of ways which, in turn, could adversely affect our stock price.

For example, current or potential customers may reduce their IT
    spending or be unable to fund software or services purchases,
    which could cause them to delay, decrease or cancel purchases of
    our products and services or not to pay us or to delay paying us
    for previously purchased products and services.

14

Table of Contents   

In some financial markets, institutions may decrease or
    discontinue their purchase of the long-term customer financing
    contracts that we have traditionally sold on a non-recourse
    basis. As a result, we may hold more of these contracts
    ourselves or require more customers to purchase our products and
    services on a cash basis.

In addition, financial institution weakness or failures may
    cause us to incur increased expenses or make it more difficult
    either to utilize our existing debt capacity or otherwise obtain
    financing for our operations, investing activities or financing
    activities (including the financing of any future acquisitions
    and the timing and amount of any future dividend declarations or
    repurchases of our common stock or our debt).

Finally, our investment portfolio, which includes short-term
    debt securities, is generally subject to general credit,
    liquidity, counterparty, market and interest rate risks that may
    be exacerbated by the recent global financial crisis. If the
    banking system or the fixed income, credit or equity markets
    continue to deteriorate or remain volatile, our investment
    portfolio may be impacted and the values and liquidity of our
    investments could be adversely affected.

Economic, political and market conditions can adversely
    affect our business, results of operations and financial
    condition, including our revenue growth and
    profitability.    Our business is influenced by
    a range of factors that are beyond our control and that we have
    no comparative advantage in forecasting. These include:

general economic and business conditions;

currency exchange rate fluctuations;

the overall demand for enterprise software and services;

governmental budgetary constraints or shifts in government
    spending priorities; and

general political developments.

A general weakening of, or declining corporate confidence in,
    the global economy, or a curtailment in government or corporate
    spending could delay or decrease customer purchases. In
    addition, terrorist attacks around the world, the wars in
    Afghanistan and Iraq and the potential for other hostilities in
    various parts of the world, potential public health crises and
    natural disasters continue to contribute to a climate of
    economic and political uncertainty that could adversely affect
    our results of operations and financial condition, including our
    revenue growth and profitability. These factors generally have
    the strongest effect on our sales of new software licenses and
    related services and, to a lesser extent, also affect our
    renewal rates for software license updates and product support.

We may fail to achieve our financial forecasts due to
    inaccurate sales forecasts or other
    factors.    Our revenues, and particularly our
    new software license revenues, are difficult to forecast, and,
    as a result, our quarterly operating results can fluctuate
    substantially. We use a  pipeline  system, a common
    industry practice, to forecast sales and trends in our business.
    Our sales personnel monitor the status of all proposals and
    estimate when a customer will make a purchase decision and the
    dollar amount of the sale. These estimates are aggregated
    periodically to generate a sales pipeline. Our pipeline
    estimates can prove to be unreliable both in a particular
    quarter and over a longer period of time, in part because the
     conversion rate  or  closure rate  of the
    pipeline into contracts can be very difficult to estimate. A
    contraction in the conversion rate, or in the pipeline itself,
    could cause us to plan or budget incorrectly and adversely
    affect our business or results of operations. In particular, a
    slowdown in IT spending or economic conditions generally can
    unexpectedly reduce the conversion rate in particular periods as
    purchasing decisions are delayed, reduced in amount or
    cancelled. The conversion rate can also be affected by the
    tendency of some of our customers to wait until the end of a
    fiscal period in the hope of obtaining more favorable terms,
    which can also impede our ability to negotiate and execute these
    contracts in a timely manner. In addition, for newly acquired
    companies, we have limited ability to predict how their
    pipelines will convert into sales or revenues for one or two
    quarters following the acquisition, and their conversion rate
    post-acquisition may be quite different from their historical
    conversion rate.

A substantial portion of our new software license revenue
    contracts is completed in the latter part of a quarter and a
    significant percentage of these are large orders. Because our
    cost structure is largely fixed in the short term, revenue
    shortfalls tend to have a disproportionately negative impact on
    our profitability. The number of large new software license
    transactions also increases the risk of fluctuation in our
    quarterly results because a delay in even a small

15

Table of Contents   

number of these transactions could cause our quarterly new
    software license revenues to fall significantly short of our
    predictions.

Our success depends upon our ability to develop new
    products and services, integrate acquired products and services
    and enhance our existing products and
    services.    Rapid technological advances and
    evolving standards in computer hardware, software development
    and communications infrastructure, changing and increasingly
    sophisticated customer needs and frequent new product
    introductions and enhancements characterize the enterprise
    software market in which we compete. If we are unable to develop
    new products and services, or to enhance and improve our
    products and support services in a timely manner or to position
     and/or  price
    our products and services to meet market demand, customers may
    not buy new software licenses or purchase or renew software
    license updates and product support contracts. Renewals of these
    support contracts are an important factor in the growing
    software license update and product support segment of our
    business. In addition, IT standards from both consortia and
    formal standards-setting forums as well as de facto marketplace
    standards are rapidly evolving. We cannot provide any assurance
    that the standards on which we choose to develop new products
    will allow us to compete effectively for business opportunities
    in emerging areas.

We are currently building Oracle Fusion Applications, which are
    being designed to unify best-of-business capabilities from all
    Oracle applications in a complete suite. We have also announced
    that we intend to extend the life of many of our acquired
    products and will continue to provide long-term support for many
    of our acquired products, both of which require us to dedicate
    resources. If we do not develop and release these new or
    enhanced products and services within the anticipated time
    frames, if there is a delay in market acceptance of a new,
    enhanced or acquired product line or service, if we do not
    timely optimize complementary product lines and services or if
    we fail to adequately integrate, support or enhance acquired
    product lines or services, our business may be adversely
    affected.

Acquisitions present many risks, and we may not realize
    the financial and strategic goals that were contemplated at the
    time of a transaction.    In recent years, we
    have invested billions of dollars to acquire a number of
    companies, products, services and technologies. An active
    acquisition program is an important element of our overall
    corporate strategy, and we expect to continue to make similar
    acquisitions in the future, including our currently pending
    acquisition of Sun Microsystems, Inc. Risks we may face in
    connection with our acquisition program include:

our ongoing business may be disrupted and our management s
    attention may be diverted by acquisition, transition or
    integration activities;

an acquisition may not further our business strategy as we
    expected, we may pay more than the acquired company or assets
    are ultimately worth or we may not integrate an acquired company
    or technology as successfully as we expected, which could
    adversely affect our business or operating results;

we may have difficulties (i) managing an acquired
    company s technologies or lines of business or
    (ii) entering new markets, in each case where we have no or
    limited direct prior experience or where competitors may have
    stronger market positions;

our operating results or financial condition may be adversely
    impacted by liabilities that we assume from an acquired company
    or technology or by other circumstances related to an
    acquisition, including claims related to an acquired business or
    technology from government agencies, terminated employees,
    customers, former stockholders or other third parties;
    pre-existing contractual relationships of an acquired company
    that we would not have otherwise entered into, the termination
    or modification of which may be costly or disruptive to our
    business; unfavorable revenue recognition or other accounting
    treatment as a result of an acquired company s practices;
    and intellectual property disputes;

we may fail to identify or assess the magnitude of certain
    liabilities, shortcomings or other circumstances prior to
    acquiring a company or technology, which could result in
    unexpected litigation or regulatory exposure, unfavorable
    accounting treatment, unexpected increases in taxes due, a loss
    of anticipated tax benefits or other adverse effects on our
    business, operating results or financial condition;

16

Table of Contents   

we may not realize the anticipated increase in our revenues from
    an acquisition if a larger than predicted number of customers
    decline to renew software license updates and product support
    contracts, if we are unable to sell the acquired products to our
    customer base or if contract models of an acquired company do
    not allow us to recognize revenues on a timely basis;

we may be unable to obtain timely approvals from, or may
    otherwise have certain limitations, restrictions, penalties or
    other sanctions imposed on us by, worker councils or similar
    bodies under applicable employment laws as a result of an
    acquisition, which could adversely affect our integration plans
    in certain jurisdictions;

we may have difficulty incorporating acquired technologies or
    products with our existing product lines and maintaining uniform
    standards, architecture, controls, procedures and policies;

we may have multiple and overlapping product lines as a result
    of our acquisitions that are offered, priced and supported
    differently, which could cause customer confusion and delays;

we may have higher than anticipated costs in continuing support
    and development of acquired products;

we may be unable to obtain required approvals from governmental
    authorities under competition and antitrust laws on a timely
    basis, if it all, which could, among other things, delay or
    prevent us from completing a transaction, otherwise restrict our
    ability to realize the expected financial or strategic goals of
    an acquisition or have other adverse effects on our current
    business and operations;

our use of cash to pay for acquisitions may limit other
    potential uses of our cash, including stock repurchases,
    dividend payments and retirement of outstanding indebtedness;

we may significantly increase our interest expense, leverage and
    debt service requirements if we incur additional debt to pay for
    an acquisition and we may have to delay or not proceed with a
    substantial acquisition if we cannot obtain the necessary
    funding to complete the acquisition in a timely manner or on
    favorable terms;

we may experience additional
     and/or 
    unexpected changes in how we are required to account for our
    acquisitions pursuant to U.S. generally accepted accounting
    principles (GAAP), including our adoption of FASB Statement
    No. 141 (revised 2007),  Business Combinations,  in
    fiscal 2010, which could materially affect our consolidated
    financial statements; and

to the extent that we issue a significant amount of equity
    securities in connection with future acquisitions, existing
    stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease.

The occurrence of any of these risks could have a material
    adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial
    condition or cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger
    acquisition or several concurrent acquisitions.

Our international sales and operations subject us to
    additional risks that can adversely affect our operating
    results.    We derive a substantial portion of
    our revenues from, and have significant operations, outside of
    the United States. Our international operations include software
    development, sales, customer support, consulting, On Demand and
    shared administrative service centers.

Compliance with international and U.S. laws and regulations
    that apply to our international operations increases our cost of
    doing business in foreign jurisdictions. These laws and
    regulations include U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt
    Practices Act, and local laws which also prohibit corrupt
    payments to governmental officials, data privacy requirements,
    labor relations laws, tax laws, anti-competition regulations,
    import and trade restrictions, and export requirements.
    Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines,
    criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees,
    and prohibitions on the conduct of our business. Any such
    violations could result in prohibitions on our ability to offer
    our products and services in one or more countries, could delay
    or prevent potential acquisitions, and could also materially
    damage our reputation, our brand, our international expansion
    efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our
    business and our operating results. Our success depends, in
    part, on our ability to anticipate these risks and manage these
    difficulties. We monitor our international operations and
    investigate allegations of improprieties relating to
    transactions and the way in which such transactions are

17

Table of Contents   

recorded. Where circumstances warrant, we provide information
    and report our findings to government authorities, but no
    assurance can be given that action will not be taken by such
    authorities.

We are also subject to a variety of other risks and challenges
    in managing an organization operating in various countries,
    including those related to:

general economic conditions in each country or region;

fluctuations in currency exchange rates;

regulatory changes;

political unrest, terrorism and the potential for other
    hostilities;

public health risks, particularly in areas in which we have
    significant operations;

longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts
    receivable;

overlapping tax regimes;

our ability to repatriate funds held by our foreign subsidiaries
    to the United States at favorable tax rates;

difficulties in transferring funds from certain
    countries; and

reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some
    countries.

As the majority shareholder of Oracle Financial Services
    Software Limited (formerly i-flex solutions limited), a publicly
    traded Indian software company focused on the banking industry,
    we are faced with several additional risks, including being
    subject to local securities regulations and being unable to
    exert full control or obtain financial and other information on
    a timely basis.

We may experience foreign currency gains and
    losses.    We conduct a significant number of
    transactions in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar.
    Changes in the value of major foreign currencies, particularly
    the Euro, Japanese Yen and British Pound relative to the
    U.S. Dollar can significantly affect revenues and our
    operating results. Our revenues and operating results are
    adversely affected when the dollar strengthens relative to other
    currencies and are positively affected when the dollar weakens.
    Our revenues and operating results in fiscal 2009 have been
    unfavorably affected by the recent strengthening
    U.S. Dollar relative to other major foreign currencies.

Our foreign currency transaction gains and losses, primarily
    related to sublicense fees and other agreements among us and our
    subsidiaries and distributors, are charged against earnings in
    the period incurred. We enter into foreign exchange forward
    contracts to hedge certain transaction and translation exposures
    in major currencies, but we will continue to experience foreign
    currency gains and losses in certain instances where it is not
    possible or cost effective to hedge our foreign currency
    exposures.

We may not be able to protect our intellectual property
    rights.    We rely on copyright, trademark,
    patent and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures,
    controls and contractual commitments to protect our intellectual
    property rights. Despite our efforts, these protections may be
    limited. Unauthorized third parties may try to copy or reverse
    engineer portions of our products or otherwise obtain and use
    our intellectual property. Any patents owned by us may be
    invalidated, circumvented or challenged. Any of our pending or
    future patent applications, whether or not being currently
    challenged, may not be issued with the scope of the claims we
    seek, if at all. In addition, the laws of some countries do not
    provide the same level of protection of our intellectual
    property rights as do the laws and courts of the United States.
    If we cannot protect our intellectual property rights against
    unauthorized copying or use, or other misappropriation, we may
    not remain competitive.

Third parties have claimed and, in the future, may claim
    infringement or misuse of intellectual property rights
     and/or 
    breach of license agreement provisions.    We
    periodically receive notices from, or have lawsuits filed
    against us by, others claiming infringement or other misuse of
    their intellectual property rights
     and/or 
    breach of our agreements with them. We expect the number of such
    claims will increase as:

we continue to acquire companies;

the number of products and competitors in our industry segments
    grows;

18

Table of Contents   

the functionality of products overlap;

the use and support of third-party code (including open source
    code) becomes more prevalent in the software industry; and

the volume of issued software patents continues to increase.

Responding to any such claim, regardless of its validity, could:

be time consuming, costly and result in litigation;

divert management s time and attention from developing our
    business;

require us to pay monetary damages or enter into royalty and
    licensing agreements that we would not normally find acceptable;

require us to stop selling or to redesign certain of our
    products;

require us to release source code to third parties, possibly
    under open source license terms;

require us to satisfy indemnification obligations to our
    customers; or

otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations,
    financial condition or cash flows.

Specific patent infringement cases are discussed under
    Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

We may lose key employees or may be unable to hire enough
    qualified employees.    We rely on the continued
    service of our senior management, including our Chief Executive
    Officer and founder, members of our executive team and other key
    employees and the hiring of new qualified employees. In the
    software industry, there is substantial and continuous
    competition for highly skilled business, product development,
    technical and other personnel. In addition, acquisitions could
    cause us to lose key personnel of the acquired companies or at
    Oracle. We may also experience increased compensation costs that
    are not offset by either improved productivity or higher prices.
    We may not be successful in recruiting new personnel and in
    retaining and motivating existing personnel. With rare
    exceptions, we do not have long-term employment or
    non-competition agreements with our employees. Members of our
    senior management team have left Oracle over the years for a
    variety of reasons, and we cannot assure you that there will not
    be additional departures, which may be disruptive to our
    operations.

We continually focus on improving our cost structure by hiring
    personnel in countries where advanced technical expertise is
    available at lower costs. When we make adjustments to our
    workforce, we may incur expenses associated with workforce
    reductions that delay the benefit of a more efficient workforce
    structure. We may also experience increased competition for
    employees in these countries as the trend toward globalization
    continues, which may affect our employee retention efforts
     and/or 
    increase our expenses in an effort to offer a competitive
    compensation program. Part of our total compensation program
    includes stock options which are an important tool in attracting
    and retaining employees in our industry. If our stock price
    performs poorly, it may adversely affect our ability to retain
    or attract employees. In addition, because we expense all
    stock-based compensation, we may in the future change our
    stock-based and other compensation practices. Some of the
    changes we consider from time to time include a reduction in the
    number of employees granted options, a reduction in the number
    of options granted per employee and a change to alternative
    forms of stock-based compensation. Any changes in our
    compensation practices or changes made by competitors could
    affect our ability to retain and motivate existing personnel and
    recruit new personnel.

We may need to change our pricing models to compete
    successfully.    The intense competition we face
    in the sales of our products and services and general economic
    and business conditions can put pressure on us to change our
    prices. If our competitors offer deep discounts on certain
    products or services or develop products that the marketplace
    considers more valuable, we may need to lower prices or offer
    other favorable terms in order to compete successfully. Any such
    changes may reduce margins and could adversely affect operating
    results. Our software license updates and product support fees
    are generally priced as a percentage of our net new software
    license fees. Our competitors may offer lower percentage pricing
    on product updates and support, which could put pressure on us
    to further discount our new license prices.

19

Table of Contents   

Any broad-based change to our prices and pricing policies could
    cause new software license and services revenues to decline or
    be delayed as our sales force implements and our customers
    adjust to the new pricing policies. Some of our competitors may
    bundle software products for promotional purposes or as a
    long-term pricing strategy or provide guarantees of prices and
    product implementations. These practices could, over time,
    significantly constrain the prices that we can charge for
    certain of our products. If we do not adapt our pricing models
    to reflect changes in customer use of our products or changes in
    customer demand, our new software license revenues could
    decrease. Additionally, increased distribution of applications
    through application service providers, including
    software-as-a-service (SaaS) providers, may reduce the average
    price for our products or adversely affect other sales of our
    products, reducing new software license revenues unless we can
    offset price reductions with volume increases. The increase in
    open source software distribution may also cause us to change
    our pricing models.

We may be unable to compete effectively within the highly
    competitive software industry.    Many vendors
    develop and market databases, internet application server
    products, application development tools, business applications,
    collaboration products and business intelligence products that
    compete with our offerings. In addition, several companies offer
    business process outsourcing (BPO) and SaaS as competitive
    alternatives to buying software, and customer interest in BPO
    and SaaS solutions is increasing. Some of these competitors have
    greater financial or technical resources than we do. Our
    competitors that offer business applications and middleware
    products may influence a customer s purchasing decision for
    the underlying database in an effort to persuade potential
    customers not to acquire our products. We could lose customers
    if our competitors introduce new competitive products, add new
    functionality, acquire competitive products, reduce prices or
    form strategic alliances with other companies. Vendors that
    offer BPO or SaaS solutions may persuade our customers not to
    purchase our products. We may also face increasing competition
    from open source software initiatives, in which competitors may
    provide software and intellectual property for free. Existing or
    new competitors could gain sales opportunities or customers at
    our expense.

Disruptions of our indirect sales channel could affect our
    future operating results.    Our indirect
    channel network is comprised primarily of resellers, system
    integrators/implementers, consultants, education providers,
    internet service providers, network integrators and independent
    software vendors. Our relationships with these channel
    participants are important elements of our marketing and sales
    efforts. Our financial results could be adversely affected if
    our contracts with channel participants were terminated, if our
    relationships with channel participants were to deteriorate, if
    any of our competitors enter into strategic relationships with
    or acquire a significant channel participant or if the financial
    condition of our channel participants were to weaken. There can
    be no assurance that we will be successful in maintaining,
    expanding or developing our relationships with channel
    participants. If we are not successful, we may lose sales
    opportunities, customers and revenues.

Charges to earnings resulting from acquisitions may
    adversely affect our operating results.    In
    fiscal 2010, we will adopt FASB Statement No. 141 (revised
    2007),  Business Combinations  and FASB Staff Position
    (FSP) FAS 141(R)-1  Accounting for Assets Acquired and
    Liabilities Assumed in a Business Combinations That Arise from
    Contingencies . Accounting for our acquisitions pursuant to
    Statement 141(R) is significantly different than how we have
    historically accounted for our acquisitions under existing
    accounting principles and these differences could materially
    impact our results of operations or financial position. The more
    significant differences include how we account for restructuring
    liabilities associated with an acquisition, costs incurred to
    effect the acquisition, changes in estimates of income tax
    valuation allowances and liabilities for uncertain tax positions
    associated with an acquisition, and how we reflect goodwill
    adjustments in comparative financial statements, among others. A
    more thorough discussion of our accounting for these and other
    items is presented in the  Critical Accounting Policies and
    Estimates  section of Management s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
    (Item 7).

For any business combination that is consummated pursuant to
    Statement 141(R), we will recognize the identifiable assets
    acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any non-controlling
    interest in acquired companies generally at their acquisition
    date fair values and, in each case, separately from goodwill.
    Goodwill as of the acquisition date is measured as the excess
    amount of consideration transferred, which is also generally
    measured at fair value, and the net of the acquisition date
    amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities
    assumed. Our estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions
    believed to be reasonable but which are inherently uncertain.
    After we

20

Table of Contents   

complete an acquisition, the following factors could result in
    material charges and adversely affect our operating results and
    may adversely affect our cash flows:

costs incurred to combine the operations of companies we
    acquire, such as employee retention, redeployment or relocation
    expenses;

impairment of goodwill or intangible assets;

amortization of intangible assets acquired;

a reduction in the useful lives of intangible assets acquired;

identification of assumed contingent liabilities after the
    measurement period (generally up to one year from the
    acquisition date) has ended;

charges to our operating results to eliminate certain
    duplicative pre-merger activities, to restructure our operations
    or to reduce our cost structure;

charges to our operating results due to changes in deferred tax
    asset valuation allowances and liabilities related to uncertain
    tax positions after the measurement period has ended;

charges to our operating results resulting from expenses
    incurred to effect the acquisition; and

charges to our operating results due to the expensing of certain
    stock awards assumed in an acquisition.

Substantially all of these costs will be accounted for as
    expenses that will decrease our net income and earnings per
    share for the periods in which those costs are incurred. Charges
    to our operating results in any given period could differ
    substantially from other periods based on the timing and size of
    our future acquisitions and the extent of integration activities.

Our periodic workforce restructurings can be
    disruptive.    We have in the past restructured
    or made other adjustments to our workforce, including our direct
    sales force on which we rely heavily, in response to management
    changes, product changes, performance issues, acquisitions and
    other internal and external considerations. In the past, sales
    force and other restructurings have generally resulted in a
    temporary lack of focus and reduced productivity. These effects
    could recur in connection with future acquisitions and other
    restructurings and our revenues could be negatively affected.

We might experience significant errors or security flaws
    in our products and services.    Despite testing
    prior to their release, software products frequently contain
    errors or security flaws, especially when first introduced or
    when new versions are released. The detection and correction of
    any security flaws can be time consuming and costly. Errors in
    our software products could affect the ability of our products
    to work with other hardware or software products, could delay
    the development or release of new products or new versions of
    products and could adversely affect market acceptance of our
    products. If we experience errors or delays in releasing new
    products or new versions of products, we could lose revenues. In
    addition, we run our own business operations, Oracle On Demand
    and other outsourcing services, support and consulting services,
    on our products and networks and any security flaws, if
    exploited, could affect our ability to conduct internal business
    operations. End users, who rely on our products and services for
    applications that are critical to their businesses, may have a
    greater sensitivity to product errors and security
    vulnerabilities than customers for software products generally.
    Software product errors and security flaws in our products or
    services could expose us to product liability, performance
     and/or 
    warranty claims as well as harm our reputation, which could
    impact our future sales of products and services. In addition,
    we may be legally required to publicly report security breaches
    of our services, which could adversely impact future business
    prospects for those services.

We may not receive significant revenues from our current
    research and development efforts for several years, if at
    all.    Developing and localizing software is
    expensive and the investment in product development often
    involves a long return on investment cycle. We have made and
    expect to continue to make significant investments in software
    research and development and related product opportunities.
    Accelerated product introductions and short product life cycles
    require high levels of expenditures for research and development
    that could adversely affect our operating results if not offset
    by revenue increases. We believe that we must continue to
    dedicate a significant

21

Table of Contents   

amount of resources to our research and development efforts to
    maintain our competitive position. However, we do not expect to
    receive significant revenues from these investments for several
    years, if at all.

Our sales to government clients subject us to risks
    including early termination, audits, investigations, sanctions
    and penalties.    We derive revenues from
    contracts with the United States government, state and local
    governments and their respective agencies, which may terminate
    most of these contracts at any time, without cause.

There is increased pressure for governments and their agencies,
    both domestically and internationally, to reduce spending. Our
    federal government contracts are subject to the approval of
    appropriations being made by the United States Congress to
    fund the expenditures under these contracts. Similarly, our
    contracts at the state and local levels are subject to
    government funding authorizations.

Additionally, government contracts are generally subject to
    audits and investigations which could result in various civil
    and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including
    termination of contracts, refund of a portion of fees received,
    forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and
    suspensions or debarment from future government business.

Business disruptions could affect our operating
    results.    A significant portion of our
    research and development activities and certain other critical
    business operations is concentrated in a few geographic areas.
    We are a highly automated business and a disruption or failure
    of our systems could cause delays in completing sales and
    providing services, including some of our On Demand offerings. A
    major earthquake, fire or other catastrophic event that results
    in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business
    or information technology systems could severely affect our
    ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result,
    our future operating results could be materially and adversely
    affected.

There are risks associated with our outstanding
    indebtedness.    As of May 31, 2009, we had
    an aggregate of $10.2 billion of outstanding indebtedness
    that will mature between 2010 and 2038, and we may incur
    additional indebtedness in the future. Our ability to pay
    interest and repay the principal for our indebtedness is
    dependent upon our ability to manage our business operations,
    generate sufficient cash flows to service such debt and the
    other factors discussed in this section. There can be no
    assurance that we will be able to manage any of these risks
    successfully.

We may also need to refinance a portion of our outstanding debt
    as it matures. There is a risk that we may not be able to
    refinance existing debt or that the terms of any refinancing may
    not be as favorable as the terms of our existing debt.
    Furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at
    the time of refinancing result in higher interest rates upon
    refinancing, then the interest expense relating to that
    refinanced indebtedness would increase. Should we incur future
    increases in interest expense, our ability to utilize certain of
    our foreign tax credits to reduce our U.S. federal income
    tax could be limited, which could unfavorably affect our
    provision for income taxes and effective tax rate. In addition,
    changes by any rating agency to our outlook or credit rating
    could negatively affect the value of both our debt and equity
    securities and increase the interest amounts we pay on
    outstanding or future debt. These risks could adversely affect
    our financial condition and results of operations.

Adverse litigation results could affect our
    business.    We are subject to various legal
    proceedings. Litigation can be lengthy, expensive and disruptive
    to our operations, and results cannot be predicted with
    certainty. An adverse decision could result in monetary damages
    or injunctive relief that could affect our business, operating
    results or financial condition. Additional information regarding
    certain of the lawsuits we are involved in is discussed under
    Note 17 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

We may have exposure to additional tax
    liabilities.    As a multinational corporation,
    we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based
    taxes, in both the United States and various foreign
    jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining
    our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax
    liabilities.

Changes in tax laws or tax rulings may have a significantly
    adverse impact on our effective tax rate. For example, proposals
    for fundamental U.S. international tax reform, such as the
    recent proposal by President Obama s Administration, if
    enacted, could have a significant adverse impact on our
    effective tax rate.

In the ordinary course of a global business, there are many
    intercompany transactions and calculations where the ultimate
    tax determination is uncertain. We are regularly under audit by
    tax authorities. Our intercompany transfer

22

Table of Contents   

pricing is currently being reviewed by the IRS and by foreign
    tax jurisdictions and will likely be subject to additional
    audits in the future. We previously negotiated three unilateral
    Advance Pricing Agreements with the IRS that cover many of our
    intercompany transfer pricing issues and preclude the IRS from
    making a transfer pricing adjustment within the scope of these
    agreements. These agreements are effective for fiscal years
    through May 31, 2006. We have submitted to the IRS a
    request for renewal of this Advance Pricing Agreement for the
    years ending May 31, 2007 through May 31, 2011.
    However, these agreements do not cover all elements of our
    transfer pricing and do not bind tax authorities outside the
    United States. We have finalized one bilateral Advance Pricing
    Agreement, which was effective for the years ending May 31,
    2002 through May 31, 2006 and we have submitted a renewal
    for the years ending May 31, 2007 through May 31,
    2011. There can be no guarantee that such negotiations will
    result in an agreement. During the fiscal year ended
    May 31, 2009, we concluded an additional bilateral
    agreement to cover the period from June 1, 2001 through
    January 25, 2008.

Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, there
    is no assurance that the final determination of tax audits or
    tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our
    historical income tax provisions and accruals.

We are also subject to non-income based taxes, such as payroll,
    sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and
    services taxes, in both the United States and various foreign
    jurisdictions. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities
    with respect to these non-income based taxes and may have
    exposure to additional non-income based tax liabilities. Our
    acquisition activities have increased our non-income based tax
    exposures.

Oracle On Demand and CRM On Demand may not be
    successful.    We offer Oracle On Demand
    outsourcing services for our applications and database
    technology, delivered at our data center facilities, select
    partner data centers or customer facilities. We also offer CRM
    On Demand, which is a service offering that provides our
    customers with our CRM software functionality delivered via a
    hosted solution that we manage. These business models continue
    to evolve, and we may not be able to compete effectively,
    generate significant revenues, develop them into profitable
    businesses or maintain their profitability. We incur expenses
    associated with the infrastructures and marketing of our Oracle
    On Demand and CRM On Demand businesses in advance of our ability
    to recognize the revenues associated with these offerings. These
    businesses are subject to a variety of additional risks,
    including:

we manage critical customer applications, data and other
    confidential information through Oracle On Demand and CRM On
    Demand; accordingly, we face increased exposure to significant
    damage claims and risk to Oracle s brand and future
    business prospects in the event of system failures, inadequate
    disaster recovery or loss or misappropriation of customer
    confidential information;

we may face regulatory exposure in certain areas such as data
    privacy, data security and export compliance;

the laws and regulations applicable to hosted service providers
    are unsettled, particularly in the areas of privacy and security
    and use of global resources; changes in these laws could affect
    our ability to provide services from or to some locations and
    could increase both the costs and risks associated with
    providing the services;

demand for these services may not meet our expectations and may
    be affected by customer and media concerns about security risks,
    international transfers of data, government or other third-party
    access to data,
     and/or  use
    of outsourced services providers more generally; and

our offerings may require large fixed costs for data centers,
    computers, network infrastructure, security and otherwise, and
    we may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to offset
    these costs and generate acceptable operating margins from these
    offerings.

Our stock price could become more volatile and your
    investment could lose value.    All of the
    factors discussed in this section could affect our stock price.
    The timing of announcements in the public market regarding new
    products, product enhancements or technological advances by our
    competitors or us, and any announcements by us of acquisitions,
    major transactions, or management changes could also affect our
    stock price. Changes in the amounts and frequency of share
    repurchases or dividends could adversely affect our stock price.
    Our stock price is subject to speculation in the press and the
    analyst community, changes in recommendations or earnings
    estimates by financial analysts, changes in investors  or
    analysts  valuation measures for our stock, our credit
    ratings and market trends

23

Table of Contents   

unrelated to our performance. A significant drop in our stock
    price could also expose us to the risk of securities class
    actions lawsuits, which could result in substantial costs and
    divert management s attention and resources, which could
    adversely affect our business.

Item 1B.    

Unresolved
    Staff Comments  

None.

Item 2.    

Properties  

Our properties consist of owned and leased office facilities for
    sales, support, research and development, consulting and
    administrative personnel. Our headquarters facility consists of
    approximately 2.1 million square feet in Redwood City,
    California. We also own or lease office facilities for current
    use consisting of approximately 18.3 million square feet in
    various other locations in the United States and abroad.
    Approximately 4.0 million square feet or 20% of total owned
    and leased space is sublet or is being actively marketed for
    sublease or disposition.

Item 3.    

Legal
    Proceedings  

The material set forth in Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 4.    

Submission
    of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders  

None.

24

Table of Contents   

PART II  

Item 5.    

Market
    for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters
    and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  

Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market
    under the symbol  ORCL  and has been traded on NASDAQ
    since our initial public offering in 1986. According to the
    records of our transfer agent, we had 18,952 stockholders of
    record as of May 31, 2009. The following table sets forth
    the low and high sale price of our common stock, based on the
    last daily sale, in each of our last eight fiscal quarters.

In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, we declared and paid our
    first quarterly cash dividend in our history of $0.05 per share
    of outstanding common stock. In June 2009, our Board of
    Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.05 per share
    of outstanding common stock payable on August 13, 2009 to
    stockholders of record as of the close of business on
    July 15, 2009. Future declarations of dividends and the
    establishment of future record and payment dates are subject to
    the final determination of our Board of Directors.

For equity compensation plan information, please refer to
    Item 12 in Part III of this Annual Report.

Stock
    Repurchase Programs   

Our Board of Directors has approved a program for Oracle to
    repurchase shares of our common stock. On October 20, 2008,
    we announced that our Board of Directors had approved the
    expansion of our repurchase program by $8.0 billion and as
    of May 31, 2009, approximately $6.3 billion was
    available for share repurchases pursuant to our stock repurchase
    program.

Our stock repurchase authorization does not have an expiration
    date and the pace of our repurchase activity will depend on
    factors such as our working capital needs, our cash requirements
    for acquisitions and dividend payments, our debt repayment
    obligations or repurchases of our debt, our stock price, and
    economic and market conditions. Our stock repurchases may be
    effected from time to time through open market purchases or
    pursuant to a
     Rule 10b5-1 
    plan. Our stock repurchase program may be accelerated,
    suspended, delayed or discontinued at any time.

The following table summarizes the stock repurchase activity for
    the three months ending May 31, 2009 and the approximate
    dollar value of shares that may yet be purchased pursuant to our
    share repurchase program:

25

Table of Contents   

Stock
    Performance Graph and Cumulative Total Return   

The graph below compares the cumulative total stockholder return
    on our common stock with the cumulative total return on the
    S P s 500 Index and the Dow Jones U.S. Software
    Index for each of the last five fiscal years ended May 31,
    2009, assuming an investment of $100 at the beginning of such
    period and the reinvestment of any dividends. The comparisons in
    the graphs below are based upon historical data and are not
    indicative of, nor intended to forecast, future performance of
    our common stock.

COMPARISON
    OF  5-YEAR 
    CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN* 
       AMONG
    ORACLE CORPORATION, THE S P 500 INDEX 
    AND THE DOW JONES U.S. SOFTWARE INDEX

* $100 INVESTED ON MAY 31,
    2004 IN STOCK OR

INDEX-INCLUDING REINVESTMENT OF
    DIVIDENDS.

26

Table of Contents   

Item 6.    

Selected
    Financial Data  

The following table sets forth selected financial data as of and
    for the last five fiscal years. This selected financial data
    should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial
    statements and related notes included in Item 15 of this
     Form 10-K. 
    Over the last five fiscal years, we have acquired a number of
    companies including PeopleSoft, Inc., BEA Systems, Inc., Siebel
    Systems, Inc. and Hyperion Solutions Corporation. The results of
    our acquired companies have been included in our consolidated
    financial statements since their respective dates of acquisition
    and have contributed to our growth in revenues, income and
    earnings per share.

(1)   

Total working capital increased as
    of May 31, 2008 and 2006 primarily due to the issuance of
    $5.0 billion and $5.75 billion, respectively, in
    long-term senior notes and increased cash flows from operations.

(2)   

Total working capital decreased as
    of May 31, 2005 primarily due to cash paid to acquire
    PeopleSoft.

(3)   

Total assets increased as of
    May 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 primarily due to goodwill and
    intangible assets arising from the acquisitions of BEA in fiscal
    2008, Hyperion in fiscal 2007 and Siebel in fiscal 2006, as well
    as our profitability in all periods presented. See Note 2
    of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
    information on our acquisitions.

(4)   

Notes payable, current and other
    current borrowings remained constant in fiscal 2009 due to
    repayment of $1.0 billion of senior notes that matured in
    May 2009 offset by the prospective maturity of $1.0 billion
    of senior notes due in fiscal 2010. Notes payable, current and
    other current borrowings decreased in fiscal 2008 due to
    repayments of amounts borrowed under our commercial paper
    program during fiscal 2007 partially offset by $1.0 billion
    of senior notes that matured in fiscal 2009. Notes payable,
    current and other current borrowings increased in fiscal 2005
    due to amounts borrowed under our commercial paper program and
    amounts borrowed by Oracle Technology Company, a wholly-owned
    subsidiary, which were repaid in fiscal 2006.

(5)   

Notes payable and other non-current
    borrowings increased between fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2008 due to
    the issuances of $5.0 billion of long-term senior notes in
    fiscal 2008, $2.0 billion of long-term senior notes in
    fiscal 2007 and $5.75 billion of long-term senior notes in
    fiscal 2006, partially offset by redemptions of
    $1.5 billion in fiscal 2007. In fiscal 2009 and 2008,
    $1.0 billion of these long-term senior notes were repaid at
    maturity. See Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements for additional information on our notes payable and
    other borrowings.

Item 7.    

Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations  

We begin Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations with an overview of our key
    operating business segments and significant trends. This
    overview is followed by a discussion of our critical accounting
    policies and estimates that we believe are important to
    understanding the assumptions and judgments incorporated in our
    reported financial results. We then provide a more detailed
    analysis of our results of operations and financial condition.

27

Table of Contents   

Business
    Overview  

We are the world s largest enterprise software company. We
    develop, manufacture, market, distribute and service database
    and middleware software as well as applications software
    designed to help our customers manage and grow their business
    operations. We believe our internal, or organic, growth and
    continued innovation with respect to our software products and
    services offerings provide the foundation for our long-term
    strategic plan. We invest billions of dollars in research and
    development each year to enhance our existing portfolio of
    products and services and to develop new products, features and
    services. Our internally developed offerings have been enhanced
    by our acquisitions.

We are organized into two businesses, software and services,
    which are further divided into five operating segments. Each of
    these operating segments has unique characteristics and faces
    different opportunities and challenges. Although we report our
    actual results in U.S. Dollars, we conduct a significant
    number of transactions in currencies other than
    U.S. Dollars. Therefore, we present constant currency
    information to provide a framework for assessing how our
    underlying business performed excluding the effect of foreign
    currency rate fluctuations. An overview of our five operating
    segments follows.

Software
    Business    

Our software business, which represented 81%, 80% and 79% of our
    total revenues in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, is
    comprised of two operating segments: (1) new software
    license revenues and (2) software license updates and
    product support revenues. On a constant currency basis, we
    expect that our software business revenues generally will
    continue to increase due to continued demand for our products,
    including the high percentage of customers that renew their
    software license updates and product support contracts, and due
    to our acquisitions, which should allow us to grow our profits
    and continue to make investments in research and development.

New Software Licenses:    We license our
    database and middleware as well as our applications software to
    businesses of many sizes, government agencies, educational
    institutions and resellers. The growth in new software license
    revenues that we report is affected by the strength of general
    economic and business conditions, governmental budgetary
    constraints, the competitive position of our software products,
    our acquisitions and foreign currency fluctuations. Our new
    software license business is also characterized by long sales
    cycles. The timing of a few large software license transactions
    can substantially affect our quarterly new software license
    revenues. Since our new software license revenues in a
    particular quarter can be difficult to predict as a result of
    the timing of a few large software license transactions, we
    believe that analysis of new software license revenues on a
    trailing
     4-quarter 
    period (as provided in our quarterly reports on
     Form 10-Q) 
    provides additional visibility into the underlying performance
    of our new software license business. New software license
    revenues represented 31%, 34% and 33% of our total revenues in
    fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Our new software
    license margins have historically trended upward over the course
    of the four quarters within a particular fiscal year due to the
    historical upward trend of our new software license revenues
    over those quarterly periods and because the majority of our
    costs are predominantly fixed in the short term. However, our
    new software license margins have been and will continue to be
    affected by the amortization of intangible assets associated
    with companies that we have acquired.

Competition in the software business is intense. Our goal is to
    maintain a first or second position in each of our software
    product categories and certain industry segments as well as to
    grow our software revenues faster than our competitors. We
    believe that the features and functionality of our software
    products are as strong as they have ever been. We have focused
    on lowering the total cost of ownership of our software products
    by improving integration, decreasing installation times,
    lowering administration costs and improving the ease of use. In
    addition, our broad portfolio of product offerings (many of
    which have been acquired in recent years) helps us to offer
    customers the ability to gain efficiencies by consolidating
    their IT  software stack  with a single vendor, which
    reduces the number of disparate software vendors with which
    customers interact. Reducing the total cost of ownership of our
    products provides our customers with a higher return on their IT
    investments, which we believe creates more demand for our
    products and services and provides us with a competitive
    advantage. We have also continued to focus on improving the
    overall quality of our software products and service levels. We
    believe this will lead to higher customer satisfaction and
    loyalty and help us achieve our goal of becoming our
    customers  leading technology advisor.

28

Table of Contents   

Software License Updates and Product
    Support:    Customers that purchase software
    license updates and product support are granted rights to
    unspecified product upgrades and maintenance releases issued
    during the support period, as well as technical support
    assistance. In addition, we offer Oracle Unbreakable Linux
    Support, which provides enterprise level support for the Linux
    operating system, and also offer support for our Oracle VM
    server virtualization software. Substantially all of our
    customers renew their software license updates and product
    support contracts annually. The growth of software license
    updates and product support revenues is primarily influenced by
    three factors: (1) the percentage of our support contract
    customer base that renews its support contracts, (2) the
    amount of new support contracts sold in connection with the sale
    of new software licenses, and (3) the amount of support
    contracts assumed from companies we have acquired.

Software license updates and product support revenues, which
    represented 50%, 46% and 46% of our total revenues in fiscal
    2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, is our highest margin
    business unit. Support margins during fiscal 2009 were 84%, and
    accounted for 81% of our total margins over the same period. Our
    software license update and product support margins have been
    affected by fair value adjustments relating to support
    obligations assumed in business combinations (described further
    below) and by amortization of intangible assets. However, over
    the longer term, we believe that software license updates and
    product support revenues and margins will grow for the following
    reasons:

substantially all of our customers, including customers from
    acquired companies, renew their support contracts when eligible
    for renewal;

substantially all of our customers purchase license updates and
    product support contracts when they buy new software licenses,
    resulting in a further increase in our support contract base.
    Even if new software license revenue growth was flat, software
    license updates and product support revenues would continue to
    grow in comparison to the corresponding prior year periods
    assuming renewal and cancellation rates and foreign currency
    rates remained relatively constant since substantially all new
    software license transactions add to our support contract
    base; and

our acquisitions have increased our support contract base, as
    well as the portfolio of products available to be licensed and
    supported.

We record adjustments to reduce support obligations assumed in
    business acquisitions to their estimated fair values at the
    acquisition dates. As a result, as required by business
    combination accounting rules, we did not recognize software
    license updates and product support revenues related to support
    contracts that would have been otherwise recorded by the
    acquired businesses as independent entities in the amount of
    $243 million, $179 million and $212 million in
    fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. To the extent
    underlying support contracts are renewed with us following an
    acquisition, we will recognize the revenues for the full value
    of the support contracts over the support periods, the majority
    of which are one year.

Services
    Business    

Our services business consists of consulting, On Demand and
    education. Our services business, which represented 19%, 20% and
    21% of our total revenues in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively, has significantly lower margins than our software
    business.

Consulting:    Our consulting line of
    business provides services to customers in business/IT strategy
    alignment; business process simplification; solution
    integration; and product implementation, enhancements, and
    upgrades of our database, middleware and applications software.
    The amount of consulting revenues recognized tends to lag
    software revenue recognition by several quarters since
    consulting services, if purchased, are typically performed after
    the purchase of new software licenses. Our consulting revenues
    are dependent upon general economic conditions and the level of
    new software license sales, particularly our application product
    sales. To the extent we are able to grow our new software
    license revenues, in particular our application product
    revenues, we would also generally expect to be able to grow our
    consulting revenues.

On Demand:    On Demand includes Oracle On
    Demand and our Advanced Customer Services offerings. We believe
    that our On Demand offerings provide our customers flexibility
    in how they manage their IT environments and an additional
    opportunity to lower their total cost of ownership and can
    therefore provide us with a competitive

29

Table of Contents   

advantage. Recently, we have grown the base of customers that
    have purchased our On Demand services and to the extent we are
    able to continue this trend, we would expect our On Demand
    revenues and margins to increase. We have made and plan to
    continue to make investments in our On Demand business to
    support current and future revenue growth, which historically
    has negatively impacted On Demand margins and may do so in the
    future.

Education:    The purpose of our education
    services is to further the adoption and usage of our software
    products by our customers and to create opportunities to grow
    our software revenues. Education revenues are impacted by
    general economic conditions, personnel reductions in our
    customers  information technology departments, tighter
    controls over discretionary spending and greater use of
    outsourcing solutions. We believe the recent global economic
    environment has unfavorably affected customer demand for our
    education services in comparison to prior years, which has
    negatively impacted our revenues and margins.

Acquisitions    

An active acquisition program is another important element of
    our corporate strategy. In recent years, we have invested
    billions of dollars to acquire a number of complementary
    companies, products, services and technologies.

On April 19, 2009, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of
    Merger (Merger Agreement) with Sun Microsystems, Inc. (Sun), a
    provider of enterprise computing systems, software and services.
    Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, our wholly owned subsidiary
    will merge with and into Sun and Sun will become a wholly owned
    subsidiary of Oracle. Upon the consummation of the merger, each
    share of Sun common stock will be converted into the right to
    receive $9.50 in cash. In addition, options to acquire Sun
    common stock, Sun restricted stock unit awards and other
    equity-based awards denominated in shares of Sun common stock
    outstanding immediately prior to the consummation of the merger
    will generally be converted into options, restricted stock unit
    awards or other equity-based awards, as the case may be,
    denominated in shares of Oracle common stock based on formulas
    contained in the Merger Agreement. The estimated total purchase
    price of Sun is approximately $7.4 billion. This
    transaction is subject to Sun stockholder approval, regulatory
    clearance under the
     Hart-Scott-Rodino 
    Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 and the applicable merger
    control laws of the European Commission and other jurisdictions,
    and other customary closing conditions.

We believe our acquisition program supports our long-term
    strategic direction, strengthens our competitive position,
    expands our customer base, provides greater scale to accelerate
    innovation, grows our revenues and earnings, and increases
    stockholder value. We expect to continue to acquire companies,
    products, services and technologies. See Note 2 of Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information
    related to our recent acquisitions.

We believe we can fund our pending and future acquisitions with
    our internally available cash, cash equivalents and marketable
    securities, cash generated from operations, amounts available
    under our existing debt capacity, additional borrowings or from
    the issuance of additional securities. We estimate the financial
    impact of any potential acquisition with regard to earnings,
    operating margin, cash flow and return on invested capital
    targets before deciding to move forward with an acquisition.

Critical
    Accounting Policies and Estimates  

Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance
    with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
    These accounting principles require us to make certain
    estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the
    estimates, judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are
    reasonable based upon information available to us at the time
    that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. These
    estimates, judgments and assumptions can affect the reported
    amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the
    financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues
    and expenses during the periods presented. To the extent there
    are material differences between these estimates, judgments or
    assumptions and actual results, our financial statements will be
    affected. The accounting policies that reflect our more
    significant estimates, judgments and assumptions and which we
    believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and
    evaluating our reported financial results include the following:

Revenue Recognition

Business Combinations

30

Table of Contents   

Goodwill and Intangible Assets Impairment Assessments

Accounting for Income Taxes

Legal and Other Contingencies

Stock-Based Compensation

Allowances for Doubtful Accounts

In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular
    transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not
    require management s judgment in its application. There are
    also areas in which management s judgment in selecting
    among available alternatives would not produce a materially
    different result. Our senior management has reviewed the below
    critical accounting policies and related disclosures with the
    Finance and Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.

Revenue
    Recognition   

We derive revenues from the following sources:
    (1) software, which includes new software license and
    software license updates and product support revenues, and
    (2) services, which include consulting, On Demand and
    education revenues.

New software license revenues represent fees earned from
    granting customers licenses to use our database, middleware and
    applications software, and exclude revenues derived from
    software license updates, which are included in software license
    updates and product support. While the basis for software
    license revenue recognition is substantially governed by the
    provisions of Statement of Position (SOP)
     No. 97-2, 
     Software Revenue Recognition , issued by the American
    Institute of Certified Public Accountants, we exercise judgment
    and use estimates in connection with the determination of the
    amount of software and services revenues to be recognized in
    each accounting period.

For software license arrangements that do not require
    significant modification or customization of the underlying
    software, we recognize new software license revenue when:
    (1) we enter into a legally binding arrangement with a
    customer for the license of software; (2) we deliver the
    products; (3) customer payment is deemed fixed or
    determinable and free of contingencies or significant
    uncertainties; and (4) collection is probable.
    Substantially all of our new software license revenues are
    recognized in this manner.

The vast majority of our software license arrangements include
    software license updates and product support, which are
    recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement, typically
    one year. Software license updates provide customers with rights
    to unspecified software product upgrades, maintenance releases
    and patches released during the term of the support period.
    Product support includes internet access to technical content,
    as well as internet and telephone access to technical support
    personnel located in our global support centers. Software
    license updates and product support are generally priced as a
    percentage of the net new software license fees. Substantially
    all of our customers purchase both software license updates and
    product support when they acquire new software licenses. In
    addition, substantially all of our customers renew their
    software license updates and product support contracts annually.

Many of our software arrangements include consulting
    implementation services sold separately under consulting
    engagement contracts. Consulting revenues from these
    arrangements are generally accounted for separately from new
    software license revenues because the arrangements qualify as
    service transactions as defined in
     SOP 97-2. 
    The more significant factors considered in determining whether
    the revenue should be accounted for separately include the
    nature of services (i.e., consideration of whether the services
    are essential to the functionality of the licensed product),
    degree of risk, availability of services from other vendors,
    timing of payments and impact of milestones or acceptance
    criteria on the realizability of the software license fee.
    Revenues for consulting services are generally recognized as the
    services are performed. If there is a significant uncertainty
    about the project completion or receipt of payment for the
    consulting services, revenues are deferred until the uncertainty
    is sufficiently resolved. We estimate the proportional
    performance on contracts with fixed or  not to exceed 
    fees on a monthly basis utilizing hours incurred to date as a
    percentage of total estimated hours to complete the project. If
    we do not have a sufficient basis to measure progress towards
    completion, revenue is recognized when we receive final
    acceptance from the

31

Table of Contents   

customer. When total cost estimates exceed revenues, we accrue
    for the estimated losses immediately using cost estimates that
    are based upon an average fully burdened daily rate applicable
    to the consulting organization delivering the services. The
    complexity of the estimation process and factors relating to the
    assumptions, risks and uncertainties inherent with the
    application of the proportional performance method of accounting
    affects the amounts of revenues and related expenses reported in
    our consolidated financial statements. A number of internal and
    external factors can affect our estimates, including labor
    rates, utilization and efficiency variances and specification
    and testing requirement changes.

If an arrangement does not qualify for separate accounting of
    the software license and consulting transactions, then new
    software license revenues are generally recognized together with
    the consulting services based on contract accounting using
    either the percentage-of-completion or completed-contract
    method. Contract accounting is applied to any arrangements:
    (1) that include milestones or customer specific acceptance
    criteria that may affect collection of the software license
    fees; (2) where services include significant modification
    or customization of the software; (3) where significant
    consulting services are provided for in the software license
    contract without additional charge or are substantially
    discounted; or (4) where the software license payment is
    tied to the performance of consulting services.

On Demand is comprised of Oracle On Demand and Advanced Customer
    Services. Oracle On Demand provides multi-featured software and
    hardware management and maintenance services for our database,
    middleware and applications software delivered at our data
    center facilities, select partner data centers or customer
    facilities. Advanced Customer Services provide customers with
    solution lifecycle management services, database and application
    management services, industry-specific solution support centers
    and remote and
     on-site 
    expert services. Revenues from On Demand services are recognized
    over the term of the service period, which is generally one year.

Education revenues include instructor-led, media-based and
    internet-based training in the use of our products. Education
    revenues are recognized as the classes or other education
    offerings are delivered.

For arrangements with multiple elements, we allocate revenue to
    each element of a transaction based upon its fair value as
    determined by  vendor specific objective evidence. 
    Vendor specific objective evidence of fair value for all
    elements of an arrangement is based upon the normal pricing and
    discounting practices for those products and services when sold
    separately, and for software license updates and product support
    services is also measured by the renewal rate offered to the
    customer. We may modify our pricing practices in the future,
    which could result in changes in our vendor specific objective
    evidence of fair value for these undelivered elements. As a
    result, our future revenue recognition for multiple element
    arrangements could differ significantly from our historical
    results.

For software license arrangements that include hardware,
    software and services, and the software is more than incidental
    to the multiple element arrangement, but not essential to the
    functionality of the hardware, we apply the guidance of Emerging
    Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue
     No. 03-5, 
     Applicability of AICPA Statement of Position
     97-2  to
    Non-Software Deliverables in an Arrangement Containing
    More-Than-Incidental Software , which allows the non-software
    elements and related services to be accounted for pursuant to
    SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104,  Revenue
    Recognition  (Topic 13), and
     EITF 00-21, 
     Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables , and the
    software license and related services to be accounted for
    pursuant to
     SOP 97-2. 

We defer revenues for any undelivered elements, and recognize
    revenues when the product is delivered or over the period in
    which the service is performed, in accordance with our revenue
    recognition policy for each such element. If we cannot
    objectively determine the fair value of any undelivered element
    included in bundled software and service arrangements, we defer
    revenues until all elements are delivered and services have been
    performed, or until fair value can objectively be determined for
    any remaining undelivered elements. When the fair value of a
    delivered element has not been established, we use the residual
    method to record revenue if the fair value of all undelivered
    elements is determinable. Under the residual method, the fair
    value of the undelivered elements is deferred and the remaining
    portion of the arrangement fee is allocated to the delivered
    elements and is recognized as revenue.

Substantially all of our software license arrangements do not
    include acceptance provisions. However, if acceptance provisions
    exist as part of public policy, for example in agreements with
    government entities when acceptance periods are required by law,
    or within previously executed terms and conditions that are
    referenced in the current agreement and are short-term in
    nature, we generally recognize revenues upon delivery provided
    the acceptance

32

Table of Contents   

terms are perfunctory and all other revenue recognition criteria
    have been met. If acceptance provisions are not perfunctory (for
    example, acceptance provisions that are long-term in nature or
    are not included as standard terms of an arrangement), revenues
    are recognized upon the earlier of receipt of written customer
    acceptance or expiration of the acceptance period.

We also evaluate arrangements with governmental entities
    containing  fiscal funding  or  termination for
    convenience  provisions, when such provisions are required
    by law, to determine the probability of possible cancellation.
    We consider multiple factors, including the history with the
    customer in similar transactions, the  essential use 
    of the software licenses and the planning, budgeting and
    approval processes undertaken by the governmental entity. If we
    determine upon execution of these arrangements that the
    likelihood of cancellation is remote, we then recognize revenues
    once all of the criteria described above have been met. If such
    a determination cannot be made, revenues are recognized upon the
    earlier of cash receipt or approval of the applicable funding
    provision by the governmental entity.

We assess whether fees are fixed or determinable at the time of
    sale and recognize revenues if all other revenue recognition
    requirements are met. Our standard payment terms are
    net 30 days. However, payment terms may vary based on
    the country in which the agreement is executed. Payments that
    are due within six months are generally deemed to be fixed or
    determinable based on our successful collection history on such
    arrangements, and thereby satisfy the required criteria for
    revenue recognition.

While most of our arrangements include short-term payment terms,
    we have a standard practice of providing long-term financing to
    credit worthy customers through our financing division. Since
    fiscal 1989, when our financing division was formed, we have
    established a history of collection, without concessions, on
    these receivables with payment terms that generally extend up to
    five years from the contract date. Provided all other revenue
    recognition criteria have been met, we recognize new software
    license revenues for these arrangements upon delivery, net of
    any payment discounts from financing transactions. We have
    generally sold receivables financed through our financing
    division on a non-recourse basis to third party financing
    institutions. We account for the sale of these receivables as
     true sales  as defined in FASB Statement
    No. 140,  Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of
    Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities .

Our customers include several of our suppliers and on rare
    occasion, we have purchased goods or services for our operations
    from these vendors at or about the same time that we have
    licensed our software to these same companies (Concurrent
    Transaction). Software license agreements that occur within a
    three-month time period from the date we have purchased goods or
    services from that same customer are reviewed for appropriate
    accounting treatment and disclosure. When we acquire goods or
    services from a customer, we negotiate the purchase separately
    from any software license transaction, at terms we consider to
    be at arm s length, and settle the purchase in cash. We
    recognize new software license revenues from Concurrent
    Transactions if all of our revenue recognition criteria are met
    and the goods and services acquired are necessary for our
    current operations.

Business
    Combinations   

Fiscal
    2009 and Prior Periods  

In accordance with FASB Statement No. 141,  Business
    Combinations , we allocate the purchase price of acquired
    companies to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and
    liabilities assumed as well as to in-process research and
    development based upon their estimated fair values at the
    acquisition date. The purchase price allocation process requires
    our management to make significant estimates and assumptions,
    especially at the acquisition date with respect to intangible
    assets, support obligations assumed, estimated restructuring
    liabilities and pre-acquisition contingencies.

Although we believe the assumptions and estimates we have made
    in the past have been reasonable and appropriate, they are based
    in part on historical experience and information obtained from
    the management of the acquired companies and are inherently
    uncertain. Examples of critical estimates in valuing certain of
    the intangible assets we have acquired or may acquire in the
    future include but are not limited to:

future expected cash flows from software license sales, support
    agreements, consulting contracts, other customer contracts and
    acquired developed technologies and patents;

33

Table of Contents   

expected costs to develop the in-process research and
    development into commercially viable products and estimated cash
    flows from the projects when completed;

the acquired company s brand and competitive position, as
    well as assumptions about the period of time the acquired brand
    will continue to be used in the combined company s product
    portfolio; and

discount rates.

Unanticipated events and circumstances may occur that may affect
    the accuracy or validity of such assumptions, estimates or
    actual results.

In connection with the purchase price allocations for our
    acquisitions, we estimate the fair value of the support
    obligations assumed. The estimated fair value of the support
    obligations is determined utilizing a cost
     build-up 
    approach. The cost
     build-up 
    approach determines fair value by estimating the costs related
    to fulfilling the obligations plus a normal profit margin. The
    estimated costs to fulfill the support obligations are based on
    the historical direct costs related to providing the support
    services and to correct any errors in the software products
    acquired. The sum of these costs and operating profit
    approximates, in theory, the amount that we would be required to
    pay a third party to assume the support obligation. We do not
    include any costs associated with selling efforts or research
    and development or the related fulfillment margins on these
    costs. Profit associated with any selling efforts is excluded
    because the acquired entities would have concluded those selling
    efforts on the support contracts prior to the acquisition date.
    We also do not include the estimated research and development
    costs in our fair value determinations, as these costs are not
    deemed to represent a legal obligation at the time of
    acquisition.

As a result, we did not recognize software license updates and
    product support revenues related to support contracts in the
    amounts of $243 million, $179 million and
    $212 million that would have been otherwise recorded by the
    acquired businesses as independent entities in fiscal 2009, 2008
    and 2007, respectively. Historically, substantially all of our
    customers, including customers from acquired companies, renew
    their support contracts when the contracts are eligible for
    renewal. To the extent these underlying support contracts are
    renewed, we will recognize the revenues for the full value of
    the support contracts over the support periods, the substantial
    majority of which are one year. Had we included costs for our
    estimated selling and research and development activities and
    the associated margin for unspecified product upgrades and
    enhancements to be provided under our assumed support
    arrangements, the fair values of the support obligations would
    have been significantly higher than what we had recorded and we
    would have recorded a higher amount of software license updates
    and product support revenues both historically and in future
    periods related to these assumed support arrangements.

Other significant estimates associated with the accounting for
    business combinations include restructuring costs. Restructuring
    costs are typically comprised of severance costs, costs of
    consolidating duplicate facilities and contract termination
    costs. Restructuring expenses are based upon plans that have
    been committed to by management, but are generally subject to
    refinement during the purchase price allocation period
    (generally within one year of the acquisition date). To estimate
    restructuring expenses, management utilizes assumptions of the
    number of employees that would be involuntarily terminated and
    of future costs to operate and eventually vacate duplicate
    facilities. Estimated restructuring expenses may change as
    management executes the approved plan. Decreases to the cost
    estimates of executing the currently approved plans associated
    with pre-merger activities of the companies we acquire are
    recorded as an adjustment to goodwill indefinitely, whereas
    increases to the estimates are recorded as an adjustment to
    goodwill during the purchase price allocation period and as
    operating expenses thereafter.

For a given acquisition, we may identify certain pre-acquisition
    contingencies. If, during the purchase price allocation period,
    we are able to determine the fair value of a pre-acquisition
    contingency, we will include that amount in the purchase price
    allocation. If, as of the end of the purchase price allocation
    period, we are unable to determine the fair value of a
    pre-acquisition contingency, we will evaluate whether to include
    an amount in the purchase price allocation based on whether it
    is probable a liability had been incurred and whether an amount
    can be reasonably estimated. Through fiscal 2009, after the end
    of the purchase price allocation period, any adjustment to
    amounts recorded for a pre-acquisition contingency, with the
    exception of unresolved income tax matters, were included in our
    operating results in the period in which the adjustment was
    determined.

34

Table of Contents   

Fiscal
    2010  

In fiscal 2010, we will adopt FASB Statement No. 141
    (revised 2007),  Business Combinations . For any business
    combination that is consummated pursuant to Statement 141(R),
    including our proposed acquisition of Sun described above, we
    will recognize separately from goodwill, the identifiable assets
    acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling
    interests in the acquiree generally at their acquisition date
    fair values as defined by FASB Statement No. 157,  Fair
    Value Measurements . Goodwill as of the acquisition date is
    measured as the excess of consideration transferred, which is
    also generally measured at fair value, and the net of the
    acquisition date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and
    the liabilities assumed.

The determination of fair value will require our management to
    make significant estimates and assumptions, with respect to
    intangible assets acquired, support obligations assumed, and
    pre-acquisition contingencies. The assumptions and estimates
    used in determining the fair values of these items will be
    substantially similar upon our adoption of Statement 141(R) as
    they were under Statement 141 (see above).

The below discussion lists those areas of Statement 141(R) that
    we believe, upon our adoption, require us to apply additional,
    significant estimates and assumptions.

Upon our adoption of Statement 141(R), any changes to deferred
    tax asset valuation allowances and liabilities related to
    uncertain tax positions will be recorded in current period
    income tax expense, unless any such changes are identified
    during the measurement period (defined as the period, not to
    exceed one year, in which we may adjust the provisional amounts
    recognized for a business combination) and relate to new
    information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed
    as of the acquisition date. Our estimates for the ultimate
    outcome of income tax matters are based on the best information
    available to us as of the acquisition date and corresponding
    measurement period. Additional information may become available
    subsequent to the acquisition date and corresponding measurement
    period, which may require us to revise our estimates for these
    income tax matters. Such estimate revisions that do not qualify
    as measurement period adjustments will be recorded to our
    provision for income taxes in our consolidated statement of
    operations in the period the revision is made and could have a
    material impact on our results of operations and financial
    position.

Upon our adoption of Statement 141(R), we will account for
    one-time termination and exit costs associated with prospective
    acquisitions pursuant to FASB Statement No. 146,
     Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal
    Activities . Statement 146 requires that a liability for a
    cost associated with an exit or disposal activity be recognized
    and measured initially at its fair value in the period in which
    the liability is incurred. In order to incur a liability
    pursuant to Statement 146, our management must have established
    and approved a plan of restructuring in sufficient detail. A
    liability for a cost associated with involuntary termination
    benefits is recorded when benefits have been communicated and a
    liability for a cost to terminate an operating lease or other
    contract are incurred when the contract has been terminated in
    accordance with the contract terms or we have ceased using the
    right conveyed by the contract, such as vacating a leased
    facility. Statement 146 requires the use of assumptions and
    estimates, including estimated sub-lease payments to be
    received, which can differ materially from actual results. This
    may require us to revise our estimated liabilities and may
    materially affect our results of operations and financial
    position in the period the revision is made. In addition, the
    recognition of liabilities pursuant to Statement 146 are subject
    to certain criteria being met, such as the communication of
    benefits to be paid to employees and the cessation of benefits
    received under existing contracts, amongst others. These
    criteria can cause variability in the timing of recognition of
    restructuring liabilities, which could cause us to incur
    expenses in periods we had not expected and could materially
    affect our results of operations and financial position.

If the initial accounting for a business combination that is
    accounted for pursuant to Statement 141(R) is incomplete by the
    end of the reporting period in which the business combination
    occurs, we will report the provisional amounts for such items in
    our consolidated financial statements. During the measurement
    period, we will adjust the provisional amounts recognized at the
    acquisition date to reflect new information obtained about facts
    and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that,
    if known, would have affected the measurement of the amounts
    recognized as of that date and record those adjustments to our
    consolidated financial statements. Those measurement period
    adjustments that we determine to be significant will be applied
    retrospectively to comparative information in our consolidated
    financial statements, including adjustments to depreciation,
    amortization, or other income effects recognized in the initial
    accounting. Identifying changes to the initial accounting
    requires our

35

Table of Contents   

management to apply judgment in determining whether the
    subsequent information received relates to facts and
    circumstances that existed for the provisional items as of the
    acquisition date, including information that affects the
    estimated amounts involved. To the extent significant
    measurement period adjustments are identified, the comparative
    financial information we present for a reporting period could be
    materially revised in comparison to that which we had previously
    presented in our earnings releases and related filings with the
    U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).

Our adoption of Statement 141(R) in fiscal 2010 will also change
    how we account for certain other areas of business combinations
    in comparison to how these areas are currently accounted for
    pursuant to Statement 141 and related accounting guidance,
    including the expensing of direct transaction costs.

Goodwill
    and Intangible Assets Impairment Assessments   

We review goodwill for impairment annually and whenever events
    or changes in circumstances indicate its carrying value may not
    be recoverable in accordance with FASB Statement No. 142,
     Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets . The provisions of
    Statement 142 require that a two-step impairment test be
    performed on goodwill. In the first step, we compare the fair
    value of each reporting unit to its carrying value. Our
    reporting units are consistent with the reportable segments
    identified in Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the
    carrying value of the net assets assigned to that unit, goodwill
    is not considered impaired and we are not required to perform
    further testing. If the carrying value of the net assets
    assigned to the reporting unit exceeds the fair value of the
    reporting unit, then we must perform the second step of the
    impairment test in order to determine the implied fair value of
    the reporting unit s goodwill. If the carrying value of a
    reporting unit s goodwill exceeds its implied fair value,
    then we would record an impairment loss equal to the difference.

Determining the fair value of a reporting unit involves the use
    of significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and
    assumptions include revenue growth rates and operating margins
    used to calculate projected future cash flows, risk-adjusted
    discount rates, future economic and market conditions and
    determination of appropriate market comparables. We base our
    fair value estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable
    but that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. Actual
    future results may differ from those estimates. In addition, we
    make certain judgments and assumptions in allocating shared
    assets and liabilities to determine the carrying values for each
    of our reporting units. Our most recent annual goodwill
    impairment analysis, which was performed during the fourth
    quarter of fiscal 2009, did not result in an impairment charge,
    nor did we record any goodwill impairment in fiscal 2008 or 2007.

We make judgments about the recoverability of purchased
    intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances
    indicate that an other than temporary impairment may exist. Each
    period we evaluate the estimated remaining useful lives of
    purchased intangible assets and whether events or changes in
    circumstances warrant a revision to the remaining periods of
    amortization. In accordance with FASB Statement No. 144,
     Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived
    Assets , recoverability of these assets is measured by
    comparison of the carrying amount of the asset to the future
    undiscounted cash flows the asset is expected to generate. If
    the asset is considered to be impaired, the amount of any
    impairment is measured as the difference between the carrying
    value and the fair value of the impaired asset.

Assumptions and estimates about future values and remaining
    useful lives of our intangible and other long-lived assets are
    complex and subjective. They can be affected by a variety of
    factors, including external factors such as industry and
    economic trends, and internal factors such as changes in our
    business strategy and our internal forecasts. Although we
    believe the historical assumptions and estimates we have made
    are reasonable and appropriate, different assumptions and
    estimates could materially impact our reported financial
    results. We did not recognize any intangible asset impairment
    charges in fiscal 2009, 2008 or 2007.

Accounting
    for Income Taxes   

Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide
    income tax provision. In the ordinary course of a global
    business, there are many transactions and calculations where the
    ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. Some of these uncertainties
    arise as a consequence of revenue sharing and cost reimbursement
    arrangements among related entities, the process of identifying
    items of revenues and expenses that qualify for preferential tax
    treatment, and

36

Table of Contents   

segregation of foreign and domestic earnings and expenses to
    avoid double taxation. Although we believe that our estimates
    are reasonable, the final tax outcome of these matters could be
    different from that which is reflected in our historical income
    tax provisions and accruals. Such differences could have a
    material effect on our income tax provision and net income in
    the period in which such determination is made.

Our effective tax rate includes the impact of certain
    undistributed foreign earnings for which no U.S. taxes have
    been provided because such earnings are planned to be
    indefinitely reinvested outside the United States. Remittances
    of foreign earnings to the U.S. are planned based on
    projected cash flow, working capital and investment needs of our
    foreign and domestic operations. Based on these assumptions, we
    estimate the amount that will be distributed to the
    U.S. and provide U.S. federal taxes on these amounts.
    Material changes in our estimates or tax legislation that limits
    or restricts the amount of undistributed foreign earnings that
    we consider indefinitely reinvested outside the United States
    could impact our effective tax rate.

We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax
    assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be
    realized. In order for us to realize our deferred tax assets, we
    must be able to generate sufficient taxable income in those
    jurisdictions where the deferred tax assets are located. We
    consider future growth, forecasted earnings, future taxable
    income, the mix of earnings in the jurisdictions in which we
    operate and prudent and feasible tax planning strategies in
    determining the need for a valuation allowance. In the event we
    were to determine that we would not be able to realize all or
    part of our net deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment
    to the deferred tax assets valuation allowance would be charged
    to earnings in the period in which we make such a determination.
    Likewise, if we later determine that it is more likely than not
    that the net deferred tax assets would be realized, we would
    reverse the applicable portion of the previously provided
    valuation allowance.

We calculate our current and deferred tax provision based on
    estimates and assumptions that could differ from the actual
    results reflected in income tax returns filed during the
    subsequent year. Adjustments based on filed returns are
    generally recorded in the period when the tax returns are filed
    and the global tax implications are known, which can materially
    impact our effective tax rate.

The amount of income tax we pay is subject to ongoing audits by
    federal, state and foreign tax authorities, which often result
    in proposed assessments. Our estimate of the potential outcome
    for any uncertain tax issue is highly judgmental. We account for
    our uncertain tax issues pursuant to FASB Interpretation
    No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes
     (FIN 48), which contains a two-step approach to
    recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions taken or
    expected to be taken in a tax return. The first step is to
    determine if the weight of available evidence indicates that it
    is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained
    on audit, including resolution of any related appeals or
    litigation processes. The second step is to measure the tax
    benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely to be
    realized upon ultimate settlement. Although we believe we have
    adequately reserved for our uncertain tax positions, no
    assurance can be given with respect to the final outcome of
    these matters. We adjust reserves for our uncertain tax
    positions due to changing facts and circumstances, such as the
    closing of a tax audit, refinement of estimates or realization
    of earnings or deductions that differ from our estimates. To the
    extent that the final outcome of these matters is different than
    the amounts recorded, such differences will impact our provision
    for income taxes in the period in which such a determination is
    made. Our provisions for income taxes include the impact of
    reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered
    appropriate and also include the related interest and penalties.

As a part of our accounting for business combinations, some of
    the purchase price is allocated to goodwill and intangible
    assets. Impairment charges associated with goodwill are
    generally not tax deductible and will result in an increased
    effective income tax rate in the period that any impairment is
    recorded. Amortization expenses associated with acquired
    intangible assets are generally not tax deductible pursuant to
    our existing tax structure; however, deferred taxes have been
    recorded for non-deductible amortization expenses as a part of
    the purchase price allocation process. We have taken into
    account the allocation of these identified intangibles among
    different taxing jurisdictions, including those with nominal or
    zero percent tax rates, in establishing the related deferred tax
    liabilities.

As described in the  Business Combinations  section
    above, through fiscal 2009, income tax contingencies that exist
    as of the acquisition date for an acquired company are evaluated
    quarterly and any changes are recorded as adjustments to
    goodwill. For fiscal 2010, we will make our best estimate of
    income tax contingencies that we

37

Table of Contents   

assumed from our legacy acquisitions, and that we will assume
    from any future acquisitions, as of the acquisition date and
    during the related measurement period and we will reassess our
    estimates quarterly. Subsequent to the measurement period,
    adjustments to these income tax contingencies will affect our
    provision for income taxes in our consolidated statement of
    operations and could have a material impact on our results of
    operations and financial position.

Legal
    and Other Contingencies   

We are currently involved in various claims and legal
    proceedings. Quarterly, we review the status of each significant
    matter and assess our potential financial exposure. If the
    potential loss from any claim or legal proceeding is considered
    probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, we accrue a
    liability for the estimated loss. Significant judgment is
    required in both the determination of probability and the
    determination as to whether the amount of an exposure is
    reasonably estimable. Because of uncertainties related to these
    matters, accruals are based only on the best information
    available at the time. As additional information becomes
    available, we reassess the potential liability related to our
    pending claims and litigation and may revise our estimates. Such
    revisions in the estimates of the potential liabilities could
    have a material impact on our results of operations and
    financial position.

Stock-Based
    Compensation   

We account for share-based payments to employees, including
    grants of employee stock awards and purchases under employee
    stock purchase plans in accordance with FASB Statement
    No. 123 (revised 2004),  Share-Based Payment,  which
    requires that share-based payments (to the extent they are
    compensatory) be recognized in our consolidated statements of
    operations based on their fair values. In addition, we have
    applied certain of the provisions of the SEC s Staff
    Accounting Bulletin No. 107 (Topic 14), as amended, in
    our accounting for Statement 123(R).

We are required to estimate the stock awards that we ultimately
    expect to vest and to reduce stock-based compensation expense
    for the effects of estimated forfeitures of awards over the
    expense recognition period. Although we estimate the rate of
    future forfeitures upon historical experience, actual
    forfeitures in the future may differ. In addition, to the extent
    our actual forfeitures are different than our estimates, we
    record a
     true-up  for
    the difference in the period that the awards vest, and such
     true-ups 
    could materially affect our operating results.

As required by Statement 123(R), we recognize stock-based
    compensation expense for share-based payments issued or assumed
    after June 1, 2006 that are expected to vest. For all
    share-based payments granted or assumed beginning June 1,
    2006, we recognize stock-based compensation expense on a
    straight-line basis over the service period of the award, which
    is generally four years. The fair value of the unvested portion
    of share-based payments granted prior to June 1, 2006 is
    recognized over the remaining service period using the
    accelerated expense attribution method, net of estimated
    forfeitures. In determining whether an award is expected to
    vest, we use an estimated, forward-looking forfeiture rate based
    upon our historical forfeiture rates. Stock-based compensation
    expense recorded using an estimated forfeiture rate is updated
    for actual forfeitures quarterly. We also consider, each
    quarter, whether there have been any significant changes in
    facts and circumstances that would affect our expected
    forfeiture rate.

We estimate the fair value of employee stock options using a
    Black-Scholes valuation model. The fair value of an award is
    affected by our stock price on the date of grant as well as
    other assumptions including the estimated volatility of our
    stock price over the term of the awards and the estimated period
    of time that we expect employees to hold their stock options.
    The risk-free interest rate assumption we use is based upon
    United States treasury interest rates appropriate for the
    expected life of the awards. We use the implied volatility of
    our publicly traded, longest-term options in order to estimate
    future stock price trends as we believe that implied volatility
    is more representative of future stock price trends than
    historical volatility. In order to determine the estimated
    period of time that we expect employees to hold their stock
    options, we have used historical rates of employee groups by
    seniority of job classification. Our expected dividend rate was
    zero prior to our first dividend declaration in the fourth
    quarter of fiscal 2009 as we did not historically pay cash
    dividends on our common stock and did not anticipate doing so
    for the foreseeable future for grants issued prior to this
    declaration date. For grants issued subsequent to this dividend

38

Table of Contents   

declaration date, we used an annualized dividend yield based on
    the per share dividend declared by our Board of Directors. The
    aforementioned inputs entered into the option valuation model we
    use to fair value our stock awards are subjective estimates and
    changes to these estimates will cause the fair value of our
    stock awards and related stock-based compensation expense we
    record to vary.

We record deferred tax assets for stock-based awards that result
    in deductions on our income tax returns, based on the amount of
    stock-based compensation recognized and the statutory tax rate
    in the jurisdiction in which we will receive a tax deduction.
    Because the deferred tax assets we record are based upon the
    stock-based compensation expenses in a particular jurisdiction,
    the aforementioned inputs that affect the fair value of our
    stock awards may also indirectly affect our income tax expense.
    In addition, differences between the deferred tax assets
    recognized for financial reporting purposes and the actual tax
    deduction reported on our income tax returns are recorded in
    additional paid-in capital. If the tax deduction is less than
    the deferred tax asset, such shortfalls reduce our pool of
    excess tax benefits. If the pool of excess tax benefits is
    reduced to zero, then subsequent shortfalls would increase our
    income tax expense. Our pool of excess tax benefits is computed
    in accordance with the alternative transition method as
    prescribed under FASB Staff Position
     FAS 123R-3, 
     Transition Election to Accounting for the Tax Effects of
    Share-Based Payment Awards .

To the extent we change the terms of our employee stock-based
    compensation programs, experience market volatility in the
    pricing of our common stock that increases the implied
    volatility calculation of our publicly traded, longest-term
    options or refine different assumptions in future periods such
    as forfeiture rates that differ from our current estimates,
    amongst other potential impacts, the stock-based compensation
    expense that we record in future periods and the tax benefits
    that we realize may differ significantly from what we have
    recorded in previous reporting periods.

Allowances
    for Doubtful Accounts   

We make judgments as to our ability to collect outstanding
    receivables and provide allowances for the portion of
    receivables when collection becomes doubtful. Provisions are
    made based upon a specific review of all significant outstanding
    invoices. For those invoices not specifically reviewed,
    provisions are provided at differing rates, based upon the age
    of the receivable, the collection history associated with the
    geographic region that the receivable was recorded and current
    economic trends. If the historical data we use to calculate the
    allowances for doubtful accounts does not reflect the future
    ability to collect outstanding receivables, additional
    provisions for doubtful accounts may be needed and our future
    results of operations could be materially affected.

Results
    of Operations  

Impact
    of Acquisitions   

The comparability of our operating results in fiscal 2009
    compared to fiscal 2008 is impacted by our acquisitions,
    primarily the acquisition of BEA Systems, Inc. in our fourth
    quarter of fiscal 2008.

The comparability of our operating results in fiscal 2008
    compared to fiscal 2007 is primarily impacted by our acquisition
    of Hyperion Solutions Corporation in our fourth quarter of
    fiscal 2007 and our acquisition of BEA in our fourth quarter of
    fiscal 2008.

In our discussion of changes in our results of operations from
    fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008, and fiscal 2008 compared to
    fiscal 2007, we quantify the contribution of our acquired
    products to the growth in new software license revenues and to
    the growth in software license updates and product support
    revenues for the one year period subsequent to the acquisition
    date. We also present supplemental disclosure related to certain
    charges and gains. Although certain revenue and expense
    contributions from our acquisitions are quantifiable, we are
    unable to identify the following:

the contribution of the significant majority of our services
    revenues from acquired companies in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007
    as the significant majority of these services had been fully
    integrated into our existing operations; and

39

Table of Contents   

the contribution of the significant majority of the expenses
    associated with acquired products and services in fiscal 2009,
    2008 and 2007 as the significant majority of these expenses had
    been fully integrated into our existing operations.

We caution readers that the contribution from BEA products,
    which already have been integrated with Oracle s Fusion
    Middleware and are sold together, to our total database and
    middleware revenues during fiscal 2009 are based on our internal
    allocations that have been applied consistently.

We further caution readers that, while pre- and post-acquisition
    comparisons as well as the quantified amounts themselves may
    provide indications of general trends, the information has
    inherent limitations for the following reasons:

the quantifications cannot address the substantial effects
    attributable to our sales force integration efforts, in
    particular the effect of having a single sales force offer
    similar products. We believe that if our sales forces had not
    been integrated, the relative mix of products sold would have
    been different;

our acquisitions in the periods presented did not result in our
    entry into a new line of business or product
    category therefore, we provided multiple products with
    substantially similar features and functionality; and

although substantially all of our customers, including customers
    from acquired companies, renew their software license updates
    and product support contracts when the contracts are eligible
    for renewal, amounts shown as support deferred revenues in our
    supplemental disclosure related to certain charges and gains
    (see below) are not necessarily indicative of revenue
    improvements we will achieve upon contract renewal to the extent
    customers do not renew.

Constant
    Currency Presentation   

Our international operations have provided and will continue to
    provide a significant portion of our total revenues and
    expenses. As a result, total revenues and expenses will continue
    to be affected by changes in the U.S. Dollar against major
    international currencies. In order to provide a framework for
    assessing how our underlying businesses performed excluding the
    effect of foreign currency fluctuations, we compare the percent
    change in the results from one period to another period in this
    Annual Report using constant currency disclosure. To present
    this information, current and comparative prior period results
    for entities reporting in currencies other than
    U.S. Dollars are converted into U.S. Dollars at
    constant exchange rates (i.e. the rates in effect on
    May 31, 2008, which was the last day of our prior fiscal
    year) rather than the actual exchange rates in effect during the
    respective periods. For example, if an entity reporting in Euros
    had revenues of 1.0 million Euros from products sold on
    May 31, 2009 and May 31, 2008, our financial
    statements would reflect reported revenues of $1.39 million
    in fiscal 2009 (using 1.39 as the month-end average exchange
    rate for the period) and $1.57 million in fiscal 2008
    (using 1.57 as the month-end average exchange rate for the
    period). The constant currency presentation would translate the
    fiscal 2009 results using the fiscal 2008 exchange rate and
    indicate, in this example, no change in revenues during the
    period. In each of the tables below, we present the percent
    change based on actual, unrounded results in reported currency
    and in constant currency.

40

Table of Contents   

Total
    Revenues and Operating Expenses   

(1)   

Comprised of Europe, the Middle
    East and Africa

(2)   

Asia Pacific includes Japan

Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal
    2008:    Our operating results for fiscal 2009
    were significantly impacted by the strengthening of the
    U.S. Dollar relative to other major international
    currencies. These currency variances resulted in a reduction to
    our total revenues growth of 6 percentage points during
    fiscal 2009. On a constant currency basis, total revenues
    increased in fiscal 2009 primarily due to higher software
    license update and product support revenues in all regions due
    to the high attachment rate of support contracts to our new
    software license sales and the renewal of substantially all of
    our eligible customer support contracts, incremental revenues
    from our recent acquisitions, primarily our acquisition of BEA
    in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, and increased demand for
    our On Demand service offerings. On a constant currency basis,
    new software license revenues contributed 5% to the growth in
    total revenues, software license updates and product support
    revenues contributed 92% and services revenues contributed 3%.
    Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas
    contributed 39% to the increase in total revenues, EMEA
    contributed 42% and Asia Pacific contributed 19%.

Currency variances resulted in a reduction to our total
    operating expense growth of 5 percentage points during
    fiscal 2009. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations,
    the increase in operating expenses in fiscal 2009 is primarily
    due to higher salary expenses associated with increased
    headcount levels from acquisitions (primarily BEA) and higher
    amortization of intangible assets resulting from our
    acquisitions (primarily BEA) that we completed since the
    beginning of fiscal 2008. In addition, acquisition related and
    other expenses increased during fiscal 2009 due to a
    $57 million gain on property sale recognized in fiscal
    2008, which decreased operating expenses in that period. These
    increases were partially offset by constant currency decreases
    in our commissions and bonus expenses.

Currency variances resulted in a reduction of 9 percentage
    points to our total operating margin growth during fiscal 2009.
    On a constant and reported currency basis, total operating
    margin and total operating margin as a percentage

41

Table of Contents   

of total revenues increased during fiscal 2009 as the growth
    rate of our total revenues exceeded the growth rate of our total
    operating expenses. The growth rate in our total operating
    expenses was significantly impacted by the growth rate in our
    intangible asset amortization, which was primarily due to
    intangible assets acquired as a part of the BEA transaction at
    the end of fiscal 2008, and to a lesser extent, our
    restructuring expenses growth.

Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal
    2007:    Total revenues increased in fiscal 2008
    due to increased demand for our products and services offerings
    and incremental revenues from our acquisitions. The growth in
    our total revenues was positively affected by foreign currency
    rate fluctuations of 6 percentage points in fiscal 2008 due
    to the weakening of the U.S. Dollar relative to other major
    international currencies. Excluding the effect of currency rate
    fluctuations, new software license revenues contributed 38% to
    the growth in total revenues, software license updates and
    product support revenues contributed 45% and services revenues
    contributed 17%. Excluding the effect of currency rate
    fluctuations, the Americas contributed 50% to the increase in
    total revenues, EMEA contributed 37% and Asia Pacific
    contributed 13%.

Total operating expenses were adversely affected by foreign
    currency rate fluctuations of 4 percentage points.
    Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the increase
    in operating expenses was primarily due to higher salary and
    employee benefits associated with increased headcount levels
    (primarily resulting from our fiscal 2007 acquisitions, our
    acquisition of Agile Software Corporation in the first quarter
    of fiscal 2008 and, to a lesser extent, our acquisition of BEA
    in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008), as well as higher
    commissions and bonuses associated with increased revenues,
    earnings and headcount levels. In addition, operating expenses
    also increased in fiscal 2008 due to higher amortization of
    intangible assets and additional stock-based compensation
    resulting from a higher fair value of grants (caused primarily
    by our higher stock price) issued in fiscal 2008 and the
    acceleration of vesting of certain acquired stock awards upon
    employee terminations pursuant to the original terms of those
    awards. Total operating expenses in fiscal 2007 were also
    reduced by a $52 million benefit as a result of a
    settlement of an acquired legal contingency from PeopleSoft for
    less than the amount accrued as of the end of the purchase price
    allocation period. The increases in operating expenses during
    fiscal 2008 were partially offset by a $57 million gain on
    property sale and a $127 million reduction of in-process
    research and development.

Total operating margin as a percentage of total revenues
    increased during fiscal 2008. The growth in our operating margin
    in fiscal 2008 was the result of our revenue growth, both
    organic and from acquisitions, which generally exceeded the
    growth rate of the majority of our expenses. In addition, our
    reported operating margin growth was favorably affected by
    foreign currency rate fluctuations of 9 percentage points.

Supplemental
    Disclosure Related to Certain Charges and Gains  

To supplement our consolidated financial information we believe
    the following information is helpful to an overall understanding
    of our past financial performance and prospects for the future.
    You should review the introduction under  Impact of
    Acquisitions  (above) for a discussion of the inherent
    limitations in comparing pre- and post-acquisition information.

Our operating results include the following business combination
    accounting adjustments and expenses related to acquisitions as
    well as certain other significant expense and income items:

(1)   

In connection with purchase price
    allocations related to our acquisitions, we have estimated the
    fair values of the support obligations assumed. Due to our
    application of business combination accounting rules, we did not
    recognize software license updates and product support revenues
    related to support contracts that would have otherwise been
    recorded by the acquired

42

Table of Contents   

businesses as independent entities,
    in the amounts of $243 million, $179 million and
    $212 million in fiscal 2009, fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007,
    respectively. Approximately $21 million of estimated
    software license updates and product support revenues related to
    support contracts assumed will not be recognized in fiscal 2010
    that would otherwise be recognized by the acquired businesses as
    independent entities due to the application of these business
    combination accounting rules. To the extent customers renew
    these support contracts, we expect to recognize revenues for the
    full contract value over the support renewal period.

(2)   

Represents the amortization of
    intangible assets acquired in connection with our acquisitions,
    primarily BEA, Hyperion, Siebel and PeopleSoft. As of
    May 31, 2009, estimated future amortization expenses
    related to intangible assets, excluding the impact of additional
    intangible assets through any subsequent acquisitions, such as
    from our proposed acquisition of Sun, are as follows (in
    millions):

(3)   

Acquisition related and other
    expenses primarily consist of in-process research and
    development expenses, stock-based compensation expenses,
    integration related professional services, personnel related
    costs for transitional and other employees, certain business
    combination adjustments after the purchase price allocation
    period has ended, and certain other operating expenses (income),
    net. For fiscal 2008, acquisition related and other expenses
    include a gain on property sale of $57 million and, for
    fiscal 2007, acquisition related and other expenses include a
    benefit of $52 million related to the settlement of a
    pre-acquisition lawsuit against PeopleSoft (see Note 1 of
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further
    information). In fiscal 2010, certain of the items that we
    record to acquisition related and other expenses will change as
    a result of our adoption of Statement 141(R), which could
    materially impact our consolidated financial statements (see
    further discussion in  Critical Accounting Policies and
    Estimates  above).

(4)   

Restructuring expenses during
    fiscal 2009 and 2008 relate to Oracle employee severance in
    connection with our Fiscal 2009 Oracle Restructuring Plan that
    was initiated in the third quarter of fiscal 2009 and our Fiscal
    2008 Oracle Restructuring Plan that was initiated in the second
    quarter, and amended in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008.
    Restructuring costs during fiscal 2007 relate to an Oracle-based
    restructuring plan initiated in the third quarter of fiscal 2006
    for which additional expenses were recorded during fiscal 2007.
    In connection with any acquisition that we close in fiscal 2010,
    we will record involuntary termination and other exit costs
    associated with the acquisition to restructuring expenses as a
    result of our adoption of Statement 141(R), which is a change
    from current practice pursuant to existing accounting standards
    and could materially impact our consolidated financial
    statements (see further discussion in  Critical Accounting
    Policies and Estimates  above).

(5)   

Stock-based compensation is
    included in the following operating expense line items of our
    consolidated statements of operations (in millions):

Stock-based compensation included
    in acquisition related and other expenses resulted from unvested
    options assumed from acquisitions whose vesting was accelerated
    upon termination of the employees pursuant to the terms of those
    options.

(6)   

The income tax effects presented
    were calculated as if the above described charges were not
    included in our results of operations for each of the respective
    periods presented. Income tax effects were calculated reflecting
    an effective tax rate of 28.7% for fiscal 2009 instead of 28.6%,
    which represented our effective tax rate as derived per our
    consolidated statement of operations, due to the exclusion of
    the effect of an adjustment to our non-current deferred tax
    liability associated with acquired intangible assets. The income
    tax effects presented for fiscal 2008 and 2007 were calculated
    based on our effective tax rates of 29.5% and 28.6%,
    respectively.

43

Table of Contents   

Software  

Software includes new software licenses and software license
    updates and product support.

New Software Licenses:    New software
    license revenues represent fees earned from granting customers
    licenses to use our database and middleware as well as our
    application software products. We continue to place significant
    emphasis, both domestically and internationally, on direct sales
    through our own sales force. We also continue to market our
    products through indirect channels. Sales and marketing expenses
    are largely personnel related and include commissions earned by
    our sales force for the sale of our software products, and also
    include marketing program costs and amortization of intangible
    assets.

(1)   

Excluding stock-based compensation

(2)   

Included as a component of
     Amortization of Intangible Assets  in our
    consolidated statements of operations

Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal
    2008:    New software license revenues growth
    was unfavorably affected by foreign currency rate fluctuations
    of 6 percentage points in fiscal 2009. Excluding the effect
    of currency rate fluctuations, total new software license
    revenues increased slightly in fiscal 2009 as a result of a 7%
    increase in database and middleware revenues, partially offset
    by a 10% decrease in applications revenues. Excluding the effect
    of currency rate fluctuations, the EMEA and Asia Pacific regions
    increased new software license revenues by 6% and 7%,
    respectively, and were partially offset by a decrease of 4% in
    the Americas region.

Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations of
    7 percentage points, database and middleware revenues grew
    7% in fiscal 2009 due primarily to BEA products and, to a lesser
    extent, other recently acquired products. In

44

Table of Contents   

reported currency, BEA products contributed $459 million,
    and other recently acquired products contributed
    $21 million to the total database and middleware revenues
    growth in fiscal 2009. The revenue contributions from BEA
    products, which already have been integrated with Oracle s
    Fusion Middleware and are sold together, are based on our
    internal allocations consistent with previous periods.

Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations of
    6 percentage points, application new software license
    revenues decreased in fiscal 2009 due to weaker global economic
    conditions and were partially offset by incremental revenues
    from our recent acquisitions. In reported currency, Primavera
    products contributed $33 million and our other recently
    acquired products contributed an incremental $27 million to
    our applications revenues in fiscal 2009.

In reported currency, new software license revenues earned from
    transactions over $0.5 million declined by 7% in fiscal
    2009, primarily due to unfavorable currency variations, and
    decreased to 50% of new software license revenues in fiscal 2009
    from 51% in fiscal 2008.

Total sales and marketing expenses were favorably impacted by
    5 percentage points of currency variations during fiscal
    2009. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, sales
    and marketing expenses increased in fiscal 2009 primarily due to
    higher salaries from increased headcount and higher amortization
    of intangible assets. These constant currency increases were
    partially offset by a reduction in our commissions and bonus
    expenses.

In both reported and constant currency, total new software
    license margin and margin as a percentage of revenues decreased
    as our total new software license expenses growth, in particular
    higher amortization of intangible assets, exceeded our revenues
    growth.

Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal
    2007:    New software license revenues growth
    was positively affected by foreign currency rate fluctuations of
    7 percentage points in fiscal 2008. Excluding the effect of
    currency rate fluctuations, new software license revenues grew
    in all major product lines and across all geographies, with
    database and middleware revenues contributing 55% to the
    increase in new software license revenues and applications
    revenues contributing 45%. Excluding the effect of currency rate
    fluctuations, the Americas contributed 52%, EMEA contributed 39%
    and Asia Pacific contributed 9% to the increase in new software
    license revenues.

Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, database and
    middleware revenues grew 17% in fiscal 2008 as a result of
    increased demand for our database and middleware products as
    well as incremental revenues from acquired companies. Hyperion
    products contributed $103 million, BEA products contributed
    $93 million, Stellent products contributed
    $37 million, Tangosol products contributed $18 million
    and other recently acquired products contributed $2 million
    to the total database and middleware revenues growth in fiscal
    2008.

On a constant currency basis, applications revenues increased
    33% in fiscal 2008. Hyperion products contributed
    $199 million, Agile products contributed $58 million,
    Metasolv products contributed $14 million, and other
    recently acquired products contributed $42 million to the
    total applications revenues growth in fiscal 2008.

In reported currency, new software license revenues earned from
    transactions over $0.5 million grew by 42% in fiscal 2008
    and increased from 46% of new software license revenues in
    fiscal 2007 to 51% in fiscal 2008.

Sales and marketing expenses were adversely impacted by
    5 percentage points of unfavorable currency variations
    during fiscal 2008. Excluding the effect of currency rate
    fluctuations, sales and marketing expenses increased in fiscal
    2008 primarily due to higher salaries, benefits and travel
    expenses resulting from increased headcount, higher commissions
    expenses associated with both increased revenues and headcount
    levels, and an increase in planned marketing program expenses.
    These increases were partially offset by a $42 million
    reduction in litigation related expenses resulting primarily
    from the settlement of certain legal matters during the third
    quarter of fiscal 2008.

Total new software license margin and margin as a percentage of
    revenues increased due to our new software licenses revenues
    growth rate and a favorable foreign currency impact, partially
    offset by higher growth rates in our amortization of intangible
    assets and stock-based compensation expenses.

Software License Updates and Product
    Support:    Software license updates grant
    customers rights to unspecified software product upgrades and
    maintenance releases issued during the support period. Product
    support includes internet access to technical content as well as
    internet and telephone access to technical support personnel in
    our global support centers. Expenses associated with our
    software license updates and product support line of business
    include

45

Table of Contents   

the cost of providing the support services, largely personnel
    related expenses, and the amortization of our intangible assets
    associated with software support contracts and customer
    relationships obtained from our acquisitions.

(1)   

Excluding stock-based compensation

(2)   

Included as a component of
     Amortization of Intangible Assets  in our
    consolidated statements of operations

Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal
    2008:    The growth in our software license
    updates and product support revenues was unfavorably affected by
    foreign currency rate fluctuations of 5 percentage points
    in fiscal 2009. Excluding the effect of currency rate
    fluctuations, software license updates and product support
    revenues increased in fiscal 2009 as a result of new software
    licenses sold with substantially all customers electing to
    purchase support contracts during fiscal 2009, the renewal of
    substantially all of the customer base eligible for renewal in
    the current fiscal year and incremental revenues from the
    expansion of our customer base from our acquisitions. Excluding
    the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas
    contributed 49%, EMEA contributed 38% and Asia Pacific
    contributed 13% to the increase in software license updates and
    product support revenues.

In reported currency, software license updates and product
    support revenues in fiscal 2009 include incremental revenues of
    $540 million from BEA, $20 million from Primavera and
    $49 million from other recently acquired companies. As a
    result of our acquisitions, we recorded adjustments to reduce
    support obligations assumed to their estimated fair values at
    the acquisition dates. Due to our application of business
    combination accounting rules, software license updates and
    product support revenues related to support contracts in the
    amounts of $243 million, $179 million and
    $212 million that would have been otherwise recorded by our
    acquired businesses as independent entities, were not recognized
    in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Historically,
    substantially all of our customers, including customers from
    acquired companies, renew their support contracts when such
    contracts are eligible for renewal. To the extent these
    underlying support contracts are renewed, we will recognize the
    revenues for the full value of these contracts over the support
    periods, the substantial majority of which are one year.

Total software license updates and product support expenses were
    favorably impacted by 3 percentage points of currency
    variations during fiscal 2009. Excluding the effect of currency
    rate fluctuations, software license updates and product support
    expenses increased due to higher salary expenses associated with
    increased headcount to support the expansion of our customer
    base and higher amortization expenses resulting from additional
    intangible assets acquired since the beginning of fiscal 2008,
    both of which were primarily attributable to our acquisition of
    BEA in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008.

46

Table of Contents   

Total software license updates and product support margin
    increased due to an increase in revenues, while margin as a
    percentage of revenues decreased slightly as the growth in our
    amortization of intangible assets exceeded our revenues growth.

Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal
    2007:    The growth in our software license
    updates and product support revenues was favorably affected by
    foreign currency rate fluctuations of 6 percentage points
    in fiscal 2008. Excluding the effect of currency rate
    fluctuations, software license updates and product support
    revenues increased in fiscal 2008 in comparison to fiscal 2007
    for similar reasons as those noted above. Excluding the effect
    of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 53%,
    EMEA contributed 36% and Asia Pacific contributed 11% to the
    increase in software license updates and product support
    revenues. Software license updates and product support revenues
    in fiscal 2008 included incremental revenues of
    $303 million from Hyperion, $38 million from BEA,
    $38 million from Agile, $30 million from Stellent,
    $25 million from Metasolv, and $46 million from other
    recently acquired companies.

Software license updates and product support expenses were
    adversely impacted by 3 percentage points of unfavorable
    currency variations during fiscal 2008. Excluding the effect of
    currency rate fluctuations, software license updates and product
    support expenses increased due to higher salary and benefits
    associated with increased headcount to support the expansion of
    our customer base, higher bonuses and commissions, and higher
    amortization expenses resulting from additional intangible
    assets acquired since the beginning of fiscal 2007. Total
    software license updates and product support margin and margin
    as a percentage of revenues increased as our revenues grew
    faster than expenses, but was partially offset by a higher
    growth rate in our amortization of intangible assets.

Services  

Services consist of consulting, On Demand and education.

Consulting:    Consulting revenues are
    earned by providing services to customers in the design,
    implementation, deployment and upgrade of our database and
    middleware software products as well as applications software
    products. The cost of providing consulting services consists
    primarily of personnel related expenditures.

(1)   

Excluding stock-based compensation

(2)   

Included as a component of
     Amortization of Intangible Assets  in our
    consolidated statements of operations

Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal
    2008:    Consulting revenues were unfavorably
    affected by foreign currency rate fluctuations of
    6 percentage points in fiscal 2009. Excluding the effect of
    currency rate fluctuations, we believe the

47

Table of Contents   

decline in our consulting revenues was generally due to weaker
    demand resulting from a deterioration of global economic
    conditions in comparison to fiscal 2008. This decrease was
    partially offset by incremental contributions from our recent
    acquisitions.

In constant currency, consulting expenses decreased during
    fiscal 2009 as a result of lower salary expenses due to a
    decrease in headcount and lower commissions and bonus expenses.
    These decreases were partially offset by higher infrastructure
    and travel expenses (the majority of travel expenses are
    billable to customers).

Consulting margin and margin as a percentage of revenues
    increased in fiscal 2009 as our expenses declined at a greater
    rate than our revenues.

Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal
    2007:    Consulting revenues growth was
    positively affected by foreign currency rate fluctuations of
    6 percentage points in fiscal 2008. Excluding the effect of
    currency rate fluctuations, consulting revenues increased during
    fiscal 2008 primarily due to an increase in application product
    implementations associated with the sales of our application
    software products and incremental revenues from our recent
    acquisitions, primarily Hyperion and BEA. Excluding the effect
    of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 36%,
    EMEA contributed 35% and Asia Pacific contributed 29% to the
    increase in consulting revenues.

Consulting expenses were adversely impacted by 6 percentage
    points of unfavorable currency variations during fiscal 2008.
    Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, consulting
    expenses increased during fiscal 2008 as a result of higher
    personnel related expenses attributable to higher headcount
    levels and third party contractor expenses that supported our
    increase in revenues.

Total consulting margin as a percentage of revenues remained
    constant during fiscal 2008 as margin improvements in the EMEA
    and Asia Pacific regions were offset by expense growth in the
    Americas region and for our Oracle Financial Software Services
    Limited subsidiary (formerly, i-flex solutions limited) and an
    increase in our amortization of intangible asset expenses.

On Demand:    On Demand includes our
    Oracle On Demand and Advanced Customer Services offerings.
    Oracle On Demand provides multi-featured software and hardware
    management, and maintenance services for our database and
    middleware as well as our applications software delivered either
    at our data center facilities, at select partner data centers,
    or at customer facilities. Advanced Customer Services consists
    of solution lifecycle management services, database and
    application management services, industry-specific solution
    support centers and remote and
     on-site 
    expert services. The cost of providing On Demand services
    consists primarily of personnel related expenditures, technology
    infrastructure expenditures and facilities costs.

48

Table of Contents   

(1)   

Excluding stock-based compensation

(2)   

Included as a component of
     Amortization of Intangible Assets  in our
    consolidated statements of operations

Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008:    On
    Demand revenue growth was unfavorably affected by foreign
    currency rate fluctuations of 6 percentage points in fiscal
    2009. On Demand revenues increased in fiscal 2009 due to an
    increase in each service category s subscription base as a
    greater number of customers engaged us to provide IT services
    and outsourcing solutions. On a constant currency basis,
    Advanced Customer Services contributed the majority of our On
    Demand revenues growth. Excluding the effect of currency rate
    fluctuations, the Americas contributed 52%, EMEA contributed 23%
    and Asia Pacific contributed 25% to the increase in On Demand
    revenues.

Excluding the effect of favorable currency rate fluctuations of
    5 percentage points, On Demand expenses increased modestly
    in fiscal 2009 due to higher personnel related costs resulting
    from additional employees hired to support the increase in On
    Demand revenues. This expense increase was partially offset by a
    shift of certain U.S. based costs to global support centers
    in lower cost countries.

Total On Demand margin and margin as a percentage of revenues
    improved primarily as a result of our Oracle On Demand business,
    which increased revenues while managing operating expenses to a
    modest level of growth in comparison to fiscal 2008. Our
    Advanced Customer Services margin and margin percentages also
    improved in comparison to fiscal 2008.

Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007:    On
    Demand revenue growth was positively affected by foreign
    currency rate fluctuations of 6 percentage points in fiscal
    2008. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, On
    Demand revenues increased in fiscal 2008 due to similar reasons
    as noted above. On a constant currency basis, Oracle On Demand
    and Advanced Customer Services contributed approximately equal
    amounts to the growth in On Demand revenues. Excluding the
    effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed
    53%, EMEA contributed 29% and Asia Pacific contributed 18% to
    the increase in On Demand revenues.

Excluding the effect of unfavorable currency rate fluctuations
    of 4 percentage points, On Demand expenses increased in
    fiscal 2008 due to higher salaries and benefits expenses
    associated with increased headcount, and higher technology
    infrastructure related expenses to support the expansion of our
    customer base. These expense increases were partially offset by
    a shift of certain U.S. based costs to global support
    centers in lower cost countries.

49

Table of Contents   

Total On Demand margin as a percentage of revenues improved
    primarily as a result of our Oracle On Demand business, which
    increased revenues while managing operating expenses to a level
    consistent with fiscal 2007. Our Advanced Customer Services
    margin and margin percentages also improved in comparison to
    fiscal 2007.

Education:    Education revenues are
    earned by providing instructor-led, media-based and
    internet-based training in the use of our database and
    middleware software products as well as applications software
    products. Education expenses primarily consist of personnel
    related expenditures, facilities and external contractor costs.

(1)   

Excluding stock-based compensation

Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal
    2008:    Excluding the effect of unfavorable
    currency rate fluctuations of 4 percentage points,
    education revenues decreased in fiscal 2009 as we experienced
    weaker demand for our educational services that we believe was
    the result of weaker global economic conditions.

Excluding the effect of favorable currency rate fluctuations of
    5 percentage points, education expenses declined in
    comparison to fiscal 2008, due to headcount reductions
    associated with restructuring actions taken and a reduction in
    other variable costs associated with the decline in business
    activity.

Education margin and margin as a percentage of revenues
    decreased in fiscal 2009 due to a reduction in our revenues,
    which declined at a higher rate than our expense reductions.

Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal
    2007:    Education revenues growth was
    positively affected by foreign currency rate fluctuations of
    6 percentage points in fiscal 2008. Excluding the effect of
    currency rate fluctuations, education revenues increased in
    fiscal 2008 due primarily to an increase in customer training on
    the use of our applications products, including our acquired
    products. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations,
    the Americas contributed 39%, EMEA contributed 36% and Asia
    Pacific contributed 25% to the increase in education revenues.

Excluding the effect of unfavorable currency rate fluctuations
    of 7 percentage points, education expenses increased due to
    higher personnel related expenses during the first half of
    fiscal 2008 and were partially offset by lower personnel related
    expenses in the second half of fiscal 2008 as a result of
    restructuring actions taken.

Education margin and margin as a percentage of revenues
    increased slightly in fiscal 2008 as revenue growth exceeded
    expense growth.

50

Table of Contents   

Research and Development
    Expenses:    Research and development expenses
    consist primarily of personnel related expenditures. We intend
    to continue to invest significantly in our research and
    development efforts because, in our judgment, they are essential
    to maintaining our competitive position.

(1)   

Excluding stock-based compensation

Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal
    2008:    Total research and development expenses
    were favorably affected by 3 percentage points of currency
    variations during fiscal 2009. On a constant currency basis,
    total research and development expenses increased as salary
    expenses from higher headcount and increased stock-based
    compensation expenses were partially offset by a decrease in
    bonus expenses. The increase in our headcount was the combined
    result of our recent acquisitions, primarily BEA, and our hiring
    of additional personnel to develop new functionality for our
    existing products. Research and development headcount as of the
    end of fiscal 2009 increased by approximately
    1,500 employees, or 7%, in comparison to the end of fiscal
    2008.

Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal
    2007:    Excluding the effect of currency rate
    fluctuations, research and development expenses increased in
    fiscal 2008 due to higher employee related expenses associated
    with higher headcount levels, including higher stock-based
    compensation expenses, and $46 million of expenses
    pertaining to certain legal-related matters. The increase in our
    headcount was the combined result of acquisitions, primarily
    BEA, and hiring of additional resources to develop new
    functionality for our existing products. Research and
    development headcount as of the end of fiscal 2008 increased by
    approximately 2,550 employees in comparison to the end of
    fiscal 2007.

General and Administrative
    Expenses:    General and administrative expenses
    primarily consist of personnel related expenditures for
    information technology, finance, legal and human resources
    support functions.

(1)   

Excluding stock-based compensation

Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal
    2008:    Total general and administrative
    expenses were affected by 4 percentage points of favorable
    currency variations during fiscal 2009. Excluding the effect of
    currency rate fluctuations, general and administrative expenses
    increased slightly during fiscal 2009 as a result of increased
    professional services fees and increased stock-based
    compensation expenses, which were almost entirely offset by
    decreases in bonuses expenses and certain of our benefits
    expenses, including a reduction in our deferred compensation
    expenses (see discussion under  Non-Operating Income,
    net  below).

Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal
    2007:    Excluding the effect of currency rate
    fluctuations, general and administrative expenses increased
    during fiscal 2008 as a result of higher personnel related costs
    associated with increased headcount to support our expanding
    operations and increased stock-based compensation expenses.

51

Table of Contents   

Amortization of Intangible Assets:  

Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal
    2008:    Amortization of intangible assets
    increased in fiscal 2009 due to the amortization of acquired
    intangibles from BEA and other acquisitions that we consummated
    since the beginning of fiscal 2008. See Note 6 of Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information
    regarding our intangible assets (including weighted average
    useful lives) and related amortization.

Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal
    2007:    Amortization of intangible assets
    increased in fiscal 2008 due to the amortization of acquired
    intangibles from Hyperion, BEA and other acquisitions that we
    consummated since the beginning of fiscal 2007.

Acquisition Related and Other
    Expenses:    Acquisition related and other
    expenses primarily consist of in-process research and
    development expenses, integration related professional services,
    stock-based compensation expenses, personnel related costs for
    transitional and other employees, certain business combination
    adjustments after the purchase price allocation period has
    ended, and certain other expenses (income), net. Stock-based
    compensation expenses included in acquisition related and other
    expenses relate to unvested options assumed from acquisitions
    whereby vesting was accelerated upon termination of the
    employees pursuant to the original terms of those options.

*   

Not meaningful

Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008:    On
    a constant currency basis, acquisition related and other
    expenses decreased slightly due to lower stock-based
    compensation expenses in fiscal 2009 caused primarily by the
    timing of stock option accelerations for certain former Hyperion
    and BEA employees that were incurred in the first and fourth
    quarters of fiscal 2008 and lower in-process research and
    development expenses. These decreases were almost entirely
    offset by higher transitional and other employee related
    expenses resulting primarily from our acquisition of BEA, an
    increase in professional fees and an increase in certain
    acquisition related adjustments subsequent to the end of the
    purchase price allocation period. In addition, we also
    recognized a gain on property sale (described above) in fiscal
    2008, which reduced expenses in that period.

In fiscal 2010, the items that we record to acquisition related
    and other expenses will change as a result of our adoption of
    Statement 141(R), which could materially impact our consolidated
    financial statements (see further discussion in  Critical
    Accounting Policies and Estimates  above and in Note 1
    of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements).

52

Table of Contents   

Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal
    2007:    Acquisition related and other expenses
    decreased during fiscal 2008 due to lower in-process research
    and development acquired as a part of our fiscal 2008
    acquisitions in comparison to our fiscal 2007 acquisitions and a
    gain on a property sale. These decreases to acquisition related
    and other expenses were partially offset by higher transitional
    employee related expenses and increased stock-based compensation
    expenses due to the acceleration of certain acquired employee
    stock options, primarily Hyperion and BEA, pursuant to the terms
    of those options. Total operating expenses in fiscal 2007 were
    also reduced by a $52 million benefit as a result of a
    settlement of an acquired legal contingency from PeopleSoft for
    less than the amount accrued as of the end of the purchase price
    allocation period (see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements for further discussion).

Restructuring expenses:    Restructuring
    expenses consist primarily of Oracle employee severance costs
    and may also include charges for duplicate facilities in order
    to improve our Oracle-based cost structure prospectively. For
    additional information regarding our Oracle-based restructuring
    plans, as well as restructuring activities of our acquired
    companies, please see Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements.

Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal
    2008:    During the third quarter of fiscal
    2009, our management approved, committed to and initiated a plan
    to restructure and further improve efficiencies in our
    Oracle-based operations (2009 Plan). The total estimated
    restructuring costs associated with the 2009 Plan are
    $241 million and will be recorded to restructuring expenses
    in our consolidated statements of operations as they are
    recognized. In fiscal 2009, we recorded $85 million of
    restructuring expenses in connection with the 2009 Plan. We
    expect to incur the majority of the remaining $156 million
    during fiscal 2010. Our estimated costs are preliminary and may
    be subject to change in future periods.

During the second quarter of fiscal 2008, our management
    approved, committed to and initiated a plan to restructure and
    improve efficiencies in our Oracle-based operations as a result
    of certain management and organizational changes and our recent
    acquisitions (the 2008 Plan). The 2008 Plan was amended in the
    fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 to include the Oracle-based
    effects resulting from our acquisition of BEA. The total costs
    associated with the 2008 Plan were approximately
    $80 million, of which expenses of $39 million and
    $41 million were incurred during fiscal 2009 and 2008,
    respectively.

In connection with any acquisition that we close in fiscal 2010
    and prospective periods, we will record involuntary termination
    and other exit costs associated with such acquisition to
    restructuring expenses in our consolidated statement of
    operations as a result of our adoption of Statement 141(R),
    which is a change from current practice pursuant to existing
    accounting standards and could materially impact our
    consolidated financial statements (see further discussion in
     Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  above).

Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007:    We
    incurred restructuring expenses of $41 million in fiscal
    2008 pursuant to the 2008 Plan as described above. Restructuring
    expenses in fiscal 2007 relate to Oracle employee severance and
    facility closures that were recorded in those periods and were a
    part of a restructuring plan initiated in the third quarter of
    fiscal 2006.

Interest Expense:  

Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal
    2008:    Interest expense increased in fiscal
    2009 due to higher average borrowings resulting from our
    issuance of $5.0 billion of senior notes in April 2008.

Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal
    2007:    Interest expense increased in fiscal
    2008 due to higher average borrowings resulting from the
    issuance of $5.0 billion of senior notes in April 2008, a
    net increase of $500 million in additional

53

Table of Contents   

senior notes outstanding for the majority of fiscal 2008 and our
    issuances of short-term commercial paper in the fourth quarter
    of fiscal 2008 and fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 (we repaid
    these commercial paper amounts during fiscal 2008).

Non-Operating Income,
    net:    Non-operating income, net consists
    primarily of interest income, net foreign currency exchange
    gains and losses, the minority owners  share in the net
    profits of our majority-owned Oracle Financial Services Software
    Limited (formerly i-flex solutions limited) and Oracle Japan
    subsidiaries, and other income, net, including net realized
    gains and losses related to all of our investments and net
    unrealized gains and losses related to the small portion of our
    investment portfolio that we classify as trading.

Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal
    2008:    Non-operating income, net decreased
    during fiscal 2009 as a result of a reduction in our interest
    income, primarily due to lower market rates that affected the
    yields earned on our investment portfolio and net foreign
    currency transaction losses of $55 million in comparison to
    net foreign currency transaction gains of $40 million in
    the corresponding prior year. Non-operating income, net was also
    affected by changes in our investments that we classify as
    trading that support our deferred compensation plan obligations.
    The majority of these changes decreased  Other income,
    net  in the table above during the second quarter of fiscal
    2009. We account for our deferred compensation plan assets and
    obligations pursuant to
     EITF 97-14, 
     Accounting for Deferred Compensation Arrangements Where
    Amounts Earned Are Held in a Rabbi Trust and Invested , which
    requires that the changes in obligations associated with our
    deferred compensation plan be recorded in our operating expenses
    while the corresponding change in the plan assets be recorded in
    non-operating income, net. The changes in obligations and asset
    values of the plan are equal and offsetting, such that there is
    no impact to our income before provision for income taxes during
    fiscal 2009 or any other periods presented.

Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal
    2007:    Non-operating income, net increased in
    fiscal 2008 primarily due to an increase in interest income from
    higher weighted average cash and marketable securities balances
    during fiscal 2008.

Provision for Income Taxes:    The
    effective tax rate in all periods is the result of the mix of
    income earned in various tax jurisdictions that apply a broad
    range of income tax rates. The provision for income taxes
    differs from the tax computed at the U.S. federal statutory
    income tax rate due primarily to state taxes and earnings
    considered as indefinitely reinvested in foreign operations.
    Future effective tax rates could be adversely affected if
    earnings are lower than anticipated in countries where we have
    lower statutory rates, by unfavorable changes in tax laws and
    regulations or by adverse rulings in tax related litigation.

Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal
    2008:    Provision for income taxes decreased
    during fiscal 2009 in comparison to fiscal 2008 due to a lower
    effective tax rate, which was primarily the result of a higher
    proportion of our worldwide taxable income being earned in lower
    tax rate jurisdictions.

In fiscal 2010, we will adopt Statement 141(R), which amends
    FASB Statement No. 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes
     and FIN 48. For fiscal 2009 and prior periods, we
    generally accounted for post-acquisition adjustments to business
    combination related deferred tax asset valuation allowances and
    liabilities related to uncertain tax

54

Table of Contents   

positions as an increase or decrease to goodwill, regardless of
    the time that had elapsed since the acquisition date. Statement
    141(R) will no longer permit this accounting and generally will
    require any such changes to be recorded in current period income
    tax expense, unless any such change is identified during the
    measurement period and it relates to new information obtained
    about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition
    date. Such estimate revisions that do not qualify as measurement
    period adjustments will be recorded to our provision for income
    taxes in our consolidated statement of operations in the period
    the revision is made and could have a material impact on our
    consolidated financial statements.

Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal
    2007:    Provision for income taxes increased in
    fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007 due primarily to higher earnings
    before taxes.

Liquidity
    and Capital Resources  

Working Capital:    The increase in
    working capital as of May 31, 2009 in comparison to
    May 31, 2008 was due to the favorable impact to our net
    current assets, primarily our cash, cash equivalents and
    marketable securities balances, resulting from our net income
    generated during fiscal 2009. This increase in working capital
    was partially offset by an increase in our stock repurchases
    during fiscal 2009 in comparison to the prior year (we used
    $4.0 billion of cash for stock repurchases during fiscal
    2009 in comparison to $2.0 billion used for stock
    repurchases during fiscal 2008), cash used for our acquisitions,
    cash used to repay $1.0 billion of our Senior Notes that
    matured in May 2009 and the reclassification of
    $1.0 billion of our Senior Notes due May 2010 as a current
    liability, cash used to pay dividends to our stockholders for
    the first time in our history, and the decline in value of our
    net current assets held by certain of our foreign subsidiaries
    as a result of the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar during
    fiscal 2009 (the offset to which is recorded to accumulated
    other comprehensive income in our consolidated balance sheet).
    Our working capital may be impacted by all of the aforementioned
    factors in future periods, certain amounts and timing of which
    are variable.

The increase in working capital as of May 31, 2008 in
    comparison to May 31, 2007 was primarily due to an increase
    in our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances
    resulting from the issuance of $5.0 billion of long-term
    senior notes in April 2008, additional cash and trade
    receivables generated from our operations and our adoption of
    FIN 48, which resulted in $1.3 billion of uncertain
    tax positions being prospectively reclassified from current
    income taxes payable to non-current taxes payable. These
    increases in working capital were partially offset by cash used
    in fiscal 2008 to pay for our acquisitions (primarily BEA) and
    to repurchase our common stock.

Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable
    Securities:    Cash and cash equivalents
    primarily consist of deposits held at major banks, money market
    funds, Tier-1 commercial paper, U.S. Treasury obligations,
    U.S. government agency and government sponsored enterprise
    obligations, and other securities with original maturities of
    90 days or less. Marketable securities primarily consist of
    time deposits held at major banks, Tier-1 commercial paper,
    corporate notes, U.S. Treasury obligations and
    U.S. government agency and government sponsored enterprise
    obligations. The increase in cash, cash equivalents and
    marketable securities at May 31, 2009 in comparison to
    May 31, 2008 was due to an increase in cash generated from
    our operating activities. Cash, cash equivalents and marketable
    securities include $11.3 billion held by our foreign
    subsidiaries as of May 31, 2009. The amount of cash, cash
    equivalents and marketable securities that we report in
    U.S. Dollars for a significant portion of the cash held by
    these subsidiaries is subject to translation adjustments caused
    by changes in foreign currency exchange rates as of the end of
    each respective reporting period (the offset to which is
    recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income on our
    consolidated balance sheet). As the U.S. Dollar
    strengthened against most major international currencies during
    fiscal 2009, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable
    securities that we reported in U.S. Dollars for these
    subsidiaries declined relative to what we would have reported
    using a constant currency rate as of May 31, 2008. Our
    cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances were
    also partially offset by cash used for our acquisitions, the
    repayment of $1.0 billion of senior notes in May 2009, the
    repurchases of our common stock (see discussion above), and the
    payment of cash dividends to our stockholders.

55

Table of Contents   

The increase in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities
    at May 31, 2008 in comparison to May 31, 2007 is due
    to the issuance of $5.0 billion of senior notes in April
    2008 and an increase in our operating cash flows resulting
    primarily from an increase in net income, partially offset by
    cash used for our acquisitions (primarily BEA), net repayments
    of our short-term commercial paper notes, and repurchases of our
    common stock.

Days sales outstanding, which is calculated by dividing period
    end accounts receivable by average daily sales for the quarter,
    was 58 days at May 31, 2009 compared with 63 days
    at May 31, 2008. The days sales outstanding calculation
    excludes the adjustment that reduces our acquired software
    license updates and product support obligations to fair value.
    Our decline in days sales outstanding is primarily due to the
    improved timeliness of our collections efforts and the mix of
    our total revenues during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009,
    which weighted more heavily toward our license updates and
    product support revenues (such revenues generally have a lower
    DSO than our revenues from our other operating segments).

Cash Flows from Operating
    Activities:    Our largest source of operating
    cash flows is cash collections from our customers following the
    purchase and renewal of their software license updates and
    product support agreements. Payments from customers for software
    license updates and product support agreements are generally
    received near the beginning of the contracts  terms, which
    are generally one year in length. We also generate significant
    cash from new software license sales and, to a lesser extent,
    services. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities are
    for personnel related expenditures as well as payments related
    to taxes and leased facilities.

Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008:   Net cash
    provided by operating activities increased in fiscal 2009
    primarily due to higher net income adjusting for amortization of
    intangible assets, stock-based compensation and other net cash
    favorable balance sheet movements.

Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007:   Net cash
    provided by operating activities increased in fiscal 2008
    primarily due to higher net income, partially offset by
    increased accounts receivable primarily due to fourth quarter
    fiscal 2008 revenues growth (in particular, our new software
    license revenues growth).

Cash Flows from Investing
    Activities:    The changes in cash flows from
    investing activities primarily relate to acquisitions and the
    timing of purchases, maturities and sales of our investments in
    marketable securities. We also use cash to invest in capital and
    other assets to support our growth.

Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008:   Net cash
    used for investing activities decreased in fiscal 2009 due to a
    decrease in cash used for acquisitions, net of cash acquired,
    and a decrease in cash used to purchase marketable securities,
    net of proceeds received from sales and maturities.

Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007:   Net cash
    used for investing activities increased in fiscal 2008 due to an
    increase in cash used for acquisitions (primarily BEA), net of
    cash acquired, and an increase in cash used to purchase
    marketable securities, net of proceeds received from sales and
    maturities.

Cash Flows from Financing
    Activities:    The changes in cash flows from
    financing activities primarily relate to borrowings and payments
    under debt facilities as well as stock repurchases, dividend
    payments and proceeds from stock option exercise activity.

Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008:   Net cash
    used for financing activities in fiscal 2009 increased in
    comparison to cash provided by financing activities in fiscal
    2008 due to increased stock repurchases and dividend payments
    (see discussion in  Working Capital  above and in
    Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for
    additional information) and decreased proceeds from the exercise
    of employee stock options during fiscal 2009. In addition,
    financing activities provided cash in fiscal 2008 as a result of
    our issuance of $5.0 billion of long-term senior notes in
    April 2008 and certain commercial paper issuances, net of
    commercial paper repayments.

56

Table of Contents   

Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007:   Net cash
    provided by financing activities in fiscal 2008 increased in
    comparison to cash used for financing activities in fiscal 2007
    due to the issuance of $5.0 billion of long-term senior
    notes, additional proceeds from the exercise of employee stock
    options and decreased spending on stock repurchases, and were
    partially offset by $1.4 billion of net repayments of
    short-term commercial paper notes.

Free cash flow:    To supplement our
    statements of cash flows presented on a GAAP basis, we use
    non-GAAP measures of cash flows on a trailing
     4-quarter 
    basis to analyze cash flows generated from our operations. We
    believe free cash flow is also useful as one of the bases for
    comparing our performance with our competitors. The presentation
    of non-GAAP free cash flow is not meant to be considered in
    isolation or as an alternative to net income as an indicator of
    our performance, or as an alternative to cash flows from
    operating activities as a measure of liquidity. We calculate
    free cash flows as follows:

(1)   

Represents capital expenditures as
    reported in cash flows from investing activities in our
    consolidated statements of cash flows presented in accordance
    with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.

Long-Term Customer Financing:    We offer
    certain of our customers the option to acquire our software
    products and service offerings through separate long-term
    payment contracts. We generally sell contracts that we have
    financed on a non-recourse basis to financial institutions. We
    record the transfers of amounts due from customers to financial
    institutions as sales of financial assets because we are
    considered to have surrendered control of these financial
    assets. In fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, $1.4 billion,
    $1.1 billion and $891 million or approximately 19%,
    15% and 15%, respectively, of our new software license revenues
    were financed through our financing division.

Recent Financing Activities:    In recent
    years, we have issued long-term senior notes to fund our
    acquisitions and for general corporate purposes. During fiscal
    2009, we repaid $1.0 billion of senior notes that matured
    in May 2009. As of May 31, 2009, we have $10.2 billion
    of senior notes outstanding, including $1.0 billion that
    matures in May 2010. We have also, on occasion, issued
    short-term commercial paper notes in recent years pursuant to
    our commercial paper program to assist with the short-term
    financing for certain of our acquisitions and for other general
    corporate purposes. Typically, we have repaid these liabilities
    within 12 months or less from their issuance date. We also
    have entered into certain revolving credit agreements to
    back-stop any commercial paper notes we may issue and for other
    general corporate purposes. As of May 31, 2009, we have no
    commercial paper notes or amounts under our credit agreements
    outstanding. If we issue commercial paper notes in the future,
    we would most likely use our revolving credit agreements as a
    back-stop to these notes and we therefore consider that we have
    a total of $4.9 billion of capacity available to us
    pursuant to our credit agreements and commercial paper program
    as of May 31, 2009. Additional details of our various debt
    facilities and obligations are included in the  Contractual
    Obligations  section below and in Note 7 of Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements and risks associated with our
    debt obligations and any future debt issuances are included in
    Risk Factors (Item 1A).

Our Board of Directors has approved a program for us to
    repurchase shares of our common stock. On October 20, 2008,
    our Board of Directors expanded our repurchase program by
    $8.0 billion and as of May 31, 2009, $6.3 billion
    was available for share repurchases pursuant to our stock
    repurchase program. We repurchased 225.6 million shares for
    $4.0 billion, 97.3 million shares for
    $2.0 billion, and 233.5 million shares for
    $4.0 billion in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
    Our stock repurchase authorization does not have an expiration
    date and the pace of our repurchase activity will depend on
    factors such as our working capital needs, our cash requirements
    for acquisitions and dividend repayments, our debt repayment
    obligations (as described below), our stock price, and economic
    and market conditions. Our stock repurchases may be effected
    from time to time through open market purchases or pursuant to a
     Rule 10b5-1 
    plan. Our stock repurchase program may be accelerated,
    suspended, delayed or discontinued at any time.

57

Table of Contents   

In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, we declared and paid our
    first quarterly cash dividend in our history of $0.05 per share
    of outstanding common stock. In June 2009, our Board of
    Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.05 per share
    of outstanding common stock payable on August 13, 2009 to
    stockholders of record as of the close of business on
    July 15, 2009. Future declarations of dividends and the
    establishment of future record and payment dates are subject to
    the final determination of our Board of Directors.

Contractual
    Obligations:      The
    contractual obligations presented in the table below represent
    our estimates of future payments under fixed contractual
    obligations and commitments. Changes in our business needs,
    cancellation provisions, changing interest rates and other
    factors may result in actual payments differing from these
    estimates. We cannot provide certainty regarding the timing and
    amounts of payments. We have presented below a summary of the
    most significant assumptions used in our information within the
    context of our consolidated financial position, results of
    operations and cash flows. The following is a summary of our
    contractual obligations as of May 31, 2009:

(1)   

Our borrowings (excluding capital
    leases) consist of the following as of May 31, 2009:

Our floating rate senior notes due
    May 2010 bore interest at a rate of 0.97% as of May 31,
    2009. We have entered into an interest rate swap agreement that
    has the economic effect of modifying the variable interest
    obligations associated with our floating rate senior notes due
    May 2010 so that the interest payable on the senior notes
    effectively became fixed at a rate of 4.59%. Interest payments
    were calculated based on terms of the related agreement and
    include estimates based on the effective interest rates as of
    May 31, 2009 for variable rate borrowings after
    consideration of the aforementioned interest rate swap agreement.

(2)   

Represents remaining payments under
    capital leases assumed from acquisitions.

(3)   

Primarily represents leases of
    facilities and includes future minimum rent payments for
    facilities that we have vacated pursuant to our restructuring
    and merger integration activities. We have approximately
    $259 million in facility obligations, net of estimated
    sublease income, in accrued restructuring for these locations in
    our consolidated balance sheet at May 31, 2009.

(4)   

Represents amounts associated with
    agreements that are enforceable, legally binding and specify
    terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased;
    fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate
    timing of the payment. Amounts in this row do not include
    purchase orders for raw materials and other goods entered into
    in the ordinary course of business as they are generally entered
    into in order to secure pricing or other negotiated terms and
    are difficult to quantify in a meaningful way.

(5)   

Represents the maximum additional
    capital we may need to contribute toward our venture fund
    investments, which are payable upon demand.

On April 19, 2009, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of
    Merger (Merger Agreement) with Sun Microsystems, Inc., a
    provider of enterprise computing systems, software and services.
    Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, our wholly owned subsidiary
    will merge with and into Sun and Sun will become a wholly owned
    subsidiary of Oracle. Upon the consummation of the merger, each
    share of Sun common stock will be converted into the right to
    receive $9.50 in cash. In addition, options to acquire Sun
    common stock, Sun restricted stock unit awards and other equity-

58

Table of Contents   

based awards denominated in shares of Sun common stock
    outstanding immediately prior to the consummation of the merger
    will generally be converted into options, restricted stock unit
    awards or other equity-based awards, as the case may be,
    denominated in shares of our common stock based on formulas
    contained in the Merger Agreement. The estimated total purchase
    price of Sun is approximately $7.4 billion. This
    transaction is subject to Sun stockholder approval, regulatory
    clearance under the
     Hart-Scott-Rodino 
    Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 and the applicable merger
    control laws of the European Commission and other jurisdictions,
    and other customary closing conditions. We also have entered
    into certain other agreements to acquire other companies and
    expect these proposed acquisitions to close during the first
    quarter of fiscal 2010. We intend to finance our proposed
    acquisitions through a combination of our internally available
    cash, our cash generated from operations, our existing available
    debt capacity, additional borrowings, or from the issuance of
    additional securities.

As of May 31, 2009, we have $2.3 billion of
    unrecognized tax benefits recorded on our consolidated balance
    sheet. We have reached certain settlement agreements with
    relevant taxing authorities to pay approximately
    $79 million of these liabilities (these amounts have been
    excluded from the table above due to the uncertainty of when
    they might be settled). Although it remains unclear as to when
    payments pursuant to these agreements will be made, some or all
    may be made in fiscal 2010. We cannot make a reasonably reliable
    estimate of the period in which the remainder of our
    unrecognized tax benefits will be settled or released with the
    relevant tax authorities, although we believe it is reasonably
    possible that certain of these liabilities could be settled or
    released during fiscal 2010 (see Note 14 of Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements).

We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and
    marketable securities and cash generated from operations will be
    sufficient to meet our working capital, capital expenditures and
    contractual obligations. In addition, we believe we could fund
    any future acquisitions, including the proposed Sun acquisition,
    and dividend payments and repurchase common stock or debt with
    our internally available cash, cash equivalents and marketable
    securities, cash generated from operations, our existing
    available debt capacity, additional borrowings or from the
    issuance of additional securities.

Off-Balance
    Sheet
    Arrangements:      We
    do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are
    reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our
    financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or
    expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures
    or capital resources that are material to investors.

Selected
    Quarterly Financial Data  

Quarterly revenues, expenses and operating income have
    historically been affected by a variety of seasonal factors,
    including sales force incentive compensation plans. In addition,
    our European operations generally provide lower revenues in our
    first fiscal quarter because of the reduced economic activity in
    Europe during the summer. These seasonal factors are common in
    the software industry. These factors have caused a decrease in
    our first quarter revenues as compared to revenues in the
    immediately preceding fourth quarter, which historically has
    been our highest revenue quarter within a particular fiscal
    year. Similarly, the operating income of our business is
    affected by seasonal factors in a consistent manner as our
    revenues (in particular, our new software license business) as
    certain expenses within our cost structure are relatively fixed
    in the short term. We expect these trends to continue in fiscal
    2010.

59

Table of Contents   

The following tables set forth selected unaudited quarterly
    information for our last eight fiscal quarters. We believe that
    all necessary adjustments, which consisted only of normal
    recurring adjustments, have been included in the amounts stated
    below to present fairly the results of such periods when read in
    conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and
    related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report. The sum
    of the quarterly financial information may vary from the annual
    data due to rounding.

Stock
    Options  

Our stock option program is a key component of the compensation
    package we provide to attract and retain certain of our talented
    employees and align their interests with the interests of
    existing stockholders. We recognize that options dilute existing
    stockholders and have sought to control the number of options
    granted while providing competitive compensation packages.
    Consistent with these dual goals, our cumulative potential
    dilution since June 1, 2006 has been a weighted average
    annualized rate of 1.3% per year. The potential dilution
    percentage is calculated as the average annualized new options
    granted and assumed, net of options forfeited by employees
    leaving the company, divided by the weighted average outstanding
    shares during the calculation period. This maximum potential
    dilution will only result if all options are exercised. Some of
    these options, which generally have 10 year exercise
    periods, have exercise prices substantially higher than the
    current market price of our common stock. At May 31, 2009,
    45% of our outstanding stock options had exercise prices in
    excess of the current market price. Consistent with our
    historical practices, we do not expect that dilution from future
    grants before the effect of our stock repurchase program will
    exceed 2.0% per year for our ongoing business. In recent years,
    our stock repurchase program has more than offset the dilutive
    effect of our stock option program; however, we may reduce the
    level of our stock repurchases in the future as we may use our
    available cash for acquisitions, to pay dividends, to repay or
    repurchase indebtedness or for other purposes. At May 31,
    2009, the maximum potential dilution from all outstanding and
    unexercised option awards, regardless of when granted and
    regardless of whether vested or unvested and including options
    where the strike price is higher than the current market price,
    was 7.2%.

60

Table of Contents   

The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors reviews and
    approves the organization-wide stock option grants to selected
    employees, all stock option grants to executive officers and any
    individual stock option grants in excess of 100,000 shares.
    A separate Plan Committee, which is an executive officer
    committee, approves individual stock option grants up to
    100,000 shares to non-executive officers and employees.
    Stock option activity from June 1, 2006 through
    May 31, 2009 is summarized as follows (shares in millions):

Our Compensation Committee approves the annual organization-wide
    option grants to certain key employees. These annual option
    grants are made during the ten business day period following the
    second trading day after the announcement of our fiscal fourth
    quarter earnings report.

Recent
    Accounting Pronouncements  

For information with respect to recent accounting pronouncements
    and the impact of these pronouncements on our consolidated
    financial statements, see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements.

Item 7A.    

Quantitative
    and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  

Cash,
    Cash Equivalents, Marketable Securities and Interest Income
    Risk  

Our bank deposits and money market investments are generally
    held with a number of large, diverse financial institutions
    worldwide that we believe mitigates some of the exposures
    associated with our holdings with these financial institutions.
    In addition, we purchase high quality debt security investments,
    substantially all with relatively short maturities (see a
    description of our debt securities held in Notes 3 and 4 of
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and  Liquidity
    and Capital Resources  above). Therefore, interest rate
    movements generally do not materially affect the valuation of
    our debt security investments. Substantially all of our
    marketable securities are designated as available-for-sale.

Changes in the overall level of interest rates affect the
    interest income that is generated from our cash, cash
    equivalents and marketable securities. For fiscal 2009, total
    interest income was $279 million with our investments
    yielding an average 2.23% on a worldwide basis. This interest
    rate level was down by 121 basis points from 3.44% for
    fiscal 2008. If overall interest rates fell by 100 basis
    points from our average of 2.23% during fiscal 2009, our annual
    interest income would decline by approximately
    $121 million, assuming consistent investment levels. The
    table below presents the cash, cash equivalent and marketable
    securities balances and the related weighted average

61

Table of Contents   

interest rates for our investment portfolio at May 31,
    2009. The cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities
    balances are recorded at their fair values at May 31, 2009.

Interest
    Expense Risk  

Our borrowings as of May 31, 2009 were $10.2 billion,
    consisting of $9.2 billion of fixed rate borrowings and
    $1.0 billion of floating rate senior notes that are due in
    May 2010 and bear interest at a floating rate equal to
    three-month LIBOR plus 0.06% per year (0.97% at May 31,
    2009). We have entered into an interest rate swap arrangement to
    manage the economic effect of variable interest obligations
    associated with our 2010 floating rate senior notes so that the
    interest payable on the senior notes effectively became fixed at
    a rate of 4.59%, thereby reducing the impact of future interest
    rate changes on our future interest expense. We do not use
    interest rate swap arrangements for trading purposes. The
    critical terms of the interest rate swap agreement and the 2010
    senior notes match, including the notional amounts, interest
    rate reset dates, maturity dates and underlying market indices.
    Accordingly, we have designated the swap as a qualifying
    instrument and are accounting for the swap as a cash flow hedge
    pursuant to FASB Statement No. 133,  Accounting for
    Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.  The
    unrealized losses on the swap are included in accumulated other
    comprehensive income and the corresponding fair value payable is
    included in other current liabilities in our consolidated
    balance sheet. The periodic interest settlements, which occur at
    the same interval as the interest payment and reset dates as the
    2010 senior notes, are recorded as interest expense.

Foreign
    Currency Risk  

Foreign
    Currency Transaction Risk   

We transact business in various foreign currencies and have
    established a program that primarily utilizes foreign currency
    forward contracts to offset the risks associated with the
    effects of certain foreign currency exposures. Under this
    program, increases or decreases in our foreign currency
    exposures are offset by gains or losses on the foreign currency
    forward contracts that we enter into to mitigate the possibility
    of foreign currency transaction gains or losses. These foreign
    currency exposures typically arise from intercompany sublicense
    fees and other intercompany transactions. Our forward contracts
    generally have terms of 90 days or less. We do not use
    foreign currency forward contracts for trading purposes. All
    outstanding foreign currency forward contracts are marked to
    market at the end of the period with unrealized gains and losses
    resulting from fair value changes included in non-operating
    income, net (the effective portion of our Yen net investment
    hedge described below is included in stockholders  equity).
    Our ultimate realized gain or loss with respect to currency
    fluctuations will depend on the currency exchange rates and
    other factors in effect as the contracts mature. The notional
    amounts of foreign currency forward contracts to purchase and
    sell U.S. Dollars in exchange for other major international
    currencies were $860 million and $1.1 billion,
    respectively, and to purchase Euros in exchange for other major
    international currencies was  142 million
    ($198 million), as of May 31, 2009. The net unrealized
    gains of our outstanding foreign currency forward contracts were
    $2 million at May 31, 2009. Net foreign exchange
    transaction (losses) gains included in non-operating income, net
    in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations were
    $(65) million, $17 million and $17 million in
    fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

Foreign
    Currency Translation Risk   

Fluctuations in foreign currencies impact the amount of total
    assets and liabilities that we report for our foreign
    subsidiaries upon translation of these amounts into
    U.S. Dollars. In particular, the amount of cash, cash
    equivalents and marketable securities that we report in
    U.S. Dollars for a significant portion of the cash held by
    these

62

Table of Contents   

subsidiaries is subject to translation variance caused by
    changes in foreign currency exchange rates as of the end of each
    respective reporting period (the offset to which is recorded to
    accumulated other comprehensive income on our consolidated
    balance sheet). We hedge net assets of certain international
    subsidiaries from foreign currency exposure and provide a
    discussion in  Foreign Currency Net Investment Risk 
    below.

As the U.S. Dollar strengthened against most major
    international currencies during fiscal 2009, the amount of cash,
    cash equivalents and marketable securities that we reported in
    U.S. Dollars for these subsidiaries as of May 31, 2009
    declined relative to what we would have reported using a
    constant currency rate as of May 31, 2008. As reported in
    our consolidated statements of cash flows, the effect of
    exchange rate changes on our reported cash and cash equivalents
    balances in U.S. Dollars for fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007 was
    a (decrease) increase of $(501) million, $437 million,
    and $149 million, respectively. The following table
    includes the U.S. Dollar equivalent of cash, cash
    equivalents and marketable securities denominated in foreign
    currencies at May 31, 2009.

If overall foreign currency exchange rates in comparison to the
    U.S. Dollar weakened by 10%, the amount of cash, cash
    equivalents and marketable securities we would report in
    U.S. Dollars would decrease by approximately
    $498 million, assuming constant foreign currency cash, cash
    equivalent and marketable security balances.

Foreign
    Currency Net Investment Risk   

We hedge the net assets of certain of our international
    subsidiaries (net investment hedges) using foreign currency
    forward contracts to offset the translation and economic
    exposures related to our investments in these subsidiaries. We
    measure the effectiveness of our net investment hedges by using
    the changes in spot exchange rates because this method reflects
    our risk management strategies, the economics of those
    strategies in our financial statements and better manages
    interest rate differentials between different countries. Under
    this method, the change in fair value of the forward contract
    attributable to the changes in spot exchange rates (the
    effective portion) is reported in stockholders  equity to
    offset the translation results on the net investments. The
    remaining change in fair value of the forward contract (the
    ineffective portion, if any) is recognized in non-operating
    income, net.

Net gains (losses) on investment hedges reported in
    stockholders  equity, net of tax effects, were
    $(41) million, $(53) million and $28 million in
    fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Net gains on
    investment hedges reported in non-operating income, net were
    $10 million, $23 million and $28 million in
    fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

At May 31, 2009, we had one net investment hedge in
    Japanese Yen. The Yen net investment hedge minimizes currency
    risk arising from net assets held in Yen as a result of equity
    capital raised during the initial public offering and secondary
    offering of our majority owned subsidiary, Oracle Japan. The
    notional amount of our net investment hedge was
    $694 million and had a nominal fair value as of
    May 31, 2009.

Item 8.    

Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data  

The response to this item is submitted as a separate section of
    this Annual Report. See Part IV, Item 15.

63

Table of Contents   

Item 9.    

Changes
    In and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
    Financial Disclosure  

Not applicable.

Item 9A.    

Controls
    and Procedures  

Evaluation
    of Disclosure Controls and Procedures   

As of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K, 
    we carried out an evaluation under the supervision and with the
    participation of our Disclosure Committee and our management,
    including the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial
    Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our
    disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15(e) 
    and
     15d-15(e). 
    Disclosure controls are procedures that are designed to ensure
    that information required to be disclosed in our reports filed
    under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act,
    such as this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K, 
    is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time
    periods specified by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
    Commission. Disclosure controls are also designed to ensure that
    such information is accumulated and communicated to our
    management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief
    Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions
    regarding required disclosure. Our quarterly evaluation of
    disclosure controls includes an evaluation of some components of
    our internal control over financial reporting. We also perform a
    separate annual evaluation of internal control over financial
    reporting for the purpose of providing the management report
    below.

The evaluation of our disclosure controls included a review of
    their objectives and design, our implementation of the controls
    and the effect of the controls on the information generated for
    use in this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 
    In the course of the controls evaluation, we reviewed data
    errors or control problems identified and sought to confirm that
    appropriate corrective actions, including process improvements,
    were being undertaken. This type of evaluation is performed on a
    quarterly basis so that the conclusions of management, including
    our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer,
    concerning the effectiveness of the disclosure controls can be
    reported in our periodic reports on
     Form 10-Q 
    and
     Form 10-K. 
    Many of the components of our disclosure controls are also
    evaluated on an ongoing basis by both our internal audit and
    finance organizations. The overall goals of these various
    evaluation activities are to monitor our disclosure controls and
    to modify them as necessary. We intend to maintain our
    disclosure controls as dynamic processes and procedures that we
    adjust as circumstances merit.

Based upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and
    Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls
    and procedures were effective as of the end of the period
    covered by this report.

Management s
    Report on Internal Control over Financial
    Reporting   

Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining
    adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term
    is defined in Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15(f) 
    and
     15d-15(f). 
    Under the supervision and with the participation of our
    management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief
    Financial Officer, we conducted an evaluation of the
    effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting
    as of May 31, 2009 based on the guidelines established in
     Internal Control Integrated Framework  issued by the
    Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
    (COSO). Our internal control over financial reporting include
    policies and procedures that provide reasonable assurance
    regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
    preparation of financial statements for external reporting
    purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted
    accounting principles.

Based on the results of our evaluation, our management concluded
    that our internal control over financial reporting was effective
    as of May 31, 2009. We reviewed the results of
    management s assessment with our Finance and Audit
    Committee.

The effectiveness of our internal control over financial
    reporting as of May 31, 2009 has been audited by
    Ernst   Young LLP, an independent registered public
    accounting firm, as stated in their report which is included in
    Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report.

64

Table of Contents   

Changes
    in Internal Control over Financial Reporting   

There were no changes in our internal control over financial
    reporting identified in connection with the evaluation required
    by paragraph (d) of Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15 
    or  15d-15 
    that occurred during our last fiscal quarter that have
    materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially
    affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

Inherent
    Limitations on Effectiveness of Controls   

Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief
    Financial Officer, believes that our disclosure controls and
    procedures and internal control over financial reporting are
    designed and operated to be effective at the reasonable
    assurance level. However, our management does not expect that
    our disclosure controls and procedures or our internal control
    over financial reporting will prevent all errors and all fraud.
    A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can
    provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the
    objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of
    a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource
    constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered
    relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in
    all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide
    absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of
    fraud, if any, have been detected. These inherent limitations
    include the realities that judgments in decision making can be
    faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of a simple error
    or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the
    individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more
    people or by management override of the controls. The design of
    any system of controls also is based in part upon certain
    assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can
    be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its
    stated goals under all potential future conditions; over time,
    controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions,
    or the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may
    deteriorate. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost
    effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud
    may occur and not be detected.

Item 9B.    

Other
    Information  

None.

PART III  

Item 10.    

Directors,
    Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  

Pursuant to General Instruction G(3) of
     Form 10-K, 
    the information required by this item relating to our executive
    officers is included under the caption  Executive Officers
    of the Registrant  in Part I of this report.

The other information required by this Item 10 is
    incorporated by reference from the information contained in our
    Proxy Statement to be filed with the U.S. Securities and
    Exchange Commission in connection with the solicitation of
    proxies for our 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the
     2009 Proxy Statement ) under the sections entitled
     Board of Directors Incumbent Directors, 
     Board of Directors Committees, Membership and
    Meetings Fiscal 2009 Committee Memberships, 
     Board of Directors Committees, Membership and
    Meetings The Finance and Audit Committee, 
     Corporate Governance Employee Matters Code of
    Conduct  and  Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership
    Reporting Compliance .

Item 11.    

Executive
    Compensation  

The information required by this Item 11 is incorporated by
    reference from the information to be contained in our 2009 Proxy
    Statement under sections entitled  Board of
    Directors Committees, Membership and Meetings The
    Compensation Committee Compensation Committee Interlocks
    and Insider Participation,   Board of
    Directors Director Compensation  and  Executive
    Compensation .

65

Table of Contents   

Item 12.    

Security
    Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
    Related Stockholder Matters  

Equity
    Compensation Plan Information   

May 31, 2009 

Number of Securities 

Number of Securities 

Remaining Available 

to be Issued Upon 

Weighted Average 

for Future Issuance 

Exercise of 

Exercise Price of 

Under Equity 

Outstanding Options, 

Outstanding Options, 

Compensation 

(in millions, except price data) 

Warrants and Rights 

Warrants and Rights 

Plans (1)  

Equity compensation plans approved by stockholders

306

$

18.48

319

(2) 

Equity compensation plans not approved by
    stockholders (3) 

54

$

17.40

Total

360

$

18.32

319

(1)   

These numbers exclude the shares
    listed under the column heading  Number of Securities to be
    Issued Upon Exercise of Outstanding Options, Warrants and
    Rights. 

(2)   

This number includes
    78 million shares available for future issuance under the
    Oracle Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan.

(3)   

These options and restricted stock
    units were assumed in connection with our acquisitions. No
    additional awards were or can be granted under the plans that
    originally issued these awards. For a brief description of the
    assumed plans, please refer to Note 13 (Employee Benefit
    Plans) of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included
    elsewhere in this annual report.

Information required by this Item 12 with respect to Stock
    Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management is
    incorporated herein by reference from the information to be
    contained in our 2009 Proxy Statement under the section entitled
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
    Management .

Item 13.    

Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
    Independence  

The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by
    reference from the information to be contained in our 2009 Proxy
    Statement under the sections entitled  Corporate
    Governance Board of Directors and Director
    Independence  and  Related Party Transactions .

Item 14.    

Principal
    Accountant Fees and Services  

The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by
    reference from the information to be contained in our 2009 Proxy
    Statement under the section entitled
     Proposal No. 3: Ratification of Selection of
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm .

PART IV  

Item 15.    

Exhibits
    and Financial Statement Schedules  

(a)    

1.  Financial
    Statements  

The following financial statements are filed as a part of this
    report:

66

Table of Contents   

2.    

Financial
    Statement Schedules  

The following financial statement schedule is filed as a part of
    this report:

Page 

Schedule II.

Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

118

All other schedules are omitted because they are not required or
    the required information is shown in the financial statements or
    notes thereto.

(b)    

Exhibits  

The following exhibits are filed herewith or are incorporated by
    reference to exhibits previously filed with the
    U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.

67

Table of Contents   

68

Table of Contents   

*   

Indicates management contract or
    compensatory plan or arrangement.

69

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF
    ERNST   YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC
    ACCOUNTING FIRM  

The Board of Directors and Stockholders of Oracle Corporation

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
    Oracle Corporation as of May 31, 2009 and 2008, and the
    related consolidated statements of operations,
    stockholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the three
    years in the period ended May 31, 2009. Our audits also
    included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at
    Item 15(a) 2. These financial statements and schedule are
    the responsibility of the Company s management. Our
    responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
    statements and schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements and
    schedule are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
    examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
    disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
    assessing the accounting principles used and significant
    estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
    financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
    provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above
    present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated
    financial position of Oracle Corporation at May 31, 2009
    and 2008, and the consolidated results of its operations and its
    cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
    May 31, 2009, in conformity with U.S. generally
    accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the
    related financial statement schedule, when considered in
    relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole,
    presents fairly in all material respects the information set
    forth therein.

As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial
    statements, under the headings Income Taxes, the Company adopted
    Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation
    No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an
    interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 , effective
    June 1, 2007.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States),
    Oracle Corporation s internal control over financial
    reporting as of May 31, 2009, based on criteria established
    in  Internal Control Integrated Framework  issued by
    the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
    Commission and our report dated June 29, 2009 expressed an
    unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ ERNST   YOUNG LLP

San Francisco, California

June 29, 2009

70

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF
    ERNST   YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC
    ACCOUNTING FIRM  

The Board of Directors and Stockholders of Oracle Corporation

We have audited Oracle Corporation s internal control over
    financial reporting as of May 31, 2009 based on criteria
    established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework
     issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
    Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Oracle
    Corporation s management is responsible for maintaining
    effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its
    assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over
    financial reporting included in the accompanying
    Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial
    Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the
    Company s internal control over financial reporting based
    on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control
    over financial reporting was maintained in all material
    respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of
    internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk
    that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the
    design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on
    the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we
    considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our
    audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a
    process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles. A company s
    internal control over financial reporting includes those
    policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance
    of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
    reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
    company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions
    are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
    statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
    principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
    are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
    management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
    reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
    unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
    company s assets that could have a material effect on the
    financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
    periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, Oracle Corporation maintained, in all material
    respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as
    of May 31, 2009, based on the COSO criteria.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
    consolidated balance sheets of Oracle Corporation as of
    May 31, 2009 and 2008, and the related consolidated
    statements of operations, stockholders  equity, and cash
    flows for each of the three years in the period ended
    May 31, 2009 and our report dated June 29, 2009
    expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ ERNST   YOUNG LLP

San Francisco, California

June 29, 2009

71

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
     CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
     As of May 31, 2009 and 2008  

See notes to consolidated financial statements.

72

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 
     For the Years Ended May 31, 2009, 2008 and
    2007  

See notes to consolidated financial statements.

73

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS 
    EQUITY 
     For the Years Ended May 31, 2009, 2008 and
    2007  

See notes to consolidated financial statements.

74

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
     For the Years Ended May 31, 2009, 2008 and
    2007  

See notes to consolidated financial statements.

75

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
    May 31, 2009  

1.    

ORGANIZATION
    AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  

Oracle Corporation develops, manufactures, markets, distributes
    and services database and middleware software, as well as
    applications software, that help organizations manage and grow
    their businesses. Database and middleware software is used for
    the secure storage, retrieval and manipulation of all forms of
    software-based data, and for developing and deploying
    applications on the internet and on corporate intranets.
    Applications software is used to automate business processes and
    to provide business intelligence. We also offer software license
    updates and product support (including support for the Linux
    Operating System), and other services including consulting, On
    Demand, and education.

Basis of
    Financial Statements  

Fiscal
    2009 and Prior Periods   

The consolidated financial statements include our accounts and
    the accounts of our wholly- and majority-owned subsidiaries. We
    consolidate all of our majority-owned subsidiaries and reflect
    as minority interests the portions of these entities that we do
    not own in other non-current liabilities on our consolidated
    balance sheets. At May 31, 2009 and 2008, the liability
    related to minority interests was $355 million and
    $369 million, respectively. Intercompany transactions and
    balances have been eliminated.

Certain prior year balances have been reclassified to conform to
    the current year presentation. Such reclassifications did not
    affect total revenues, operating income or net income.

Fiscal
    2010   

In fiscal 2010, we will adopt Financial Accounting Standards
    Board (FASB) Statement No. 160,  Noncontrolling Interests
    in Consolidated Financial Statements , an amendment of ARB
    No. 51. As a result, we will retrospectively classify
    noncontrolling (minority) interest positions of consolidated
    entities as a separate component of consolidated
    stockholders  equity from the equity attributable to
    Oracle s stockholders for all periods presented. Net income
    and comprehensive income will be attributed to Oracle
    stockholders and the noncontrolling interests. In addition,
    Statement 160 requires that any change in our ownership of a
    majority-owned subsidiary be prospectively accounted for as an
    equity transaction provided that we retain control of the
    subsidiary.

Use of
    Estimates  

Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance
    with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
    These accounting principles require us to make certain
    estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the
    estimates, judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are
    reasonable based upon information available to us at the time
    that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. These
    estimates, judgments and assumptions can affect the reported
    amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the
    financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues
    and expenses during the periods presented. To the extent there
    are material differences between these estimates, judgments or
    assumptions and actual results, our consolidated financial
    statements will be affected. In many cases, the accounting
    treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated
    by GAAP and does not require management s judgment in its
    application. There are also areas in which management s
    judgment in selecting among available alternatives would not
    produce a materially different result.

Revenue
    Recognition  

We derive revenues from the following sources:
    (1) software, which includes new software license and
    software license updates and product support revenues, and
    (2) services, which include consulting, On Demand and
    education revenues.

76

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2009  

New software license revenues represent fees earned from
    granting customers licenses to use our database, middleware and
    applications software, and exclude revenues derived from
    software license updates, which are included in software license
    updates and product support revenues. While the basis for
    software license revenue recognition is substantially governed
    by the provisions of Statement of Position
     No. 97-2, 
     Software Revenue Recognition
      (SOP 97-2), 
    issued by the American Institute of Certified Public
    Accountants, we exercise judgment and use estimates in
    connection with the determination of the amount of software and
    services revenues to be recognized in each accounting period.

For software license arrangements that do not require
    significant modification or customization of the underlying
    software, we recognize new software license revenues when:
    (1) we enter into a legally binding arrangement with a
    customer for the license of software; (2) we deliver the
    products; (3) customer payment is deemed fixed or
    determinable and free of contingencies or significant
    uncertainties; and (4) collection is probable.
    Substantially all of our new software license revenues are
    recognized in this manner.

The vast majority of our software license arrangements include
    software license updates and product support contracts, which
    are entered into at the customer s option and are
    recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement, typically
    one year. Software license updates provide customers with rights
    to unspecified software product upgrades, maintenance releases
    and patches released during the term of the support period.
    Product support includes internet access to technical content,
    as well as internet and telephone access to technical support
    personnel. Software license updates and product support
    contracts are generally priced as a percentage of the net new
    software license fees. Substantially all of our customers
    purchase both software license updates and product support
    contracts when they acquire new software licenses. In addition,
    substantially all of our customers renew their software license
    updates and product support contracts annually.

Many of our software arrangements include consulting
    implementation services sold separately under consulting
    engagement contracts. Consulting revenues from these
    arrangements are generally accounted for separately from new
    software license revenues because the arrangements qualify as
    services transactions as defined in
     SOP 97-2. 
    The more significant factors considered in determining whether
    the revenues should be accounted for separately include the
    nature of services (i.e., consideration of whether the services
    are essential to the functionality of the licensed product),
    degree of risk, availability of services from other vendors,
    timing of payments and impact of milestones or acceptance
    criteria on the realizability of the software license fee.
    Revenues for consulting services are generally recognized as the
    services are performed. If there is a significant uncertainty
    about the project completion or receipt of payment for the
    consulting services, revenues are deferred until the uncertainty
    is sufficiently resolved. We estimate the proportional
    performance on contracts with fixed or  not to exceed 
    fees on a monthly basis utilizing hours incurred to date as a
    percentage of total estimated hours to complete the project. If
    we do not have a sufficient basis to measure progress towards
    completion, revenues are recognized when we receive final
    acceptance from the customer. When total cost estimates exceed
    revenues, we accrue for the estimated losses immediately using
    cost estimates that are based upon an average fully burdened
    daily rate applicable to the consulting organization delivering
    the services. The complexity of the estimation process and
    factors relating to the assumptions, risks and uncertainties
    inherent with the application of the proportional performance
    method of accounting affects the amounts of revenues and related
    expenses reported in our consolidated financial statements. A
    number of internal and external factors can affect our
    estimates, including labor rates, utilization and efficiency
    variances and specification and testing requirement changes.

If an arrangement does not qualify for separate accounting of
    the software license and consulting transactions, then new
    software license revenues are generally recognized together with
    the consulting services based on contract accounting using
    either the percentage-of-completion or completed-contract
    method. Contract accounting is applied to any bundled software
    and services arrangements: (1) that include milestones or
    customer specific acceptance criteria that may affect collection
    of the software license fees; (2) where services include
    significant modification or customization of the software;
    (3) where significant consulting services are provided for
    in the

77

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2009  

software license contract without additional charge or are
    substantially discounted; or (4) where the software license
    payment is tied to the performance of consulting services.

On Demand is comprised of Oracle On Demand and Advanced Customer
    Services. Oracle On Demand provides multi-featured software and
    hardware management and maintenance services for our database,
    middleware and applications software. Advanced Customer Services
    consists of solution lifecycle management services, database and
    application management services, industry-specific solution
    support centers and remote and
     on-site 
    expert services. Revenues from On Demand services are recognized
    over the term of the service period, which is generally one year
    or less.

Education revenues include instructor-led, media-based and
    internet-based training in the use of our products. Education
    revenues are recognized as the classes or other education
    offerings are delivered.

For arrangements with multiple elements, we allocate revenues to
    each element of a transaction based upon its fair value as
    determined by  vendor specific objective evidence. 
    Vendor specific objective evidence of fair value for all
    elements of an arrangement is based upon the normal pricing and
    discounting practices for those products and services when sold
    separately and for software license updates and product support
    services is also measured by the renewal rate offered to the
    customer. We may modify our pricing practices in the future,
    which could result in changes in our vendor specific objective
    evidence of fair value for these undelivered elements. As a
    result, our future revenue recognition for multiple element
    arrangements could differ significantly from our historical
    results.

For software license arrangements that include hardware,
    software and services, and the software is more than incidental
    to the multiple element arrangement, but not essential to the
    functionality of the hardware, we apply the guidance of Emerging
    Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue
     No. 03-5, 
     Applicability of AICPA Statement of Position
     97-2  to
    Non-Software Deliverables in an Arrangement Containing
    More-Than-Incidental Software , which allows the non-software
    elements and related services to be accounted for pursuant to
    SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104,  Revenue
    Recognition  (Topic 13), and
     EITF 00-21, 
     Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables , and the
    software license and related services to be accounted for
    pursuant to
     SOP 97-2. 

We defer revenues for any undelivered elements, and recognize
    revenues when the product is delivered or over the period in
    which the service is performed, in accordance with our revenue
    recognition policy for such element. If we cannot objectively
    determine the fair value of any undelivered element included in
    bundled software and service arrangements, we defer revenue
    until all elements are delivered and services have been
    performed, or until fair value can objectively be determined for
    any remaining undelivered elements. When the fair value of a
    delivered element has not been established, we use the residual
    method to record revenue if the fair value of all undelivered
    elements is determinable. Under the residual method, the fair
    value of the undelivered elements is deferred and the remaining
    portion of the arrangement fee is allocated to the delivered
    elements and is recognized as revenues.

Substantially all of our software license arrangements do not
    include acceptance provisions. However, if acceptance provisions
    exist as part of public policy, for example in agreements with
    government entities when acceptance periods are required by law,
    or within previously executed terms and conditions that are
    referenced in the current agreement and are short-term in
    nature, we generally recognize revenues upon delivery provided
    the acceptance terms are perfunctory and all other revenue
    recognition criteria have been met. If acceptance provisions are
    not perfunctory (for example, acceptance provisions that are
    long-term in nature or are not included as standard terms of an
    arrangement), revenues are recognized upon the earlier of
    receipt of written customer acceptance or expiration of the
    acceptance period.

We also evaluate arrangements with governmental entities
    containing  fiscal funding  or  termination for
    convenience  provisions, when such provisions are required
    by law, to determine the probability of possible cancellation.
    We consider multiple factors, including the history with the
    customer in similar transactions, the  essential use 
    of the software licenses and the planning, budgeting and
    approval processes undertaken by the governmental entity. If we
    determine upon execution of these arrangements that the
    likelihood of cancellation is

78

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2009  

remote, we then recognize revenues once all of the criteria
    described above have been met. If such a determination cannot be
    made, revenues are recognized upon the earlier of cash receipt
    or approval of the applicable funding provision by the
    governmental entity.

We assess whether fees are fixed or determinable at the time of
    sale and recognize revenues if all other revenue recognition
    requirements are met. Our standard payment terms are
    net 30; however, terms may vary based on the country in
    which the agreement is executed. Payments that are due within
    six months are generally deemed to be fixed or determinable
    based on our successful collection history on such arrangements,
    and thereby satisfy the required criteria for revenue
    recognition.

While most of our arrangements include short-term payment terms,
    we have a standard practice of providing long-term financing to
    creditworthy customers through our financing division. Since
    fiscal 1989, when our financing division was formed, we have
    established a history of collection, without concessions, on
    these receivables with payment terms that generally extend up to
    five years from the contract date. Provided all other revenue
    recognition criteria have been met, we recognize new software
    license revenues for these arrangements upon delivery, net of
    any payment discounts from financing transactions. We have
    generally sold receivables financed through our financing
    division on a non-recourse basis to third party financing
    institutions and we classify the proceeds from these sales as
    cash flows from operating activities in our consolidated
    statements of cash flows. In fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007,
    $1.4 billion, $1.1 billion, and $891 million or
    approximately 19%, 15% and 15%, respectively, of our new
    software license revenues were financed through our financing
    division. We account for the sale of these receivables as
     true sales  as defined in FASB Statement
    No. 140,  Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of
    Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities. 

Our customers include several of our suppliers and on rare
    occasion, we have purchased goods or services for our operations
    from these vendors at or about the same time that we have
    licensed our software to these same companies (Concurrent
    Transactions). Software license agreements that occur within a
    three-month time period from the date we have purchased goods or
    services from that same customer are reviewed for appropriate
    accounting treatment and disclosure. When we acquire goods or
    services from a customer, we negotiate the purchase separately
    from any software license transaction, at terms we consider to
    be at arm s length, and settle the purchase in cash. We
    recognize new software license revenues from Concurrent
    Transactions if all of our revenue recognition criteria are met
    and the goods and services acquired are necessary for our
    current operations.

Business
    Combinations  

Fiscal
    2009 and Prior Periods   

We determine and allocate the purchase price of an acquired
    company to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and
    liabilities assumed as well as to in-process research and
    development as of the business combination date in accordance
    with FASB Statement No. 141,  Business Combinations .
    The purchase price allocation process requires us to use
    significant estimates and assumptions, including fair value
    estimates, as of the business combination date including:

estimated fair values of stock awards assumed from the acquiree
    that are included in the purchase price;

estimated fair values of intangible assets acquired from the
    acquiree;

estimated fair values of software license updates and product
    support obligations assumed from the acquiree;

estimated value of restructuring liabilities to reorganize the
    acquiree s pre-acquisition operations in accordance with
     EITF 95-3, 
     Recognition of Liabilities in Connection with a Purchase
    Business Combination
      (EITF 95-3); 

estimated income tax assets and liabilities assumed from the
    acquiree; and

estimated fair value of pre-acquisition contingencies assumed
    from the acquiree.

79

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2009  

While we use our best estimates and assumptions as a part of the
    purchase price allocation process to accurately value assets
    acquired and liabilities assumed at the business combination
    date, our estimates and assumptions are inherently uncertain and
    subject to refinement. As a result, during the purchase price
    allocation period, which may be up to one year from the business
    combination date, we record adjustments to the assets acquired
    and liabilities assumed, with the corresponding offset to
    goodwill. With the exception of unresolved income tax matters or
    decreases to estimated restructuring liabilities, we record
    adjustments to assets acquired or liabilities assumed subsequent
    to the purchase price allocation period in our operating results
    in the period in which the adjustments were determined.

Fiscal
    2010   

In fiscal 2010, we will adopt and account for our acquisitions,
    including our pending acquisition of Sun Microsystems, Inc. (see
    Note 2), in accordance with FASB Statement No. 141
    (revised 2007),  Business Combinations , and related
    position. Pursuant to Statement 141(R) s acquisition method
    of accounting, we will recognize separately from goodwill, the
    identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any
    noncontrolling interests in an acquiree, generally at the
    acquisition date fair value as defined by FASB Statement
    No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements . Goodwill as of the
    acquisition date is measured as the excess of consideration
    transferred, which is also generally measured at fair value, and
    the net of the acquisition date amounts of the identifiable
    assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.

The acquisition method requires us to use significant estimates
    and assumptions, including fair value estimates, as of the
    business combination date and to refine those estimates, as
    necessary, during the measurement period (defined as the period,
    not to exceed one year, in which we may adjust the provisional
    amounts recognized for a business combination) in a manner that
    is generally similar to that under Statement 141 (see above).
    The additional policies that we will adopt in order to account
    for, and a discussion of the impact of, the more significant
    areas of Statement 141(R) that we expect will affect our
    consolidated financial statements are provided below.

Upon our adoption of Statement 141(R), any changes to deferred
    tax asset valuation allowances and liabilities related to
    uncertain tax positions will be recorded in current period
    income tax expense, unless any such changes are identified
    during the measurement period and relate to new information
    obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the
    acquisition date, in which case the change is considered a
    measurement period adjustment and is recorded to goodwill. Upon
    our adoption of Statement 141(R) in fiscal 2010, this
    requirement is applicable to all of our acquisitions regardless
    of the acquisition date.

Statement 141(R) requires that acquired company restructuring
    activities initiated by us must be accounted for separately from
    the business combination in accordance with FASB Statement
    No. 146,  Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or
    Disposal Activities . We accounted for our Oracle-based
    restructuring activities in accordance with Statement 146 for
    fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007. Statement 146 requires that a
    liability for a cost associated with an exit or disposal
    activity be recognized and measured initially at its fair value
    in the period in which the liability is incurred. In order to
    incur a liability pursuant to Statement 146, our management must
    have established and approved a plan of restructuring in
    sufficient detail. A liability for a cost associated with
    involuntary termination benefits is recorded when benefits have
    been communicated and a liability for a cost to terminate an
    operating lease or other contract is incurred when the contract
    has been terminated in accordance with the contract terms or we
    have ceased using the right conveyed by the contract, such as
    vacating a leased facility. Changes in estimates associated with
    liabilities recognized for restructuring plans pertaining to
    acquisitions completed prior to fiscal 2010 will continue to be
    accounted for pursuant to those accounting standards and
    descriptions provided above.

Upon our adoption of Statement 141(R), we will record costs
    incurred to effect an acquisition to the acquisition related and
    other line in our consolidated statement of operations as the
    expenses are incurred.

80

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2009  

Upon our adoption of Statement 141(R), should the initial
    accounting for a business combination be incomplete by the end
    of a reporting period that falls within the measurement period,
    we will report the provisional amounts for such items in our
    consolidated financial statements. During the measurement
    period, we will adjust the provisional amounts recognized at the
    acquisition date to reflect new information obtained about facts
    and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that,
    if known, would have affected the measurement of the amounts
    recognized as of that date and we will record those adjustments
    to our consolidated financial statements. Those measurement
    period adjustments that we determine to be significant will be
    applied retrospectively to comparative information in our
    consolidated financial statements, including adjustments to
    depreciation, amortization, or other income effects recognized
    in the initial accounting.

Our adoption of Statement 141(R) in fiscal 2010 will change how
    we account for the aforementioned areas in comparison to how
    these areas are currently accounted for pursuant to Statement
    141 and related accounting guidance. Our accounting for deferred
    tax asset valuation allowances and uncertain tax position
    liabilities, restructuring liabilities and costs incurred to
    effect an acquisition will generally result in the recording of
    expense to our operations as these expenses are incurred. This
    contrasts with how we account for these items pursuant to
    Statement 141 and related accounting guidance in fiscal 2009 and
    prior periods, which generally require that these items be
    included as a part of the purchase price allocation for the
    business combination and generally do not impact our expenses or
    results of operations. As a result, we expect that we will incur
    additional restructuring, income tax and acquisition related and
    other expenses for any prospective acquisitions that we
    consummate, including our proposed acquisition of Sun (see
    Note 2). The amount, timing and frequency of such expenses
    are difficult to predict and could materially affect our results
    of operations and financial position. Additionally, we expect
    that changes in estimates of deferred tax asset valuation
    allowances and uncertain tax position liabilities assumed in an
    acquisition that occurred prior to the adoption of Statement
    141(R) will be accounted for as a current period income tax
    expense if we do not believe any new information obtained after
    the acquisition date about facts and circumstances existed as of
    the acquisition date or was not identified within the
    measurement period.

Marketable
    and Non-Marketable Securities  

In accordance with FASB Statement No. 115,  Accounting
    for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities,  and
    based on our intentions regarding these instruments, we classify
    substantially all of our marketable debt and equity securities
    as available-for-sale. Marketable debt and equity securities are
    reported at fair value, with all unrealized gains (losses)
    reflected net of tax in stockholders  equity. If we
    determine that an investment has an other than temporary decline
    in fair value, we recognize the investment loss in non-operating
    income, net in the accompanying consolidated statements of
    operations. We periodically evaluate our investments to
    determine if impairment charges are required.

We hold investments in certain non-marketable equity securities
    in which we do not have a controlling interest or significant
    influence. These equity securities are recorded at cost and
    included in other assets in the accompanying consolidated
    balance sheets. Our non-marketable securities are subject to
    periodic impairment reviews and we had nominal impairment losses
    related to non-marketable equity securities and other
    investments in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007.

Fair
    Value of Financial Instruments  

We apply the provisions of FASB Statement No. 157,  Fair
    Value Measurements , and related FASB Staff Positions
    (described below) to our financial instruments that we are
    required to carry at fair value pursuant to other accounting
    standards, including our marketable debt and equity securities
    and our derivative financial instruments. We have not applied
    the fair value option to those financial instruments that we are
    not required to carry at fair value pursuant to other accounting
    standards, including our senior notes outstanding.

81

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2009  

Based on the trading prices of our $10.25 billion and
    $11.25 billion senior notes outstanding as of May 31,
    2009 and 2008, respectively, and the interest rates we could
    obtain for other borrowings with similar terms at those dates,
    the estimated fair value of our borrowings at May 31, 2009
    and 2008 was $10.79 billion and $11.26 billion,
    respectively.

The additional disclosures regarding our fair value measurements
    are included in Note 4.

Allowances
    for Doubtful Accounts  

We record allowances for doubtful accounts based upon a specific
    review of all significant outstanding invoices. For those
    invoices not specifically reviewed, provisions are provided at
    differing rates, based upon the age of the receivable, the
    collection history associated with the geographic region that
    the receivable was recorded in and current economic trends.

Concentrations
    of Credit Risk  

Financial instruments that are potentially subject to
    concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash
    equivalents, marketable securities and trade receivables. Our
    cash and cash equivalents are generally held with a number of
    large, diverse financial institutions worldwide to reduce the
    amount of exposure to any single financial institution.
    Investment policies have been implemented that limit purchases
    of marketable debt securities to investment grade securities. We
    do not require collateral to secure accounts receivable. The
    risk with respect to trade receivables is mitigated by credit
    evaluations we perform on our customers, the short duration of
    our payment terms for the significant majority of our customer
    contracts and by the diversification of our customer base. No
    single customer accounted for 10% or more of our total revenues
    in fiscal 2009, 2008 or 2007.

Other
    Receivables  

Other receivables represent value-added tax and sales tax
    receivables associated with the sale of software and services to
    third parties. Other receivables are included in prepaid
    expenses and other current assets in our consolidated balance
    sheets and totaled $555 million and $672 million at
    May 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

Property  

Property is stated at the lower of cost or realizable value, net
    of accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is computed using the
    straight-line method based on estimated useful lives of the
    assets, which range from one to fifty years. Leasehold
    improvements are amortized over the lesser of estimated useful
    lives or lease terms, as appropriate. Property is periodically
    reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in
    circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may
    not be recoverable. We did not recognize any significant
    property impairment charges in fiscal 2009, 2008 or 2007.

Goodwill,
    Intangible Assets and Impairment Assessments  

Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price in a
    business combination over the fair value of net tangible and
    intangible assets acquired. Intangible assets that are not
    considered to have an indefinite useful life are amortized over
    their useful lives, which range from one to ten years. Each
    period we evaluate the estimated remaining useful life of
    purchased intangible assets and whether events or changes in
    circumstances warrant a revision to the remaining period of
    amortization.

The carrying amounts of these assets are periodically reviewed
    for impairment (at least annually for goodwill) and whenever
    events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
    value of these assets may not be recoverable. The goodwill
    impairment analysis is comprised of two steps. In the first
    step, we compare the fair value of each reporting unit to its
    carrying value. Our reporting units are consistent with the
    reportable segments identified in

82

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2009  

Note 15 below. If the fair value of the reporting unit
    exceeds the carrying value of the net assets assigned to that
    unit, goodwill is not considered impaired and we are not
    required to perform further testing. If the carrying value of
    the net assets assigned to the reporting unit exceeds the fair
    value of the reporting unit, then we must perform the second
    step of the impairment test in order to determine the implied
    fair value of the reporting unit s goodwill. If the
    carrying value of a reporting unit s goodwill exceeds its
    implied fair value, then we would record an impairment loss
    equal to the difference. Recoverability of intangible assets is
    measured by comparison of the carrying amount of each asset to
    the future undiscounted cash flows the asset is expected to
    generate. If the asset is considered to be impaired, the amount
    of any impairment is measured as the difference between the
    carrying value and the fair value of the impaired asset. We did
    not recognize any goodwill or intangible asset impairment
    charges in fiscal 2009, 2008 or 2007.

Derivative
    Financial Instruments  

We hold derivative financial instruments to manage foreign
    currency and interest rate risks. We account for these
    instruments in accordance with FASB Statement No. 133,
     Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
    Activities , as amended, which requires that every derivative
    instrument be recorded on the balance sheet as either an asset
    or liability measured at its fair value as of the reporting
    date. Statement 133 also requires that changes in our
    derivatives  fair values be recognized in earnings, unless
    specific hedge accounting and documentation criteria are met
    (i.e. the instruments are accounted for as hedges). We record
    the effective portions of the gain or loss on derivative
    financial instruments that are designated as cash flow hedges or
    net investment hedges in accumulated other comprehensive income
    in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Any ineffective
    or excluded portion of a designated cash flow hedge or net
    investment hedge is recognized in earnings.

We adopted the disclosure requirements of FASB Statement
    No. 161,  Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and
    Hedging Activities, an amendment of FASB Statement 133 , as
    of December 1, 2008 and have provided these disclosures for
    fiscal 2009 in Note 10.

Legal
    Contingencies  

We are currently involved in various claims and legal
    proceedings. Quarterly, we review the status of each significant
    matter and assess our potential financial exposure. If the
    potential loss from any claim or legal proceeding is considered
    probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, we accrue a
    liability for the estimated loss.

Foreign
    Currency  

We transact business in various foreign currencies. In general,
    the functional currency of a foreign operation is the local
    country s currency. Consequently, revenues and expenses of
    operations outside the United States are translated into
    U.S. Dollars using weighted average exchange rates while
    assets and liabilities of operations outside the
    United States are translated into U.S. Dollars using
    exchange rates at the balance sheet date. The effects of foreign
    currency translation adjustments are included in
    stockholders  equity as a component of accumulated other
    comprehensive income in the accompanying consolidated balance
    sheets. Foreign currency transaction (losses) gains, net which
    include the effects of our derivative financial instruments, are
    included in non-operating income, net in our consolidated
    statements of operations and were $(55) million,
    $40 million and $45 million in fiscal 2009, 2008 and
    2007, respectively.

Stock-Based
    Compensation  

We account for share-based payments, including grants of
    employee stock awards and purchases under employee stock
    purchase plans, in accordance with FASB Statement No. 123
    (revised 2004),  Share-Based Payment,  which requires that
    share-based payments (to the extent they are compensatory) be
    recognized in our consolidated

83

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2009  

statements of operations based on their fair values and the
    estimated number of shares we ultimately expect will vest. In
    addition, we have applied certain of the provisions of the
    SEC s Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107 (Topic
    14), as amended, in our accounting for Statement 123(R). We
    recognize stock-based compensation expense on a straight-line
    basis over the service period of the award, which is generally
    four years. The fair value of the unvested portion of
    share-based payments granted prior to June 1, 2006 (our
    adoption date of Statement 123(R)) is recognized using the
    accelerated expense attribution method, net of estimated
    forfeitures.

We record deferred tax assets for stock-based awards that result
    in deductions on our income tax returns based on the amount of
    stock-based compensation recognized and the statutory tax rate
    in the jurisdiction in which we will receive a tax deduction.

Advertising  

All advertising costs are expensed as incurred. Advertising
    expenses, which are included within sales and marketing
    expenses, were $71 million, $81 million and
    $91 million in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

Research
    and Development  

All research and development costs are expensed as incurred.
    Costs eligible for capitalization under FASB Statement
    No. 86,  Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software to
    Be Sold, Leased, or Otherwise Marketed , were not material to
    our consolidated financial statements in fiscal 2009, 2008 and
    2007, respectively.

Acquisition
    Related and Other Expenses  

Acquisition related and other expenses consist of in-process
    research and development expenses, personnel related costs for
    transitional and other employees, stock-based compensation
    expenses, integration related professional services, certain
    business combination adjustments after the purchase price
    allocation period has ended, and certain other operating
    expenses (income), net. Stock-based compensation included in
    acquisition related and other expenses resulted from unvested
    options assumed from acquisitions where vesting was accelerated
    upon termination of the employees pursuant to the original terms
    of those options.

In fiscal 2008, we sold certain of our land and buildings for
    $153 million in cash. Concurrent with the sale, we leased
    the property back from the buyer for a period of up to three
    years. We have accounted for this transaction in accordance with
    FASB Statement No. 28,  Accounting for Sales with
    Leasebacks , FASB Statement No. 66,  Accounting for
    Sales of Real Estate , and FASB Statement No. 98,
     Accounting for Leases, et al.  We deferred
    $19 million of the gain on the sale representing the
    present value of the operating lease commitment and recognized a
    gain of approximately $57 million for fiscal 2008. The
    deferred portion of the gain will be recognized as a reduction
    of rent expense over the operating lease term.

In fiscal 2007, acquisition related and other expenses included
    a benefit related to the settlement of a lawsuit filed against
    PeopleSoft, Inc. on behalf of the U.S. government. This
    lawsuit was filed in October 2003, prior to our

84

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2009  

acquisition of PeopleSoft and represented a pre-acquisition
    contingency that we identified and assumed in connection with
    our acquisition of PeopleSoft. We settled this lawsuit in
    October 2006, which was subsequent to the purchase price
    allocation period, for approximately $98 million.
    Accordingly, we included the difference between the amount
    accrued as of the end of the purchase price allocation period
    and the settlement amount as a benefit to our consolidated
    statement of operations in fiscal 2007.

Non-Operating
    Income, net  

Non-operating income, net consists primarily of interest income,
    net foreign currency exchange gains (losses), the minority
    owners  shares in the net profits of our majority-owned
    subsidiaries (Oracle Financial Services Software Limited,
    formerly i-flex solutions limited, and Oracle Japan), and other
    income, net, including net realized gains and losses related to
    all of our investments and net unrealized gains and losses
    related to the small portion of our investment portfolio that we
    classify as trading.

Income
    Taxes  

We account for income taxes in accordance with FASB Statement
    No. 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes . Deferred
    income taxes are recorded for the expected tax consequences of
    temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and
    liabilities for financial reporting purposes and amounts
    recognized for income tax purposes. We record a valuation
    allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount of
    future tax benefit that is more likely than not to be realized.

On June 1, 2007, we adopted FASB Interpretation
    No. 48 , Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes
     (FIN 48), to account for our uncertain tax positions.
    FIN 48 contains a two-step approach to recognizing and
    measuring uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken
    in a tax return. The first step is to determine if the weight of
    available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not
    that the tax position will be sustained in an audit, including
    resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes. The
    second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount
    that is more than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate
    settlement. We recognize interest and penalties related to
    uncertain tax positions in our provision for income taxes line
    of our consolidated statements of operations.

Recent
    Accounting Pronouncements  

Transfers of Financial Assets:    In June
    2009, the FASB issued Statement No. 166,  Accounting for
    Transfers of Financial Assets, an amendment of FASB Statement
    No. 140 . Statement 166 eliminates the concept of a
     qualifying special-purpose entity  from Statement 140
    and changes the requirements for derecognizing financial assets.
    We will adopt Statement 166 in fiscal 2011 and are currently
    evaluating the impact of its pending adoption on our
    consolidated financial statements.

Variable Interest Entities:    In June
    2009, the FASB issued Statement No. 167,  Amendments to
    FASB Interpretation No. 46(R) . Statement 167 amends the
    evaluation criteria to identify the primary beneficiary of a
    variable interest entity provided by FASB Interpretation
    No. 46(R) , Consolidation of Variable Interest
    Entities An Interpretation of ARB No. 51 .
    Additionally, Statement 167 requires ongoing reassessments of
    whether an enterprise

85

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2009  

is the primary beneficiary of the variable interest entity. We
    will adopt Statement 167 in fiscal 2011 and are currently
    evaluating the impact of its pending adoption on our
    consolidated financial statements.

Subsequent Events:    In May 2009, the
    FASB issued Statement No. 165,  Subsequent Events .
    Statement 165 establishes general standards of accounting
    for and disclosure of events that occur after the balance sheet
    date but before the financial statements are issued or are
    available to be issued. We will adopt Statement 165 in the first
    quarter of fiscal 2010 and do not believe it will result in
    significant changes to reporting of subsequent events either
    through recognition or disclosure.

Other-Than-Temporary Impairment of Debt
    Securities:    In April 2009, the FASB issued
    FASB Staff Position
     No. FAS 115-2 
    and
     FAS 124-2, 
     Recognition and Presentation of Other-Than-Temporary
    Impairments.  This FASB Staff Position amends the
    other-than-temporary impairment accounting guidance for debt
    securities. This Staff Position requires that
    other-than-temporary impairment be separated into the amount of
    the total impairment related to credit losses and the amount of
    the total impairment related to all other factors. The amount of
    the total other-than-temporary impairment related to credit
    losses is recognized in earnings and the amount related to all
    other factors is recognized in other comprehensive income. This
    Staff Position is effective for interim and annual reporting
    periods ending after June 15, 2009, with early adoption
    permitted for periods ending after March 15, 2009. We will
    adopt FSP
     No. FAS 115-2 
    and
     FAS 124-2 
    in our first quarter of fiscal 2010 and do not believe it will
    have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.

Fair Value Disclosures in Interim
    Reports:    In April 2009, the FASB issued FASB
    Staff Position
     No. FAS 107-1 
    and APB
     28-1, 
     Interim Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial
    Instruments.  This Staff Position amends FASB Statement
    No. 107,  Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial
    Instruments,  to require disclosures about fair value of
    financial instruments at interim reporting periods. This Staff
    Position is effective for interim reporting periods ending after
    June 15, 2009, with early adoption permitted for periods
    ending after March 15, 2009 provided FSP
     No. FAS 115-2 
    and
     FAS 124-2 
    (described above) are also early adopted. We will adopt FSP
     No. FAS 107-1 
    in our first quarter of fiscal 2010 and do not believe it will
    have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.

Equity Method Investment Accounting:    In
    November 2008, the FASB ratified EITF Issue
     No. 08-6, 
     Equity Method Investment Accounting Considerations .
     EITF 08-6 
    clarifies the accounting for certain transactions and impairment
    considerations involving equity method investments.
     EITF 08-6 
    is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15,
    2008, with early adoption prohibited. We do not currently have
    any investments that are accounted for under the equity method.
    As a result, our adoption of
     EITF 08-6 
    in fiscal 2010 is not expected to have an impact on our
    consolidated financial statements.

Defensive Intangible Assets:    In
    November 2008, the FASB ratified EITF
     No. 08-7, 
     Accounting for Defensive Intangible Assets .
     EITF 08-7 
    clarifies the accounting for certain separately identifiable
    intangible assets which an acquirer does not intend to actively
    use but intends to hold to prevent its competitors from
    obtaining access to them.
     EITF 08-7 
    requires an acquirer in a business combination to account for a
    defensive intangible asset as a separate unit of accounting
    which should be amortized to expense over the period the asset
    diminishes in value.
     EITF 08-7 
    is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15,
    2008, with early adoption prohibited. We will adopt
     EITF 08-7 
    in fiscal 2010 and it could materially affect how we account for
    certain identifiable intangible assets that we may acquire in
    connection with any future acquisitions we complete and account
    for pursuant to Statement 141(R), which could materially affect
    our consolidated financial statements. Historically, we have
    generally utilized the intangible assets we acquire as a part of
    our ongoing operations subsequent to the acquisition date.

Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible
    Assets:    In April 2008, the FASB issued FASB
    Staff Position (FSP)
     FAS 142-3, 
     Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets .
    FSP
     FAS 142-3 
    amends the factors that should be considered in developing
    renewal or extension assumptions used to determine the useful
    life of a recognized intangible asset under FASB Statement
    No. 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets . FSP
     FAS 142-3 
    is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15,
    2008 and early adoption is prohibited. We will adopt FSP
     FAS 142-3 
    in fiscal 2010 and do not believe it will have a material impact
    on our consolidated financial statements.

86

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2009  

Business Combinations:    In December
    2007, the FASB issued Statement No. 141 (revised 2007),
     Business Combinations . The standard changes the
    accounting for business combinations including the measurement
    of acquirer shares issued in consideration for a business
    combination, the recognition of contingent consideration, the
    accounting for pre-acquisition gain and loss contingencies, the
    recognition of capitalized in-process research and development,
    the accounting for acquisition related restructuring
    liabilities, the treatment of acquisition related transaction
    costs, and the accounting for income tax valuation allowances
    and other income tax uncertainties, amongst other impacts. In
    April 2009, the FASB issued FSP No. FAS 141(R)-1
     Accounting for Assets Acquired and Liabilities Assumed in a
    Business Combinations That Arise from Contingencies . FSP
    No. FAS 141(R)-1 amends and clarifies the accounting
    for acquired contingencies and is effective upon the adoption of
    Statement 141(R). We will adopt Statement 141(R) and the related
    Staff Position in fiscal 2010 and believe that the adoption of
    Statement 141(R) will result in the recognition of certain types
    of expenses in our results of operations that were previously
    capitalized pursuant to pre-adoption accounting standards,
    amongst other potential impacts. A discussion of the more
    significant items of Statement 141(R) that could materially
    affect our consolidated financial statements and our accounting
    policy for these items is included in our discussion of
     Significant Accounting Policies Business
    Combinations  above.

Accounting and Reporting of Noncontrolling
    Interests:    In December 2007, the FASB issued
    Statement No. 160,  Noncontrolling Interests in
    Consolidated Financial Statements, an amendment of ARB
    No. 51 . In fiscal 2010, we will adopt Statement 160 and
    generally believe it will not materially affect our consolidated
    financial statements. Upon our adoption of Statement 160, we
    will retrospectively classify noncontrolling (minority) interest
    positions of consolidated entities as a separate component of
    consolidated stockholders  equity from the equity
    attributable to Oracle s stockholders for all periods
    presented. Net income and comprehensive income will be
    attributed to Oracle stockholders and the noncontrolling
    interests. In addition, Statement 160 requires that any change
    in our ownership of a majority-owned subsidiary be prospectively
    accounted for as an equity transaction provided that we retain
    control of the subsidiary. This requirement is a change to
    current practice whereby gains or losses may be recognized on
    the sales of our interests in a subsidiary, regardless of
    whether we maintain control. While we have not recognized any
    material gains or losses on such ownership sales during fiscal
    2009, 2008 or 2007, the timing and amount of any future gains or
    losses on sales of our ownership interests in our subsidiaries
    could be materially affected as a result of our fiscal 2010
    adoption of Statement 160.

Fair Value Measurements:    In September
    2006, the FASB issued Statement No. 157,  Fair Value
    Measurements.   Statement 157 defines fair value,
    establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands
    fair value measurement disclosures. In February 2008, the FASB
    issued FASB Staff Position
     No. FAS 157-1, 
     Application of FASB Statement No. 157 to FASB Statement
    No. 13 and Other Accounting Pronouncements That Address
    Fair Value Measurements for Purposes of Lease Classification or
    Measurement under Statement 13  and FASB Staff Position
     No. FAS 157-2, 
     Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157 .
    Collectively, the Staff Positions defer the effective date of
    Statement 157 to fiscal years beginning after November 15,
    2008 for nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities except
    for items that are recognized or disclosed at fair value on a
    recurring basis at least annually, and amend the scope of
    Statement 157. In October 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff
    Position
     FAS 157-3, 
     Determining the Fair Value of a Financial Asset When the
    Market for That Asset Is Not Active , which clarified the
    application of how the fair value of a financial asset is
    determined when the market for that financial asset is inactive.
    FSP
     No. FAS 157-3 
    was effective upon issuance, including prior periods for which
    financial statements had not been issued. In April 2009, the
    FASB issued FASB Staff Position
     No. FAS 157-4, 
     Determining Fair Value When the Volume and Level of Activity
    for the Asset or Liability Have Significantly Decreased and
    Identifying Transactions That Are Not Orderly.  FSP
     FAS 157-4 
    amends Statement 157 to provide additional guidance on
    determining fair value when the volume and level of activity for
    the asset or liability have significantly decreased when
    compared with normal market activity for the asset or liability.
    FSP
     FAS 157-4 
    is effective for interim and annual reporting periods ending
    after June 15, 2009 with early adoption permitted for
    periods ending after March 15, 2009. As described in
    Note 4, we have adopted Statement 157 and the related FASB
    staff positions except for FSP
     No. FAS 157-4 
    and those items specifically deferred under FSP
     No. FAS 157-2. 
    We do not believe the full

87

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2009  

adoption of Statement 157 and related FASB Staff Positions in
    fiscal 2010 will have a material affect on our consolidated
    financial statements.

2.    

ACQUISITIONS  

Proposed
    Acquisition of Sun Microsystems, Inc. and Others  

On April 19, 2009, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of
    Merger (Merger Agreement) with Sun Microsystems, Inc. (Sun), a
    provider of enterprise computing systems, software and services.
    Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, our wholly owned subsidiary
    will merge with and into Sun and Sun will become a wholly owned
    subsidiary of Oracle. Upon the consummation of the merger, each
    share of Sun common stock will be converted into the right to
    receive $9.50 in cash. In addition, options to acquire Sun
    common stock, Sun restricted stock unit awards and other
    equity-based awards denominated in shares of Sun common stock
    outstanding immediately prior to the consummation of the merger
    will generally be converted into options, restricted stock unit
    awards or other equity-based awards, as the case may be,
    denominated in shares of Oracle common stock based on formulas
    contained in the Merger Agreement. The estimated total purchase
    price of Sun is approximately $7.4 billion.

The Merger Agreement contains certain termination rights for
    both Sun and Oracle and further provides that, upon termination
    of the Merger Agreement under certain circumstances, Sun may be
    obligated to pay Oracle a termination fee of $260 million.

This transaction is subject to Sun stockholder approval,
    regulatory clearance under the
     Hart-Scott-Rodino 
    Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, the applicable merger
    control laws of the European Commission and other jurisdictions,
    and other customary closing conditions.

In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, we agreed to acquire
    certain other companies for amounts that are not material to our
    business. We expect these transactions to close in the first
    quarter of fiscal 2010.

Fiscal
    2009 Acquisitions  

During fiscal 2009, we acquired several companies and purchased
    certain technology and development assets primarily to expand
    our product offerings. These acquisitions were not individually
    significant. We have included the financial results of these
    companies in our fiscal 2009 consolidated results from their
    respective acquisition dates. In the aggregate, the total
    purchase price for these acquisitions was approximately
    $1.2 billion, which consisted of $1.2 billion in cash,
    $1 million for the fair value of stock awards assumed and
    $13 million for transaction costs. In allocating the total
    purchase price for these acquisitions based on estimated fair
    values, we preliminarily recorded $712 million of goodwill,
    $587 million of identifiable intangible assets,
    $100 million of net tangible liabilities (resulting
    primarily from deferred tax and restructuring liabilities
    assumed as a part of these transactions) and $10 million of
    in-process research and development. The preliminary allocations
    of the various purchase prices were based upon preliminary
    valuations and our estimates and assumptions are subject to
    change. The primary areas of the purchase price allocations that
    were not yet finalized relate to certain restructuring
    liabilities, intangible assets, legal matters, income and
    non-income based taxes and residual goodwill.

Fiscal
    2008 Acquisitions  

BEA
    Systems, Inc.   

We acquired BEA Systems, Inc. on April 29, 2008 by means of
    a merger of one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries with and into
    BEA such that BEA became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Oracle. We
    acquired BEA to, among other things, expand our offering of
    middleware products. We have included the financial results of
    BEA in our consolidated financial results effective
    April 29, 2008.

88

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2009  

The total purchase price for BEA was $8.6 billion which
    consisted of $8.3 billion in cash paid to acquire the
    outstanding common stock of BEA, $225 million for the fair
    value of BEA options assumed and restricted stock awards
    exchanged and $10 million for acquisition related
    transaction costs. In allocating the purchase price based on
    estimated fair values, we recorded approximately
    $4.5 billion of goodwill, $3.3 billion of identifiable
    intangible assets, $703 million of net tangible assets and
    $17 million of in-process research and development.

Other
    Fiscal 2008 Acquisitions   

During fiscal 2008, we acquired several other companies and
    purchased certain technology and development assets. Our fiscal
    2008 acquisitions, other than BEA, were not significant
    individually or in the aggregate. We have included the effects
    of these transactions in our results of operations prospectively
    from the respective dates of the acquisitions.

Fiscal
    2007 Acquisitions  

Hyperion
    Solutions Corporation   

On April 13, 2007, we acquired majority ownership of
    Hyperion Solutions Corporation by means of a cash tender offer
    and, subsequently, completed a merger of Hyperion with one of
    our wholly owned subsidiaries such that Hyperion became a wholly
    owned subsidiary of Oracle on April 19, 2007. We acquired
    Hyperion to expand our offerings of enterprise performance
    management and business intelligence software solutions.

The total purchase price for Hyperion was $3.2 billion
    which consisted of approximately $3.1 billion in cash paid
    to acquire the outstanding common stock of Hyperion,
    $51 million for the fair value of Hyperion options assumed
    and restricted stock awards exchanged and $21 million for
    acquisition related transaction costs. In allocating the
    purchase price based on estimated fair values, we recorded
    approximately $1.6 billion of goodwill, $1.5 billion
    of identifiable intangible assets, $118 million of net
    tangible assets and $56 million of in-process research and
    development.

Oracle
    Financial Services Software Limited (OFSS)   

During fiscal 2007, we acquired interests in and increased our
    ownership of OFSS, formerly i-flex solutions limited, by means
    of share purchase agreements, an open offer to acquire shares
    and open market purchases. We acquired a majority ownership in
    OFSS to expand our offerings of software solutions and services
    to the financial services industry.

Our cumulative investment in OFSS as of May 31, 2009 was
    approximately $2.1 billion, which consisted of
    approximately $2.0 billion of cash paid for common stock
    and $17 million in transaction costs and other expenses.
    Our cumulative investment in OFSS has been allocated to
    OFSS s net tangible and identifiable intangible assets
    based on their estimated fair values as of the respective dates
    of acquisition of the interests. The minority interest in the
    net assets of OFSS has been recorded at historical book values.
    In allocating the purchase price, we recorded approximately
    $1.6 billion of goodwill, $266 million of identifiable
    intangible assets, $211 million of net tangible assets and
    $46 million of in-process research and development.

Other
    Fiscal 2007 Acquisitions   

During fiscal 2007, in addition to our acquisitions of Hyperion
    and OFSS, we also acquired several companies and purchased
    certain technology and development assets to expand our product
    offerings. We have included the financial results of these
    companies in our fiscal 2007 consolidated results from their
    respective acquisition dates. In the aggregate, the total
    purchase price for these acquisitions was approximately
    $1.3 billion, which consisted of approximately
    $1.2 billion in cash, $46 million for the fair value
    of stock awards assumed, and $9 million for acquisition
    related transaction costs. In allocating the total purchase
    price for these acquisitions based on their fair

89

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2009  

values, we recorded $561 million of goodwill,
    $573 million of identifiable intangible assets,
    $106 million of net tangible assets and $49 million of
    in-process research and development.

Unaudited
    Pro Forma Financial Information  

The unaudited pro forma financial information in the table below
    summarizes the combined results of operations for Oracle, BEA
    and certain other companies that we acquired since the beginning
    of fiscal 2008 (which were collectively significant for purposes
    of unaudited pro forma financial information disclosure) as
    though the companies were combined as of the beginning of fiscal
    2008. The pro forma financial information for all periods
    presented also includes the business combination accounting
    effects resulting from these acquisitions including amortization
    charges from acquired intangible assets, stock-based
    compensation charges for unvested stock awards assumed,
    adjustments to interest expense for borrowings and the related
    tax effects as though the aforementioned companies were combined
    as of the beginning of fiscal 2008. The pro forma financial
    information as presented below is for informational purposes
    only and is not indicative of the results of operations that
    would have been achieved if the acquisitions and any borrowings
    undertaken to finance these acquisitions had taken place at the
    beginning of fiscal 2008.

The unaudited pro forma financial information for fiscal 2009
    combined the historical results of Oracle and certain other
    companies that we acquired since the beginning of fiscal 2009
    (which were collectively significant for purposes of unaudited
    pro forma financial information disclosure) based upon their
    respective previous reporting periods and the dates that these
    companies were acquired by us, and the effects of the pro forma
    adjustments listed above.

The unaudited pro forma financial information for fiscal 2008
    combined the historical results of Oracle for fiscal 2008 and
    the historical results of BEA for the eleven months ended
    April 29, 2008, and the historical results of certain other
    companies that we acquired since the beginning of fiscal 2008
    (which were collectively significant for purposes of unaudited
    pro forma financial information disclosure) based upon their
    respective previous reporting periods and the dates these
    companies were acquired by us, and the effects of the pro forma
    adjustments listed above. The unaudited pro forma financial
    information was as follows for fiscal 2009 and 2008:

3.    

CASH,
    CASH EQUIVALENTS AND MARKETABLE SECURITIES  

Cash and cash equivalents primarily consist of deposits held at
    major banks, money market funds, Tier-1 commercial paper,
    U.S. Treasury obligations, U.S. government agency and
    government sponsored enterprise obligations, and other
    securities with original maturities of 90 days or less.
    Marketable securities primarily consist of time deposits held at
    major banks, Tier-1 commercial paper, corporate notes,
    U.S. Treasury obligations and U.S. government agency
    and government sponsored enterprise debt obligations.

The amortized principal amounts of our cash, cash equivalents
    and marketable securities approximated their fair values at
    May 31, 2009 and 2008. We use the specific identification
    method to determine any realized gains or losses from the sale
    of our marketable securities classified as available-for-sale.
    Such realized gains and losses were

90

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2009  

insignificant for fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007. The following
    table summarizes the components of our cash equivalents and
    marketable securities held, substantially all of which were
    classified as available-for-sale:

Substantially all of our marketable security investments held as
    of May 31, 2009 mature within one year. Our investment
    portfolio is subject to market risk due to changes in interest
    rates. We place our investments with high credit quality issuers
    as described above and, by policy, limit the amount of credit
    exposure to any one issuer. As stated in our investment policy,
    we are averse to principal loss and seek to preserve our
    invested funds by limiting default risk, market risk and
    reinvestment risk.

4.    

FAIR
    VALUE MEASUREMENTS  

On June 1, 2008, we adopted FASB Statement No. 157,
     Fair Value Measurements  and subsequently adopted certain
    related FASB Staff Positions. The adoption of Statement 157 and
    related positions did not have a material impact on our
    consolidated financial statements. Statement 157 defines fair
    value as the price that would be received from selling an asset
    or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction
    between market participants at the measurement date. When
    determining the fair value measurements for assets and
    liabilities required to be recorded at fair value, we consider
    the principal or most advantageous market in which we would
    transact and consider assumptions that market participants would
    use when pricing the asset or liability, such as inherent risk,
    transfer restrictions, and risk of nonperformance.

Statement 157 also establishes a fair value hierarchy that
    requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and
    minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair
    value. A financial instrument s categorization within the
    fair value hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input
    that is significant to the fair value measurement. Statement 157
    establishes three levels of inputs that may be used to measure
    fair value:

Level 1: quoted prices in active markets for identical
    assets or liabilities;

Level 2: inputs other than Level 1 that are
    observable, either directly or indirectly, such as quoted prices
    in active markets for similar assets or liabilities, quoted
    prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets
    that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can
    be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the
    full term of the assets or liabilities; or

Level 3: unobservable inputs that are supported by little
    or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value
    of the assets or liabilities.

91

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2009  

Financial
    Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring
    Basis  

Our significant financial assets and liabilities measured at
    fair value on a recurring basis, excluding accrued interest
    components, consisted of the following types of instruments as
    of May 31, 2009 (Level 1 and 2 inputs are defined
    above):

Our valuation techniques used to measure the fair values of our
    money market funds and U.S. Treasury, U.S. government
    and U.S. government agency debt securities were derived
    from quoted market prices as substantially all of these
    instruments have maturity dates (if any) within one year from
    our date of purchase and active markets for these instruments
    exist. Our valuation techniques used to measure the fair values
    of all other instruments listed in the table above,
    substantially all of which mature within one year and the
    counterparties to which have high credit ratings, were derived
    from the following: non-binding market consensus prices that are
    corroborated by observable market data; quoted market prices for
    similar instruments; or pricing models, such as discounted cash
    flow techniques, with all significant inputs derived from or
    corroborated by observable market data. Our discounted cash flow
    techniques use observable market inputs, such as LIBOR-based
    yield curves, and currency spot and forward rates.

Property consisted of the following:

92

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2009  

6.    

INTANGIBLE
    ASSETS AND GOODWILL  

The changes in intangible assets for fiscal 2009 and the net
    book value of intangible assets at May 31, 2009 and 2008
    were as follows:

Total amortization expense related to our intangible assets was
    $1.7 billion, $1.2 billion and $878 million in
    fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. As of May 31,
    2009, estimated future amortization expense related to our
    intangible assets, excluding the impact of additional intangible
    assets arising from any subsequent acquisitions such as Sun, was
    $1.7 billion in fiscal 2010, $1.4 billion in fiscal
    2011, $1.2 billion in fiscal 2012, $1.1 billion in
    fiscal 2013, $881 million in fiscal 2014 and
    $1.1 billion thereafter.

The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill, which is
    generally not deductible for tax purposes, by operating segment
    for fiscal 2009 and 2008, were as follows:

(1)   

Represents the goodwill allocation
    associated with certain acquisitions that was allocated to our
    operating segments upon the completion of certain valuations.

(2)   

Pursuant to our business
    combinations accounting policy, we record goodwill adjustments
    for the effect on goodwill of changes to net assets acquired
    during the purchase price allocation period (generally, up to
    one year from date of acquisition). Goodwill adjustments also
    include the effects on goodwill resulting from our adoption of
    FIN 48 in fiscal 2008.

93

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2009  

7.    

NOTES PAYABLE
    AND OTHER BORROWINGS  

Notes payable and other borrowings consisted of the following:

Senior
    Notes  

In April 2008, we issued $5.0 billion of fixed rate senior
    notes, of which $1.25 billion of 4.95% senior notes is
    due April 2013 (2013 Notes), $2.5 billion of
    5.75% senior notes is due April 2018 (2018 Notes), and
    $1.25 billion of 6.50% senior notes is due April 2038
    (2038 Notes). We issued these senior notes to finance the
    acquisition of BEA and for general corporate purposes. Some or
    all of the 2013 Notes, 2018 Notes and 2038 Notes may be redeemed
    at any time, subject to payment of a make-whole premium. The
    2013 Notes, 2018 Notes and 2038 Notes pay interest semi-annually.

In May 2007, we issued $2.0 billion of floating rate senior
    notes, of which $1.0 billion was due and paid in
    May 2009 (New 2009 Notes) and $1.0 billion is due May
    2010 (2010 Notes). We issued the New 2009 Notes and 2010 Notes
    to fund the redemption of the $1.5 billion of senior
    floating rate notes that we issued in fiscal 2006 (see below)
    and for general corporate purposes. The 2010 Notes bear interest
    at a rate of three-month USD LIBOR plus 0.06% with interest
    payable quarterly. The 2010 Notes may not be redeemed prior to
    their maturity.

In January 2006, we issued $5.75 billion of senior notes
    consisting of $1.5 billion of floating rate senior notes
    due 2009 (Original 2009 Notes), $2.25 billion of
    5.00% senior notes due 2011 (2011 Notes) and
    $2.0 billion of 5.25% senior notes due 2016 (2016
    Notes and together with the Original 2009 Notes and the 2011
    Notes, Original Senior Notes) to finance the Siebel acquisition
    and for general corporate purposes. On June 16, 2006, we
    completed a registered exchange offer of the Original Senior
    Notes for registered senior notes with substantially identical
    terms to the Original Senior Notes.

In May 2007, we redeemed the Original 2009 Notes for their
    principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. Our 2011
    Notes and 2016 Notes may also be redeemed at any time, subject
    to payment of a make-whole premium. Interest is payable
    semi-annually for the 2011 Notes and 2016 Notes.

The effective interest yields of the 2010 Notes, 2011 Notes,
    2013 Notes, 2016 Notes, 2018 Notes and 2038 Notes (collectively,
    the Senior Notes) at May 31, 2009 were 0.97%, 5.08%, 4.96%,
    5.33%, 5.76% and 6.52%, respectively. We have entered into an
    interest rate swap agreement that has the economic effect of
    modifying the variable interest obligations associated with the
    2010 Notes so that the interest payable on the senior notes
    effectively became fixed at a rate of 4.59% (see Note 10
    for additional information).

94

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2009  

The Senior Notes rank pari passu with any Commercial Paper Notes
    that we may issue and all existing and future senior
    indebtedness of Oracle Corporation. All existing and future
    liabilities of the subsidiaries of Oracle Corporation will be
    effectively senior to the Senior Notes and any Commercial Paper
    Notes that we issue.

We were in compliance with all debt-related covenants at
    May 31, 2009. Future principal payments of our borrowings
    at May 31, 2009 are as follows: $1.0 billion in fiscal
    2010, $2.25 billion in fiscal 2011, $1.25 billion in
    fiscal 2013, and $5.75 billion thereafter.

Commercial
    Paper Program  

In March 2008, we increased our commercial paper program to
    $5.0 billion from $3.0 billion (the CP Program). The
    original dealer agreements that we entered into in February 2006
    with Banc of America Securities LLC and JP Morgan Securities
    Inc., and the Issuing and Paying Agency Agreement entered into
    in February 2006 with JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association,
    remain in effect and were not changed. Under the CP Program, we
    may issue and sell unsecured short-term promissory notes
    (Commercial Paper Notes) pursuant to a private placement
    exemption from the registration requirements under federal and
    state securities laws. We did not issue any Commercial Paper
    Notes in fiscal 2009 and we issued $1.2 billion in fiscal
    2008, of which none remained outstanding as of May 31, 2009
    and 2008. If we are required to issue Commercial Paper Notes in
    the future, we would most likely use our revolving credit
    agreements (see below) as a back-stop to these notes and we
    therefore consider that we have $4.9 billion of capacity
    pursuant to this program available to us as of May 31, 2009.

Revolving
    Credit Agreements  

In March 2009, we entered into a $2.0 billion,
     364-Day 
    Revolving Credit Agreement with certain lenders named in the
    agreement (2009 Credit Agreement). The 2009 Credit Agreement
    supplements our existing $3.0 billion, five-year Revolving
    Credit Agreement with certain lenders that we entered into in
    March 2006 (the 2006 Credit Agreement, and together with the
    2009 Credit Agreement, the Credit Agreements). The Credit
    Agreements provide for unsecured revolving credit facilities,
    which can also be used to back-stop any Commercial Paper Notes
    (see above) that we may issue and for working capital and other
    general corporate purposes. Subject to certain conditions stated
    in the Credit Agreements, we may borrow, prepay and re-borrow
    amounts under the facilities at any time during the terms of the
    Credit Agreements. Interest for the 2009 Credit Agreement is
    based on, at our election, either (x) the sum of
    (A) adjusted LIBOR plus (B) a margin equal to the
    published
     30-day 
    moving average credit default swap mid-rate spread for Oracle
    for a one-year period, subject to a maximum and minimum rate
    based on our credit rating, or (y) a  base rate 
    calculated as the highest of (I) Wachovia Bank National
    Association s prime rate, (II) the federal funds
    effective rate plus 0.50% and (III) adjusted LIBOR plus a
    margin determined in the manner described in clause (x)(B)
    above. Interest for the 2006 Credit Agreements is based on
    either (a) a LIBOR-based formula or (b) a formula
    based on Wachovia s prime rate or on the federal funds
    effective rate. Any amounts drawn pursuant to the 2009 Credit
    Agreement are due on March 16, 2010 (we may, upon the
    agreement of a combination of then existing lenders and
    additional banks not currently party to the 2009 Credit
    Agreement, extend the termination date of the 2009 Credit
    Agreement by an additional 364 days). Any amounts drawn
    pursuant to the 2006 Credit Agreement are due on March 14,
    2011. No amounts were outstanding pursuant to the Credit
    Agreements as of May 31, 2009 and 2008. A total of
    $4.9 billion remained available pursuant to the Credit
    Agreements at May 31, 2009, which is less than the
    $5.0 billion described above due to the insolvency of one
    of the parties to the 2006 Credit Agreement. We would most
    likely use the Credit Agreements to back-stop any Commercial
    Paper Notes (described above) that we may issue in the future.

The Credit Agreements contain certain customary representations
    and warranties, covenants and events of default, including the
    requirement that our total net debt to total capitalization
    ratio not exceed 45%. If any of the events of default occur and
    are not cured within applicable grace periods or waived, any
    unpaid amounts under the Credit Agreements may be declared
    immediately due and payable and the Credit Agreements may be
    terminated. We were in compliance with the Credit
    Agreements  covenants as of May 31, 2009.

95

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2009  

8.    

RESTRUCTURING
    ACTIVITIES  

Fiscal
    2009 Oracle Restructuring Plan  

During the third quarter of fiscal 2009, our management
    approved, committed to and initiated plans to restructure and
    further improve efficiencies in our Oracle-based operations (the
    2009 Plan). The total estimated restructuring costs associated
    with the 2009 Plan are $241 million and will be recorded to
    the restructuring expense line item within our consolidated
    statements of operations as they are recognized. In fiscal 2009,
    we recorded $85 million of restructuring expenses in
    connection with the 2009 Plan. We expect to incur the majority
    of the remaining $156 million during fiscal 2010. Any
    changes to the estimates of executing the 2009 Plan will be
    reflected in our future results of operations.

Fiscal
    2008 Oracle Restructuring Plan and Other  

During the second quarter of fiscal 2008, our management
    approved, committed to and initiated plans to restructure and
    improve efficiencies in our Oracle-based operations as a result
    of certain management and organizational changes and our recent
    acquisitions (the 2008 Plan). During the fourth quarter of
    fiscal 2008, the 2008 Plan was amended to include the
    Oracle-based effects resulting from our acquisition of BEA.
    Estimated restructuring costs relating to employees included in
    the 2008 plan that had not yet been notified as of the third
    quarter of fiscal 2009 were transferred to the 2009 Plan. The
    total restructuring costs (primarily related to employee
    severance) associated with the 2008 Plan were $80 million;
    these costs were recorded to the restructuring expense line item
    within our consolidated statements of operations. In fiscal
    2009, we recorded $39 million of restructuring expenses and
    in fiscal 2008 we recorded $41 million of restructuring
    expenses in connection with the 2008 Plan. Any changes to the
    estimates of executing the 2008 Plan will be reflected in our
    future results of operations.

Acquisition
    Related Restructuring Plans  

During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, fourth quarter of
    fiscal 2007 and third quarter of fiscal 2006, our management
    approved, committed to and initiated plans to restructure
    certain pre-acquisition operations of BEA (BEA Restructuring
    Plan), Hyperion (Hyperion Restructuring Plan) and Siebel
    Systems, Inc. (Siebel Restructuring Plan), respectively. Our
    management initiated these plans in connection with our
    acquisitions of these companies in order to improve the cost
    efficiencies in our operations. The total restructuring costs
    associated with exiting activities of BEA were
    $218 million, consisting of severance, excess facilities
    obligations through fiscal 2017 as well as other restructuring
    costs. The total restructuring costs associated with exiting
    activities of Hyperion were $98 million, consisting of
    severance, excess facilities obligations through fiscal 2016, as
    well as other restructuring costs. The total restructuring costs
    associated with exiting activities of Siebel were
    $590 million, consisting of severance, excess facilities
    obligations through fiscal 2022, and other restructuring costs.

These costs were originally recognized as liabilities assumed in
    each of the respective business combinations and included in the
    allocation of the cost to acquire these companies and,
    accordingly, have resulted in an increase to goodwill. Our
    restructuring expenses may change as our management executes the
    approved plans. Future decreases to the estimates of executing
    the acquisition related restructuring plans will be recorded as
    an adjustment to goodwill indefinitely. Increases to the
    estimates of the acquisition related restructuring plans will be
    recorded to operating expenses.

96

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2009  

Summary
    of All Plans  

Fiscal
    2009 Activity   

97

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2009  

Fiscal
    2008 Activity   

98

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2009  

Fiscal
    2007 Activity   

(1)   

Includes severance costs associated
    with research and development, general and administrative
    functions, and certain other facility related costs.

(2)   

Accrued restructuring at
    May 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $389 million,
    $568 million, and $459 million, respectively. The
    balances at May 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 include
    $203 million, $308 million and $201 million
    recorded in other current liabilities, respectively, and
    $186 million, $260 million and $258 million
    recorded in other non-current liabilities, respectively.

(3)   

Initial costs recorded for the
    respective restructuring plans.

(4)   

Certain adjustment increases to the
    Siebel Restructuring Plan were included in our consolidated
    statement of operations (acquisition related and other expenses)
    in fiscal 2009. Adjustment decreases to the Hyperion
    Restructuring Plan were recorded to goodwill in fiscal 2009.
    Hyperion plan adjustments in fiscal 2008 and Siebel plan
    adjustments in fiscal 2007 relate to changes in estimates within
    the purchase price allocation period (offset recorded to
    goodwill). All other plan adjustments are changes in estimates
    whereby all increases in cost are recorded to operating expenses
    in the period of adjustment with decreases in costs of
    Oracle-based plans recorded to operating expenses and
    acquisition related plans recorded as an adjustment to goodwill
    indefinitely.

(5)   

Primarily represents foreign
    currency translation adjustments.

(6)   

Restructuring plans included in
    this footnote represent those plans that management has deemed
    significant.

99

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2009  

9.    

DEFERRED
    REVENUES  

Deferred revenues consisted of the following:

Deferred software license updates and product support revenues
    represent customer payments made in advance for annual support
    contracts. Software license updates and product support
    contracts are typically billed on a per annum basis in advance
    and revenues are recognized ratably over the support periods.
    Deferred service revenues include prepayments for consulting, On
    Demand and education services. Revenue for these services is
    recognized as the services are performed. Deferred new software
    license revenues typically result from undelivered products or
    specified enhancements, customer specific acceptance provisions,
    software license transactions that cannot be segmented from
    consulting services or certain extended payment term
    arrangements.

In connection with the purchase price allocations related to our
    acquisitions, we have estimated the fair values of the support
    obligations assumed. The estimated fair values of the support
    obligations assumed were determined using a cost-build up
    approach. The cost-build up approach determines fair value by
    estimating the costs relating to fulfilling the obligations plus
    a normal profit margin. The sum of the costs and operating
    profit approximates, in theory, the amount that we would be
    required to pay a third party to assume the support obligations.
    These fair value adjustments reduce the revenues recognized over
    the support contract term of our acquired contracts and, as a
    result, we did not recognize software license updates and
    product support revenues related to support contracts assumed
    from our acquisitions in the amount of $243 million,
    $179 million and $212 million in fiscal 2009, 2008 and
    2007, respectively which would have been otherwise recorded by
    our acquired businesses as independent entities.

10.    

DERIVATIVE
    FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS  

On December 1, 2008, we adopted FASB Statement
    No. 161,  Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and
    Hedging Activities, an amendment of FASB Statement 133 . The
    adoption of Statement 161 had no financial impact on our
    consolidated financial statements and only required additional
    financial statement disclosures. We have applied the
    requirements of Statement 161 on a prospective basis.
    Accordingly, disclosures related to prior fiscal years have not
    been presented.

Interest
    Rate Swap Agreement  

We use an interest rate swap agreement to manage the economic
    effect of variable interest obligations associated with our 2010
    Notes so that the interest payable on the 2010 Notes effectively
    becomes fixed at a rate of 4.59%, thereby reducing the impact of
    future interest rate changes on our future interest expense. We
    do not use interest rate swap agreements for trading purposes.
    The critical terms of the interest rate swap agreement and the
    2010 Notes match, including the notional amounts, interest rate
    reset dates, maturity dates and underlying market indices.
    Accordingly, we have designated this swap agreement as a
    qualifying instrument and are accounting for it as a cash flow
    hedge pursuant to FASB Statement No. 133,  Accounting for
    Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.  The
    unrealized losses on this interest rate swap agreement are
    included in accumulated other comprehensive income and the
    corresponding fair value payables are included in other current
    liabilities in our consolidated

100

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2009  

balance sheet. The periodic interest settlements, which occur at
    the same interval as the senior notes due in May 2010, are
    recorded as interest expense.

Net
    Investment Hedges  

Periodically, we hedge net assets of certain of our
    international subsidiaries using foreign currency forward
    contracts to offset the translation and economic exposures
    related to our foreign currency-based investments in these
    subsidiaries. These contracts have been designated as net
    investment hedges pursuant to Statement 133. We use the spot
    method to measure the effectiveness of our net investment
    hedges. Under this method for each reporting period, the change
    in fair value of the forward contracts attributable to the
    changes in spot exchange rates (the effective portion) is
    reported in accumulated other comprehensive income on our
    consolidated balance sheet and the remaining change in fair
    value of the forward contract (the ineffective portion, if any)
    is recognized in non-operating income, net, in our consolidated
    statement of operations. We record settlements under these
    forward contracts in a similar manner. The fair value of both
    the effective and ineffective portions is recorded to our
    consolidated balance sheet as prepaid expenses and other current
    assets for amounts receivable from the counterparties or other
    current liabilities for amounts payable to the counterparties.

As of May 31, 2009, we had one net investment hedge in
    Japanese Yen. The Yen investment hedge minimizes currency risk
    arising from net assets held in Yen as a result of equity
    capital raised during the initial public offering and secondary
    offering of our majority owned subsidiary, Oracle Japan. As of
    May 31, 2009, the fair value of our net investment hedge in
    Japanese Yen was nominal and had a notional amount of
    $694 million.

Foreign
    Currency Forward Contracts Not Designated as Hedges  

We transact business in various foreign currencies and have
    established a program that primarily utilizes foreign currency
    forward contracts to offset the risks associated with the
    effects of certain foreign currency exposures. Under this
    program, our strategy is to have increases or decreases in our
    foreign currency exposures offset by gains or losses on the
    foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate the risks and
    volatility associated with foreign currency transaction gains or
    losses. These foreign currency exposures typically arise from
    intercompany sublicense fees and other intercompany
    transactions. Our foreign currency forward contracts generally
    settle within 90 days. We do not use these forward
    contracts for trading purposes. We do not designate these
    forward contracts as hedging instruments pursuant to Statement
    133. Accordingly, we record the fair value of these contracts as
    of the end of our reporting period to our consolidated balance
    sheet with changes in fair value recorded in our consolidated
    statement of operations. The balance sheet classification for
    the fair values of these forward contracts is to prepaid
    expenses and other current assets for unrealized gains and to
    other current liabilities for unrealized losses. The statement
    of operations classification for the fair values of these
    forward contracts is to non-operating income, net, for both
    realized and unrealized gains and losses.

As of May 31, 2009, the notional amounts of the forward
    contracts we held to purchase and sell U.S. Dollars in
    exchange for other major international currencies were
    $860 million and $1.1 billion, respectively, and the
    notional amounts of the foreign currency forward contracts we
    held to purchase European Euros in exchange for other major
    international currencies were  142 million
    ($198 million).

101

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2009  

The effects of derivative instruments on our consolidated
    financial statements were as follows as of May 31, 2009 and
    for the year then ended (amounts presented exclude any income
    tax effects):

Fair
    Value of Derivative Instruments in Consolidated Balance
    Sheet   

May 31, 2009 

(in millions) 

Balance Sheet Location 

Fair Value 

Interest rate swap agreement designated as cash flow hedges

Other current liabilities

$

35

Foreign currency forward contracts designated as net investment
    hedges

Other current liabilities

Total derivatives designated as hedging instruments

$

35

Foreign currency forward contracts not designated as hedges

Other current liabilities

$

Total derivatives

$

35

Effects
    of Derivative Instruments on Income and Other Comprehensive
    Income (OCI)   

Location and Amount of 

Amount of Gain 

Location and Amount of 

Gain (Loss) Recognized in Income 

(Loss) Recognized in 

Gain (Loss) Reclassified 

on Derivative 

Accumulated OCI on 

from Accumulated OCI 

(Ineffective Portion and 

Derivative 

into Income  

Amount Excluded 

(Effective Portion) 

(Effective Portion) 

from Effectiveness Testing) 

Year Ended 

Year Ended 

Year Ended 

(in millions) 

May 31, 2009 

May 31, 2009 

May 31, 2009 

Cash flow hedges: 

Interest rate swaps

$

3

Interest Expense

$

(47

)

Non-operating Income, net

$

Net investment hedges: 

Foreign currency forward contracts

$

(63

)

Not Applicable

$

Non-operating Income, net

$

10

Location and Amount of Gain (Loss) 

Recognized in Income on Derivative 

Year Ended 

(in millions) 

May 31, 2009 

Derivatives Not Designated as Hedges: 

Foreign currency forward contracts

Non-operating Income, net

$  3

102

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2009  

11.    

COMMITMENTS
    AND CONTINGENCIES  

Lease
    Commitments  

We lease certain facilities, furniture and equipment under
    operating leases. As of May 31, 2009, future minimum annual
    operating lease payments and future minimum payments to be
    received from non-cancelable subleases were as follows:

Lease commitments include future minimum rent payments for
    facilities that we have vacated pursuant to our restructuring
    and merger integration activities, as discussed in Note 8.
    We have approximately $259 million in facility obligations,
    net of estimated sublease income and other costs, in accrued
    restructuring for these locations in our consolidated balance
    sheet at May 31, 2009.

Rent expense was $293 million, $276 million and
    $224 million for fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively,
    net of sublease income of approximately $69 million,
    $57 million and $32 million, respectively. Certain
    lease agreements contain renewal options providing for an
    extension of the lease term.

Unconditional
    Purchase Obligations  

In the ordinary course of business, we enter into certain
    unconditional purchase obligations with our suppliers, which are
    agreements that are enforceable, legally binding and specify
    certain minimum quantity and pricing terms.

As of May 31, 2009, our unconditional purchase obligations
    total $88 million for fiscal 2010, $21 million for
    fiscal 2011, $11 million for fiscal 2012, $3 million
    for fiscal 2013, $3 million for fiscal 2014 and
    $39 million thereafter.

As described in Note 2, we also have a commitment in
    connection with our proposed acquisition of Sun Microsystems,
    Inc. for approximately $7.4 billion of cash consideration
    that we expect to pay upon closing of this acquisition and other
    insignificant commitments to acquire certain other companies. As
    described in Note 7, we have notes payable and other
    borrowings outstanding of $10.2 billion that mature at
    various future dates, including $1.0 billion that matures
    in fiscal 2010.

Guarantees  

Our software license agreements generally include certain
    provisions for indemnifying customers against liabilities if our
    software products infringe a third party s intellectual
    property rights. To date, we have not incurred any material
    costs as a result of such indemnifications and have not accrued
    any liabilities related to such obligations in our consolidated
    financial statements. Certain of our software license agreements
    also include provisions indemnifying customers against
    liabilities in the event we breach confidentiality or service
    level requirements. It is not possible to determine the maximum
    potential amount under these indemnification agreements due to
    our limited and infrequent history of prior indemnification
    claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each

103

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2009  

particular agreement. Historically, payments made by us under
    these agreements have not had a material effect on our results
    of operations, financial position, or cash flows.

Our software license agreements also generally include a
    warranty that our software products will substantially operate
    as described in the applicable program documentation for a
    period of one year after delivery. We also warrant that services
    we perform will be provided in a manner consistent with industry
    standards for a period of 90 days from performance of the
    service. Warranty expense was not significant in fiscal 2009,
    fiscal 2008 or fiscal 2007.

We occasionally are required, for various reasons, to enter into
    agreements with financial institutions that provide letters of
    credit on our behalf to parties we conduct business with in
    ordinary course. Such agreements have not had a material effect
    on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows.

12.    

STOCKHOLDERS 
    EQUITY  

Stock
    Repurchases  

Our Board of Directors has approved a program for us to
    repurchase shares of our common stock. On October 20, 2008,
    we announced that our Board of Directors approved the expansion
    of our repurchase program by $8.0 billion and as of
    May 31, 2009, approximately $6.3 billion was available
    for share repurchases pursuant to our stock repurchase program.
    We repurchased 225.6 million shares for $4.0 billion
    (including 0.6 million shares for $12 million that
    were repurchased but not settled), 97.3 million shares for
    $2.0 billion and 233.5 million shares for
    $4.0 billion in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

Our stock repurchase authorization does not have an expiration
    date and the pace of our repurchase activity will depend on
    factors such as our working capital needs, our cash requirements
    for acquisitions and dividend payments, our debt repayment
    obligations (as described above) or repurchases of our debt, our
    stock price, and economic and market conditions. Our stock
    repurchases may be effected from time to time through open
    market purchases or pursuant to a
     Rule 10b5-1 
    plan. Our stock repurchase program may be accelerated,
    suspended, delayed or discontinued at any time.

Dividends
    on Common Stock  

In June 2009, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash
    dividend of $0.05 per share of outstanding common stock payable
    on August 13, 2009 to stockholders of record as of the
    close of business on July 15, 2009. Future declarations of
    dividends and the establishment of future record and payment
    dates are subject to the final determination of our Board of
    Directors.

Accumulated
    Other Comprehensive Income  

The following table summarizes, as of each balance sheet date,
    the components of our accumulated other comprehensive income,
    net of income taxes (income tax effects were insignificant for
    all periods presented):

104

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2009  

13.    

EMPLOYEE
    BENEFIT PLANS  

Stock-based
    Compensation Plans  

Stock
    Option Plans   

In fiscal 2001, we adopted the 2000 Long-Term Equity Incentive
    Plan (the 2000 Plan), which replaced the 1991 Long-Term Equity
    Incentive Plan (the 1991 Plan) and provides for the issuance of
    non-qualified stock options and incentive stock options, as well
    as stock purchase rights, stock appreciation rights and
    long-term performance awards to our eligible employees,
    officers, directors who are also employees or consultants,
    independent consultants and advisers. In fiscal 2005, the 2000
    Plan was amended and restated to, among other things, eliminate
    the ability to reprice options without stockholder approval, to
    provide our Board of Directors (Board) with the ability to grant
    restricted stock awards, to permit us to grant performance-based
    equity awards for eligible tax deductibility, to provide our
    Board with the ability to issue transferable equity awards and
    to eliminate the ability to buyout employees  options with
    cash or common stock. Under the terms of the 2000 Plan, options
    to purchase common stock generally are granted at not less than
    fair market value, become exercisable as established by the
    Board (generally over four years under our current practice),
    and generally expire no more than ten years from the date of
    grant. Options granted under the 1991 Plan were granted on
    similar terms. If options outstanding under the 1991 Plan are
    forfeited, repurchased, or otherwise terminate without the
    issuance of stock, the shares underlying such options will also
    become available for future awards under the 2000 Plan. As of
    May 31, 2009, options to purchase 302 million shares
    of common stock were outstanding under both plans, of which
    156 million were vested. Approximately 239 million
    shares of common stock were available for future awards under
    the 2000 Plan. To date, we have not issued any stock purchase
    rights, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock awards or
    long-term performance awards under the 2000 Plan.

In fiscal 1993, the Board adopted the 1993 Directors 
    Stock Option Plan (the Original Directors  Plan), which
    provided for the issuance of non-qualified stock options to
    non-employee directors. In fiscal 2004, the Original
    Directors  Plan was amended and restated to eliminate a
    term limit on the plan, eliminate the ability to reprice options
    without stockholder approval, decrease the number of shares of
    common stock reserved for issuance under the Original
    Directors  Plan, provide the Board with the ability to make
    grants of restricted stock, restricted stock units or other
    stock-based awards instead of the automatic option grants and
    rename the Original Directors  Plan, the
    1993 Directors  Stock Plan. In fiscal 2007, the
    Original Directors  Plan was further amended to, among
    other things, increase the amounts of the annual stock option
    grants to directors, permit pro rata option grants to chairs of
    Board of Directors  committees and to provide that the
    Board of Directors or the Compensation Committee may, in the
    future, change the option grant policy for non-employee
    directors (the Directors  Plan). Under the terms of the
    Directors  Plan, options to purchase 8 million shares
    of common stock were reserved for issuance, options are granted
    at not less than fair market value, become exercisable over four
    years, and expire no more than ten years from the date of grant.
    The Directors  Plan provides for automatic grants of
    options to each non-employee director upon first becoming a
    director and thereafter on an annual basis, as well as automatic
    nondiscretionary grants for chairing certain Board committees.
    The Board has the discretion to replace any automatic option
    grant under the Directors  Plan with awards of restricted
    stock, restricted stock units or other stock-based awards. The
    number of shares subject to any such stock award will be no more
    than the equivalent value of the options, as determined on any
    reasonable basis by the Board, which would otherwise have been
    granted under the applicable automatic option grant. The Board
    will determine the particular terms of any such stock awards at
    the time of grant, but the terms will be consistent with those
    of options, as described below, granted under the
    Directors  Plan with respect to vesting or forfeiture
    schedules and treatment on termination of status as a director.
    At May 31, 2009, options to purchase approximately
    4 million shares of common stock were outstanding under the
    1993 Directors  Plan, of which approximately
    2 million were vested. Approximately 2 million shares
    are available for future option awards under this plan of which
    a lesser portion than the total may be used for grants other
    than options.

105

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2009  

In connection with certain of our acquisitions, including BEA,
    PeopleSoft, Siebel and Hyperion, we assumed all of the
    outstanding stock options and other stock awards of each
    acquiree s respective stock plans. These stock options and
    other stock awards generally retain all of the rights, terms and
    conditions of the respective plans under which they were
    originally granted. As of May 31, 2009, options to purchase
    53 million shares of common stock and 1 million shares
    of restricted stock were outstanding under these plans.

The following table summarizes stock option activity for our
    last three fiscal years ended May 31, 2009:

Options outstanding that have vested and that are expected to
    vest as of May 31, 2009 are as follows:

(1)   

The aggregate intrinsic value was
    calculated based on the gross difference between our closing
    stock price on May 31, 2009 of $19.59 and the exercise
    prices for all in-the-money options outstanding, excluding tax
    effects.

(2)   

The unrecognized compensation
    expense calculated under the fair value method for shares
    expected to vest (unvested shares net of expected forfeitures)
    as of May 31, 2009 was approximately $631 million and
    is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of
    2.65 years. Approximately 14 million shares
    outstanding as of May 31, 2009 are not expected to vest.

106

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2009  

Stock-Based
    Compensation Expense and Valuation of Awards Granted  

Stock-based compensation is included in the following operating
    expense line items in our consolidated statements of operations:

Quarterly, we assess whether there have been any significant
    changes in facts and circumstances that would affect our
    estimated forfeiture rate. The net effect of forfeiture
    adjustments based upon actual results was a decrease to our
    stock-based compensation expense of approximately
    $3 million for fiscal 2009, an increase of $6 million
    for fiscal 2008 and nominal for fiscal 2007.

We estimate the fair value of our share-based payments using the
    Black-Scholes-Merton option-pricing model, which was developed
    for use in estimating the fair value of traded options that have
    no vesting restrictions and are fully transferable. Option
    valuation models, including the Black-Scholes-Merton
    option-pricing model, require the input of assumptions,
    including stock price volatility. Changes in the input
    assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimates and
    ultimately how much we recognize as stock-based compensation
    expense. The fair values of our stock options were estimated at
    the date of grant or date of acquisition for acquired options
    assumed. The weighted average input assumptions used and
    resulting fair values were as follows for fiscal 2009, 2008, and
    2007:

The expected life input is based on historical exercise patterns
    and post-vesting termination behavior, the risk-free interest
    rate input is based on United States Treasury instruments and
    the volatility input is calculated based on the implied
    volatility of our longest-term, traded options. Our expected
    dividend rate was zero prior to our first dividend declaration
    on March 18, 2009 as we did not historically pay cash
    dividends on our common stock and did not anticipate doing so
    for the foreseeable future for grants issued prior to
    March 18, 2009. For grants issued subsequent to
    March 18, 2009, we used an annualized dividend yield based
    on the per share dividend declared by our Board of Directors.

107

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2009  

Tax
    Benefits from Option Exercises  

Total cash received as a result of option exercises was
    approximately $696 million, $1.2 billion and
    $873 million for fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
    The aggregate intrinsic value of options exercised was
    $807 million, $2.0 billion and $986 million for
    fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. In connection with
    these exercises, the tax benefits realized by us were
    $252 million, $588 million and $338 million for
    fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Of the total tax
    benefits received, we classified excess tax benefits from
    stock-based compensation of $97 million, $454 million
    and $259 million as cash flows from financing activities
    rather than cash flows from operating activities for fiscal
    2009, 2008, and 2007 respectively. To calculate the excess tax
    benefits available for use in offsetting future tax shortfalls
    as of our Statement 123(R) adoption date, which also affects the
    excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation that we
    reclassify as cash flows from financing activities, we adopted
    the alternative transition method as prescribed under FASB Staff
    Position
     FAS 123R-3, 
     Transition Election to Accounting for the Tax Effects of
    Share-Based Payment Awards .

Employee
    Stock Purchase Plan   

We have an Employee Stock Purchase Plan (Purchase Plan) and have
    amended the Purchase Plan such that employees can purchase
    shares of common stock at a price per share that is 95% of the
    fair value of Oracle stock as of the end of the semi-annual
    option period. As of May 31, 2009, 78 million shares
    were reserved for future issuances under the Purchase Plan. We
    issued 3 million shares under the Purchase Plan in each of
    fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007.

Defined
    Contribution and Other Postretirement Plans  

We offer various defined contribution plans for our
    U.S. and
     non-U.S. employees. 
    Total defined contribution plan expense was $258 million,
    $234 million and $198 million for fiscal 2009, 2008
    and 2007, respectively. The number of plan participants in our
    defined contribution plans has generally increased in recent
    years primarily as a result of additional eligible employees
    from our acquisitions.

In the United States, regular employees can participate in the
    Oracle Corporation 401(k) Savings and Investment Plan (Oracle
    401(k) Plan). Participants can generally contribute up to 40% of
    their eligible compensation on a per-pay-period basis as defined
    by the plan document or by the section 402(g) limit as
    defined by the United States Internal Revenue Service (IRS). We
    match a portion of employee contributions, currently 50% up to
    6% of compensation each pay period, subject to maximum aggregate
    matching amounts. Our contributions to the plan, net of
    forfeitures, were $78 million, $80 million and
    $67 million in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

We also offer non-qualified deferred compensation plans to
    certain key employees whereby they may defer a portion of their
    annual base
     and/or 
    variable compensation until retirement or a date specified by
    the employee in accordance with the plans. Deferred compensation
    plan assets and liabilities were approximately $176 million
    and $210 million as of May 31, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively, and are presented in other assets and other
    non-current liabilities in the accompanying consolidated balance
    sheets.

The following is a geographical breakdown of income before the
    provision for income taxes:

108

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2009  

The provision for income taxes consisted of the following:

The provision for income taxes differed from the amount computed
    by applying the federal statutory rate to our income before
    provision for income taxes as follows:

109

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2009  

The components of the deferred tax assets and liabilities
    consist of the following:

We provide for United States income taxes on the undistributed
    earnings and the other outside basis temporary differences of
    foreign subsidiaries unless they are considered indefinitely
    reinvested outside the United States. At May 31, 2009, the
    amount of temporary differences related to undistributed
    earnings and other outside basis temporary differences of
    investments in foreign subsidiaries upon which United States
    income taxes have not been provided was approximately
    $8.9 billion and $4.8 billion, respectively. If these
    undistributed earnings were repatriated to the United States, or
    if the other outside basis differences were recognized in a
    taxable transaction, they would generate foreign tax credits
    that would reduce the federal tax liability associated with the
    foreign dividend or the otherwise taxable transaction. Assuming
    a full utilization of the foreign tax credits, the potential
    deferred tax liability associated with these temporary
    differences of undistributed earnings and other outside basis
    temporary differences would be approximately $2.3 billion
    and $1.5 billion, respectively.

The valuation allowance was $137 million at May 31,
    2009 and $190 million at May 31, 2008. The net
    decrease is primarily attributable to the expiration of
    attributes of acquired entities, principally state attributes.
    Substantially all of the valuation allowance relates to tax
    assets established in purchase accounting. Any subsequent
    reduction of that portion of the valuation allowance and the
    recognition of the associated tax benefits will be recorded to
    our provision for income taxes upon our adoption of Statement
    141(R) in fiscal 2010.

At May 31, 2009, we had federal net operating loss
    carryforwards of approximately $1.2 billion. These losses
    expire in various years between fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2028, and
    are subject to limitations on their utilization. We have state

110

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2009  

net operating loss carryforwards of approximately
    $2.1 billion, which expire between fiscal 2010 and fiscal
    2027, and are subject to limitations on their utilization. We
    have tax credit carryforwards of approximately
    $179 million, which are subject to limitations on their
    utilization. Approximately $96 million of these tax credit
    carryforwards are not currently subject to expiration dates. The
    remainder, approximately $83 million, expires in various
    years between fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2027.

We classify our unrecognized tax benefits as non-current income
    taxes payable in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet.
    The aggregate changes in the balance of our gross unrecognized
    tax benefits were as follows:

As of May 31, 2009, $1.4 billion of unrecognized
    benefits would affect our effective tax rate if recognized. We
    recognized interest and penalties related to uncertain tax
    positions in our provision for income taxes line of our
    consolidated statements of operations of $142 million
    during fiscal 2009. The amount of interest and penalties accrued
    as of May 31, 2009 was $430 million.

Domestically, U.S. federal and state taxing authorities are
    currently examining income tax returns of Oracle and various
    acquired entities for years through fiscal 2007. Many issues are
    at an advanced stage in the examination process, the most
    significant of which include the deductibility of certain
    royalty payments, issues related to certain capital gains and
    losses, Foreign Sales Corporation/Extraterritorial Income
    exemptions, stewardship deductions, stock-based compensation and
    foreign tax credits taken. Other issues are related to years
    with expiring statutes of limitation. With all of these domestic
    audit issues considered in the aggregate, we believe it was
    reasonably possible that, as of May 31, 2009, the gross
    unrecognized tax benefits related to these audits could decrease
    (whether by payment, release, or a combination of both) in the
    next 12 months by as much as $315 million
    ($289 million net of offsetting tax benefits). Our
    U.S. federal and, with some exceptions, our state income
    tax returns have been examined for all years prior to fiscal
    2000, and we are no longer subject to audit for those periods.

Internationally, tax authorities for numerous
     non-U.S. jurisdictions 
    are also examining returns affecting our unrecognized tax
    benefits. We believe it was reasonably possible that, as of
    May 31, 2009, the gross unrecognized tax benefits, could
    decrease (whether by payment, release, or a combination of both)
    by as much as $138 million ($56 million net of
    offsetting tax benefits) in the next 12 months, related
    primarily to transfer pricing and a technical matter of
    corporate restructuring, which would be affected by the possible
    passage of favorable legislation. With some exceptions, we are
    generally no longer subject to tax examinations in
     non-U.S. jurisdictions 
    for years prior to fiscal 1998.

We believe that we have adequately provided for any reasonably
    foreseeable outcomes related to our tax audits and that any
    settlement will not have a material adverse effect on our
    consolidated financial position or results of operations.
    However, there can be no assurances as to the possible outcomes.

We previously negotiated three unilateral Advance Pricing
    Agreements with the IRS that cover many of our intercompany
    transfer pricing issues and preclude the IRS from making a
    transfer pricing adjustment within the scope of these
    agreements. These agreements are effective for fiscal years
    through May 31, 2006. We have

111

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2009  

submitted to the IRS a request for renewal of this Advance
    Pricing Agreement for the years ending May 31, 2007 through
    May 31, 2011. However, these agreements do not cover all
    elements of our transfer pricing and do not bind tax authorities
    outside the United States. We have finalized one bilateral
    Advance Pricing Agreement, which was effective for the years
    ending May 31, 2002 through May 31, 2006 and we have
    submitted a renewal for the years ending May 31, 2007
    through May 31, 2011. There can be no guarantee that such
    negotiations will result in an agreement. During the fiscal year
    ended May 31, 2009, we concluded an additional bilateral
    agreement to cover the period from June 1, 2001 through
    January 25, 2008.

15.    

SEGMENT
    INFORMATION  

FASB Statement No. 131,  Disclosures about Segments of an
    Enterprise and Related Information,  establishes standards
    for reporting information about operating segments. Operating
    segments are defined as components of an enterprise about which
    separate financial information is available that is evaluated
    regularly by the chief operating decision maker, or decision
    making group, in deciding how to allocate resources and in
    assessing performance. Our chief operating decision maker is our
    Chief Executive Officer. We are organized geographically and by
    line of business. While our Chief Executive Officer evaluates
    results in a number of different ways, the line of business
    management structure is the primary basis for which the
    allocation of resources and financial results are assessed. We
    have two businesses, software and services, which are further
    divided into five operating segments. Our software business is
    comprised of two operating segments: (1) new software
    licenses and (2) software license updates and product
    support. Our services business is comprised of three operating
    segments: (1) consulting, (2) On Demand and
    (3) education.

The new software license line of business is engaged in the
    licensing of database and middleware software as well as
    applications software. Database and middleware software includes
    database management software, application server software,
    business intelligence software, identification and access
    management software, content management software, portal and
    user interaction software, Service-Oriented Architecture and
    business process management software, data integration software
    and development tools. Applications software provides enterprise
    information that enables companies to manage their business
    cycles and provide intelligence in functional areas such as
    customer relationship management, financials, human resources,
    maintenance management, manufacturing, marketing, order
    fulfillment, product lifecycle management, enterprise project
    portfolio management, enterprise performance management,
    procurement, sales, services, enterprise resource planning and
    supply chain planning. The software license updates and product
    support line of business provides customers with rights to
    unspecified software product upgrades and maintenance releases,
    internet access to technical content, as well as internet and
    telephone access to technical support personnel during the
    support period. In addition, the software license updates and
    product support line of business offers customers Oracle
    Unbreakable Linux Support, which provides enterprise level
    support for the Linux operating system, and also offers support
    for Oracle VM server virtualization software.

The consulting line of business provides services to customers
    in business strategy and analysis, business process
    simplification, solutions integration and the implementation,
    enhancement and upgrade of our database, middleware and
    applications software. On Demand includes Oracle On Demand and
    Advanced Customer Services. Oracle On Demand provides
    multi-featured software and hardware management and maintenance
    services for customers that deploy our database, middleware and
    applications software at our data center facilities, select
    partner data centers or customer facilities. Advanced Customer
    Services consists of solution lifecycle management services,
    database and application management services, industry-specific
    solution support centers and remote and
     on-site 
    expert services. The education line of business provides
    instructor-led, media-based and internet-based training in the
    use of our database, middleware and applications software.

We do not track our assets by operating segments. Consequently,
    it is not practical to show assets by operating segments results.

112

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2009  

The following table presents a summary of our businesses 
    and operating segments  results:

(1)   

Operating segment revenues differ
    from the external reporting classifications due to certain
    software license products that are classified as service
    revenues for management reporting purposes. Additionally,
    software license updates and product support revenues for
    management reporting included $243 million,
    $179 million and $212 million of revenues that we did
    not recognize in the accompanying consolidated statements of
    operations for fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. See
    Note 9 for an explanation of these adjustments and the
    following table for a reconciliation of operating segment
    revenues to total revenues.

(2)   

The margins reported reflect only
    the direct controllable costs of each line of business and do
    not include allocations of product development, information
    technology, marketing and partner programs, and corporate and
    general and administrative expenses incurred in support of the
    lines of business. Additionally, the margins do not reflect the
    amortization of intangible assets, restructuring costs,
    acquisition related and other expenses or stock-based
    compensation.

113

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2009  

The following table reconciles operating segment revenues to
    total revenues as well as operating segment margin to income
    before provision for income taxes:

(1)   

Software license updates and
    product support revenues for management reporting include
    $243 million, $179 million and $212 million of
    revenues that we did not recognize in the accompanying
    consolidated statements of operations for fiscal 2009, 2008 and
    2007, respectively. See Note 9 for an explanation of these
    adjustments and this table for a reconciliation of operating
    segment revenues to total revenues.

Geographic
    Information  

Disclosed in the table below is geographic information for each
    country that comprised greater than three percent of our total
    revenues for fiscal 2009, fiscal 2008 or fiscal 2007.

(1)   

Long-lived assets exclude goodwill,
    intangible assets, equity investments and deferred taxes, which
    are not allocated to specific geographic locations as it is
    impracticable to do so.

114

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2009  

Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net income for
    the period by the weighted average number of common shares
    outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share is
    computed by dividing net income for the period by the weighted
    average number of common shares outstanding during the period,
    plus the dilutive effect of outstanding stock awards and shares
    issuable under the employee stock purchase plan using the
    treasury stock method. The following table sets forth the
    computation of basic and diluted earnings per share:

(1)   

These weighted shares relate to
    anti-dilutive stock options as calculated using the treasury
    stock method (described above) and could be dilutive in the
    future. See Note 13 for information regarding the prices of
    our outstanding, unexercised options.

Securities
    Class Action  

Stockholder class actions were filed in the United States
    District Court for the Northern District of California against
    us and our Chief Executive Officer on and after March 9,
    2001. Between March 2002 and March 2003, the court dismissed
    plaintiffs  consolidated complaint, first amended complaint
    and a revised second amended complaint. The last dismissal was
    with prejudice. On September 1, 2004, the United States
    Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit reversed the dismissal
    order and remanded the case for further proceedings. The revised
    second amended complaint named our Chief Executive Officer, our
    then Chief Financial Officer (who currently is Chairman of our
    Board of Directors) and a former Executive Vice President as
    defendants. This complaint was brought on behalf of purchasers
    of our stock during the period from December 14, 2000
    through March 1, 2001. Plaintiffs alleged that the
    defendants made false and misleading statements about our actual
    and expected financial performance and the performance of
    certain of our applications products, while certain individual
    defendants were selling Oracle stock in violation of federal
    securities laws. Plaintiffs further alleged that certain
    individual defendants sold Oracle stock while in possession of
    material non-public information. Plaintiffs also allege that the
    defendants engaged in accounting violations. On July 26,
    2007, defendants filed a motion for summary judgment, and
    plaintiffs filed a motion for partial summary judgment against
    all defendants and a motion for summary judgment against our
    Chief Executive Officer. On August 7, 2007, plaintiffs
    filed amended versions of these motions. On October 5,
    2007, plaintiffs filed a motion seeking a default judgment
    against defendants or various other sanctions because of
    defendants  alleged destruction of evidence. A hearing on
    all these motions was held on December 20, 2007. On
    April 7, 2008, the case was reassigned to a new judge. On
    June 27, 2008, the court ordered supplemental briefing on
    plaintiffs  sanctions motion. On September 2, 2008,
    the court issued an order denying plaintiffs  motion for
    partial summary judgment against all defendants. The order also
    denied in part and granted in part plaintiffs  motion for
    sanctions. The court denied plaintiffs  request that
    judgment be entered in plaintiffs  favor due to the alleged
    destruction of evidence, and the court found that no sanctions
    were appropriate for several categories of evidence. The court
    found that sanctions in the form of adverse inferences were
    appropriate for two categories of evidence:
     e-mails  from
    our Chief Executive Officer s account, and materials that
    had been

115

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2009  

created in connection with a book regarding our Chief Executive
    Officer. The court then denied defendants  motion for
    summary judgment and plaintiffs  motion for summary
    judgment against our Chief Executive Officer and directed the
    parties to revise and re-file these motions to clearly specify
    the precise contours of the adverse inferences that should be
    drawn, and to take these inferences into account with regard to
    the propriety of summary judgment. The court also directed the
    parties to address certain legal issues in the briefing.

On October 13, 2008, the parties participated in a
    court-ordered mediation, which did not result in a settlement.
    On October 20, 2008, defendants filed a motion for summary
    judgment, and plaintiffs filed a motion for summary judgment
    against our Chief Executive Officer. The parties also filed
    several motions challenging the admissibility of the testimony
    of various expert witnesses. Opposition briefs were filed on
    November 17, 2008, and reply briefs were filed on
    December 12, 2008. A hearing on all these motions was held
    on February 13, 2009.

On June 16, 2009, the court issued an order granting
    defendants  motion for summary judgment and denying
    plaintiffs  motion for summary judgment against our Chief
    Executive Officer, and it entered a judgment dismissing the
    entire case with prejudice. We expect plaintiffs will appeal.
    Plaintiffs seek unspecified damages plus interest,
    attorneys  fees and costs, and equitable and injunctive
    relief.

EpicRealm/Parallel
    Networks Intellectual Property Litigation  

On June 30, 2006, we filed a declaratory judgment action
    against EpicRealm Licensing, LP ( EpicRealm ) in the
    United States District Court, District of Delaware, seeking a
    judicial declaration of noninfringement and invalidity of
    U.S. Patent Nos. 5,894,554 (the  554 Patent) and
    6,415,335B1 (the  335 Patent). We filed the lawsuit
    following the resolution of an indemnification claim by one of
    our customers related to EpicRealm s assertion of the
     554 Patent and  335 Patent against the customer in a
    patent infringement case in the United States District Court for
    the Eastern District of Texas.

On April 13, 2007, EpicRealm filed an Answer and
    Counterclaim in which it: (1) denies our noninfringement
    and invalidity allegations; (2) alleges that we have
    willfully infringed, and are willfully infringing, the  554
    Patent and  335 Patent; and (3) requests a permanent
    injunction, an award of unspecified money damages, interest,
    attorneys  fees, and costs. On May 7, 2007, we filed
    an Answer to EpicRealm s infringement counterclaim, denying
    EpicRealm s infringement allegations and asserting
    affirmative defenses. In August 2007, the
     patents-in-suit 
    were sold to Parallel Networks, LLC, which thereafter
    substituted in as the defendant in place of EpicRealm.

The parties have completed discovery and filed briefing on claim
    construction and summary judgment motions. A Markman hearing and
    oral argument on summary judgment motions were held
    October 3, 2008. A court-ordered mediation was held on
    October 8, 2008, which did not result in a settlement. On
    December 4, 2008, the court issued an order granting
    summary judgment that our Web Cache, Internet Application
    Server, and RAC Database do not infringe the patents. The court
    also denied our motion for summary judgment that the patents are
    invalid, and denied in part and granted in part Parallel
    Networks s motion for summary judgment that certain prior
    art references do not invalidate the patents through
    anticipation. Trial was scheduled to begin on January 12,
    2009, on issues of invalidity and inequitable conduct. On
    December 23, 2008, the parties reached an agreement
    allowing Parallel Networks to immediately appeal the
    court s summary judgment order and preserving Oracle s
    invalidity and inequitable conduct claims in the event that the
    matter is remanded for trial at a later time. On
    January 23, 2009, Parallel Networks filed a notice of
    appeal, and filed its opening brief on April 10, 2009.
    Under the current schedule, briefing on this appeal is scheduled
    to be completed by October 9, 2009. A court-ordered
    mediation was held on June 1, 2009, which did not result in
    a settlement. Further mediation is scheduled for August 2009. We
    will continue to pursue this action vigorously.

SAP
    Intellectual Property Litigation  

On March 22, 2007, Oracle Corporation, Oracle USA, Inc. and
    Oracle International Corporation (collectively, Oracle) filed a
    complaint in the United States District Court for the Northern
    District of California against SAP AG,

116

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2009  

its wholly owned subsidiary, SAP America, Inc., and its wholly
    owned subsidiary, TomorrowNow, Inc., (collectively, the SAP
    Defendants) alleging violations of the Federal Computer Fraud
    and Abuse Act and the California Computer Data Access and Fraud
    Act, civil conspiracy, trespass, conversion, violation of the
    California Unfair Business Practices Act, and intentional and
    negligent interference with prospective economic advantage.
    Oracle alleged that SAP unlawfully accessed Oracle s
    Customer Connection support website and improperly took and used
    Oracle s intellectual property, including software code and
    knowledge management solutions. The complaint seeks unspecified
    damages and preliminary and permanent injunctive relief. On
    June 1, 2007, Oracle filed its First Amended Complaint,
    adding claims for infringement of the federal Copyright Act and
    breach of contract, and dropping the conversion and separately
    pled conspiracy claims. On July 2, 2007 the SAP
    Defendants  filed their Answer and Affirmative Defenses,
    acknowledging that TomorrowNow had made some  inappropriate
    downloads  and otherwise denying the claims alleged in the
    First Amended Complaint. The parties are engaged in discovery
    and continue to negotiate a Preservation Order. At case
    management conferences held on February 12, 2008 and
    April 24, 2008, Oracle advised the Court that Oracle
    intended to file a Second Amended Complaint, based on new facts
    learned during the course of discovery.

On July 28, 2008, Oracle filed a Second Amended Complaint,
    which added additional allegations based on facts learned during
    discovery. Among the new allegations contained in the Second
    Amended Complaint, Oracle alleges that TomorrowNow s
    business model relied on illegal copies of Oracle s
    underlying software applications and that TomorrowNow used these
    copies as generic software environments that TomorrowNow then
    used to create fixes and updates, to service customers and to
    train employees. The Second Amended Complaint also alleges that
    these practices may have extended to other Oracle products,
    including Siebel products.

On October 8, 2008, Oracle filed a Third Amended Complaint
    pursuant to stipulation. The Third Amended Complaint made some
    changes relating to the Oracle plaintiff entities (removing
    Oracle Corporation and adding Oracle Systems Corporation, Oracle
    EMEA Ltd., and J.D. Edwards Europe Ltd.) but did not change the
    substantive allegations. On October 15, 2008, the SAP
    Defendants filed a motion to dismiss portions of the Third
    Amended Complaint, and after full briefing, the court heard oral
    argument on November 26, 2008. On December 15, 2008,
    the court issued an order granting in part and denying in part
    the motion. The court dismissed with prejudice the claims
    asserted by plaintiffs JD Edwards Europe Ltd. and Oracle Systems
    Corporation, and denied the motion in all other respects. The
    parties are engaged in discovery.

On May 28, 2009, the court held a case management
    conference. On June 11, 2009, the court entered a
    Stipulated Revised Case Management and Pretrial Order. Pursuant
    to the terms of that order, Oracle may move to amend its
    complaint to add claims for infringement of Oracle s Siebel
    software programs and any other claims or allegations agreed to
    by the parties prior to July 15, 2009. The order allows SAP
    to file an early motion for summary judgment directed to
    Oracle s damages theory. The court set a new trial date of
    November 2010 and made certain other changes to the pretrial
    schedule.

Other
    Litigation  

We are party to various legal proceedings and claims, either
    asserted or unasserted, which arise in the ordinary course of
    business, including proceedings and claims that relate to
    acquisitions we have completed or to companies we have acquired
    or are attempting to acquire. While the outcome of these matters
    cannot be predicted with certainty, we do not believe that the
    outcome of any of these claims or any of the above mentioned
    legal matters will have a materially adverse effect on our
    consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash
    flows.

117

Table of Contents   

SCHEDULE II  

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS  

118

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused
    this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
    thereunto duly authorized, on June 29, 2009.

ORACLE CORPORATION

By: 

/s/   Lawrence
    J. Ellison  

Lawrence J. Ellison, Chief Executive Officer

and Director

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, this report has been signed by the following persons on
    behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the date
    indicated.

Name 

Title 

Date 

/s/   Lawrence
    J. Ellison 

Lawrence
    J. Ellison

Chief Executive Officer and Director (Principal Executive
    Officer)

June 29, 2009

/s/   Jeff
    Epstein 

Jeff
    Epstein

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal
    Financial Officer)

June 29, 2009

/s/   William
    Corey West 

William
    Corey West

Senior Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting
    Officer (Principal Accounting Officer)

June 29, 2009

/s/   Jeffrey
    O. Henley 

Jeffrey
    O. Henley

Chairman of the Board of Directors

June 29, 2009

/s/   Jeffrey
    S. Berg 

Jeffrey
    S. Berg

Director

June 29, 2009

/s/   H.
    Raymond Bingham 

H.
    Raymond Bingham

Director

June 29, 2009

/s/   Michael
    J. Boskin 

Michael
    J. Boskin

Director

June 29, 2009

/s/   Safra
    A. Catz 

Safra
    A. Catz

President and Director

June 29, 2009

/s/   Bruce
    R. Chizen 

Bruce
    R. Chizen

Director

June 29, 2009

/s/   George
    H. Conrades 

George
    H. Conrades

Director

June 29, 2009

/s/   Hector
    Garcia-Molina 

Hector
    Garcia-Molina

Director

June 29, 2009

/s/   Donald
    L. Lucas 

Donald
    L. Lucas

Director

June 29, 2009

/s/   Charles
    E. Phillips, Jr. 

Charles
    E. Phillips, Jr.

President and Director

June 29, 2009

/s/   Naomi
    O. Seligman 

Naomi
    O. Seligman

Director

June 29, 2009

119

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    INDEX OF EXHIBITS  

120

Table of Contents   

121

Table of Contents   

*

Indicates management contract or
    compensatory plan or arrangement.

122

<EX-12.01>
 2
 f52658exv12w01.htm
 EXHIBIT 12.01

exv12w01 

Exhibit 12.01 

ORACLE CORPORATION 
Consolidated Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 

(1)  
       
     The term  earnings  means the amounts resulting from the following: (a) our
income before provision for income taxes, plus (b) the minority
interests in the net income of our majority owned subsidiaries, plus (c) our fixed charges, less (d)
our share of our equity investee s income before provision for income taxes. 

(2)  
       
     The term  fixed charges  means the amounts resulting from the following: (a) our
interest expensed, plus (b) our interest capitalized, plus (c) our estimate of the interest
component of rent expense. 

We do not report any shares of preferred stock outstanding in our consolidated financial statements
because our outstanding preferred stock is owned by one or more of our wholly-owned subsidiaries.
Our ratio of earnings to combined fixed charges and preferred dividends for any given period is
equivalent to our ratio of earnings to fixed charges.

</EX-12.01>

<EX-21.01>
 3
 f52658exv21w01.htm
 EXHIBIT 21.01

exv21w01 

Exhibit 21.01 

ORACLE CORPORATION 
Subsidiaries of the Registrant 

Domestic Subsidiaries  
       
      Place of Incorporation  

Logical Applications, Inc.

California 

Logical Apps, Inc.

California 

Oracle Credit Corporation

California 

Oracle Education Foundation

California 

Oracle International Corporation

California 

Oracle International Technology Corporation

California 

Oracle Siebel Scholars Foundation

California 

Upshot Corporation

California 

Oracle USA, Inc.

Colorado 

MOHR Development, Inc.

Connecticut 

AdminServer International Company LLC

Delaware 

Agile Software Corporation

Delaware 

Appeal Virtual Machines, Inc.

Delaware 

BEA Crossgain, Inc.

Delaware 

BEA Systems Holding B, Inc.

Delaware 

BEA Systems, Inc.

Delaware 

Business Online, Inc.

Delaware 

Castek, Inc.

Delaware 

Castek RBG, Inc.

Delaware 

Castek Software Factory, Ltd.

Delaware 

ECTone, Inc.

Delaware 

EntitleNet, Inc.

Delaware 

Ether Acquisition Corporation

Delaware 

Flashline, Inc.

Delaware 

Fuego, Inc.

Delaware 

Hyperion Solutions Corporation

Delaware 

Hyperion Solutions Holdings LLC

Delaware 

i-flex Processing Services, Inc.

Delaware 

InterActive WorkPlace, Inc.

Delaware 

Istante Software, Inc.

Delaware 

Jade Acquisition Corporation

Delaware 

Janna Systems (US) Inc.

Delaware 

M7 Corporation

Delaware 

Mantas, Inc.

Delaware 

MetaSolv, Inc.

Delaware 

Domestic Subsidiaries  
       
      Place of Incorporation  

Moonshot Acquisition Corporation

Delaware 

Octet String, Inc.

Delaware 

OIC Acquisition I Corporation

Delaware 

OIC Acquisition II Corporation

Delaware 

OIC Acquisition VI Corporation

Delaware 

OIC Acquisition VIII Corporation

Delaware 

OnTarget Acquisition Sub LLC

Delaware 

OnTarget Acquisition Sub II LLC

Delaware 

OnTarget Acquisition Sub III LLC

Delaware 

Oracle Acquisition I Corporation

Delaware 

Oracle Acquisition II Corporation

Delaware 

Oracle Americas Investment 2 LLC

Delaware 

Oracle Americas Investment 3 LLC

Delaware 

Oracle Americas Investment LLC

Delaware 

Oracle BEA Spain Holding LLC

Delaware 

Oracle Financial Services Software America, Inc.

Delaware 

Oracle Financial Services Software, Inc.

Delaware 

Oracle Global Holdings, Inc.

Delaware 

Oracle GKS Hungary LLC

Delaware 

Oracle Holdings, Inc.

Delaware 

Oracle Japan Holding, Inc.

Delaware 

Oracle Mauritius Holding Company

Delaware 

Oracle OTC Holdings General Partnership

Delaware 

Oracle OTC Holdings LLC

Delaware 

Oracle Systems Corporation

Delaware 

Oracle Taiwan, Inc.

Delaware 

Orchestream, Inc.

Delaware 

Plumtree Software, Inc.

Delaware 

RSIB, Inc.

Delaware 

Siebel Helpline.com, Inc.

Delaware 

Siebel Systems Holdings, LLC

Delaware 

Siebel Systems International LLC

Delaware 

Siebel Systems International LP

Delaware 

Siebel Systems, Inc.

Delaware 

Siebel Systems Ireland Holdings LLC

Delaware 

Silicongo, Inc.

Delaware 

Soda Acquisition Corporation

Delaware 

Sotas, Inc.

Delaware 

Domestic Subsidiaries  
       
      Place of Incorporation  

SPL WorldGroup Holdings, LLC

Delaware 

SPL WorldGroup, Inc.

Delaware 

Stratford Acquisition Corporation

Delaware 

The Theory Center, Inc.

Delaware 

Violin Acquisition Corporation

Delaware 

Westside.com, Inc.

Delaware 

XQRL, Inc.

Delaware 

Strategic Processing Corporation

Illinois 

Monaco Acquisition Corporation

Maryland 

Lodestar Corporation

Massachusetts 

RogersGrant LLP

Massachusetts 

nquire Software, Inc.

Minnesota 

Stellent, Inc.

Minnesota 

Delphi Asset Management Corporation

Nevada 

Reliaty, Inc.

New Hampshire 

Nomadic Systems, Inc.

New Jersey 

Phaos Technology Corp.

New York 

Softport Systems, Inc.

New York 

The 20-20 Group, Ltd.

Ohio 

AdminServer Founding Shareholders Limited Partnership

Pennsylvania 

Primavera Software, Inc.

Pennsylvania 

Primavera Systems, Inc.

Pennsylvania 

Prodika, Inc.

Texas 

Xeno Development, Inc.

Texas 

Trillium Research, Inc.

Wisconsin 

International Subsidiaries  
       
      Place of Incorporation  

Oracle Argentina, S.A.

Argentina 

A.C.N.# 075-333596 (fka Brio Software Pty. Ltd. and Hyperion Solutions Australia Pty Ltd.)

Australia 

BEA Systems Pty Ltd.

Australia 

edocs Asia-Pacific Pty Limited

Australia 

Eontec Australia Pty Limited

Australia 

G-Log Pty Ltd.

Australia 

Haley (Australia) Pty. Limited

Australia 

Haley Holdings Pty. Limited

Australia 

IQMS Pty Ltd.

Australia 

J.D. Edwards Australia Pty. Ltd

Australia 

J.D. Edwards World Solutions Company Pty Ltd.

Australia 

LODESTAR Solutions Australia Pty. Ltd.

Australia 

MetaSolv Australia Pty Limited

Australia 

Oracle Australia Holdings Pty. Ltd.

Australia 

Oracle Consolidation Australia Pty. Ltd.

Australia 

Oracle Corporation Australia Pty. Limited

Australia 

Oracle Superannuation Pty Limited

Australia 

PeopleSoft Australia Pty. Ltd

Australia 

Portal Software International Pty Ltd.

Australia 

Retek Information Systems Pty Ltd.

Australia 

RuleBurst Holdings Pty. Ltd.

Australia 

Sidewinder Asia Pacific Pty Ltd.

Australia 

Siebel Systems Australia Pty. Limited

Australia 

SPL (Australia) Pty Ltd.

Australia 

SPL WorldGroup (Australia) Pty Ltd.

Australia 

SPL WorldGroup Holdings (Australia) Pty Ltd.

Australia 

Statute Technologies Pty. Limited

Australia 

Stellent Asia Pty Ltd.

Australia 

Vantive Australia Pty. Ltd.

Australia 

Oracle Austria GmbH

Austria 

BEA Systems (FSC) Inc.

Barbados 

Hyperion Foreign Sales Corporation

Barbados 

J.D. Edwards   Company Foreign Sales, Inc.

Barbados 

Crest Group N.V.

Belgium 

Oracle Belgium B.V.B.A/SPRL.

Belgium 

Hyperion Solutions Technologies, LP

Bermuda 

Oracle BH d.o.o. Sarajevo

Bosnia   Herzegovina 

International Subsidiaries  
       
      Place of Incorporation  

Oracle do Brasil Sistemas Limitada

Brazil 

PSFT (BVI) Holding Corporation

British Virgin Islands 

PeopleSoft China Holding Corporation

British Virgin Islands 

BEA Systems, Ltd.

Canada 

i-flex Solutions Inc. (Canada)

Canada 

Oracle Canada Holdings Inc.

Canada 

Oracle Corporation Canada Inc.

Canada 

Oracle Numetrix Company

Canada 

Star Acquisition ULC

Canada 

Steltor Corporation

Canada 

Steltor General Partnership

Canada 

Steltor Inc.

Canada 

WebGain (Nova Scotia) Company

Canada 

WebGain Canada Inc.

Canada 

BEA CrossGain International

Cayman Islands 

BEA International (fka BEA Cayman Holding III)

Cayman Islands 

Oracle International Holding Company

Cayman Islands 

SPL WorldGroup International Ltd.

Cayman Islands 

Sistemas Oracle de Chile, S.A.

Chile 

Agile Software (Suzhou) Co., Ltd.

China 

BEA Systems (China) Co., Ltd.

China 

BEA Technology (Beijing) Co., Ltd.

China 

Oracle (China) Software Systems Company Limited

China 

Hyperion Solutions (China) Ltd.

China 

J.D. Edwards Software (Beijing) Co. Ltd.

China 

Oracle Research   Development Center, Beijing, Ltd.

China 

Oracle Research   Development Center, Shenzhen, Ltd.

China 

PeopleSoft (Beijing) Software Co. Ltd.

China 

Oracle Colombia Limitada

Colombia 

Oracle CR SSC, S.A.

Costa Rica 

Oracle de Centroam rica, S.A.

Costa Rica 

Oracle Croatia d.o.o.

Croatia 

Oracle Systems Limited

Cyprus 

Oracle Czech s.r.o.

Czech Republic 

Oracle Danmark ApS

Denmark 

Oracle Egypt Ltd.

Egypt 

Innobase OY

Finland 

Oracle Finland OY

Finland 

International Subsidiaries  
       
      Place of Incorporation  

BEA Systems Customer Support (France) S.A.S.

France 

LOGIN S.A.

France 

Oracle France, S.A.S.

France 

Retek Information Systems S.A.

France 

BEA Systems GmbH

Germany 

Brio Software GmbH

Germany 

G-Log GmbH

Germany 

Global Knowledge Germany GmbH

Germany 

Global Knowledge Germany GmbH   Co. KG

Germany 

Global Knowledge Verwaltungs GmbH

Germany 

Oracle Deutschland GmbH

Germany 

Oracle Financial Services Software S.A.

Greece 

Oracle Hellas, S.A.

Greece 

BEA Systems Hong Kong Ltd.

Hong Kong 

Hyperion Solutions (Hong Kong) Ltd.

Hong Kong 

MetaSolv Hong Kong Ltd.

Hong Kong 

Oracle Hong Kong Holdings Limited

Hong Kong 

Oracle Systems Hong Kong Limited

Hong Kong 

PeopleSoft Hong Kong Ltd.

Hong Kong 

Portal Software (Asia Pacific) Limited

Hong Kong 

RuleBurst (Asia) Limited

Hong Kong 

Siebel Systems Asia Limited

Hong Kong 

Siebel Systems Hong Kong Limited

Hong Kong 

SPL WorldGroup Hong Kong Limited

Hong Kong 

Oracle Hungary Kft.

Hungary 

Qualification Development Sz m t stechnikai Korl tolt Felel ss g  T rsas g

Hungary 

Siebel Systems Hungary Computer Technology

Hungary 

Agile Software Enterprise Private Limited

India 

BEA Systems India Private Ltd.

India 

BEA Systems India Technology Center Private Ltd.

India 

ECTone (India) Private Limited

India 

Equinox Global Services Limited

India 

Flexcel International Private Limited

India 

Hyperion Solutions India Private Limited

India 

i-flex Processing Services Limited

India 

J.D. Edwards India Software Pvt. Ltd.

India 

International Subsidiaries  
       
      Place of Incorporation  

Mantas India Private Limited

India 

Oracle Financial Services Software Limited

India 

Oracle India Private Limited

India 

Oracle Solution Services (India) Private Ltd.

India 

PeopleSoft India Private Ltd.

India 

Portal Information Technology India Private Limited

India 

ProfitLogic Software Private Limited

India 

Siebel Systems Software (India) Private Limited

India 

Sunday Bazaar Internet Sales

India 

PT Oracle Indonesia

Indonesia 

BEA Systems Ireland Holding Limited

Ireland 

BEA Systems Ireland Sales Support   Services Ltd

Ireland 

Eontec Limited

Ireland 

J.D. Edwards Europe Limited

Ireland 

Netsure Telecom Limited

Ireland 

OCAPAC Distributor Partner

Ireland 

OCAPAC Holding Company

Ireland 

OCAPAC Korea Holding Company

Ireland 

OCAPAC NIH1 Company

Ireland 

OCAPAC NIH3 Company

Ireland 

OCAPAC Research Company

Ireland 

OCAPAC Research Partner

Ireland 

OCAPAC Vietnam Holding Company

Ireland 

Oracle CAPAC Services Limited

Ireland 

Oracle East Central Europe Limited

Ireland 

Oracle EMEA Holdings

Ireland 

Oracle EMEA Limited

Ireland 

Oracle Technology Company

Ireland 

PSFT International Limited

Ireland 

Siebel Systems EMEA Limited

Ireland 

Siebel Systems Ireland Holdings Limited

Ireland 

SPL WorldGroup (Ireland) Limited

Ireland 

BEA Systems Middle East Ltd.

Israel 

Oracle Demantra R D Center Israel Ltd.

Israel 

Oracle Software Systems Israel Limited

Israel 

Primavera ProSight Limited

Israel 

SPL WorldGroup 2000 Ltd.

Israel 

International Subsidiaries  
       
      Place of Incorporation  

Oracle Italia S.R.L.

Italy 

Miracle Linux Corporation

Japan 

Oracle Corporation Japan

Japan 

Oracle Information Systems (Japan) K.K.

Japan 

Primavera Systems Japan G.K.

Japan 

Oracle Consulting Kazakhstan LLP

Kazazkhstan 

BEA Systems Korea, Inc.

Korea 

Oracle Korea, Ltd.

Korea 

Oracle CAPAC Finance S.a.r.l.

Luxembourg 

Oracle Finance S.a.r.l.

Luxembourg 

PeopleSoft Luxembourg S.a.r.l.

Luxembourg 

SPL Acquisition S.a.r.l.

Luxembourg 

G-Log Sdn Bhd.

Malaysia 

Oracle Corporation Malaysia Holdings Sdn. Bhd.

Malaysia 

Oracle Corporation Malaysia Sdn. Bhd.

Malaysia 

Oracle MSC Sdn. Bhd.

Malaysia 

PeopleSoft Worldwide (M ) Sdn. Bhd.

Malaysia 

Siebel Systems Malaysia Sdn. Bhd.

Malaysia 

ISP Internet Mauritius Company

Mauritius 

OCAPAC Mauritius Holding Company

Mauritius 

Oracle Global (Mauritius) Ltd.

Mauritius 

Oracle de Mexico, S.A. de C.V.

Mexico 

BEA Systems Distribution B.V.

Netherlands 

edocs Europe Netherlands BV

Netherlands 

G-Log BV

Netherlands 

Oracle Corporation UK Finance B.V.

Netherlands 

Oracle Distribution B.V.

Netherlands 

Oracle East Central Europe Services B.V.

Netherlands 

Oracle Financial Services Software B.V.

Netherlands 

Oracle Licensing B.V.

Netherlands 

Oracle Nederland B.V.

Netherlands 

Oracle Scheduler B.V.

Netherlands 

PeopleSoft International B.V.

Netherlands 

SPL WorldGroup B.V.

Netherlands 

International Subsidiaries  
       
      Place of Incorporation  

Stellent Holding B.V.

Netherlands 

Tinoway Nederland B.V.

Netherlands 

Oracle Holding Antilles N.V.

Netherlands Antilles 

Oracle New Zealand Holdings, Ltd.

New Zealand 

Oracle New Zealand, Ltd.

New Zealand 

SPL WorldGroup (NZ) Ltd.

New Zealand 

Oracle Software (Nigeria) Limited

Nigeria 

Oracle Norge AS

Norway 

Siebel Systems Norge A.S.

Norway 

Oracle Systems Pakistan (Private) Limited

Pakistan 

Sistemas Oracle del Peru, S.A.

Peru 

Oracle Philippines Corporation

Philippines 

SPL WorldGroup (Philippines), Inc.

Philippines 

BEA Systems Poland SP z.o.o.

Poland 

Oracle Polska, Sp.z.o.o.

Poland 

Oracle Portugal   Sistemas de Informacao Lda.

Portugal 

Siebel Systems Portugal Solu  es de Informa  o, Lda.

Portugal 

Oracle Caribbean, Inc.

Puerto Rico 

Oracle EMEA Support Renewals S.a.r.l.

Romania 

Oracle Romania SRL

Romania 

Oracle Systems Ltd

Saudi Arabia 

Saudi Oracle Limited (under liquidation)

Saudi Arabia 

Oracle SRBIJA CRNA GORA d.o.o.

Serbia 

BEA Systems Singapore Pte Ltd.

Singapore 

Eontec Singapore Pte. Ltd.

Singapore 

G-Log Pte Ltd.

Singapore 

Haley (Singapore) Pte. Ltd.

Singapore 

Hyperion Software Pte. Ltd.

Singapore 

Hyperion Solutions Asia Pty. Ltd.

Singapore 

J.D. Edwards (Asia Pacific) Pte. Ltd.

Singapore 

Mantas Singapore Pte. Ltd.

Singapore 

Oracle Corporation (Singapore) Holdings Pte. Ltd.

Singapore 

Oracle Corporation Singapore Pte. Ltd.

Singapore 

Oracle Financial Services Consulting Pte. Ltd.

Singapore 

Oracle Financial Services Software Pte. Ltd.

Singapore 

Oracle Singapore Holdings Pte. Ltd.

Singapore 

PeopleSoft Asia Pte. Ltd.

Singapore 

International Subsidiaries  
       
      Place of Incorporation  

Plumtree Software Singapore Pte. Ltd.

Singapore 

SPL Pte. Ltd.

Singapore 

Oracle Slovensko spol. s.r.o.

Slovakia 

Oracle Software d.o.o. Ljubljana

Slovenia 

Oracle Corporation (South Africa)(Pty) Limited

South Africa 

Oracle Empowerment (Pty) Ltd.

South Africa 

PeopleSoft Africa (Pty.) Limited

South Africa 

PeopleSoft South Africa (Pty.) Limited

South Africa 

Siebel Systems South Africa (Proprietary) Limited

South Africa 

Oracle Iberica, S.R.L.

Spain 

Oracle Svenska AB

Sweden 

Portal Software Sweden AB

Sweden 

Oracle Software (Schweiz) GmbH

Switzerland 

Plumtree Software GmbH

Switzerland 

Oracle GmbH

Switzerland 

Agile Software Limited (Taiwan)

Taiwan 

J.D. Edwards (Taiwan) Pte. Ltd.

Taiwan 

PeopleSoft Taiwan Ltd. Co.

Taiwan 

BEA Systems (Thailand) Limited

Thailand 

Oracle Corporation (Thailand) Company Limited

Thailand 

Oracle Bilgisayar Sistemleri Limited Sirketi

Turkey 

PeopleSoft Middle East FZ-LLC

United Arab Emirates 

Siebel Systems Middle East FZ-LLC

United Arab Emirates 

Acsera Limited

United Kingdom 

Advanced Visual Technologies Limited

United Kingdom 

Advanced Visual Technologies America Limited

United Kingdom 

Arbor Software Limited

United Kingdom 

BEA Systems Customer Support (United Kingdom) Limited

United Kingdom 

BEA Systems Europe, Ltd.

United Kingdom 

BEA Systems Ltd.

United Kingdom 

GEOTRAIN (EUROPE) Limited

United Kingdom 

Global Knowledge Network (UK) Limited

United Kingdom 

Haley (Europe) Limited

United Kingdom 

Hyperion Solutions (UK) Limited

United Kingdom 

Mantas Limited

United Kingdom 

Oracle APSS Trustee Limited

United Kingdom 

Oracle Corporation Nominees Limited

United Kingdom 

International Subsidiaries  
       
      Place of Incorporation  

Oracle Corporation UK Holdings Limited

United Kingdom 

Oracle Corporation UK Limited

United Kingdom 

Oracle Corporation UK Trustee Company Limited

United Kingdom 

Oracle EMEA Management

United Kingdom 

Pertmaster Limited

United Kingdom 

Plumtree Portal Software Limited

United Kingdom 

Portal Software (Europe) Limited

United Kingdom 

Primavera UK Acquisition Limited

United Kingdom 

Retek Information Systems Limited

United Kingdom 

Siebel Systems UK Limited

United Kingdom 

Skywire Software Limited

United Kingdom 

WebTrak Limited

United Kingdom 

Whitehill Technologies, Limited

United Kingdom 

Oracle de Venezuela, C.A.

Venezuela 

Oracle Vietnam Pte. Ltd.

Vietnam 

</EX-21.01>

<EX-23.01>
 4
 f52658exv23w01.htm
 EXHIBIT 23.01

exv23w01 

Exhibit 23.01

CONSENT OF ERNST   YOUNG LLP, 
INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following Registration Statements:

of our reports dated June 29, 2009, with respect to the consolidated financial statements and
schedule of Oracle Corporation, and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting
of Oracle Corporation, included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) of Oracle Corporation for the
year ended May 31, 2009.

/s/ ERNST   YOUNG LLP

San Francisco, California 
June 29, 2009

</EX-23.01>

<EX-31.01>
 5
 f52658exv31w01.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.01

exv31w01 

Exhibit 31.01 

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT 

I, Lawrence J. Ellison, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Oracle Corporation; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the
periods covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and we have: 

a) 
       
     designed such disclosure controls and procedures or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is
made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in
which this report is being prepared; 

b) 
       
     designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such
internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles; 

c) 
       
     evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of
the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and 

d) 
       
     disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
(the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of the annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the
Finance and Audit Committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the
equivalent functions): 

a) 
       
     all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal
control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 

b) 
       
     any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date:  June 29, 2009  
     By:   

 /s/
 Lawrence  J. Ellison   

Lawrence J. Ellison  

Chief Executive Officer and Director  

</EX-31.01>

<EX-31.02>
 6
 f52658exv31w02.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.02

exv31w02 

Exhibit 31.02 

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT 

I, Jeff Epstein, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Oracle Corporation; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the
periods covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and we have: 

a) 
       
     designed such disclosure controls and procedures or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is
made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in
which this report is being prepared; 

b) 
       
     designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such
internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles; 

c) 
       
     evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of
the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and 

d) 
       
     disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
(the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of the annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the Finance and Audit Committee of the registrant s board of directors (or
persons performing the equivalent functions): 

a) 
       
     all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal
control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 

b) 
       
     any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date:  June 29, 2009  
     By:   
     /s/   Jeff Epstein   

Jeff Epstein  

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer  

</EX-31.02>

<EX-32.01>
 7
 f52658exv32w01.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.01

exv32w01 

Exhibit 32.01 

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT 

The certification set forth below is being submitted in connection with the report on Form 10-K of
Oracle Corporation for the purpose of complying with Rule 13a-14(b) or Rule 15d-14(b) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Section 1350 of Chapter 63 of Title 18 of the United States
Code.

Lawrence J. Ellison, the Chief Executive Officer of Oracle Corporation, and Jeff Epstein, the Chief
Financial Officer of Oracle Corporation, each certifies that, to the best of his knowledge:

1. 
       
     the Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934; and 

2. 
       
     the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of Oracle Corporation. 

Date: June 29, 2009  
     By:   

 /s/
 Lawrence  J. Ellison 

Lawrence J. Ellison  

Chief Executive Officer and Director  

By:   
     /s/   Jeff Epstein 

Jeff Epstein  

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-32.01>

