<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20091120_10-K_edgar_data_1403161_0001193125-09-239249_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>6027881</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>498608</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>273163</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1138718</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>1745653</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>2098808</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>85</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>15</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-09-239249.hdr.sgml : 20091120

<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20091120160700

ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-09-239249

CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K

PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		51

CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20090930

FILED AS OF DATE:		20091120

DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20091120


FILER:


	COMPANY DATA:	

		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			VISA INC.

		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001403161

		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-BUSINESS SERVICES, NEC [7389]

		IRS NUMBER:				260267673

		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE

		FISCAL YEAR END:			0930



	FILING VALUES:

		FORM TYPE:		10-K

		SEC ACT:		1934 Act

		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-33977

		FILM NUMBER:		091198831



	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	

		STREET 1:		P.O. BOX 8999

		CITY:			SAN FRANCISCO

		STATE:			CA

		ZIP:			94128-8999

		BUSINESS PHONE:		(415) 932-2100



	MAIL ADDRESS:	

		STREET 1:		P.O. BOX 8999

		CITY:			SAN FRANCISCO

		STATE:			CA

		ZIP:			94128-8999



	FORMER COMPANY:	

		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	Visa Inc.

		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	20070614




</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 TaJUsGaTQy8bfs3/OZrRIzCNk/YAqRB6NnZPGE1cFlu3d8QsQ9ECyab9du+gtbOw
 kMXuW8kjX3El/S6ztjnyew==

 0001193125-09-239249.txt : 20091120

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

    UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549        FORM
10-K        
     For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2009        OR        
     For the transition period from                      to
                            Commission file number 001-33977        VISA INC.        (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)        
    Registrant s telephone number, including area
code:    (415) 932-2100      Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:    

Title of each Class   
      
   Name of each exchange on which registered    
 
   Class A common stock, par value $.0001 per share   
      
   New York Stock Exchange    
    Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:       Title of each Class        Class B
common stock, par value $.0001 per share        Class C common stock, par value $.0001 per share       Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.    Yes             No               Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act.    Yes             No               Indicate by check mark whether the
registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports),
and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes             No            
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate website, if any, every Interactive Data File
required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such
files).    Yes             No               Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained to the best of registrant s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.                 Indicate by check mark whether the
registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act. (Check one):       

Large accelerated filer         

Accelerated filer         

Non-accelerated filer         

Smaller reporting company        

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)  

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2
of the Exchange Act).    Yes             No               The aggregate market value of the registrant s class A common stock, par value $.0001 per share, held by non-affiliates (using the New York Stock
Exchange closing price as of March 31, 2009, the last business day of the registrant s most recently completed second fiscal quarter) was approximately $25.0 billion. There is currently no established public trading market for the
registrant s class B common stock, par value $.0001 per share, or the registrant s class C common stock, par value $.0001 per share.      As of November 13, 2009 there were 470,210,301 shares outstanding of the registrant s class A common stock, par value $.0001 per share, 245,513,385 shares outstanding of the registrant s class B common stock, par value $.0001 per
share, and 129,429,736 shares outstanding of the registrant s class C common stock, par value $.0001 per share.       DOCUMENTS
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE       Portions of the Registrant s Proxy Statement for the 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders are
incorporated herein by reference in Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K to the extent stated herein. Such Proxy Statement will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days of the Registrant s fiscal year ended
September 30, 2009.   

Table of Contents  

      TABLE OF CONTENTS        

Page    
 
     PART I     

Item 1  
      
   Business    
      
  4   
 
  Item 1A  
      
   Risk Factors    
      
  14   
 
  Item 1B  
      
   Unresolved Staff Comments   
      
  29   
 
  Item 2  
      
   Properties   
      
  29   
 
  Item 3  
      
   Legal Proceedings   
      
  30   
 
  Item 4  
      
   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   
      
  30   

PART II    

Item 5  
      
   Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   
      
  31   
 
  Item 6  
      
   Selected Financial Data   
      
  32   
 
  Item 7  
      
   Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   
      
  34   
 
  Item 7A  
      
   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   
      
  56   
 
  Item 8  
      
   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   
      
  57   
 
  Item 9  
      
   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosures   
      
  129   
 
  Item 9A  
      
   Controls and Procedures   
      
  129   
 
  Item 9B  
      
   Other Information   
      
  130   

PART III    

Item 10  
      
   Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance   
      
  131   
 
  Item 11  
      
   Executive Compensation   
      
  131   
 
  Item 12  
      
   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters   
      
  131   
 
  Item 13  
      
   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence   
      
  132   
 
  Item 14  
      
   Principal Accountant Fees and Services   
      
  132   

PART IV    

Item 15   
      
     Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules     
      
  133   
    Unless the context requires otherwise, reference to  Company,   Visa, 
 we,   us  or  our  refers to Visa Inc. and its subsidiaries.      The registered trademarks of Visa Inc. and
its subsidiaries include:  All It Takes;   Bands Design Blue, White   Gold;   Dove  Design;  Interlink;   Life Takes Visa;   PLUS;   Verified by Visa; 
 Visa;   Visa Classic;   Visa Corporate;   Porque La Vida es Ahora;   The World s Best Way to Pay;   Visa Electron;   Visa Europe;   Visa Fleet;   Visa
Infinite;   Visa Mobile;   VisaNet;   Visa Platinum;   Visa Purchasing;   Visa Resolve OnLine;   Visa ReadyLink;   Visa Signature;   Visa Signature Business; 
 Visa Vale;  and  Winged V  Design. Other trademarks used in this report are the property of their respective owners.         
   2   

Table of Contents  

    Forward-Looking Statements       This Form 10-K contains  forward-looking statements  within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements include, but are not limited to:       

statements regarding the expected growth of the electronic payments industry;          

projections as to the future trends in the electronic payments industry, as well as our corresponding business strategies and the expected benefits derived from
such strategies;          

statements regarding our relationships with customers and expectations as to the future development of these relationships;          

statements regarding the capabilities and advantages of our processing platform, VisaNet;          

statements as to the market opportunities for certain product segments and in certain geographies, as well as our ability to take advantage of these
opportunities;          

statements as to future foreign and domestic regulatory changes and their impact on our business;          

statements as to the impact of litigation and the operation of our retrospective responsibility plan;          

statements regarding the put option held by Visa Europe; and          

statements regarding the capacity of our facilities.         In addition, statements that contain the terms  anticipate,   believe,   continue,   could,   estimate,   expect,   intend,   may, 
 plan,   potential,   predict,   project,   should,   will  and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. In addition, any underlying assumptions are
forward-looking statements. By their nature, forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or results and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict or quantify. Therefore, actual results
could differ materially and adversely from these forward-looking statements as a result of a variety of factors, including all the risks discussed in  Item 1A Risk Factors  and elsewhere in this report. You are cautioned not to place
undue reliance on such statements, which speak only at the date of this report. Unless we are required to do so under U.S. federal securities laws or other applicable laws, we do not intend to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
        
   3   

Table of Contents  

      PART I        

ITEM 1.   
   Business          Overview       Visa operates the world s largest retail electronic payments network and manages a leading global payments brand. We have more branded credit and
debit cards in circulation, more transactions and greater total volume than any of our competitors. We facilitate global commerce through the transfer of value and information among financial institutions, merchants, consumers, businesses and
government entities. We provide financial institutions, our primary customers, with product platforms encompassing consumer credit, debit, prepaid and commercial payments. VisaNet, our secure, centralized, global processing platform, enables us to
provide financial institutions and merchants with a wide range of product platforms, transaction processing and related value-added services.      Our business primarily consists of the following:       

we own, manage and promote a family of well-known, widely accepted payment brands, including Visa, Visa Electron, PLUS and Interlink, which we license to our
customers for use in their payment programs;          

we offer a wide range of branded payments product platforms, which our customers use to develop and offer credit, debit, prepaid and cash access programs for
cardholders (individuals, businesses and government entities);          

we provide transaction processing and value-added services to our customers through VisaNet, Visa Debit Processing Services and Visa Processing Services;

we invest in new services and processing platforms to facilitate more convenient and innovative payment methods, such as mobile payments and eCommerce;

we continually improve the security of our network and our payments services to improve the reliability of our global processing infrastructure and the security
of cardholder information; and          

we adopt and enforce a common set of rules adhered to by our customers to ensure the efficient and secure functioning of our payments network and the maintenance
and promotion of our brands.         We derive revenues primarily from fees paid by our customers based on payments volume,
transactions that we process and certain other related services that we provide.      In fiscal 2009:       

we launched our first global advertising campaign, entitled  More people go with Visa.  The new campaign enables us to align our worldwide marketing
under a single theme that highlights the superior value Visa delivers versus cash and checks and enables us to achieve cost efficiencies by consolidating our global marketing efforts;          

we brought online our largest and most sophisticated global data center, and decommissioned an older facility;          

we formed Visa Processing Services Pte. Ltd., or VPS, a joint venture with Yalamanchili International Pte. Ltd., a payments processor and software company with
operations in Asia. We expect VPS to extend multi-currency and multi-language debit, credit and prepaid processing capabilities to financial institutions, processors and payment companies outside of the United States;      
     
   4   

Table of Contents  

we, along with U.S. Bank, formed a joint venture named Syncada, a global payment network that delivers a proven integrated invoice processing, payment and
financing platform for financial institutions to offer to their corporate and government commercial clients around the world; and          

we sold our 10% ownership in Companhia Brasileira de Meois de Pagamento, or VisaNet do Brasil, in connection with its initial public offering. Following the
initial public offering, we amended an existing agreement with VisaNet do Brasil that grants a license to use our trademarks and technology intellectual property.          Our Reorganization and Initial Public Offering       Visa Inc. was incorporated as a Delaware stock
corporation in May 2007 and the Visa global enterprise was reorganized in October 2007. Prior to the reorganization, Visa operated as five corporate entities related by ownership and membership. For more information on our reorganization, see
 Item 8 Financial Statements  and  Supplementary Data   Note 2 The Reorganization .      In March
2008, we completed our Initial Public Offering, or IPO. As a result of our IPO, the financial institutions that hold our class B and class C common stock represent a minority of the outstanding shareholder interest of Visa Inc. For more information
about our IPO, our capital structure and our classes of common stock, see  Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   Note 15 Stockholders  Equity .       Industry Overview         The Global Payments Industry   
     We operate in the global payments industry, which is undergoing a major shift from paper-based payments, such as cash and checks, to
card-based and other electronic payments. For more than 30 years, Visa has played a central role in driving this migration by providing payment products and services that we believe deliver significant benefits to consumers, businesses,
governments and merchants. We believe that consumers are increasingly attracted to the convenience, security, enhanced services and rewards associated with electronic payment forms. We also believe that corporations and governments are shifting to
electronic payments to improve efficiency, control and security, and that a growing number of merchants are accepting electronic payments to improve sales and customer convenience.      The global payments industry consists of all forms of payment and value transfer, including:       

paper-based payments cash, personal checks, money orders, government checks, travelers cheques, official checks and other paper-based means of transferring
value;          

card-based payments credit cards, charge cards, debit cards, deferred debit cards, ATM cards, prepaid cards, private label cards and other types of
general-purpose and limited-use cards; and          

other electronic payments wire transfers, electronic benefits transfers, automated clearing house payments and other forms of electronic payment not
typically tied to a payment card or similar access device.         The most common card-based forms of payment are
general-purpose cards, which offer widespread merchant acceptance. General purpose cards are typically categorized as:       

pay now  cards, such as debit cards, which enable the cardholder to purchase goods and services by an automatic debit to a checking, demand deposit or
other current account;            
   5   

Table of Contents  

pay later  cards, such as credit, deferred debit and charge cards, which typically permit a cardholder to carry a balance in a revolving credit or
deferred debit account or require payment of the full balance within a specified period; and          

pay before  cards, such as prepaid cards, which are prefunded up to a certain monetary value.         The primary global general purpose card brands include Visa, MasterCard, American Express, Discover, JCB and Diners Club. While these
brands including Visa were historically associated primarily with consumer credit or charge cards in the United States and other major international markets, Visa and others have, over time, broadened their offerings to include debit, ATM,
prepaid and commercial cards.       Our Primary Operations       We generate revenue from the transaction processing services we offer to our customers. Our customers deliver Visa products and payment services to consumers and merchants based on the product platforms we define
and manage. Payments network management is a core part of our operations, as it ensures that our payments system provides a safe, efficient, consistent, and interoperable service to cardholders, merchants, and financial institutions worldwide.
      Transaction Processing Services         Processing Infrastructure        We own and operate VisaNet, which consists of three synchronized processing centers,
including a new data center on the east coast of the United States that replaced an existing data center in March 2009. In addition, Visa Europe operates one processing center in the United Kingdom, which is part of our synchronized system in
accordance with the terms of our Framework Agreement with Visa Europe. These centers are linked by a global telecommunications network and are engineered for redundancy. Intelligent access points around the world complete our global processing
infrastructure and enable merchants and financial institutions worldwide to access our core processing and value-added services.      VisaNet is built on a centralized architecture, enabling us to view and analyze each authorization transaction we process in real time and provide value-added information, such as risk scoring or loyalty applications, while the transaction
data is being routed through our system.        Core Processing Services        Our core processing services involve the routing of payment information and related data to facilitate the authorization, clearing and settlement of
transactions between Visa issuers, which are the financial institutions that issue Visa cards to cardholders, and acquirers, which are the financial institutions that offer Visa network connectivity and payments acceptance services to merchants. In
addition, we offer a range of value-added processing services to support our customers  Visa programs and to promote the growth and security of the Visa payments network.      Authorization is the process of approving or declining a transaction before a purchase is finalized or cash is disbursed. Clearing is the process of
delivering final transaction data from an acquirer to an issuer for posting to the cardholder s account, the calculation of certain fees and charges that apply to the issuer and acquirer involved in the transaction, and the conversion of
transaction amounts to the appropriate settlement currencies. Settlement is the process of calculating, determining, reporting and transferring the net financial position of our issuers and acquirers for all transactions that are cleared.
        
   6   

Table of Contents  

   The issuer and acquirer involved in a typical Visa transaction perform additional functions that we do
not generally perform or monitor. For example, the acquirer credits the merchant s account for the amount of the transaction less any fees the acquirer charges in accordance with the contractual agreement between the merchant and the acquirer.
In addition, the issuer sends a statement to the cardholder and collects payment, in the case of a credit or deferred debit card, or collects payment directly from the cardholder s deposit account, in the case of a debit card.      We process virtually all Visa transactions occurring in the United States. We also process virtually all Visa cross-border transactions (that is,
transactions where the issuer and the merchant are located in different countries). In many countries outside the United States, domestic transactions may be processed outside of our systems, generally by government-controlled payments networks, our
financial institution customers, independent companies or joint ventures owned in whole or in part by our financial institution customers.      We perform clearing and settlement through VisaNet for transactions involving an issuer that is located in Visa Europe s region and an acquirer that is located in the rest of the world, or vice versa. In addition, we currently provide
clearing and settlement services for Visa transactions occurring entirely within Visa Europe s region and will continue to provide such services until completion and deployment of Visa Europe s own processing system which is expected to be
fully deployed in fiscal 2010. The impact to our consolidated financial results as a result of this deployment is not expected to be material. Visa Europe authorizes transactions for its members through its own processing system.       Other Value-Added Processing Services       We offer
a range of other value-added services in certain countries, including risk management, debit issuer processing, loyalty services, dispute management and value-added information services.       Risk Management Services . We provide customers in certain countries with a number of value-added risk-management services. These services,
including Visa Advanced Authorization, include preventive, monitoring, investigative and predictive tools, which are intended to mitigate and help eliminate fraud at the cardholder and merchant level.       Issuer Processing Services.  Visa Debit Processing Services, or DPS, provides comprehensive issuer processing services for participating U.S.
issuers of Visa debit, prepaid and ATM payment products. In addition to core issuer authorization processing, DPS offers card management services, exception processing, PIN and ATM network gateways, call center services, fraud detection services and
ATM terminal driving. Through VPS, we provide credit, debit and prepaid issuer processing services, including multicurrency processing functionality, outside the United States.       Loyalty Services . We offer loyalty services, such as the Visa Incentive Network and Visa Extras, that allow our customers to differentiate
their Visa program offerings, enhance the attractiveness of their Visa payment programs and strengthen their relationships with cardholders and merchants.       Dispute Management Services . We manage Visa Resolve Online, an automated web-based service that allows our customers  back-office analysts and customer service representatives to manage and resolve Visa
transaction disputes more efficiently than with paper-based processes.       Value-Added Information Services . We provide our
customers with a range of additional information-based business analytics and applications, as well as the transaction data and associated infrastructure required to support them.         
   7   

Table of Contents  

    Product Platforms       We offer a broad range of product platforms to enable our customers to build differentiated, competitive payment programs for their consumer, business, government and merchant clients. Our principal payment
platforms enable credit, charge, deferred debit, debit and prepaid payments, as well as cash access, for consumers, businesses and government entities. Our payment platforms are offered under our Visa, Visa Electron, Interlink and PLUS brands.
       Consumer Credit        Our
consumer credit product platforms allow our issuers to offer deferred payment and financing products that can be customized to meet the needs of all consumer segments. Our baseline consumer credit platform is marketed to our issuers as Visa Classic.
In addition, we offer premium credit platforms, which enable our issuers to tailor programs to consumers requiring higher credit lines or enhanced benefits, such as loyalty programs. Our premium consumer credit platforms are marketed to issuers, and
in some cases, to cardholders, as Visa Gold, Visa Platinum, Visa Signature, Visa Signature Preferred and Visa Infinite.        Consumer Deposit Access
       Our deposit access product platforms enable our issuers to offer consumer payment and cash access products that draw upon
consumer deposit accounts, such as checking, demand deposit, asset or other pre-funded accounts.       Consumer Debit . Our primary
consumer debit platform in the United States and many other countries uses the Visa brand mark. Our customers in Asia Pacific, or AP, Latin America and Caribbean, or LAC, and Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa, or CEMEA, can use the
Visa Electron debit platform, which permits issuers to require all transactions initiated from the card to be authorized electronically. It is primarily used by issuers offering payment programs to higher risk customer segments or in countries where
electronic authorization is less prevalent. In the United States, we also provide the Interlink debit product platform, which generally requires a cardholder to enter a personal identification number, or PIN, for authentication. Interlink may be
enabled through an acceptance mark on a Visa debit card or issued as a standalone debit card.       Prepaid.  Our prepaid product
platform enables issuers to offer products that access a pre-funded account, allowing cardholders to enjoy the convenience and security of a payment card in lieu of cash or checks. Our prepaid platform includes gift, travel, youth, payroll, money
transfer, corporate incentive, insurance reimbursement and government benefits cards.       Cash Access.  Our customers can provide
global cash access to their cardholders by issuing products accepted at Visa and PLUS branded ATMs. Most Visa and Visa Electron branded cards offer customers cash access at ATMs, as well as at branches of our participating financial institution
customers. The PLUS brand may also be included on issuers  non-Visa branded cards to offer international cash access as a complement to domestic cash access services.        Commercial        Our commercial product platforms enable multinational, large, medium and
small companies and government organizations to streamline payment processes, manage total spend, access information reporting, automate their supply chain, and reduce administrative costs.       Small Businesses . The Visa Business credit and debit platforms provide small businesses with cash flow tools, purchasing savings, rewards and
management reporting. Visa Business Electron is an electronic authorization platform used in many countries outside North America.         
   8   

Table of Contents  

      Large and Medium Companies.    The Visa Corporate platform offers payment options
primarily for employee travel and entertainment charges, including cash advances, and provides detailed transaction data as well as information and expense management tools. The Visa Purchasing platform provides card and non-card electronic payment
products that allow companies to easily procure goods and services, while streamlining resource- and paper-intensive purchase order and invoice processing. The Visa Fleet platform offers a fuel and ground fleet-related payment program, including
extensive transaction detail and tax reclamation services. Through Syncada, our joint venture with US Bank, we market an integrated invoice processing, payment and financing platform for financial institutions to offer to their corporate and
government commercial clients around the world.         Government Organizations.  In addition to the products mentioned above,
Visa offers government organizations unique information-and expense-management tools, employee-fraud-and misuse-management tools and strategic sourcing tools for their card programs. In certain countries, Visa offers specialized commercial products
for specific government-sponsored programs, typically targeting agriculture, small-business, freight or construction loan programs.        Product
Platform Innovation        We invest in the development and enhancement of payment product platforms with the goal of increasing the
migration of consumer and business spending to electronic payments. We believe that innovation results in more secure and versatile payment program options for customers, merchants and consumers. We focus on new payment channels, card technologies,
payment account access devices and authentication methods, and have recently made significant investments in the development of eCommerce payment platforms; contact and contactless chip cards and devices; card product enhancements; authentication
and security technologies and platforms; and money transfer.        Payments Network Management        We devote significant resources to ensure that Visa is the payments network of choice for customers, merchants and cardholders. We seek to accomplish
this by promoting our brand through marketing and sponsorship activities, increasing acceptance of Visa cards around the world and ensuring that the system operates reliably and securely for all of our network participants.        Brand Management and Promotion        We
engage in a variety of activities designed to maintain and enhance the value of our brand. Our integrated approach to brand management and promotion combines advertising, sponsorships, promotions and public relations to create programs that build
active preference for products carrying our brand, promote product usage, increase product acceptance and support cardholder acquisition and retention. For merchants, we work to ensure that the Visa brand represents timely and guaranteed payment, as
well as a way to increase sales. For our customers, our marketing is designed to support their card issuance, activation and usage efforts while complementing and enhancing the value of their own brands. For cardholders, we work to ensure that Visa
is a symbol of security, convenience and acceptance.      We establish global marketing relationships to promote the Visa brand and to allow
customers to conduct marketing programs in conjunction with major sporting and entertainment events. Our primary global sponsorship platforms are the Olympic Games, for which we have been the exclusive payment card sponsor since 1986, and the FIFA
World Cup. Through these marketing relationships, our customers may develop marketing programs that include the Visa brand and mention our sponsorship status. In addition, we engage in marketing and sponsorship activities with other regional,
national and local companies, sports leagues or events, such as the National Football League in the United States, or with associations and companies, to provide customized marketing platforms to customers in certain countries and regions.
        
   9   

Table of Contents  

   Our merchant marketing activities bring added value to our merchant partners through the development
of marketing programs customized for specific merchants and industry segments. These programs, which we develop in conjunction with merchants, generate awareness for new acceptance channels and locations and increase cardholder spending and merchant
sales revenue through special offers and promotions.        Merchant Acceptance Initiatives        We aim to maintain and expand our merchant base by focusing on the needs of merchants and consumers and enhancing our programs to increase acceptance
in attractive and fast-growing segments, such as bill payment. Our efforts to address these needs include supporting the development of technological innovations, delivering value-added information services, such as the Visa Incentive Network, and
evaluating potential modifications to our operating rules and interchange rates to enhance the value of our payments network compared to other forms of payment.      We enter into arrangements with certain merchants under which they receive monetary incentives and rebates for acceptance of products carrying our brands and increasing their payments volume of products carrying
our brands or indicating a preference for our cards.        Customer Standards        Our customers are generally required to be financial institutions or other deposit-taking institutions organized under local banking laws or
wholly-owned by such institutions. Certain of our customers participate in the full range of functions available to participants in the Visa network, such as soliciting cardholders and issuing cards, soliciting and signing merchants and acquiring
merchant transactions. These financial institutions may also sponsor other financial institutions for more limited participation in our network.       Rulemaking and Enforcement       In general, our customers are granted licenses to use our brands and to access our
transaction processing systems. Our customers are obligated to honor our rules and standards through agreements with, and in certain cases non-equity membership interests in, our subsidiaries. These rules and standards relate to such matters as the
use of our brands and trademarks, the standards, design and features of payment cards and programs, merchant acquiring activities, including acceptance standards applicable to merchants, use of agents, disputes between members, risk management,
guaranteed settlement, customer financial failures and allocation of losses among customers.      We establish dispute management procedures
between customers relating to specific transactions. For example, after a transaction is presented to an issuer, the issuer may determine that the transaction is invalid for a variety of reasons, including fraud. If the issuer believes there is a
defect in a transaction, the issuer may return, or charge back, the transaction to the acquirer. We enforce rules relating to chargebacks and maintain a dispute resolution process with respect to chargeback disputes.       Credit Risk Management       We
indemnify our customers for any settlement loss suffered due to another customer s failure to fund its daily settlement obligations. In certain instances, we may indemnify customers even in situations in which a transaction is not processed by
our system. No material loss related to settlement risk has been incurred in recent years.         
   10   

Table of Contents  

   To manage our exposure in the event our customers fail to fund their settlement obligations, we have a
credit risk policy with a formalized set of credit standards and risk control measures. We regularly evaluate customers with significant settlement exposure to assess risk. In certain instances, we may require a customer to post collateral or
provide other guarantees. If a customer becomes unable or unwilling to meet its obligations, we are able to draw upon such collateral or guarantee in order to minimize any potential loss. We may also apply other risk control measures, such as
blocking the authorization and settlement of transactions, limiting the use of certain types of agents, prohibiting initiation of acquiring relationships with certain high-risk merchants or suspending or terminating a customer s rights to
participate in our payments network. The exposure to settlement losses is accounted for as a settlement risk guarantee. The fair value of the settlement risk guarantee is estimated using our proprietary model. Key inputs to the model include the
probability of customers becoming insolvent, statistically derived loss factors based on historical experience and estimated settlement exposures at period end.        Payment System Integrity        The integrity of our payments system is affected by fraudulent activity and other
illegal uses of our products. Fraud is most often committed in connection with lost, stolen or counterfeit cards or stolen account information resulting from security breaches of systems that store cardholder or account data, including systems
operated by merchants, financial institutions and other third-party data processors.      Our fraud detection and prevention offerings
include Verified by Visa, a global internet authentication product, which permits cardholders to authenticate themselves to their issuing financial institution using a unique personal code; Visa Advanced Authorization, which adds additional fraud
detection capability by adding real-time risk scores to authorization messages; and chip and PIN programs that have been demonstrated to reduce the incidence of certain types of fraud at physical point-of-sale locations. We have also implemented
rules that require the use of more secure PIN encryption standards for ATMs and point-of-sale PIN entry devices installed after 2002 and 2003. We have also mandated that all PINs transmitted through VisaNet to the issuer be encrypted using the
Triple DES, or Data Encryption Standard, by July 1, 2010.        Interchange Reimbursement Fees        Interchange represents a transfer of value between the financial institutions participating in an open-loop payments network such as ours. On purchase
transactions, interchange reimbursement fees are typically paid to issuers by acquirers in connection with transactions initiated with cards in our payments system. We set default interchange rates in the United States and other regions. In certain
jurisdictions, interchange rates are subject to government regulation. Although we administer the collection and remittance of interchange reimbursement fees through the settlement process, we generally do not receive any portion of the interchange
reimbursement fees. Interchange reimbursement fees are often the largest component of the costs that acquirers charge merchants in connection with the acceptance of payment cards. We believe that interchange reimbursement fees are an important
driver of system volume.      We believe the interchange rates that we use promote the efficient operation of our payments network by
enabling both the issuer and the acquirer to understand the economics of a given transaction before entering into it and by eliminating the need for each of our customers to negotiate transfer pricing with each other. By establishing and modifying
default interchange rates in response to marketplace conditions and strategic demands, we seek to ensure a competitive value proposition for transactions using our cards in order to encourage electronic transactions and to maximize participation in
the Visa payments system by issuers and acquirers and, ultimately, consumers and merchants. We believe that proper management of interchange rates benefits consumers, merchants,
        
   11   

Table of Contents  

our customers and us by promoting the overall growth of our payments network in competition with other payment card systems and other forms of payment and creating incentives for innovation,
enhanced data quality and security.      Interchange reimbursement fees and related practices also have come to the attention of, or have
been or are being reviewed by, regulatory authorities and/or central banks in a number of jurisdictions, including the United States, the European Union, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Colombia, Germany, Honduras, Hungary, Mexico, New Zealand, Norway,
Poland, Portugal, Romania, Singapore, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. In certain countries, such as Australia and Mexico, interchange rates have been adjusted in advance of, or in response to, government regulation.
We are currently devoting substantial management and financial resources to explain the importance of and defend interchange reimbursement fees and other legal and regulatory challenges we face relating to interchange reimbursement fees. See
 Item 1A Risk Factors Interchange reimbursement fees and related practices are subject to significant legal and regulatory scrutiny worldwide, which may have a material adverse impact on our revenues, our prospects for future growth
and our overall business,  and  Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 21 Legal Matters  elsewhere in this report.       Merchant Discount Rates . Merchants do not pay interchange reimbursement fees. A merchant s cost of acceptance is determined by its acquirer and is called a merchant discount or merchant discount rate.
The merchant discount typically covers the costs that acquirers incur for participation in four-party payments networks, including those relating to interchange, and compensates them for various other services they provide to merchants. Merchant
discount rates and other merchant fees are set by our acquirers without our involvement and by agreement with their merchant customers and are established in competition with other acquirers, other payment card systems and other forms of payment. We
do not establish or regulate merchant discount rates or any other fees charged by our acquirers.        Government Regulation        We are subject to government regulation of the payments industry in many countries in which our cards are used. Our customers are also subject to
numerous regulations applicable to banks and other financial institutions in the United States and elsewhere, and as a consequence our business is affected by such regulations. For more information on government regulations that may affect our
business, see  Item 1A Risk Factors.        Intellectual Property       We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws in the United States and other jurisdictions, as well as confidentiality
procedures and contractual provisions, to protect our proprietary technology.      We own a number of valuable trademarks and designs, which
are essential to our business, including Visa, Interlink, PLUS, Visa Electron, the  Winged V  design, the  Dove  design and the  Bands Design Blue, White   Gold.  We also own numerous other valuable
trademarks and designs covering various brands, products, programs and services. Through agreements with our customers, we authorize and monitor the use of our trademarks in connection with their participation in our payments network.      In addition, we own a number of patents and patent applications relating to payments solutions, transaction processing, security systems and other
matters.         
   12   

Table of Contents  

    Competition       We compete in the global payment marketplace against all forms of payment, including paper-based forms (principally cash and checks), card-based payments (including credit, charge, debit, ATM, prepaid,
private-label and other types of general-purpose and limited-use cards) and other electronic payments (including wire transfers, electronic benefits transfers, automatic clearing house, or ACH, payments and electronic data interchange).   
  Within the general purpose payment card industry, we face substantial and intense competition worldwide in the provision of payments services to
financial institution customers and their cardholder merchants. The leading global card brands in the general purpose payment card industry are Visa, MasterCard, American Express and Diners Club. Other general-purpose card brands are more
concentrated in specific geographic regions, such as JCB in Japan and Discover in the United States. In certain countries, our competitors have leading positions, such as China UnionPay in China, which is the sole domestic inter-bank bankcard
processor and operates the sole domestic bankcard acceptance mark in China due to local regulation. We also compete against private-label cards, which can generally be used to make purchases solely at the sponsoring retail store, gasoline retailer
or other merchant.      In the debit card market segment, Visa and MasterCard are the primary global brands. In addition, our Interlink and
Visa Electron brands compete with Maestro, owned by MasterCard, and various regional and country-specific debit network brands. In addition to our PLUS brand, the primary cash access card brands are Cirrus, owned by MasterCard, and many of the
online debit network brands referenced above. In many countries, local debit brands are the primary brands, and our brands are used primarily to enable cross-border transactions, which typically constitute a small portion of overall transaction
volume. See  Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  for financial information about geographic areas.      Based
on payments volume, total volume, number of transactions and number of cards in circulation, Visa is the largest retail electronic payments network in the world. The following chart compares our network with those of our major general-purpose
payment network competitors for calendar year 2008:       
     
    Source: The Nilson Report, issue 924 (April 2009) and issue 925 (May 2009).      Note: Visa Inc. figures exclude Visa Europe. Figures for competitors include their respective European operations. Visa figures include Visa, Visa Electron, and Interlink brands. The Visa card figure includes PLUS-only cards (with no Visa
logo) in all regions except the United States, but PLUS cash volume is not included. Domestic China figures including commercial funds transfers are excluded. MasterCard includes PIN-based debit card figures on MasterCard cards, but not Maestro or
Cirrus figures. American Express includes business from third-party issuers. JCB figures are for April 2007 through March 2008, but cards are as of September 2008. Transaction figures are estimates. Figures include business from third-party issuers.
        
   13   

Table of Contents  

    Concentration of Business and Financial Information About Geographic Areas       For more information on the concentration of our operating revenues and for financial information about the geographic areas in which we operate, see
 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   Note 14 Enterprise-wide Disclosures and Concentration of Business .       Working Capital Requirements       Payments settlement due from and due to issuing and acquiring customers generally
represents our most consistent and substantial liquidity requirement, arising primarily from the payments settlement of certain credit and debit transactions and the timing of payments settlement between financial institution customers with
settlement currencies other than the U.S. dollar. These settlement receivables and payables generally remain outstanding for one to two business days, consistent with standard market conventions for domestic transactions and foreign currency
transactions. We maintain working capital sufficient to enable uninterrupted daily settlement. During fiscal 2009, we funded average daily net settlement receivable balances of $117 million, with the highest daily balance being $322 million.
      Seasonality       We do not expect to
experience any pronounced seasonality in our business. No individual quarter of fiscal 2009 or fiscal 2008 accounted for more than 30% of our fiscal 2009 or fiscal 2008 operating revenues.       Employees       At September 30, 2009, we
employed approximately 5,700 persons worldwide. We consider our relationships with our employees to be good.       Additional Information and SEC Reports
      Our Internet address is http://www.visa.com. On our investor relations website, accessible at http://investor.visa.com, we make
available free of charge our annual reports on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished
to, the SEC. The information contained on our website, including the information contained on our investor relations website, is not incorporated by reference into this report or any other report filed with, or furnished to, the SEC.       

ITEM 1A.   
   Risk Factors           Legal and Regulatory Risks
        Interchange reimbursement fees and related practices are subject to significant legal and regulatory scrutiny worldwide, which may have a
material adverse impact on our revenues, our prospects for future growth and our overall business.       Interchange represents a transfer
of value between the financial institutions participating in an open-loop payments network such as ours. On purchase transactions, interchange reimbursement fees are typically paid to issuers, which are the financial institutions that issue Visa
cards to cardholders, by acquirers, which are the financial institutions that offer Visa network connectivity and payments acceptance services to merchants, in connection with transactions initiated with cards in our payments system. We set default
interchange rates in the United States and other regions. In certain
        
   14   

Table of Contents  

jurisdictions, interchange rates are subject to government regulation. Although we administer the collection and remittance of interchange reimbursement fees through the settlement process, we
generally do not receive any portion of the interchange reimbursement fees. Interchange reimbursement fees are often the largest component of the costs that acquirers charge merchants in connection with the acceptance of payment cards. We believe
that interchange reimbursement fees are an important driver of system volume.      As the volume of card-based payments has increased in
recent years, interchange reimbursement fees, including our default interchange rates, have become subject to increased regulatory scrutiny worldwide. We believe that regulators are increasingly adopting a similar approach to interchange
reimbursement fees, and, as a result, developments in any one jurisdiction may influence regulatory approaches in other jurisdictions.      Interchange reimbursement fees and related practices have been the topic of recent committee hearings in the U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate, as well as conferences held by a number of U.S. Federal Reserve Banks. In 2009,
legislation concerning interchange, entitled the  Credit Card Fair Fee Act of 2009,  was introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives and referred to the House Judiciary Committee, but no further action has been taken on the measure. In
2008, a similar bill was reported out of the Judiciary Committee on a divided vote of 19-16, but was not taken up by the full U.S. House of Representatives. In its current iteration, the legislation seeks to regulate interchange by allowing
merchants to collectively seek to lower their interchange costs by exempting such action from the U.S. antitrust laws. The Credit Card Fair Fee Act of 2009 also requires the U.S. Department of Justice, or DOJ, to oversee collective merchant
negotiations with the Company and its customer financial institutions (and separately with MasterCard and its customer financial institutions) and report results of those negotiations back to the U.S. Congress. A companion bill has been introduced
in the U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee, but there have not been any hearings on, or further movement of, the legislation.      Additional
interchange legislation also has been introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives that would prohibit specified electronic payment system network practices, including the imposition of additional charges on merchants and consumers for premium
payment cards. The bill also directs the Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, to prescribe regulations to ensure that the rules, terms, and conditions to which a merchant or consumer is subject under an agreement with an electronic payment system
network are neither unfair nor deceptive to consumers and merchants, nor anticompetitive. There has, however, been no further action on or developments with respect to this legislation.      The Credit Card Accountability, Responsibility, and Disclosure Act of 2009, or the Credit CARD Act, which was passed by both houses of the U.S.
Congress and became law, commissioned a study by the Comptroller General of the United States of the extent to which interchange reimbursement fees are disclosed, the effect of fees and disclosure on merchants, the impact on consumer prices of
interchange regulation in other jurisdictions, the relationship between interchange reimbursement fees and bank and merchant costs, and the role of interchange in promoting competition in the provision of payment cards. The resulting report was
issued by the U.S. Government Accountability Office in November 2009. Individual state legislatures in the United States are also reviewing interchange reimbursement fees, and legislators in a number of states have proposed bills that purport to
limit interchange reimbursement fees or merchant discount rates or to prohibit their application to portions of a transaction.      In
addition, the Merchants Payments Coalition, a coalition of trade associations representing businesses that accept credit and debit cards, is mounting a challenge to interchange reimbursement fees in the United States by seeking additional
legislative and regulatory intervention. Interchange reimbursement fees and related practices also have been or are being reviewed by regulatory authorities and/or central banks in a number of other jurisdictions, including the European Union,
        
   15   

Table of Contents  

Australia, Brazil, Canada, Colombia, Honduras, New Zealand, Norway, Singapore, South Africa, United Kingdom and Venezuela. For example:       

The Reserve Bank of Australia, or RBA, has promulgated regulations under legislation enacted to give it powers over payments systems. One of the regulations
controls the costs that can be considered in setting interchange reimbursement fees for Visa credit and debit cards, but it does not regulate the merchant discount charged by any payment system, including competing closed-loop payments systems. In
2007, the RBA commenced a review of these regulations and in September 2008 released its Final Conclusions. The RBA has concluded that conditions have not yet been met for removal of interchange regulation and so will continue regulatory oversight
of interchange.          

In June 2009, the Canadian Senate issued a report with the non-binding recommendations that debit interchange be set at zero for three years, that merchant
surcharging be permitted in Canada and that rules requiring that Visa-accepting merchants honor all cards be modified. Canada s Competition Bureau has opened a civil inquiry to review interchange and certain Visa rules, including those relating
to surcharging and honoring cards. In addition, the Canadian Ministry of Finance has proposed a voluntary  Code of Conduct  on related issues for payment card industry participants in Canada.          

The European Commission sent a Statement of Objections to Visa Europe, Ltd., in April 2009, and to Visa Inc. and Visa International in June 2009, alleging a
breach of European competition law. The Statement of Objections addresses the honor all cards rule, the no-surcharge rule, and Visa Europe s multilateral interchange reimbursement fees for cross-border payment transactions within the
European Economic Area.          

In March 2009, the Central Bank of Brazil issued a joint report which criticized, amongst other things, Brazil s current acquiring structure, Visa s
no-surcharge rule, and the current system of setting interchange rates. See also  Note 21 Legal Matters  to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 in this report.         Regulatory actions such as these, even if not directed at us or if affecting a geographic region in which we do not operate, may nonetheless increase
regulatory scrutiny of interchange reimbursement fees. If we cannot successfully defend our ability to set default interchange rates to maximize system volume, our payments system may become unattractive to issuers and/or acquirers. This could
reduce the number of financial institutions willing to participate in our open-loop multi-party payments system, lower overall transaction volumes and/or make closed-loop payments systems or other forms of payment more attractive. Issuers could also
begin to charge higher fees to consumers, thereby making our card programs less desirable and reducing our transaction volumes and profitability. Acquirers could elect to charge higher merchant discount rates to merchants, regardless of the level of
Visa interchange, leading merchants not to accept cards for payment or to steer Visa cardholders to alternate payment systems. In addition, issuers or acquirers could attempt to decrease the expense of their card programs by seeking incentives from
us or a reduction in the fees that we charge. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse impact on our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business.       A finding of liability in the interchange litigation may result in substantial damages.       Since 2005, approximately 55 class action and individual complaints have been filed on behalf of merchants against us, Visa U.S.A., Visa International,
MasterCard and/or other defendants, including certain Visa U.S.A. member financial institutions, which we refer to as the interchange litigation. Among other antitrust allegations, the plaintiffs allege that Visa s setting of default
interchange rates violated federal and state antitrust laws. The lawsuits have been transferred to a multidistrict litigation in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York. The class action complaints have been consolidated into a
single amended class action complaint and the individual complaints are also being consolidated in the same multidistrict litigation.         
   16   

Table of Contents  

   The plaintiffs in the interchange litigation seek damages for alleged overcharges in merchant discount
fees, as well as injunctive and other relief. The plaintiffs have not yet quantified the damages they seek, although several of the complaints allege that the plaintiffs expect that damages will range in the tens of billions of dollars. Because
these lawsuits were brought under the U.S. federal antitrust laws, any actual damages will be trebled and we, Visa U.S.A. and/or Visa International may be subject to joint and several liability among the defendants if liability is established, which
could significantly magnify the effect of any adverse judgment. The interchange litigation is part of the covered litigation, which our retrospective responsibility plan is intended to address; however, the retrospective responsibility plan may not
adequately insulate us from the impact of settlements of, or judgments in, the interchange litigation. Failure to successfully defend or settle the interchange litigation would result in liability that to the extent not covered by our retrospective
responsibility plan could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, or, in certain circumstances, even cause us to become insolvent. In addition, even if our direct financial exposure were
covered by our retrospective responsibility plan, settlements or judgments involving the multidistrict litigation could include restrictions on our ability to conduct business, which could increase our cost of doing business and limit our prospects
for future growth. See  Item 1A Risk Factors   Our retrospective responsibility plan may not adequately insulate us from the impact of settlements and judgments in the covered litigation and will not insulate us from other pending or
future litigation  and See  Note 21 Legal Matters  to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 in this report.       Our
retrospective responsibility plan may not adequately insulate us from the impact of settlements and judgments in the covered litigation and will not insulate us from other pending or future litigation.       Our retrospective responsibility plan is intended to address monetary liabilities from settlements of, or final judgments in, the covered litigation
described in Note 21  Legal Matters  to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report. The retrospective responsibility plan consists of several related mechanisms to fund settlements of, or judgments in, the
covered litigation, including an escrow account funded with a portion of the net proceeds of our initial public offering and potential follow-on offerings of our class A common stock (or deposits of cash to the escrow account in lieu of such
follow-on offerings), a loss sharing agreement, a judgment sharing agreement and the indemnification obligation of Visa U.S.A. members pursuant to Visa U.S.A. s certificate of incorporation and bylaws and in accordance with their membership
agreements. These mechanisms are unique and complex, and if we are prevented from using one or more of these mechanisms under our retrospective responsibility plan, we could have difficulty funding the payment of a settlement or final judgment
against us in a covered litigation, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, or, in certain circumstances, even cause us to become insolvent.      The retrospective responsibility plan does not address litigation other than the covered litigation that we currently face, including state court
litigation relating to interchange, and will not cover litigation that we may face in the future, except for cases that include claims for damages relating to the period prior to our initial public offering that are transferred for pre-trial
proceedings or otherwise included in the interchange litigation. In addition, our retrospective responsibility plan is designed to cover only the potential monetary liability from settlements of, or judgments in, the covered litigation. Settlements
and judgments in covered litigation may require us to modify the way we do business in the future, which could adversely affect our revenues, increase our expenses and/or limit our prospects for growth. Therefore, even if our retrospective
responsibility plan adequately safeguards us from the monetary impact of settlements of, or judgments in, the covered litigation, it may not be sufficient to insulate us from all potential adverse consequences of settlements of, and judgments in,
the covered litigation.         
   17   

Table of Contents  

    If the settlements of Visa U.S.A. s and Visa International s currency conversion cases do not become
final and we are unsuccessful in any of the various lawsuits relating to Visa U.S.A. s and Visa International s currency conversion practices, our business may be materially and adversely affected.       Visa U.S.A. and Visa International are defendants in several state and federal lawsuits alleging that their currency conversion practices are or were
deceptive, anti-competitive or otherwise unlawful.      On July 20, 2006 and September 14, 2006, Visa U.S.A. and Visa
International entered into agreements to settle or otherwise dispose of these matters. Pursuant to the settlement agreements, Visa U.S.A. paid approximately $100 million as part of the defendants  settlement fund for the federal actions and
approximately $19 million to fund settlement of the state cases. While the federal court has granted final approval of the settlement agreements, the settlements are subject to resolution of any appeals. If an appeal is filed and we are unsuccessful
in that appellate proceeding, all of the agreements resolving the federal and state actions will terminate. If that occurs, and we are unsuccessful in defending against some or all of these lawsuits, we may have to pay restitution and/or damages,
and may be required to modify our currency conversion practices. The potential amount of damages and/or restitution could be substantial. In addition, although Visa U.S.A. and Visa International have substantially changed the practices that were at
issue in these litigations, if the courts require further changes to our currency conversion and cross-border transaction practices, it could materially and adversely affect our business. See  Note 21   Legal Matters  to our
consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 in this report.       If we, Visa U.S.A. or Visa International is found liable in certain other
lawsuits that have been brought against us or if we are found liable in other litigation to which we may become subject in the future, we may be forced to pay substantial damages and/or change our business practices or pricing structure, any of
which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, revenues and profitability.       In recent years, numerous civil
actions and investigations have been filed or initiated against Visa alleging or seeking information as to alleged violations of competition/antitrust, consumer protection, intellectual property and other laws. These actions and investigations have
been filed or initiated by a variety of different parties, including the DOJ, U.S. state attorneys general, merchants and consumers. Examples of such claims are described more fully in  Note 21   Legal Matters  to our consolidated
financial statements included in Item 8 in this report.      In addition, in the United States, private plaintiffs often seek class
action certification in cases against us, particularly in cases involving merchants and consumers, due to the size and scope of our business and the large number of parties involved in our payment system.      We have also received, and we may in the future receive, notices or inquiries from other companies suggesting that we may be infringing a pre-existing
patent or that we need to license use of their patents to avoid infringement. Such notices may, among other things, threaten litigation against us.      We cannot predict whether or to what extent we will be subject to liability arising from these or other actions, nor can we predict how much of this liability would not be covered by our retrospective
responsibility plan. If we are unsuccessful in our defense against any material current or future proceedings, we may be forced to pay substantial damages, limit the fees we charge, or change other business practices, limiting our payments volume
resulting in a material and adverse effect on our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business.         
   18   

Table of Contents  

    Limitations on our business and other penalties resulting from litigation or litigation settlements may materially
and adversely affect our revenues and profitability.       Certain limitations have been placed on our business in recent years as a
result of litigation and litigation settlements. For example, as a result of the June 2003 settlement of a U.S. merchant lawsuit against Visa U.S.A., merchants are able to reject Visa consumer debit cards in the United States while still accepting
other Visa-branded cards, and vice versa. In addition, following the final judgment entered in the litigation the DOJ brought against Visa U.S.A. and Visa International in 1998, as of October 2004, members of Visa U.S.A. may issue certain competing
payment cards. Since this final judgment, several members of Visa U.S.A. have begun to issue, or have announced that they will issue, American Express or Discover-branded cards. See  Note 21 Legal Matters  to our consolidated financial
statements included in Item 8 of this report.      These and any future limitations on our business resulting from settlements of, or
judgments in, pending or potential litigation could limit the fees we charge and reduce our payments volume, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business.   
   Tax audits or disputes, or changes in the tax laws applicable to us, could materially increase our tax payments.       We exercise significant judgment in calculating our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. Although we believe our tax
estimates are reasonable, many factors may decrease their accuracy. We are currently under audit by the IRS and other tax authorities and may be subject to additional audits in the future. The tax authorities may disagree with our tax treatment of
certain material items and thereby increase our tax liability. In addition, changes in existing laws, such as recent proposals for fundamental U.S. and international tax reform, may also increase our effective tax rate. A substantial increase in our
tax burden could have an adverse effect on our financial results. See also  Note 20   Income Taxes  to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 in this report.       The payments industry is the subject of increasing global regulatory focus, which may result in the imposition of costly new compliance burdens on our customers
and us and may lead to increased costs and decreased payments volume and revenues.       Regulation of the payments industry has increased
significantly in recent years. Examples of such regulation include:       

Anti-Money Laundering Regulation.  This includes the U.S.A. PATRIOT Act and similar regulations in most other countries in which Visa operates.

U.S. Treasury Office of Foreign Assets Control Regulation.  Regulations imposed by the U.S. Treasury Office of Foreign Assets Control, or OFAC, restrict
Visa U.S.A. and Visa International from dealing with certain countries, and parties considered to be connected with money laundering, terrorism or narcotics. Non-U.S. Visa International members may not be similarly restricted, so our payments system
may be used for transactions in or involving countries or parties subject to OFAC-administered sanctions.          

Regulation of the Price of Credit . Many jurisdictions in which our cards are used have new or proposed regulations that could increase the costs of card
issuance or decrease the flexibility of card issuers to charge interest rates and fees on credit card accounts. These include the Credit CARD Act and proposed regulations thereunder and proposed changes to the Federal Truth in Lending Act, which, if
implemented along with regulations required to be promulgated under the Credit CARD Act, could result in a decrease in our payments volume and revenues.          
  
   19   

Table of Contents  

Regulation of Internet Transactions.  Proposed legislation in various jurisdictions may make it less desirable or more costly to complete Internet
transactions using our cards by affecting the legality of those transactions, the law that governs them, their taxation and the allocation of intellectual property rights.          

Safety and Soundness Regulation.  Recent federal banking regulations may make some financial institutions less attracted to becoming an issuer of our
cards, because they may be subject to more conservative accounting procedures, increased risk management and higher capital requirements.         Increased regulatory focus in connection with these matters may increase our costs, which could materially and adversely affect our financial performance. Similarly, increased regulatory focus on our customers may
cause a reduction in payments volume, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business.       Regulation in the areas of consumer privacy and data use and security could decrease the number of payment cards issued, our payments volume and our revenues.       Recently, there has been heightened legislative and regulatory focus in the United States (at the federal and state level) and elsewhere on privacy and
data use and security, including requiring consumer notification in the event of a data breach. These measures may materially increase our costs and our customers  costs and may decrease the number of our cards that our customers issue,
materially and adversely affecting our profitability. Our failure, or the failure of our customers, to comply with the privacy and data use and security laws and regulations to which we are subject could result in fines, sanctions, litigation, and
damage to our global reputation and our brand.       Government actions may prevent us from competing effectively against providers of domestic payments
services in certain countries, which could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues.       Governments in certain
countries have acted, or could act, to provide resources or protection to selected national payment card and processing providers in order to support them or to displace us from, prevent us from entering into, or substantially restrict us from
participating in their countries. Our efforts to effect change in these countries may not succeed. This could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and extend our global brand.       If government regulators determine that we are a systemically important payments system, we may have to change our settlement procedures or other operations, which
could make it more costly to operate our business and reduce our operational flexibility.       A number of international initiatives are
underway to maintain financial stability by strengthening financial infrastructure. The Committee on Payment and Settlement Systems of the central banks of the Group of Ten countries has developed a set of core principles for  systemically
important payment systems.  Government regulators in the United States or elsewhere may determine that we are a  systemically important payments system  and impose settlement risk management requirements on us, including new
settlement procedures or other operational rules to address credit and operational risks or new criteria for member participation and merchant access to our payments system. Any of these developments could make it more costly to operate our
business.         
   20   

Table of Contents  

    Our Framework Agreement with Visa Europe includes indemnity obligations that could expose us to significant
liabilities.       Under our Framework Agreement with Visa Europe, we are required to indemnify Visa Europe for losses resulting from any
claims in the United States or anywhere else outside of Visa Europe s region arising from our or their activities that relate to our payments business or the payments business of Visa Europe. This obligation applies even if neither we nor any
of our related parties or agents participated in the actions that gave rise to such claims. Such an obligation could expose us to significant liabilities for activities over which we have little or no control. Our retrospective responsibility plan
would not cover these liabilities.        Business Risks         We face intense competitive pressure on customer pricing, which may materially and adversely affect our revenues and profitability.       In order to increase payments volume, enter new market segments and expand our card base, we offer incentives to customers such as up-front cash payments, fee discounts, credits, performance-based growth
incentives, marketing support payments and other support, such as marketing consulting and market research studies. Over the past several years, we have increased our use of incentives such as up-front cash payments and fee discounts in many
countries, including the United States. In order to stay competitive, we may have to continue to increase our use of incentives. Such pressure may make the provision of certain products and services less profitable or unprofitable and materially and
adversely affect our operating revenues and profitability if we continue to increase incentives to our customers, we will need to further increase payments volume or the amount of services we provide in order to benefit incrementally from such
arrangements and to increase revenues and profit, and we may not be successful in doing so. In addition, we enter into long-term contracts with certain customers. Continued pressure on fees could prevent us from entering into such agreements in the
future on terms we consider favorable and may require us to modify existing agreements in order to maintain relationships. Increased pricing pressure also enhances the importance of cost containment and productivity initiatives in areas other than
those relating to customer incentives, and we may not succeed in these efforts.       Our operating results may suffer because of intense competition in
the global payments industry.       The global payments industry is intensely competitive. Our payment programs compete against all forms
of payment, including cash, checks and electronic transactions such as wire transfers and automatic clearing house payments. In addition, our payment programs compete against the card- based payments systems of our competitors, such as MasterCard,
American Express, Discover and private-label cards issued by merchants. Some of our competitors may develop substantially greater financial and other resources than we have, may offer a wider range of programs and services than we offer, may use
more effective advertising and marketing strategies to achieve broader brand recognition or merchant acceptance than we have or may develop better security solutions or more favorable pricing arrangements. Our competitors may also introduce more
innovative programs and services than us.      Certain of our competitors, including American Express, Discover, private-label card networks
and certain alternative payments systems, operate closed-loop payments systems with direct connections to both merchants and consumers, without involving intermediaries. These competitors seek to derive competitive advantages from their business
models. In addition, these competitors have not attracted the same level of legal or regulatory scrutiny of their pricing and business practices as have operators of open-loop multi-party payments systems such as ours.         
   21   

Table of Contents  

   Our customers can reassess their commitments to us at any time or develop their own competitive
services. Most of our larger customer relationships (including those with our largest customers, JPMorgan Chase and Bank of America) are not exclusive and in certain circumstances (including, in some cases, on relatively short notice) may be
terminated by our customers. Because a significant portion of our operating revenues are concentrated among our largest customers, our operating revenues would decline significantly if we lost one or more of our largest customers for any reason,
which could have a material adverse impact on our business.      We also expect that there may be changes in the competitive landscape in
the future, including:       

Competitors, customers and other industry participants may develop products that compete with or replace value-added services we currently provide to support our
transaction processing.          

Parties that process our transactions in certain countries may try to eliminate our position in the payments value chain.          

Participants in the payments industry may merge, create joint ventures or form other business combinations that may strengthen their existing business
propositions or create new payment services that compete with our services.          

Competition may increase from alternative types of payment services, such as online payment services and services that permit direct debit of consumer checking
accounts or ACH payments.         Our failure to compete effectively against any of these threats, could materially and
adversely affect our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business.       Consolidation of the banking industry could
result in our losing business and may create pressure on the fees we charge our customers, which may materially and adversely affect our revenues and profitability.       The banking industry has recently undergone substantial, accelerated consolidation, which is likely to continue. Significant ongoing consolidation in the banking industry may result in one or more of our largest
customers being acquired by an institution that has a strong relationship with a competitor, resulting in a substantial loss of business. In addition, one or more of our customers could seek to merge with or acquire one of our competitors, and any
such transaction could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects.      Continued consolidation in the banking industry
would also reduce the overall number of our customers and potential customers and could increase the bargaining power of our remaining customers and potential customers. This consolidation could lead financial institutions to seek greater pricing
discounts or other incentives with us. In addition, consolidation could prompt our existing customers to seek to renegotiate their pricing agreements with us to obtain more favorable terms. We may also be adversely affected by price compression
should one of our financial institution customers absorb another financial institution and qualify for higher volume-based discounts on the combined volumes of the merged businesses. Pressure on the fees we charge our customers caused by such
consolidation could materially and adversely affect our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business. In addition, the current economic environment could lead some customers to curtail or postpone near-term
investments in growing their card portfolios, limit credit lines, or take other actions that affect adversely the growth of our volume and revenue streams from these customers.         
   22   

Table of Contents  

    Merchants are pursuing litigation and supporting regulatory proceedings relating to the costs associated with
payment card acceptance and are negotiating incentive arrangements, including pricing discounts, all of which may increase our costs and materially and adversely affect our profitability.       We rely in part on merchants and their relationships with our customers to maintain and expand the acceptance of our payment cards. We believe that
consolidation in the retail industry is producing a set of larger merchants that are having a significant impact on all participants in the global payments industry. The emphasis merchants are placing on the costs associated with payment card
acceptance may lead to additional regulation and litigation, which would not be covered by our retrospective responsibility plan and which could impair our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business.      We, along with our customers, negotiate pricing discounts and other incentive arrangements with certain large merchants to increase acceptance of our
payment cards. If merchants continue to consolidate, our customers and we may have to increase the incentives provided to certain larger merchants, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues, operating results, prospects for future
growth and overall business.       Certain financial institutions have exclusive, or nearly-exclusive, relationships with our competitors to issue payment
cards, and these relationships may adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues.       Certain financial institutions
have long-standing exclusive, or nearly-exclusive, relationships with our competitors to issue payment cards, and these relationships may make it difficult or cost-prohibitive for us to do material amounts of business with them in order to increase
our revenues. In addition, these financial institutions may be more successful and may grow faster than the financial institutions that primarily issue our cards, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage.       Failure to maintain relationships with our customers and other third parties and failure of customers to provide services on our behalf could materially and
adversely affect our business.       We depend and will continue to depend significantly on relationships with our customers and their
relationships with cardholders and merchants to support our programs and services. We do not issue cards, extend credit to cardholders or determine the interest rates (if applicable) or other fees charged to cardholders using cards that carry our
brands. Each issuer determines these and most other competitive card features. In addition, we do not generally solicit merchants to accept our cards and we do not establish the discount rates merchants are charged for card acceptance, which are the
responsibility of acquirers. As a result, the success of our business significantly depends on the continued success and competitiveness of our customers and the strength of our relationships with them.      In many countries outside of the United States our customers or other processors authorize, clear and settle most domestic (as opposed to
cross-border) transactions using our payment cards without involving our processing systems. We depend on our close working relationships with our customers to effectively manage the processing of transactions involving our cards, because we do not
provide domestic transaction processing services in these countries, do not generally have direct relationships with merchants and never have direct relationships with cardholders. Our inability to control the end-to-end processing on cards carrying
our brands in these countries may put us at a competitive disadvantage by limiting our ability to ensure the quality of the services supporting our brand.      In addition, we depend on third parties to provide various services on our behalf, and to the extent that third-party vendors fail to deliver services, our business and reputation could be impaired.         
   23   

Table of Contents  

    Our perception in the marketplace may affect our brands and reputation, which are key assets of our business.  
     Our brands and their attributes are key assets of our business. The ability to attract and retain consumer cardholders and corporate
clients to Visa-branded products depends highly upon the external perceptions of our company and our industry. Our business may be affected by actions taken by our customers that change the perception of our brands. From time to time, our customers
may take actions that we do not believe to be in the best interests of our brands, such as creditor practices that may be viewed as  predatory,  which may materially and adversely affect our business. Further, Visa Europe has very broad
latitude to operate the Visa business in and use our brands and technology within Visa Europe s region and we have only limited control over the operation of the Visa business there. Visa Europe is not required to spend any minimum amount of
money promoting or building the Visa brand in its region, and the strength of the Visa global brand is contingent, in part, on the efforts of Visa Europe to maintain product and service recognition and quality in Europe. Finally, adverse
developments with respect to our industry may also, by association, impair our reputation, or result in greater regulatory or legislative scrutiny.       Global economic, political, health and other conditions may adversely affect trends in consumer spending and cross-border travel, which may materially and adversely affect our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and
overall business.       We depend heavily upon the overall level of consumer, business and government spending. The current economic
environment could lead some customers to curtail or postpone near-term investments in growing their card portfolios, limit credit lines, or take other actions that affect adversely the growth of our volume and revenue streams from these customers. A
significant portion of the revenues we earn outside the United States results from cross-border business and leisure travel. In particular, revenues from processing foreign currency transactions fluctuate with cross-border travel and our
customers  need for transactions to be converted into their base currency. Cross-border travel may be adversely affected by world geopolitical, economic and other conditions. These include the threat of terrorism and outbreaks of flu, such as
H1N1 and avian flu, viruses, such as SARS, and other diseases.      In addition, as we are principally domiciled in the United States, a
negative perception of the United States could harm the perception of our company, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business.       We are exposed to a risk of loss or insolvency if our customers fail to fund settlement obligations we have guaranteed.       We indemnify Visa customers for any settlement loss suffered due to the failure of a customer to fund its daily settlement obligations. In certain
instances, we may indemnify customers even in situations in which a transaction is not processed by our system. This indemnification creates settlement risk for us due to the difference in timing between the date of a payment transaction and the
date of subsequent settlement. The term and amount of the indemnification are unlimited.      Concurrent settlement failures of more than
one of our largest customers or of several of our smaller customers, or systemic operational failures that last for more than a single-day, may exceed our available resources and could materially and adversely affect our business and financial
condition. In addition, even if we have sufficient liquidity to cover a settlement failure, we may not be able to recover the amount of such payment and may therefore be exposed to significant losses, which could materially and adversely affect our
results of operations, cash flow and financial condition.         
   24   

Table of Contents  

   Settlement at risk (or exposure) is estimated based on the sum of the following inputs:
(1) average daily volumes during the quarter multiplied by the estimated number of days to settle plus a safety margin; and (2) four months of rolling average chargebacks volume; and (3) the total balance for outstanding travelers cheques. See
 Note 12 Settlement Guarantee Management  to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report.      Some Visa customers are composed of groups of financial institutions. Some of these customers have elected to limit their responsibility for settlement losses arising from the failure of their constituent financial institutions in exchange
for managing their constituent financial institutions in accordance with our credit risk policy. To the extent that any settlement failure resulting from a constituent financial institution exceeds the limits established by our credit risk policy,
we would have to absorb the cost of such settlement failure, which could materially and adversely affect our cash flow.       If our transaction
processing systems are disrupted or we cannot process transactions efficiently, the perception of our brands and our revenues or operating results could be materially and adversely affected.       Our transaction processing systems may experience service interruptions or degradation because of processing or other technology malfunction, fire,
natural disasters, power loss, disruptions in long distance or local telecommunications access, fraud, terrorism or accident. Our visibility in the global payments industry may attract terrorists and hackers to conduct physical or computer-based
attacks, leading to an interruption in service, increased costs or the compromise of data security. Additionally, we rely on service providers for the timely transmission of information across our global data network. If a service provider fails to
provide the communications capacity or services we require, as a result of natural disaster, operational disruption, terrorism or any other reason, the failure could interrupt our services, adversely affect the perception of our brands 
reliability and materially reduce our revenues or profitability.       If we are not able to keep pace with the rapid technological developments in the
payments industry to provide customers, merchants and cardholders with new and innovative payment programs and services, the use of our cards could decline, which could reduce our revenues and income.       The payments industry is subject to rapid, significant technological changes, including continuing developments of technologies in the areas of smart
cards, radio frequency and proximity payment devices (such as contactless cards), e-commerce and mobile commerce. We cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business. We rely in part on third parties, including some of our
competitors and potential competitors, for the development of and access to new technologies. We expect that new services and technologies applicable to the payments industry will continue to emerge, and these new services and technologies may be
superior to, or render obsolete, the technologies we currently use in our card products and services. In addition, our ability to adopt new services and technologies that we develop may be inhibited by a need for industry-wide standards, by
resistance from customers or merchants to such changes or by third parties  intellectual property. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to develop new technologies and adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards.
      Account data breaches involving card data stored by us or third parties could adversely affect our reputation and revenues.       We, our customers, merchants and other third parties store cardholder account information in connection with our payment cards. In addition, our
customers may use third-party processors to process transactions generated by cards carrying our brands. Breach of the systems on which
        
   25   

Table of Contents  

sensitive cardholder data and account information are stored could lead to fraudulent activity involving our cards, reputational damage and claims against us. If we are sued in connection with
any data security breach, we could be involved in protracted litigation. If unsuccessful in defending such lawsuits, we may be forced to pay damages and/or change our business practices or pricing structure, any of which could have a material
adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. In addition, any reputational damage resulting from an account data breach at one or more of our customers, merchants or other third parties could decrease the use and acceptance of our cards, which
could have a material adverse impact on our payments volume, revenues and future growth prospects. Finally, any data security breach could result in additional regulation, which could materially increase our costs.       An increase in fraudulent and other illegal activity involving our cards could lead to reputational damage to our brands and could reduce the use and acceptance of
our cards.       Criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to capture cardholder account information to engage in illegal
activities such as fraud and identity theft. As outsourcing and specialization become a more acceptable way of doing business in the payments industry, there are more third parties involved in processing transactions using our cards. If fraud levels
involving our cards were to rise, it could lead to reputational damage to our brands, which could reduce the use and acceptance of our cards, or to greater regulation, which could increase our compliance costs.       Failure to maintain interoperability between Visa Inc. s and Visa Europe s authorization and clearing and settlement systems could damage the business
and global perception of the Visa brand.       With the completion of the deployment of Visa Europe s own authorization and clearing
and settlement systems expected in fiscal 2010, it is incumbent upon both service providers, Visa Inc. and Visa Europe, to ensure their systems can process every transaction regardless of where it originates. The increasingly independent payments
system operations of Visa Europe could present challenges to our business due to the heightened difficulty of maintaining the interoperability of our respective systems as they diverge over time. Failure to authorize or clear and settle transactions
in a timely and accurate manner could impair the global perception of the Visa brand.       Material changes in our customers  performance compared
to our estimates could have a material and adverse impact on our results of operations.       In certain instances, we offer our customers
financial incentives, which are typically tied to their payments volume or transaction messages processed, often under particular programs. These financial incentives are typically recorded as a reduction of revenues. We generally make estimates of
our customers  performance under these programs (sometimes over several years) in order to derive our estimates of the financial incentives that we will pay them. The reduction of revenues that we record each quarter under volume and support
agreements is based on these estimates. Material differences between our customers  performance and our estimates could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. For example, if a customer performs better than expected, we
may be required to reduce future period revenues to account for the fact that we did not reduce revenues enough in prior periods. On the other hand, if a customer performs worse than expected, we may conclude that we reduced revenues by too much in
previous period.         
   26   

Table of Contents  

     Risks Related to our Structure and Organization         We have a limited ability to control Visa Europe s operations and limited recourse in the event of a breach of its obligations to us.       Our relationship with Visa Europe is governed by a Framework Agreement, which gives Visa Europe very broad rights to operate the Visa business in its
region. Since our reorganization, Visa Europe has not been subject to the same global operating rules as our subsidiaries and customers. If we want to change a global rule or require Visa Europe to implement certain changes that would not have a
positive return for Visa Europe and its members, then Visa Europe is not required to implement that rule or change unless we agree to pay for the implementation costs and expenses that Visa Europe and its members will incur as a consequence of the
implementation. Our remedies under this agreement, if Visa Europe fails to meet its obligations, are limited. We cannot terminate the Framework Agreement even upon Visa Europe s material uncured breach, and we can exercise our call right to
purchase Visa Europe under only extremely limited circumstances.      These and other features of the licenses granted under the Framework
Agreement may also raise issues concerning the characterization of the licenses for purposes of tax treatment of entry into the licenses and payments received thereunder. Any inconsistency in the payment processing services and products that we are
able to provide could negatively affect cardholders from Visa Europe using cards in our regions or our cardholders using cards in Visa Europe s region.       If Visa Europe makes us acquire all of its outstanding stock, we will incur substantial costs and may suffer a material and adverse effect on our operations and net income.       We have granted Visa Europe a put option, which, if exercised, will require us to purchase all of Visa Europe s outstanding capital stock from its
members. We will incur a substantial financial obligation if Visa Europe exercises the put option, which it may do at any time. We cannot estimate the amount of this obligation due to the nature and number of factors involved and the range of
important assumptions that would be required, but it could be several billion dollars or more. We may need to obtain third-party financing, either by borrowing funds or by undertaking a subsequent equity offering, in order to meet our obligation.
Sufficient financing may not be available to us, on reasonable terms, within the 285 days we would have to pay the exercise price. An equity offering or the payment of part of the exercise price in our stock would dilute the ownership interests of
our stockholders. See  Note 3 Visa Europe  to our consolidated financial statements include in  Item 8  of this report.      If Visa Europe exercises the put option, we may encounter difficulties in integrating Visa Europe s business and systems into our existing operations. If we cannot do so quickly and cost-effectively, the integration could divert the
time and attention of senior management, disrupt our current operations and adversely affect our results of operations.      We are required
to record quarterly any change in the fair value of the put option. These adjustments will be recorded through our consolidated statements of operations, which will therefore affect our reported net income and earnings per share. These quarterly
adjustments and their resulting impact on our reported statements of operations could be significant. The existence of these charges could adversely affect our ability to raise capital or the price at which we can raise it. See  Note 3 Visa
Europe  to our consolidated financial statements include in  Item 8  of this report.       We depend on key employees and may be unable to
retain them.       Our employees are vital to our success, and our key management and other employees are difficult to replace. We may not
be able to retain highly qualified employees in the future, which could adversely affect our business.         
   27   

Table of Contents  

    Any acquisitions or strategic investments that we make could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition.
      We may make strategic acquisitions or investments in complementary businesses, products or technologies, although we have entered
into relatively few such transactions in the past. We may not be able to successfully finance, partner with or integrate any such businesses, products or technologies. Furthermore, the integration of any acquisition or investment may divert
management s time and resources from our core business and disrupt our operations. We may spend time and money on projects that do not increase our revenues. Our cash reserves would be reduced to the extent we pay the purchase price of any
acquisition or investment in cash. If we pay the purchase price with our stock, it could be dilutive to our stockholders. While we from time to time evaluate potential acquisitions of and investments in businesses, products and technologies, and
anticipate continuing to make these evaluations, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to execute and integrate any such acquisitions and investments.       Future sales of our class A common stock or convertible securities, or the expiration or waiver of transfer restrictions on our class B and class C common stock, could result in dilution to our existing class A common stock holders,
which may adversely affect their rights and depress the market price of our class A common stock.       The market price of our class A
common stock and the voting power of our outstanding shares of class A common stock could decline because of increases in the number of such shares outstanding. The market price of our class A common stock may also be adversely affected by the
perception that such an increase could occur, such as upon the issuance or conversion of securities convertible to shares of our class A common stock.       If funds are released from escrow after the resolution of the litigation covered by our retrospective responsibility plan, holders of our class A common stock will suffer dilution because of a favorable adjustment to the conversion rate
of our class B common stock.       Our retrospective responsibility plan provides that any amounts remaining in the escrow account after
the date on which all of the covered litigation is resolved will be released back to us and that the conversion rate of the class B common stock then outstanding will be adjusted in favor of the holders of the class B common stock. The adjustment
would be through a formula based on the released escrow amount and the market price of our class A common stock. If any funds remain in the escrow account and are released back to us, the resulting adjustment in the conversion rate of the class B
common stock will result in each share of class B common stock then outstanding becoming convertible into an increased number of shares of class A common stock. This in turn will result in dilution of the interest in Visa Inc. held by the holders of
class A common stock. The amount of this dilution will depend on the amount, if any, of the funds released from the escrow account and the market price of our class A common stock at the time those funds are released.       All shares of class A common stock acquired by a Visa member, an affiliate of a Visa member or a similar person will be converted automatically into class C common
stock and, as a result, will generally not be transferable until March 25, 2011, and they will lose substantially all their voting rights.       All shares of common stock acquired by a Visa member, an affiliate of a Visa member or any person that is a competitor or its affiliate, in each case to the extent acting as a principal investor, will be converted
automatically into class C common stock. Under the terms of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, class C common stock is generally not transferable until March 25, 2011. After this date has passed, the class C common stock
will be convertible into class A common stock only if transferred to a person that was not, immediately after our reorganization, a Visa member, an
        
   28   

Table of Contents  

affiliate of a Visa member or a competitor or its affiliate. Upon such transfer, each share of class C common stock will convert into one share of class A common stock.       Holders of our class B and class C common stock have voting rights concerning certain significant corporate transactions, and their interests in our business may
be different from those of holders of our class A common stock.      Although holders of our class B and class C common stock do
not have any right to vote on those matters on which stockholders generally are entitled to vote, such as the election of directors, such holders do have the right to vote on certain significant transactions, such as a proposed
consolidation or merger, a decision to exit our core payments business or any other vote required by law. The holders of the class B and class C common stock may not have the same incentive to approve a corporate action that may be favorable to the
holders of class A common stock, and their interests may otherwise conflict with those of the holders of class A common stock.       Anti-takeover
provisions in our governing documents and Delaware law could delay or prevent entirely a takeover attempt or a change in control.       Provisions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and Delaware law could delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that our stockholders consider favorable. For instance, except for limited exceptions,
no person may beneficially own more than 15% of our class A common stock (or 15% of our total outstanding shares on an as-converted basis), unless our board of directors approves the acquisition of such shares in advance. In addition, except for
common stock issued to a member in connection with our reorganization or shares issuable on conversion of such common stock, shares held by a competitor or an affiliate of a competitor may not exceed 5% of our total outstanding shares on an
as-converted basis.       Our ability to pay regular dividends to holders of our common stock in the future is subject to the discretion of our board of
directors and will be limited by our ability to generate sufficient earnings and cash flows.       In August 2008, we commenced quarterly
payment of cash dividends on our class A, class B and class C common stock. Any future payment of dividends will depend upon our ability to generate earnings and cash flows. However, sufficient cash may not be available to pay such dividends.
Payment of future dividends, if any, would be at the discretion of our board of directors after taking into account various factors, including our financial condition, operating results, capital requirements, covenants in our debt instruments and
other factors that our board of directors deems relevant. If, because of these factors, we are unable to generate sufficient earnings and cash flows from our business, we may not be able to make payments of dividends of our common stock.
Furthermore, no dividend may be declared or paid on any class or series of common stock unless an equivalent dividend is contemporaneously declared and paid on each other class and series of common stock.       

ITEM 1B.   
   Unresolved Staff Comments         Not applicable.

ITEM 2.   
   Properties         At September 30, 2009, we
owned and leased approximately 2.8 million square feet of office and processing center space in 31 countries around the world, of which approximately 2.0 million square feet are owned and the remaining 860,000 square feet are leased. Our
corporate headquarters is located in the San Francisco Bay Area and consists of four buildings that we own, totaling 944,000 square feet. We also own a 164,000 square foot office building in Miami.         
   29   

Table of Contents  

   In addition, we operate three processing centers. We own a processing center and an adjacent office
facility in two locations, Virginia and Colorado, totaling 482,000 and 268,000 square feet, respectively. Construction of the Virginia facilities was completed in 2009 with the data center becoming fully operational in October 2009 following the
migration from our former east coast processing center. We also lease a 13,000 square foot processing center in Japan.      We believe that
these facilities are suitable and adequate to support our business needs.       

ITEM 3.   
   Legal Proceedings         Refer to  Note
21   Legal Matters  to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 in this report.       

ITEM 4.   
   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders         Not Applicable.         
   30   

Table of Contents  

      PART II        

ITEM 5.   
   Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities          Price Range of Common Stock       Our class A common
stock has been listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol  V  since March 19, 2008. The following table sets forth the intra-day high and low sale prices for our class A common stock from March 19, 2008 and for the
two full quarterly periods in fiscal 2008 following the Company s IPO as well as for the four quarterly periods in fiscal 2009, as reported by the New York Stock Exchange. At September 30, 2009, the Company had 391 stockholders of record
of its class A common stock. We believe that the number of beneficial owners is substantially greater than the number of record holders, because a large portion of our class A common stock is held in  street name  by brokers.   
   
    There is currently no established public trading market for our class B or class C common
stock. There were approximately 1,749 and 1,568 holders of record of our class B common stock and class C common stock, respectively, as of September 30, 2009.       Dividend Declaration and Policy       During the fiscal years ended September 30, 2009 and
2008, we paid the following quarterly cash dividends per share of our class A common stock (determined in the case of class B and C common stock, on an as-converted basis) to all holders of record of our class A, B and C common stock.       
    In addition, on October 20, 2009, our board of directors declared a quarterly cash
dividend of $0.125 per share of class A common stock (determined in the case of class B and C common stock, on an as-converted basis) payable on December 1, 2009 to holders of record as of November 16, 2009 of our class A, B and C common
stock.         
   31   

Table of Contents  

   Subject to legally available funds, we intend to pay quarterly cash dividends on our outstanding class
A, B and C common stock in the future. However, the declaration and payment of future dividends is at the sole discretion of our board of directors after taking into account various factors, including our financial condition, settlement guarantees,
operating results, available cash and current and anticipated cash needs. Prior to the IPO, we did not pay any cash dividends on our shares of outstanding common stock.       EQUITY COMPENSATION PLAN INFORMATION       The table below presents information as of September 30,
2009 for the Visa 2007 Equity Incentive Compensation Plan, or the EIP, which was approved by our stockholders. We do not have any equity compensation plans that have not been approved by our stockholders. For a description of the EIP, see  Note
17 Share-based Compensation  to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report.       

Plan Category    
      
   Number of shares of class A common stock to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options,
warrants and rights (a)   

Weighted-average exercise price of outstanding options, warrants and rights (b)   
      
   Number of shares of     class A     common stock     remaining available for future issuance under equity compensation plans (excluding
shares reflected in column (a)) (c)    
 
    Equity compensation plans approved by stockholders   
      
  9,090,276        
     (1)      
     
  $  
  45.81  
      
  46,019,318   
 
    Equity compensation plans not approved by stockholders   

Total   
      
  9,090,276        
     (1)      
     
  $  
  45.81  
      
  46,019,318   

(1)     
    In addition to options, the EIP authorizes the issuance of restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance units and other stock-based awards. A total of
572,750 shares have been issued pursuant to outstanding restricted stock units.          

ITEM 6.   
   Selected Financial Data         The following table
presents selected Visa Inc. financial data for fiscal 2009 and 2008 and selected Visa U.S.A. financial data for fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005. In October 2007, we consummated a reorganization in which Visa U.S.A., the accounting acquirer, Visa
International, Visa Canada and Inovant became direct or indirect subsidiaries of Visa Inc. The operating results of the acquired interests are included in the consolidated financial results of Visa Inc. beginning October 1, 2007. The data below
should be read in conjunction with  Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis and Results of Operations  and the Visa Inc. fiscal 2009 consolidated financial statements and notes included in Item 8 of this report.
      Selected Financial Data        
       
   32   

Table of Contents  

(1)     
    Historical balances for the consolidated statements of operations and consolidated balance sheet data prior to October 1, 2007 represent balances for Visa
U.S.A. Inc., the accounting acquirer in the reorganization.      

(3)   
        The long term portion of Visa U.S.A.
debt was classified as being due within one year at September 30, 2007 because Visa U.S.A. was in default of certain financial performance covenants as a result of the American Express settlement in fiscal 2007 as described in  Note
21 Legal Matters  to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report.            
   33   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 7.   
   Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations          This management s discussion and analysis ( MD A ) provides a review of the results of operations, financial condition, the
liquidity and capital resources of Visa Inc. and its subsidiaries ( Visa,   we,   our  and  the Company ) on a historical basis and outlines the factors that have affected recent earnings, as well as those
factors that may affect future earnings. The MD A should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in Item 8.        Overview       Visa is a global payments technology company that connects consumers, businesses,
banks and governments around the world, enabling them to use digital currency instead of checks and cash. We provide financial institutions with payment processing platforms that encompass consumer credit, debit, prepaid and commercial payments. We
facilitate global commerce through the transfer of value and information among financial institutions, merchants, consumers, businesses and government entities. Each of these constituencies has played a key role in the ongoing worldwide migration
from paper-based to electronic forms of payment, and we believe that this transformation continues to yield significant growth opportunities. We continue to explore additional opportunities to enhance our competitive position by expanding the scope
of payment services to benefit our existing customers and to position Visa to serve more and different constituencies.      In order to
respond to industry dynamics and enhance Visa s ability to compete, we consummated a reorganization in October 2007, and in March 2008 completed our IPO. The global alignment of various functions and best practices provides us the business
scale to effectively deliver our existing core products across more and different geographies and to accelerate the delivery of product innovations across different market segments.       Overall Economic Conditions       Our business is affected by overall economic conditions and consumer spending. We expect that soft economic conditions will continue to moderate consumer and commercial spending, and our rate of payments volume growth, in the near term.
Regulatory measures enacted in the United States during the third quarter of fiscal 2009 expected to take effect in fiscal 2010 will impact our financial institution customers. Should financial institutions constrict credit offerings in response to
these measures, this could ultimately impact consumer spending and our payments volumes. However, we believe that the continuing secular shift to electronic payment products for non-discretionary spending will buffer the impact to our overall
payments volume growth. This shift is particularly clear in debit products, where Visa has a strong market position in the United States and significant growth opportunities internationally.       Funding of the Litigation Escrow Account       During December 2008 and July 2009, we deposited $1.1 billion and $0.7 billion, respectively, into the litigation escrow account (the  Escrow Account ) previously established under the Retrospective
Responsibility Plan (the  Plan ). Under the terms of the Plan, when Visa funds the Escrow Account, the shares of class B common stock retained by our U.S. financial institution customers and their affiliates are subject to dilution through
an adjustment to the conversion rate of the shares of class B common stock to shares of class A common stock. On that basis, fundings of the Escrow Account in December 2008 and July 2009 had the effect of repurchasing 20,800,824 and 11,578,878 class
A common stock equivalents, respectively. See  Note 4 Retrospective Responsibility Plan  to our consolidated financial statements.         
   34   

Table of Contents  

    Share Repurchase Plan       In October 2009 our board of directors authorized a $1.0 billion share repurchase plan. The authorization will be in place through September 30,
2010, and is subject to extension or expansion at the determination of our board of directors. See the  Liquidity and Capital Resources  section for further discussion.       Sale of Investment in Companhia Brasileira de Meois de Pagamento ( VisaNet do Brasil )       In June 2009, Visa International Service Association, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company sold its 10% ownership interest in VisaNet do Brasil in
connection with its initial public offering. As a result of this transaction, we received approximately $1 billion in net proceeds and recognized a pre-tax gain of $473 million in investment income, net on our statement of operations. The amount of
the gain net of tax was $237 million. Following their initial public offering, we amended an existing agreement with VisaNet do Brasil which grants a license to use Visa trademarks and technology intellectual property. We expect the license fees to
be earned during fiscal 2010 to offset the loss of dividend income as a result of the sale of our ownership interest.       Expansion of
Our Processing Capabilities       Expanding our processing capabilities worldwide is a core component of our long-term growth strategy. As
part of this strategy, we created Visa Processing Services Pte. Ltd. ( VPS ), a joint venture with Yalamanchili International Pte. Ltd. ( Yalamanchili ). We hold a 70% interest in VPS. Yalamanchili is a payments processor and
software company with operations in Asia. VPS will allow us to extend our industry-leading processing capabilities in geographies where electronic payments are growing rapidly, providing multi-currency and multi-language debit, credit and prepaid
processing services to financial institutions, processors and payment companies. VPS will also have capabilities to provide ATM, money transfer and private label processing, as well as a range of payments services, including risk and fraud
management, mobile applications, loyalty and cardholder support. VPS provides prepaid and debit processing solutions and complements our Debit Processing Service.       Nominal Payments Volume and Transaction Counts       We believe that payments volume and processed
transactions are key drivers of our business. Payments volume is the basis for service revenues and processed transactions are the basis for data processing revenues. As anticipated, for fiscal 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008, nominal payments
volume declined in credit and commercial products, which was offset by growth in debit resulting in minimal year over year nominal payments volume impact.         
   35   

Table of Contents  

   This table sets forth nominal product payments volumes for the periods presented
in nominal dollars   (1)   :       

(1)     
    Figures may not sum due to rounding. Percentage change calculated based on whole numbers, not rounded numbers.      

(2)     
    Includes prepaid volume.      

(3)     
    Total nominal volume is the sum of total nominal payments volume and cash volume. Total nominal payments volume is the total monetary value of transactions for
goods and services that are purchased. Cash volume generally consists of cash access transactions, balances access transactions, balance transfers and convenience checks. Total nominal volume is provided by our financial institution customers,
subject to verification by Visa. From time to time, previously submitted volume information may be updated. Prior year volume information presented in these tables has not been updated, as subsequent adjustments were not material.

(4)     
    Service revenues in a given quarter is assessed based on payments volume in the prior quarter. Therefore, service revenues reported with respect to the twelve
months ended September 30, 2009 and September 30, 2008 were based on payments volume reported by our financial institution customers for the twelve months ended June 30, 2009 and June 30, 2008, respectively.
        This table sets forth transaction volumes processed by our VisaNet system during the following fiscal periods:

36   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations        Operating Revenues       Our operating revenues are primarily generated from payment volume on
Visa-branded cards for goods and services, as well as the number, size and type of transactions processed on our VisaNet system. We do not earn revenues from, or bear credit risk with respect to, interest and fees paid by cardholders on Visa-branded
cards. Our issuing customers have the responsibility for issuing cards and determining interest rates and fees paid by cardholders, and most other competitive card features. We do not earn revenues from the fees that merchants are charged for card
acceptance, including the merchant discount rate. Our acquiring customers, which are generally responsible for soliciting merchants, establish and earn these fees.      The following sets forth the components of our operating revenues:       Service revenues  are earned
from customers for their participation in card programs carrying marks of the Visa brand. Service revenues are assessed using a calculation of pricing applied to the prior quarter s payments volume.          Data processing revenues  are earned for authorization, clearing, settlement, transaction processing services and other maintenance and support
services that facilitate transaction and information processing among our customers globally and Visa Europe. Data processing revenues are based on information we accumulate from VisaNet, our secure, centralized, global processing platform, which
provides transaction processing services linking issuers and acquirers.          International transaction revenues  are assessed
to customers on transactions where the cardholder s issuer country is different from the merchant s country. International transaction revenues are generally driven by cross-border payments volume, which includes single currency
transactions, and currency conversion activities for transactions involving more than one currency.          Other revenues
 consist primarily of optional service or product enhancements, such as extended cardholder protection and concierge services, cardholder services and fees for licensing and certification. Other revenues also include revenues earned from Visa
Europe in connection with the Visa Europe Framework Agreement.          Volume and support incentives  represent contracts with
financial institution customers, merchants and other business partners for various programs designed to build payments volume and to increase product acceptance. These incentives are accounted for as reductions of operating revenues.       Operating Expenses        Personnel  includes salaries, stock-based compensation, incentives and various fringe benefits.       Network, EDP and
communications  primarily represents expenses for the operation of our electronic payments network, including maintenance, equipment rental and fees for other data processing services.       Advertising, marketing and promotion  includes expenses associated with advertising and marketing campaigns, sponsorships, and other related
promotions to promote the Visa brand.       Visa International fees  represents fees that Visa U.S.A. paid to Visa International prior
to our reorganization for services primarily related to global brand management, global product enhancements, management of global system development and interoperability, and corporate support to the entire Visa enterprise. These fees ceased as a
result of our reorganization.         
   37   

Table of Contents  

    Professional and consulting fees  consist of fees for consulting, contractors, legal and other
professional services.       Depreciation and amortization  includes depreciation expenses of properties and equipment, as well as
amortization of purchased and internally developed software. Also included in this amount are depreciation and amortization of the incremental basis in technology and other assets acquired in our reorganization.       Administrative and other  primarily consists of facilities costs, foreign exchange gains and losses and other corporate and overhead expenses in
support of our business.       Litigation provision  is an estimate of litigation expense and is based on management s
understanding of our litigation profile, the specifics of the case, advice of counsel to the extent appropriate, and management s best estimate of incurred loss at the balance sheet dates.       Other Income (Expense)        Interest expense  primarily includes accretion associated with litigation settlements to be paid over periods longer than one year and interest incurred on outstanding debt.       Investment income, net  represents returns on our fixed-income securities and other investments. Investment income also includes cash dividends
received from other cost and equity method investments.       Other non-operating income  primarily relates to the change in fair value
of the liability under the Framework Agreement with Visa Europe. This liability was fully discharged in October 2008.        Visa Inc. Fiscal 2009 and
2008 and Visa U.S.A. Fiscal 2007        The following discussion of results of operations compares Visa Inc. consolidated results for
fiscal 2009 and 2008 and Visa U.S.A. results for fiscal 2007. Visa U.S.A. was the accounting acquirer in the reorganization that took place on October 1, 2007, and therefore Visa U.S.A. results are considered the historical predecessor for
those of Visa Inc., and are included for comparison.       Operating Revenues       The following table sets forth our operating revenues earned in the U.S., throughout the rest of the world, and from Visa Europe. Operating revenues
for periods prior to October 1, 2007 are for Visa U.S.A., and are not presented in the table below, Revenues earned from Visa Europe are a result of our contractual arrangement with Visa Europe.       

(1)     
    Percentage change calculated based on whole numbers, not rounded numbers.            
   38   

Table of Contents  

   Operating revenues globally reflect the impact of pricing modifications made on various services as a
result of innovations in our product line and improvements in our service model. U.S. revenues also reflect volume and support incentives incurred on initiation or early renewal of significant long term customer contracts. We regularly review our
pricing strategy to ensure that it competitively aligns with the value and growth opportunities provided to our customers.      A
significant portion of the revenues we earn outside the United States results from cross-border business and leisure travel, which has moderated in the current economic environment. Revenues from processing foreign currency transactions for our
customers fluctuate with cross-border travel and the extent to which Visa-branded products are utilized for travel purposes.      Our
operating revenues are impacted by fluctuations in foreign currency rates. Operating revenues are impacted by the overall strengthening or weakening of the U.S. dollar compared to local or regional currencies in which our payments volumes are
denominated. The strengthening of the U.S. dollar in fiscal 2009 over the prior year resulted in a 3% decline in total operating revenues, including the impact from our hedging activities. The decline primarily impacted service and international
transaction revenues.      The following table sets forth the components of our total operating revenues:       

(1)     
    Percentage change calculated based on whole numbers, not rounded numbers.         Revenue growth in fiscal 2009 primarily reflects a moderate increase in nominal payments volume, solid growth of processed transactions and strategic
pricing modifications. Operating revenues increased during fiscal 2008 from fiscal 2007, primarily due to the inclusion of operating revenues from acquired regions, double digit growth in nominal payments volume, processed transactions and
cross-border nominal payments volume, combined with competitive pricing adjustments. The discussion below comparing fiscal 2008 and 2007 focuses on factors other than the inclusion of $2.4 billion of the acquired regions  operating revenues in
fiscal 2008.       

Service revenues  increased in fiscal 2009 primarily due to strategic pricing modifications implemented in the second half of the year, combined with
modest growth of 1% in nominal global payments volume. Service revenues increased during fiscal 2008 compared to 2007 primarily reflecting nominal U.S. payments volume growth of 11%. We expect that soft economic conditions will continue to moderate
consumer and commercial spending, and our rate of nominal payments volume growth, in the near term.          

Data processing revenues  increased in fiscal 2009 due to growth in the number of transactions processed of 8% during the year, combined with strategic
pricing modifications. Data processing revenues increased during fiscal 2008 compared to fiscal 2007 primarily due to a growth of 12% in transaction volumes, coupled with competitive pricing adjustments related to the Interlink Network. We believe
that the secular shift to electronic payments will continue on a global basis.            
   39   

Table of Contents  

International transaction revenues  increased in fiscal 2009 despite an 11% decline in cross-border nominal payments volume, primarily due to competitive
pricing modifications made since fiscal 2008. International transaction revenues increased during fiscal 2008 compared to fiscal 2007 primarily reflecting 22% growth in cross-border nominal payments volume and modifications to pricing structures for
certain transactions in April 2008. We regularly review our pricing strategy to ensure that it competitively aligns with the value and growth opportunities provided to our customers. We generally expect international transaction revenue to grow in
line with increased cross-border transaction volume, although economic downturns or other adverse international conditions would hinder this growth.          

Other revenues  increased during fiscal 2009 and 2008 primarily due to growth in revenues related to the Visa Extras loyalty platform for administrative
and rewards fulfillment services performed in support of the platform. The increase in other revenues during fiscal 2008 also reflects license and other service fees from Visa Europe following the reorganization, offset by the absence of project
revenues previously earned for services provided to Visa International and Visa Canada in fiscal 2007.          

Volume and support incentives  increased primarily due to incentives incurred on initiation or early renewal of significant long term customer contracts in
fiscal 2009. These incentives were partially offset by the absence of a non-recurring charge related to a customer agreement executed in fiscal 2008. In addition, fiscal 2008 incentives reflect the accounting impacts of: (i) conforming
accounting policies upon reorganization; and (ii) the retirement of certain issuer programs in fiscal 2007. We expect volume and support incentive to increase somewhat in fiscal 2010. The actual amount of volume and support incentives will vary
based on modifications to performance expectations for these contracts, amendments to existing contracts or new contracts.         The net asset (liability) of volume and support incentives changed during the year as follows:       

(1)     
    Balance represents the net of the current and long term asset and current liability portions of volume and support incentives as presented in our consolidated
balance sheet.      

(2)     
    Amount represents downward adjustments in estimated obligations under incentive agreements resulting from management s refinement of its estimate of
projected sales performance as new information becomes available.      

(3)   
        Amount represents adjustments
resulting from amendments to existing contractual terms.            
   40   

Table of Contents  

    Operating Expenses       The following table sets forth components of our total operating expenses for the periods presented.       

(1)     
    Percentage change calculated based on whole numbers, not rounded numbers.         Operating expenses decreased during fiscal 2009, driven by the absence of the litigation provision in connection with our Discover settlement in
fiscal 2008, coupled with lower costs in personnel, marketing and professional fees. Operating expenses remained flat in fiscal 2008 compared to fiscal 2007. Fiscal 2008 and 2007 comparisons below focus on factors other than the inclusion of
acquired regions  operating expenses in fiscal 2008, which totaled $1.3 billion. This increase was substantially offset by a decrease in litigation provision of $1.2 billion.       

Personnel  decreased in fiscal 2009 primarily reflecting the absence of larger severance and other charges incurred in fiscal 2008 associated with
workforce consolidation and elimination of overlapping functions, combined with reduced employee incentive-related costs in fiscal 2009. Personnel expenses increased in fiscal 2008 reflecting the severance charges previously discussed and
stock-based compensation expenses awarded to employees in connection with our IPO.          

Network, EDP and communications  increased in fiscal 2009 primarily due to higher fees paid for debit processing services related to processing
transactions through non-Visa networks. In fiscal 2008, expenses increased primarily reflecting higher software maintenance and hardware rental expensed following the outsourcing of certain development functions since fiscal 2007.

Advertising, marketing and promotion  decreased in fiscal 2009, despite the launch of our global  More people go with Visa  campaign in fiscal
2009 reflecting the effective implementation of our global strategy to reduce cost. In fiscal 2008, higher advertising, marketing and promotion spending in connection with the 2008 Beijing Olympics and our Visa Extras reward program were offset by
the absence of costs incurred in fiscal 2007 related to certain joint promotional campaigns which did not recur during fiscal 2008.          

Visa International fees  ceased as a result of the reorganization, as Visa U.S.A. and Visa International both became direct subsidiaries of Visa Inc.

Professional and consulting fees  decreased in fiscal 2009 primarily due to the absence of consulting and legal fees incurred in the prior year in
connection with our global
           
   41   

Table of Contents  

reorganization and IPO, and related insourcing of professional services. Reduced legal fees also contributed to the decline, reflecting the settlement of outstanding litigation with Discover in
fiscal 2008.          

Depreciation and amortization  decreased during fiscal 2009 primarily reflecting the absence of depreciation and amortization for technology and facility
in our Colorado data center which were fully depreciated in fiscal 2008, partially offset by additional depreciation of $13 million in fiscal 2009 from our new east coast data center. We expect our new east coast data center and office building to
generate additional depreciation expense of approximately $12 million in fiscal 2010.          

Administrative and other  remained flat in fiscal 2009, primarily due to unrealized foreign exchange losses recorded upon the remeasurement of monetary
assets and liabilities held by foreign subsidiaries into their functional currencies, offset by a decrease in overall spending reflecting our overall cost reduction strategy. Administrative and other expenses in fiscal 2007 included facilities
expense paid to the real estate joint ventures owned by Visa U.S.A. and Visa International, which were consolidated as part of Visa Inc. following the reorganization.          

Litigation provision  primarily reflected: (i) $1.1 billion recorded in fiscal 2008 in connection with the Discover settlement, (ii) additional
accruals of $285 million made in fiscal 2008 related to covered litigation, and (iii) $1.9 billion related to the settlement of outstanding litigation with American Express in fiscal 2007. All of these matters are covered by the Retrospective
Responsibility Plan. See  Note 4 Retrospective Responsibility Plan  and  Note 21 Legal Matters  to our consolidated financial statements.          Other Income (Expense)       The
following table sets forth the components of our other income (expense) for the periods presented.       

(1)     
    Percentage change calculated based on whole numbers, not rounded numbers.          

Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates  in fiscal 2007 reflected the equity in earnings of Visa International which was acquired in the
reorganization.          

Interest expense  decreased in 2009 reflecting lower interest accretion from declining litigation balances. The increase in 2008 is primarily due to
interest accretion related to the American Express settlement in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007. See  Note 21 Legal Matters  to our consolidated financial statements.          

Investment income, net  increased in 2009 primarily due to a pre-tax gain of $473 million recognized on the sale of our investment in VisaNet do Brasil,
partially offset by lower interest income earned on both our investments in marketable securities and the portion of our IPO proceeds used to redeem our class C (series II) and class C (series III) common shares in October 2008. Investment income,
net in fiscal 2008 also reflected realized losses and other-
           
   42   

Table of Contents  

than-temporary-impairment of $68 million on investments and money market funds. See  Note 6 Prepaid Expenses and Other Assets  to our consolidated financial statements.

Other non-operating income  in fiscal 2008 reflected the adjustments to the fair market value of our liability under the Framework Agreement with Visa
Europe. This liability was settled during the first fiscal quarter of 2009.          Effective Income Tax Rate
      The effective tax rate increased to 41% in fiscal 2009, compared with 40% in fiscal 2008 and 23% for Visa U.S.A. in fiscal 2007. The
increase in the effective tax rate in fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008 was primarily due to the additional foreign tax in fiscal 2009 on the sale of our investment in VisaNet do Brasil, which increased the overall effective tax rate by
approximately 1%. Our Singapore subsidiary began operating under a tax incentive agreement in fiscal 2009, which had an insignificant impact on the fiscal 2009 effective tax rate. The increase in the effective income tax rate in fiscal 2008 compared
to fiscal 2007 was due primarily to tax reserves related to litigation, and the combined effect of the loss of certain special deductions in California for which we were eligible prior to our IPO, the change in state tax apportionment, and a
one-time benefit attributable to the remeasurement of deferred taxes. We expect our effective tax rate in fiscal 2010 to decrease to below 40% due to changes in the geographic mix of our global income.       Liquidity and Capital Resources         Management of Our
Liquidity        We regularly evaluate cash requirements for current operations, commitments, development activities and capital
expenditures and we may elect to raise additional funds for these purposes in the future through the issuance of either debt or equity. Our treasury policies provide management with the guidelines and authority to manage liquidity risk in a manner
consistent with corporate objectives.      The objectives of our treasury policies are to provide adequate liquidity to cover operating
expenditures and liquidity contingency scenarios, to ensure payment of required litigation settlement payments, to ensure timely completion of payments settlement activities, to make planned capital investments in our business, to pay dividends, to
repurchase our shares at the discretion of our board of directors, to service the payments of principal and interest on outstanding debt and to optimize income earned by investing excess cash in securities that we believe are high-quality and
marketable in the short term.      Based on our current cash flow budgets and forecasts of our short-term and long-term liquidity needs,
management believes that our projected sources of liquidity will be sufficient to meet our projected liquidity needs for more than the next 12 months. Management will continue to assess our liquidity position and potential sources of supplemental
liquidity in view of our operating performance, current economic and capital market conditions, and other relevant circumstances.        Cash Flow Data
       This table summarizes cash flow activity for the following fiscal years:       
       
   43   

Table of Contents  

(1)   
        Historical balances for periods prior
to October 1, 2007 represent balances for Visa U.S.A. the accounting acquirer in the business combination.          Operating Activities.  Cash provided by operating activities for fiscal 2009 consisted of net income of $2.4 billion and adjustments for non-cash items of $1.5 billion. Standard non-cash adjustments for volume and support incentive
accruals and depreciation and amortization were offset by a $473 million book gain on the sale of our investment in VisaNet do Brasil which is reflected in investing activities. Cash from operating activities also reflects the use of $3.3 billion to
fund significant operational payments including litigation and volume and support incentives.      Cash provided by operating activities for
fiscal 2008 consisted of net income of $804 million and adjustments for non-cash items of $3.1 billion. Cash provided by operating activities was lower than income provided by operations, reflecting the use of $92 million to satisfy payments
settlement activities; $115 million of compensation benefit payments net of new accruals; and $217 million of volume and support incentive payments net of new accruals. These uses of cash were offset by deferred taxes payable, depreciation and
amortization and other non-cash items, as well as changes in other operating assets and liabilities.       Investing Activities.  Cash
provided by investing activities for fiscal 2009 primarily reflects $884 million of cash distribution from the Reserve Primary Fund (the  Fund ), net cash proceeds of $290 million from the sales and maturities of investment securities and
$1.0 billion from the sale of our 10% ownership in VisaNet do Brasil, all of which were reinvested in money market funds. We also purchased $306 million of property, equipment and technology primarily related to construction of our east coast data
center.      Cash provided by investing activities for fiscal 2008, reflects $1,002 million of cash acquired through the reorganization,
$949 million of net cash proceeds from the sales and maturities of investment securities that were re-invested in shorter-term cash equivalents and $415 million of property, equipment and technology purchases primarily related to construction of our
data center. In addition, we reclassified our $953 million investment in the Fund from cash equivalents to other current assets on our consolidated balance sheet. See further discussion under  Sources of Liquidity,  below, and
 Note 6 Prepaid Expenses and Other Assets  to our consolidated financial statements.       Financing Activities.  Cash
used in financing activities during fiscal 2009 primarily reflects contractually-required redemption of our class C (series II) and class C (series III) common shares for $2.6 billion, funding of $1.8 billion to the litigation Escrow Account and
dividend payments of $318 million, offset by funding of covered litigation payments totaling $2.0 billion from the litigation Escrow Account.      Cash provided by financing activities for fiscal 2008 is attributed to IPO related activities including $19.1 billion in net proceeds from the issuance of class A common stock, offset by $13.4 billion used for the partial redemption of
class B and class C (series I) common stock, and $3.0 billion payment to the litigation Escrow Account for the covered litigation matters in accordance with the Retrospective Responsibility Plan. See  Note 4 Retrospective Responsibility Plan
 to our consolidated financial statements. In addition, there was a source of cash of $1.1 billion, reflecting funding of covered litigation payments from the litigation Escrow Account, offset by $93 million and $22 million for dividend and
routine debt payments, respectively.        Sources of Liquidity        Our primary sources of liquidity are cash on hand, cash flow from our operations, an investment portfolio, and access to various equity and borrowing arrangements. Funds from operations are maintained in cash and
cash equivalents, short-term available-for-sale investment securities, or long-
        
   44   

Table of Contents  

term available-for-sale investment securities based upon our funding requirements, access to liquidity from these holdings, and return that these holdings provide.       Investment Portfolio.  Our investment portfolio primarily comprises of securities which enable us to meet a desired level of liquidity to meet
working capital needs. Our investment portfolio primarily consists of liquid securities, including money market funds, debt securities issued by U.S. government-sponsored agencies and Canadian government debt securities. The liquidity of our
investment portfolio is subject to uncertainties that are difficult to predict. Uncertainties in the credit markets have affected a number of these holdings.      In September 2008, the Fund was unable to honor our request for the full redemption of our investment totaling $983 million. The Fund was subsequently placed into liquidation and announced that it would distribute
funds to investors on a pro-rata basis in proportion to the number of shares held by each investor. Since the announcement, we have received distributions totaling $903 million, including $19 million received in October of fiscal 2010. We believe
that the fund will distribute its remaining assets within twelve months, and have therefore classified our remaining investment of $69 million, which reflects an impairment of $29 million, as a current asset at September 30, 2009. See
 Note 6 Prepaid Expenses and Other Assets  to our consolidated financial statements.      Other factors that may impact the
liquidity of our investment portfolio include changes to credit ratings of the securities as well as to the underlying assets supporting those securities, rates of default of the underlying assets, underlying collateral value, discount rates, and
ongoing strength and quality of credit markets. We will continue to review our portfolio in light of evolving market and economic conditions. However, if current market conditions deteriorate, the liquidity of our investment portfolio may be
impacted and we could determine that some of our investments are impaired, which could adversely impact our financial results. We have policies that limit the amount of credit exposure to any one financial institution or type of investment.
      Revolving Credit Facilities.  On February 15, 2008, we entered into a $3.0 billion five-year revolving credit facility with
a syndicate of banks including affiliates of certain of our class B and class C stockholders and certain of our customers and affiliates of our customers. Loans under the five-year facility may be in the form of: (1) Base Rate Advance, which
will bear interest at a rate equal to the higher of the Federal Funds Rate plus 0.5% or the Bank of America prime rate; (2) Eurocurrency Advance, which will bear interest at a rate equal to LIBOR (as adjusted for applicable reserve
requirements) plus an applicable cost adjustment and an applicable margin of 0.11% to 0.30% based on our credit rating; or (3) U.S. Swing Loan, Euro Swing Loan, or Foreign Currency Swing Loan, which will bear interest at the rate equal to the
applicable Swing Loan rate for that currency plus the same applicable margin plus additionally for Euro and Sterling loans, an applicable reserve requirement and cost adjustment. We also agreed to pay a facility fee on the aggregate commitment
amount, whether used or unused, at a rate ranging from 0.04% to 0.10% and a utilization fee on loans at a rate ranging from 0.05% to 0.10% based on our credit rating. Currently, the applicable margin is 0.15%, the facility fee is 0.05% and the
utilization fee is 0.05%. This facility contains certain covenants, including financial covenant requirements relating to a maximum level of debt to EBITDA and events of default customary for financings of this type. This facility expires on
February 15, 2013. There have been no borrowings under this facility. At September 30, 2009, we were in compliance with all covenants with respect to this facility.          U.S. Commercial Paper Programs . We maintain a $500 million U.S. commercial paper program, which provides for the issuance of unsecured
debt with maturities up to 270 days from the date of issuance at interest rates generally extended to companies with comparable credit ratings. The commercial paper program is a source of short-term borrowed funds that may be used from time to time
to cover short-term cash needs. At September 30, 2009, we had no obligations outstanding under this program. There are no financial covenants related to this program.       
  
   45   

Table of Contents  

    Universal Shelf Registration Statement.  On May 6, 2009 we filed a registration statement
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission using a shelf registration process. Per the registration statement, we may, from time to time, sell shares of debt or equity securities in one or more transactions. The registration statement expires
on May 5, 2012.       Escrow Account.  We maintain an Escrow Account for use in the payment of covered litigation matters. When
the Company funds the Escrow Account the shares of class B common stock held by our shareholders are subject to dilution through an adjustment to the conversion rate of the shares of class B common stock to shares of class A common stock. See
 Note 4 Retrospective Responsibility Plan  to our consolidated financial statements. The balance in this account at September 30, 2009 was $1.7 billion and is reflected as restricted cash on our consolidated balance sheet ($1.4
billion in current assets and $350 million in long-term assets). As these funds are restricted for use solely for the purpose of making payments related to covered litigation matters, we have not included them as part of our liquid assets. However,
they should be viewed as a source of cash for purposes of making payments related to settlement of or judgment in covered litigation matters, as described below under  Uses of Liquidity.          Credit Ratings        At September 30,
2009, Standard and Poor s and Moody s rated our unsecured debt as follows:       

Standard and Poor s   
      
   Moody s    
 
     Debt type    
      
   Rating   
      
   Outlook   
      
   Rating   
      
   Outlook    
 
    Long-term unsecured debt   

Local   
      
  A+  
      
  Stable  
      
  A1  
      
  Stable   
 
    Foreign   
      
  A+  
      
  Stable  
      
  A1  
      
  Stable   
 
    Short-term unsecured debt   
      
  A-1  
      
  Stable  
      
  P-1  
      
  Stable   
    Various factors affect our credit ratings, including, changes in our operating performance, the
economic environment, conditions in the electronic payment industry, our financial position and changes in our business strategy. We do not currently foresee any reasonable circumstances under which our credit ratings would be significantly
downgraded. If a downgrade were to occur, it could adversely impact, among other things, our future borrowing costs and access to capital markets.        Uses of Liquidity         Payments Settlement.  Payments settlement due from and due to issuing and acquiring
customers represents our most consistent liquidity requirement, arising primarily from settlement currencies other than the U.S. dollar. U.S. dollar settlements are settled within the same day and do not result in a net receivable or payable
balance. These settlement receivables and payables generally remain outstanding for one to two business days, consistent with standard market conventions for domestic transactions and foreign currency transactions. We maintain a liquidity position
sufficient to enable uninterrupted daily net settlement. Typically, the highest seasonal liquidity demand is experienced in December and early January during the holiday shopping season.       Covered Litigation.  We are parties to legal and regulatory proceedings with respect to a variety of matters, including certain litigation that
we refer to as covered litigation. As part of the Plan, we deposited $3.0 billion of our IPO proceeds into an Escrow Account from which settlements of, or judgments in, covered litigation will be paid. During fiscal 2009, we deposited an additional
$1.8 billion into the Escrow Account. Under the Plan, when the Company funds the Escrow Account, the shares of class B common stock held by our stockholders are subject to dilution through an adjustment to the conversion rate of the shares of class
B common stock to the shares of class A common stock. See  Note 4 Retrospective Responsibility   Plan  and  Note 21 Legal   Matters  to our consolidated financial
        
   46   

Table of Contents  

statements. In fiscal 2009 we made $2.0 billion in covered litigation payments that were funded from the Escrow Account.       Other Litigation.  Judgments in and settlements of litigation, other than covered litigation, could give rise to future liquidity needs. For
example, in connection with our retailers  litigation settlement in fiscal 2003, we were required to make annual settlement payments of $200 million through fiscal 2012. In fiscal 2009, we entered into an agreement (the  Prepayment
Agreement ) to modify our remaining payment obligations under the original retailers  litigation settlement agreement. Pursuant to the Prepayment Agreement, on October 5, 2009 we made a payment of $682 million to fully satisfy the
remaining $800 million obligation.       Redemption of Stock.  In fiscal 2008, we redeemed 154,738,487 shares of class B common
stock for $6.6 billion and 159,657,751 shares of our class C (series I) common stock for $6.8 billion. In fiscal 2009 we completed the redemption of 79,748,857 shares of our class C (series II) common stock and 35,263,585 shares of our class C
(series III) common stock held by Visa Europe for $2.6 billion, less dividends and certain other adjustments. In October 2009, our board of directors authorized a $1.0 billion share repurchase plan. The authorization will be in place through
September 30, 2010 and is subject to extension or expansion at the determination of our board of directors.       Dividends . During
fiscal 2009, we paid $318 million in dividends. On October 20, 2009, our board of directors declared a quarterly dividend in the aggregate amount of $0.125 per share of class A common stock (determined in the case of class B and class C common
stock on an as-converted basis). We expect to pay approximately $93 million in connection with this dividend in December 2009. See  Note 15 Stockholders  Equity  to our consolidated financial statements for further information
regarding the dividend declarations. We intend to continue paying quarterly dividends in cash, subject to approval by our board of directors, at an annual rate equal to $0.50 per share of class A common stock. Class B and class C common stock will
share ratably on an as-converted basis in such future dividends.       Visa Europe Put Option.  We have granted Visa Europe a perpetual
put option which, if exercised, will require us to purchase all of the outstanding shares of capital stock of Visa Europe from its members. Visa Europe may exercise the put option at any time. The purchase price of the Visa Europe shares under the
put option is based upon a formula that, subject to certain adjustments, applies Visa Inc. s forward price-to-earnings multiple (the  P/E ratio ) at the time the option is exercised (as defined in the option agreement) to Visa
Europe s projected sustainable adjusted net operating income for the forward 12-month period ( adjusted sustainable income ). Visa Europe s adjusted sustainable income is calculated under the terms of the put option agreement and
includes potentially material adjustments for cost synergies and other negotiated items.      At September 30, 2009, the fair value of
the put option liability was $346 million. While this amount represents the fair value of the put option at September 30, 2009, it does not represent the actual purchase price that we may be required to pay if the option is exercised. The
purchase price we could be obligated to pay 285 days after exercise will represent a substantial financial obligation, which could be several billion dollars or more. We may need to obtain third-party financing, either by borrowing funds or
undertaking a subsequent equity offering in order to fund this payment. The amount of that potential obligation could vary dramatically based on, among other things, Visa Europe s adjusted sustainable income and our P/E ratio, in each case, as
determined at the time the put option is exercised.      Given the perpetual nature of the put option and the various economic conditions
which could be present at the time of exercise, our ultimate obligation in the event of exercise cannot be reliably estimated. The following table calculates our total obligation assuming, for illustrative purposes only, a range of P/E ratios for
Visa Inc. and assuming that Visa Europe demonstrates $75 million of adjusted
        
   47   

Table of Contents  

sustainable income at the date of exercise. The $75 million of assumed adjusted sustainable income provided below for illustrative purposes only is based on Visa Europe s financial results
for the year ended September 30, 2008. However, this does not represent an estimate of the amount of adjusted sustainable income Visa Europe would have been able to demonstrate at September 30, 2008 or will be able to demonstrate
at any point in time in the future. The table also provides the amount of increase or decrease in the payout, assuming the same range of estimated P/E ratios, for each $25 million of adjusted sustainable income above or below the assumed $75 million
demonstrated at the time of exercise. At September 30, 2009, our estimated long-term P/E ratio was 22.0 and the P/E differential, the difference between this ratio and the estimated ratio applicable to Visa Europe, was 4.5x as compared to the
estimated long term differential of 5.3x we used to value the put option. However these ratios are for reference purposes only and are not necessarily indicative of the ratio or differential that could be applicable if the put option were to be
exercised at any point in the future.       

(1)   
        Given the large range of different
economic environments and circumstances under which Visa Europe could decide to exercise its option the ultimate purchase price could be several billion dollars or more.          Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits.  We sponsor various qualified and nonqualified defined benefit pension plans which generally provide
benefits based on years of service, age and employees  final three to five years of earnings, as well as a postretirement benefit plan which provides postretirement medical benefits for retirees and dependents upon meeting minimum age and
service requirements. Our policy with respect to our qualified pension plan is to contribute annually not less than the minimum required under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, or ERISA. Our nonqualified pension and other postretirement
benefit plans are funded on a current basis. We typically fund our qualified pension plan in September of each year. Funding does not impact current period pension expense but has the positive impact of reducing future period expense for the plan.
In fiscal 2009, 2008 and for Visa U.S.A. in fiscal 2007, we made contributions to our pension and other postretirement plans of $170 million, $190 million and $65 million, respectively. In fiscal 2010, we intend to fund our defined benefit pension
plans and postretirement plan by approximately $70 million.       Capital Expenditures.  During fiscal 2009, we completed the
construction of a new data center on the east coast of the United States. Upon completion in March 2009, we migrated our current east coast data center to this new facility. The new data center is intended to support our technology objectives
related to reliability, scalability, security and new product development. In fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007 we incurred total costs of $156 million, $241 million and $23 million, respectively related to the construction of this new data center. We will
continue to make ongoing investments in technology and our payments system infrastructure, some of which we treat as capital expenditures.       Other Uses.  In addition to the principal uses of liquidity described above, we are also required to make interest and principal payments under our outstanding indebtedness. Our total outstanding principal balance of debt at
September 30, 2009, net of unamortized issuance costs, was $56 million.         
   48   

Table of Contents  

     Fair Value Measurements Financial Instruments        Beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2009, the assessment of fair value of our financial instruments is based on the provisions of Accounting
Standards Codification ( ASC ) 820. ASC 820 establishes a fair value hierarchy that requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. Observable inputs are
obtained from independent sources and can be validated by a third party, whereas unobservable inputs reflect assumptions regarding what a third party would use in pricing an asset or liability.      As of September 30, 2009, our financial instruments measured at fair value on a recurring basis included approximately $6.3 billion of assets, of
which $34 million, or less than 1%, had significant unobservable inputs. For these instruments, we lacked observable market data to corroborate either the non-binding market consensus prices or the non-binding broker quotes. Marketable debt
instruments in this category include corporate debt securities, mortgage backed securities, other asset backed securities and auction rate securities. See  Note 5 Investments and Fair Value Measurements  to our consolidated financial
statements.       Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements       Our off-balance sheet arrangements are comprised of guarantees. Visa has no off-balance sheet debt, other than lease and purchase order commitments as discussed below and reflected in our contractual obligations
table.        Guarantees and Indemnifications        In 2001, Visa International entered into a 20-year lease agreement for premises in London to be occupied by the EU region and Visa CEMEA. The lease is assigned to Visa Europe Services, Inc., or VESI, a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Visa Europe, with Visa International acting as a guarantor to the landlord as required by the United Kingdom. In the event of a default by VESI, Visa International is obligated to make base lease payments. VESI has agreed to reimburse
Visa International for any liabilities that may arise under Visa International s guarantee to the landlord. Visa International has not made any payments under this guarantee and the estimated fair value of this guarantee was less than $1
million at September 30, 2009.      We indemnify customers for settlement losses suffered by reason of the failure of any other
customer to honor Visa cards, traveler s cheques, or other instruments processed in accordance with our operating regulations. The amount of the indemnification is unlimited. We maintain global credit settlement risk policies and procedures to
manage settlement risk which may require customers to post collateral if certain credit standards are not met. See  Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  and  Note 12 Settlement Guarantee Management  to our
consolidated financial statements.      In the ordinary course of business, we enter into contractual arrangements with financial
institution and other customers under which we may agree to indemnify the customer for certain types of losses incurred relating to the services we provide or otherwise relating to our performance under the applicable agreement. Historically,
payments we have made related to these indemnification obligations have been immaterial.       Contractual Obligations       Our contractual commitments will have an impact on our future liquidity. The contractual obligations identified in the table below include both on- and
off-balance sheet transactions that represent a material expected or contractually committed future obligation at September 30, 2009. We believe that we will be able to fund these obligations through cash generated from our operations and
        
   49   

Table of Contents  

available credit facilities. See  Note 3 Visa Europe, Note 10 Debt, Note 18 Commitments and Contingencies , and  Note 21 Legal Matters  to our consolidated financial
statements.       

(1)     
    Represents agreements to purchase goods and services that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify significant terms, including: fixed or minimum
quantities to be purchased and fixed, minimum or variable price provisions, and the approximate timing of the transaction.      

(2)     
    Includes both operating and capital leases. Visa leases certain premises, equipment and software licenses under leases with varying expiration dates.

(3)     
    Represents non-cancelable agreements with financial institutions and merchants for various programs designed to build sales volume and increase payment product
acceptance. These agreements, which range in term from one to thirteen years, provide card issuance, marketing and program support based on specific performance requirements. Payments under these agreements will be offset by revenues earned from
higher corresponding payments and transaction volumes. These payment amounts are estimates and will change based on customer performance, execution of new contracts, or amendments to existing contracts.      

(4)     
    Visa is a party to contractual sponsorship agreements ranging from less than one year to eight years. These contracts are designed to help us increase
Visa-branded cards and volumes. Over the life of these contracts, Visa is required to make payments in exchange for certain advertising and promotional rights. In connection with these contractual commitments, Visa has an obligation to spend certain
minimum amounts for advertising and marketing promotion over the contract terms.      

(6)     
    We have liabilities for uncertain tax positions of $397 million, net of offsetting tax benefits associated with the correlative effects of state and foreign
income taxes. At September 30, 2009, we also accrued $22 million of interest and $5 million of penalties associated with our uncertain tax positions. We cannot determine the range of cash payments that will be made and the timing of the cash
settlements with our uncertain tax positions. Therefore, no amounts related to these obligations have been included in the table.      

(7)     
    Visa granted a perpetual put option to Visa Europe, which if exercised, will require us to purchase all of the outstanding shares of capital stock of Visa Europe
from its members. Due to the perpetual nature of the instrument and the various economic conditions, which could exist when the put is exercised, the ultimate amount and timing of Visa s obligation, if any, cannot be reliably estimated.
Therefore, no amounts related to this obligation have been included in the table. The fair value of the Visa Europe put option itself totaling $346 million at September 30, 2009 has also been excluded from this table as it does not represent
the amount or an estimate of the amount of Visa s obligation in the event of exercise. See  Liquidity  and  Critical Accounting Estimates  sections of this  Management s Discussion and Analysis  and  Note 3 Visa
Europe  to our consolidated financial statements.            
   50   

Table of Contents  

    Critical Accounting Estimates       Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America which requires us to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that
affect the amounts reported. See  Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  to our consolidated financial statements. We have established policies and control procedures which seek to ensure that estimates and assumptions are
appropriately governed and applied consistently from period to period. However, actual results could differ from our assumptions and estimates, and such differences could be material.      We believe that the following accounting estimates are the most critical to fully understand and evaluate our reported financial results, as they
require our most subjective or complex management judgments, resulting from the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain and unpredictable.        Revenue Recognition Volume and Support Incentives         Critical Estimates.  We
enter into incentive agreements with financial institution customers, merchants and other business partners to build payments volume and to increase product acceptance. These incentives are generally accounted for as reductions of operating revenue
or expense where an identifiable benefit can be identified. Certain volume and support incentives are based on performance targets and are accrued systematically and rationally based upon estimates of future performance. Other incentives are based
on fixed payments and are generally deferred, if certain criteria are met. The deferability criteria includes the existence of legally enforceable recoverability clauses, management s ability and intent to enforce the recoverability clauses and
the ability to generate future earnings from the agreement in excess of the deferred amounts. Capitalized amounts are amortized over the period of contractual recoverability.         Assumptions and Judgment.  Estimation of volume and support incentives relies on forecasts of payments volume, estimates of card issuance and
card conversion. Performance is estimated using customer reported information, transactional information accumulated from our systems, historical information and discussions with our customers.       Impact if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions.  If our customers  actual performance or recoverable cash flows are not consistent with
our estimates, volume and support incentives may be materially different than initially recorded. Increases in incentive payments are generally driven by increased payment and transaction volume, and as a result, in the event incentive payments
exceed estimates, such payments are not expected to have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The cumulative impact of a revision in estimates is recorded in the period such revisions become probable and
estimable. For the year ended September 30, 2009, performance adjustments to volume and support agreements were less than 1% of our total operating revenues.        Fair Value Visa Europe Put Option         Critical Estimates.  We have granted Visa
Europe a perpetual put option under which we are required to purchase all of the share capital of Visa Europe from its members at any time. The purchase price of the Visa Europe shares under the put option is based upon a formula that, subject to
certain adjustments, applies Visa Inc. s forward price-to-earnings multiple, as defined in the agreement, at the time the option is exercised to Visa Europe s projected sustainable adjusted net operating income for the forward 12-month
period. See  Note 3 Visa Europe  to our consolidated financial statements for further detail regarding the calculation of the put exercise price under the agreement.      The fair value of Visa Europe s option, which under certain conditions could obligate us to purchase its members  equity interests for an
amount greater than fair value, was determined to be
        
   51   

Table of Contents  

approximately $346 million at September 30, 2009. While the put option is in fact non transferable, this      amount, recorded in our financial statements represents our estimate of the amount we would be required to pay a third party market participant to transfer the put option in an orderly transaction. Our valuation
methodology involves using probability weighted models designed to estimate the present value of our liability assuming various possible exercise decisions that Visa Europe could make, including the possibility it will never exercise its option,
under different economic conditions in the future. While this amount represents the fair value of the put option at September 30, 2009, it does not represent the actual purchase price that we may be required to pay if the option is
exercised, which could be several billion dollars or more. See the  Liquidity and Capital Resources  section of  Management s Discussion and Analysis  for further discussion.       Assumptions and Judgment.  The most significant estimates used in the valuation of the fair value of the put option are the assumed probability
that Visa Europe will elect to exercise its option, and the estimated differential between the forward price-to-earnings multiple applicable to our common stock, as defined in the put option agreement, and that applicable to Visa Europe on a stand
alone basis at the time of exercise, which we refer to as the P/E differential.       Probability of Exercise  Exercise of the put
option is at the sole discretion of Visa Europe (on behalf of the Visa Europe shareholders pursuant to authority granted to Visa Europe, under its articles of association). We estimate the assumed probability of exercise based on reasonably
available information including, but not limited to: (i) Visa Europe s stated intentions; (ii) indications that Visa Europe is preparing to exercise as reflected in its reported financial results; (iii) evaluation of market
conditions, including the regulatory environment, that could impact the potential future profitability of Visa Europe; and (iv) qualitative factors applicable to Visa Europe s largest members, which could indicate a change in their need or
desire to liquidate their investment holdings.       P/E Differential  The P/E differential is determined by estimating the
relative difference in the forward price-to-earnings multiples applicable to our common stock, as defined in the put option agreement, and that applicable to Visa Europe at the time of exercise. For valuation purposes, the forward price-to-earnings
multiple applicable to our common stock at the time of exercise is estimated by evaluating various quantitative measures and qualitative factors. Quantitatively, we estimate our P/E ratio by dividing the average stock price over both the shorter of
the preceding 24 months or since our IPO (the  long-term P/E calculation ) and the last 30 trading dates (the  30-day P/E calculation ) prior to the measurement date by the median estimate of our net income per share for the 12
months starting with the next calendar quarter immediately following the reporting date. This median earnings estimate is obtained from the Institutional Brokers  Estimate System (I/B/E/S). We then determine the best estimate of our long term
price-to-earnings multiple for valuation purposes by qualitatively evaluating the 30-day P/E calculation as compared to the long-term P/E calculation. In this evaluation we examine both measures to determine whether differences, if any, are the
result of a fundamental change in long-term value of the Company or the result of short-term market volatility or other non-Company specific market factors that may not be indicative of our long-term forward P/E. We believe, given the perpetual
nature of the put option, that a market participant would more heavily weight long-term value indicators, as opposed to short-term indicators.      Factors that might indicate a fundamental change in long-term value include, but are not limited to, changes in the regulatory environment, client portfolio, long-term growth rates or new product innovation. A consistent methodology is
applied to a group of comparable public companies used to estimate the forward price-to-earnings multiple applicable to Visa Europe. These estimates therefore are impacted by changes in stock prices and the financial market s expectations of
the future earnings of Visa Inc. and the comparable companies.      Other estimates of lesser significance applied include growth rates and
foreign currency exchange rates applied in the calculation of Visa Europe s projected sustainable adjusted net operating income.
        
   52   

Table of Contents  

The valuation model assumes a large range of annual growth rates reflecting the different economic environments and circumstances under which Visa Europe could decide to exercise. The lowest
growth rates assumed reflect Visa Europe s current business model as an association, owned by its member banks, while the highest reflect a successful shift to a for-profit model in anticipation of exercise. The scenarios with higher growth
rates are assigned a significantly higher probability in the valuation model as we believe a market participant would more heavily weight these scenarios as it is likely that, should it choose to exercise its option, Visa Europe will seek to
maximize the purchase price by adopting a for-profit business model in advance of exercising the put option. The foreign exchange rate used to translate Visa Europe s results from euros to U.S. dollars reflects our estimate of long-term
exchange rates and is determined based on forward foreign exchange rates available in the marketplace. The assumed timing of exercise of the put option used in the various modeled scenarios is not an overly significant assumption in the valuation as
obligations calculated in later years are more heavily discounted in the calculation of present value.       Impact if Actual Results
Differ from Assumptions.  In the determination of the fair value of the put option at September 30, 2009, we have assumed a 40% probability of exercise by Visa Europe at some point in the future and a P/E differential, at the time of
exercise, of approximately 5.3x. The use of a probability of exercise that is 5% higher than our estimate would have resulted in an increase of approximately $44 million in the value of the put option. An increase of 1.0x in the assumed P/E
differential would have resulted in an increase of approximately $71 million in the value of the put option. The put option became exercisable during fiscal 2009. The put option is exercisable at any time at the sole discretion of Visa Europe. As
such, the put option liability is included in accrued liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet at September 30, 2009. Classification in current liabilities is not an indication of management s expectation of exercise and simply
reflects the fact that this obligation could become payable within 12 months.        Fair Value Goodwill and Intangible Assets     
   Critical Estimates.  We are required to estimate the fair value and useful lives of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business
combination. The difference between the purchase price and the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed is goodwill. We are subsequently required to assess assets acquired and goodwill for impairment.       Assumptions and Judgment.  Judgment used in the valuation of assets and liabilities assumed in business combinations, including goodwill and
intangible assets, can include the cash flows that an asset is expected to generate, the weighted average cost of capital and a discount rate determined by management. We believe that the assumptions made are comparable to those that market
participants would use in making estimates of fair value. Determining the expected life of an intangible asset requires management judgment and is based on the evaluation of various factors, including the competitive environment, market share,
customer history and macroeconomic situation. We determined that our brand and customer relationships intangible assets have indefinite lives, based on our significant market share, history of strong revenue and cash flow performance, and historical
retention rates. Our assets acquired, liabilities assumed and related goodwill are assigned to one reporting unit, which is the level in which discrete financial information is available and reviewed by the chief operating decision maker.
     Review of impairment is completed annually or whenever events and circumstances indicate that impairment may exist. Impairment testing
for intangible assets requires the allocation of cash flows to those assets or asset group and if required, an estimate of fair value for the assets or asset group. Impairment exists if the fair value is less than the carrying value. Goodwill
impairment is reviewed using a two-step process that involves comparing the fair value of the reporting unit to its carrying value and comparing the implied fair value of reporting unit goodwill with the carrying amount of that
        
   53   

Table of Contents  

goodwill. Management relies on a number of factors when completing impairment assessment including a review of discounted future cash flows, business plans and use of present value techniques. No
impairment of our intangible assets or goodwill exists as of our July 1, 2009 annual assessment, and no events or circumstances indicate that impairment may exist thereafter as reflected by the overall performance of our business and market
capitalization among other factors.       Impact if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions.  If actual results are not consistent with
our assumptions and estimates, we may be exposed to impairment charges. The carrying value of the goodwill and intangible assets was $21.1 billion, including $10.9 billion of indefinite-lived intangible assets at September 30, 2009.   
    Legal and Regulatory Matters         Critical Estimates.  We are currently involved in various claims and legal proceedings, the outcomes of which are not within our complete control or may not be known for prolonged periods of time. Management is required to assess the
probability of loss and amount of such loss, if any, in preparing our financial statements.       Assumptions and Judgment.  We
evaluate the likelihood of a potential loss from any claim or legal proceeding to which we are a party. We record a liability for claims and legal proceedings when a loss is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. Significant
judgment may be required in both the determination of probability and whether an exposure is reasonably estimable.      Our judgments are
subjective based on the status of the legal or regulatory proceedings, the merits of our defenses and consultation with in-house and outside legal counsel. As additional information becomes available, we reassess the potential liability related to
pending claims and litigation and may revise our estimates.       Impact if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions.  Due to the
inherent uncertainties of the legal and regulatory process in the multiple jurisdictions in which we operate, our judgments may be materially different than the actual outcomes, which could have material adverse effects on our business, financial
condition and results of operations.        Income Taxes         Critical Estimates.  In calculating our effective tax rate, we make judgments regarding certain tax positions, including the timing and amount of deductions and allocations of income among various tax
jurisdictions.       Assumptions and Judgment.  We have various tax filing positions with regard to the timing and amount of deductions
and credits, the establishment of reserves for audit matters and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. We are also required to inventory, evaluate and measure all uncertain tax positions taken or to be taken on tax returns, and
to record liabilities for the amount of such positions that may not be sustained, or may only partially be sustained, upon examination by the relevant taxing authorities.         Impact if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions.  Although we believe that our estimates and judgments are reasonable, actual results may
differ from these estimates. Some or all of these judgments are subject to review by the taxing authorities, including our current and deferred tax benefits associated with the settlement of the American Express litigation and the Discover
litigation and other matters. See  Note 21 Legal Matters  to our consolidated financial statements. If one or more of the taxing authorities were to successfully challenge our right to realize some or all of the tax benefit we have
recorded, and we were unable to realize this benefit, it could have a material and adverse effect on our financial results and cash flows.           
   54   

Table of Contents  

    Impact of Recent Accounting Pronouncements       In June 2008, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) amended FASB ASC 260-10 to address whether instruments granted in share-based
payment transactions are participating securities prior to vesting and therefore need to be included in the earnings allocation in calculating earnings per share under the two-class method .  The amendment requires companies to treat unvested
share-based payment awards that have non-forfeitable rights to dividend or dividend equivalents as a separate class of securities in calculating earnings per share. We will adopt this amendment in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. This change will
not result in any impact to fiscal 2009 and 2008 full year diluted class A net income per share.       Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about
Market Risk       Market risk is the potential economic loss arising from adverse changes in market factors. Our exposure to financial
market risks results primarily from fluctuations in foreign currency rates, interest rates and equity prices. We do not hold or enter into derivatives or other financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. Aggregate risk exposures are
monitored on an ongoing basis, and cash and cash equivalents are not considered to be subject to significant interest rate risk due to the short period of time to maturity.        Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk        Although most of our activities are transacted in
U.S. dollars, we are exposed to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. Risks from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations are related primarily to adverse changes in the dollar value of revenues that are derived from foreign
currency-denominated transactions, and to adverse changes in the dollar value of payments in foreign currencies, primarily for costs and expenses at our non-U.S. locations. We manage these risks by entering into foreign currency forward contracts
with cash flow hedge accounting designation that hedges exposures of the variability in the U.S. dollar equivalent of anticipated non-U.S. dollar denominated cash flows. Our foreign currency exchange rate risk management program reduces, but does
not entirely eliminate, the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements. We do not use foreign currency forward contracts for speculative or trading purposes.      In fiscal 2009, we implemented a rolling hedge strategy program, which we anticipate utilizing going forward. Under this strategy, we seek to reduce the exchange rate risk from forecasted net exposure of revenues
derived from and payments made in foreign currencies during the immediately following 12 months. The aggregate notional amount of our foreign currency forward contracts outstanding in our exchange rate risk management program was
$742 million and $4 million, respectively, at September 30, 2009 and September 30, 2008. The aggregate notional amount of $742 million outstanding at September 30, 2009 is fully consistent with our strategy and treasury
policy aimed at reducing foreign exchange risk below a predetermined and approved threshold. However, actual results for this period could materially differ from our forecast. The effect of a hypothetical 10% change of the U.S. dollar is estimated
to create an additional fair value gain or loss of $61 million on our foreign currency forward contracts outstanding at September 30, 2009. See  Note 13   Derivative Financial Instruments.       We are also subject to foreign currency exchange risk in daily settlement activities. This risk arises from the timing of rate setting for settlement
with customers relative to the timing of market trades for balancing currency positions. Risk in settlement activities is limited through daily operating procedures, including the utilization of Visa settlement systems and our interaction with
foreign exchange trading counterparties.         
   55   

Table of Contents  

     Interest Rate Risk        Our investment portfolio assets are held in both fixed-rate and adjustable-rate securities. These assets are included in cash equivalents, short-term available-for-sale investments and long-term available-for-sale
investments. Investments in fixed rate instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. The fair value of fixed rate securities may be adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates. Additionally, a falling rate environment creates reinvestment
risk because as securities mature the proceeds are reinvested at a lower rate, generating less interest income. Historically, we have been able to hold investments until maturity. Operating results or cash flows have not been, and are not expected
to be, materially impacted by a sudden change in market interest rates. The fair value balances of our fixed-rate investment securities in fiscal 2009 and 2008 were $176 million and $403 million, respectively.     A hypothetical 100 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates would have impacted the fair value of our investment portfolio by approximately
$3 million at September 30, 2009.      The fair value balances of our adjustable-rate debt securities were $34 million and $103 million
at September 30, 2009 and 2008, respectively.      We have fixed rate debt which is subject to interest rate risk. A hypothetical 100
basis point increase or decrease in rates would have impacted the fair value of these notes by approximately $2 million at September 30, 2009.        Visa Europe Put Option        We have a liability related to the put option with Visa Europe which is recorded at fair
market value at September 30, 2009. We are required to record any change in the fair value of the put option on a quarterly basis. In the determination of the fair value of the put option at September 30, 2009, we have assumed a 40%
probability of exercise by Visa Europe at some point in the future and a P/E differential, at the time of exercise, of approximately 5.3x. The use of a probability of exercise 5% higher than our estimate would have resulted in an increase of
approximately $44 million in the value of the put option. An increase of 1.0x in the assumed P/E differential would have resulted in an increase of approximately $71 million in the value of the put option. See  Liquidity and Capital Resources
 and  Critical Accounting Estimates  above.        Pension Plan Assets Risk        Our total defined benefit pension plan assets were $703 million and $624 million at September 30, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Although these
assets are not included in our financial statements, a material adverse decline in the value of pension plan assets could result in increases to our pension liability and a reduction to stockholders  equity due to an increase in the underfunded
status of the plan, increases in pension expense due to a decline in the expected rate of return on plan assets, and increases in required funding. We will continue to monitor the performance of pension plan assets and market conditions as we
evaluate the amount of our contribution to the plan for fiscal 2010, which we expect to make in September 2010.       

ITEM 7A.   
   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk         Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are included in  Item 7   Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  of this report.
        
   56   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 8.   
   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data            VISA INC.        INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        
       
   57   

Table of Contents  

      Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm       The Board of Directors and Stockholders      Visa Inc. and subsidiaries:
     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Visa Inc. and subsidiaries as of September 30, 2009 and 2008, and
the related consolidated statements of operations, changes in stockholders  equity, comprehensive income, and cash flows for each of the years in the two-year period ended September 30, 2009, and the consolidated statements of operations,
changes in stockholders  equity, comprehensive income, and cash flows of Visa U.S.A. Inc. and subsidiaries for the year ended September 30, 2007. We also have audited Visa Inc. s internal control over financial reporting as of
September 30, 2009, based on criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Visa Inc. s management is responsible for these
consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management s Report
on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements and an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audits.      We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require
that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our
audits of the consolidated financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management,
and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists,
and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.      A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over
financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in
accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could
have a material effect on the financial statements.      Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may
not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or
procedures may deteriorate.      In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of Visa Inc. and subsidiaries as of September 30, 2009 and 2008, and
        
   58   

Table of Contents  

the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the two-year period ended September 30, 2009, and the results of the operations and cash flows of Visa U.S.A.
Inc. and subsidiaries for the year ended September 30, 2007, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also in our opinion, Visa Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial
reporting as of September 30, 2009, based on criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.      As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the related consolidated statements of operations, changes in stockholders 
equity, comprehensive income, and cash flows for the year ended September 30, 2007 are those of Visa U.S.A. Inc. and subsidiaries, the accounting acquirer in the reorganization.      /s/ KPMG LLP      San Francisco, California      November 19, 2009         
   59   

Table of Contents  

      VISA INC.        CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS        
     See accompanying notes, which are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.          
   60   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (Continued)        
     See accompanying notes, which are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.          
   61   

Table of Contents  

      VISA INC.        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS        
       
   62   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)        

(1)   
    Historical balances for periods prior to October 1, 2007 represent balances for Visa U.S.A., the accounting acquirer in the business combination.

(2)   
    For the years ended September 30, 2007, Visa U.S.A. was a non-stock corporation and therefore there was no comparable metric for net income per share and no
common stock outstanding.          See accompanying notes, which are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.          
   63   

Table of Contents  

      VISA INC.        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY        
       
   64   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY (Continued)        

(1)   
    Shares of class C (series I) common stock were designated as class C common stock with no series designation upon October 2008 redemption.

(2)   
    Historical balances for periods prior to October 1, 2007 represent balances for Visa U.S.A., the accounting acquirer in the business combination.
         See accompanying notes, which are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.          
   65   

Table of Contents  

      VISA INC.        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME        

(1)   
    Historical balances for periods prior to October 1, 2007 represent balances for Visa U.S.A., the accounting acquirer in the business combination.
         See accompanying notes, which are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.          
   66   

Table of Contents  

      VISA INC.        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS        
       
   67   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Continued)        

(1)   
    Historical balances for periods prior to October 1, 2007 represent balances for Visa U.S.A., the accounting acquirer in the business combination.
         See accompanying notes, which are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.          
   68   

Table of Contents  

      VISA INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        September 30, 2009
       (in millions, except as noted)        Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies        Organization  Visa Inc. ( Visa  or the
 Company ) is a global payments technology company that connects consumers, businesses, banks and governments around the world, enabling them to use digital currency instead of check and cash. The Company provides financial institutions
with payment processing platforms that encompass consumer credit, debit, prepaid and commercial payments, and facilitate global commerce through the transfer of value and information among financial institutions, merchants, consumers, businesses and
government entities. The Company does not issue cards, set fees, or determine the interest rates consumers will be charged on Visa-branded cards, which are the independent responsibility of the Company s issuing customers. In order to respond
to industry dynamics and enhance Visa s ability to compete, Visa undertook a reorganization in October 2007, and in March 2008 the Company completed its initial public offering (the  IPO ). See  Note 2 The
Reorganization.        Consolidation and basis of presentation  The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of
Visa Inc. and its consolidated entities and are presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ( GAAP ). The Company consolidates all entities that are controlled by ownership of a
majority voting interest as well as variable interest entities for which the Company is the primary beneficiary. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated in consolidation. Certain reclassifications, not affecting net
income, have been made to prior period information to conform to the current period presentation format.      Prior to the October 2007
reorganization, Visa operated as five corporate entities related by ownership and membership: Visa U.S.A., Visa International Service Association ( Visa International  comprising the operating regions of Asia Pacific ( AP ),
Latin America and Caribbean ( LAC ), and Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa ( CEMEA )), Visa Canada Inc. ( Visa Canada ), Inovant LLC ( Inovant ), and Visa Europe Limited ( Visa
Europe ). See  Note 2 The Reorganization.  Beginning October 1, 2007, the Company s consolidated results include Visa U.S.A., Visa International, Visa Canada and Inovant. Visa Europe did not become a subsidiary of Visa Inc.
as part of the reorganization. See  Note 3 Visa Europe.  Consolidated results for the year ended September 30, 2007 are those of Visa U.S.A., the accounting acquirer in the reorganization.      During the first quarter of fiscal 2009, the Company formed Visa Processing Services, Ltd. ( VPS ) and issued a 30% minority interest to and
executed a joint venture agreement with Yalamanchili International Pte. Ltd., a payments processor and software company that will enable VPS to extend multi-currency and multi-language debit, credit and prepaid processing capabilities outside of the
United States. The Company retained the remaining 70% interest in VPS, which is consolidated in the financial statements.      In fiscal
2010, the Company will report non-controlling interests (previously referred to as minority interests) as a component of equity. The adoption will primarily impact the presentation of the consolidated financial statements including all comparable
periods.      The Company has one operating and reportable segment,  Payment Services.  The Company s activities are
interrelated and each activity is dependent upon and supportive of the other. Accordingly all significant operating decisions are based on analysis of Visa Inc. as a single global business.       Use of estimates  The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and
assumptions about future events. These estimates and
        
   69   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)        September 30, 2009
       (in millions, except as noted)             
assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and reported amounts of
revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Future actual results could materially differ from these estimates. The use of estimates in specific accounting policies are described further below as appropriate.       Cash and cash equivalents  Cash and cash equivalents include cash and certain highly liquid investments with original maturities of 90 days
or less from the date of purchase. Cash equivalents are recorded at cost, which approximates fair value.       Restricted
cash Litigation escrow  The Company deposited funds from the IPO and its own funds into an Escrow Account from which settlements of, or judgments in, the covered litigation will be paid. See  Note 4 Retrospective Responsibility
Plan  for discussion of covered litigation. The escrow funds are held in money market investments together with the income earned, less applicable taxes payable, and classified as restricted cash on the consolidated balance sheet. The amount of
the Escrow Account, equivalent to the actual undiscounted amount of payments expected to be made beyond one year from the balance sheet date for settled claims, is classified as a non-current asset. Interest earned on escrow funds is included in
investment income, net, on the consolidated statement of operations.       Investments and fair value  Effective October 1,
2008, the Company began to measure certain required assets and liabilities at fair value as defined in Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) Accounting Standards Codification ( ASC ) 820. Fair value is the price that
would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The standard establishes a framework for measuring fair value, sets out a three-level fair value
hierarchy to be used to classify the source of information used in fair value measurements, and requires disclosures of assets and liabilities measured at fair value based on their level in the hierarchy.      The three levels of the valuation hierarchy and the classification of the Company s financial assets and liabilities within the hierarchy are as
follows:       Level 1  Inputs to the valuation methodology are unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or
liabilities. The fair value of the Company s cash equivalents (money market funds), mutual fund equity securities and exchange-traded equity securities are based on quoted prices and are therefore classified as Level 1.       Level 2  Inputs to the valuation methodology can include: (1) quoted prices in active markets for similar (not identical) assets or
liabilities; (2) quoted prices for identical or similar assets in non-active markets; (3) inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability; or (4) inputs that are derived principally from or corroborated by observable
market data.      Level 2 assets include U.S. government-sponsored debt securities, and Canadian government debt securities for which fair
value is based on quoted prices in active markets for similar assets, and other observable inputs. Level 2 assets and liabilities also include foreign exchange derivative instruments in an asset or liability position and are valued using inputs that
are derived principally from or corroborated with observable market data.         
   70   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)        September 30, 2009
       (in millions, except as noted)              Level 3  Inputs to the valuation methodology are unobservable and cannot be corroborated by observable market data. Inputs reflect the use
of significant management judgment via the use of pricing models for which the assumptions include estimates of market participant assumptions. Level 3 assets include the Company s auction rate securities, corporate debt securities, mortgage
backed securities and other asset backed securities. Level 3 liabilities include the Visa Europe put option. See  Note 3 Visa Europe.       FASB provided further guidance in April 2009 on how to determine the fair value of assets and liabilities when there is no active market or where the price inputs being used to determine fair value represent distressed sales. The adoption
of this guidance did not have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.      Available-for-sale securities include
investments in debt and marketable equity securities. These securities are recorded at cost at the time of purchase and are carried at fair value. The Company classifies its debt and marketable equity securities as available-for-sale to meet its
operational needs. Investments with original maturities greater than 90 days and stated maturities less than one year from the balance sheet date are current assets, while those with stated maturities greater than one year from the balance sheet
date are non-current assets. Unrealized gains and losses are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) on the consolidated balance sheets. The specific identification method is used to determine realized gain or loss. Dividend and
interest income are recognized when earned and are included in investment income, net on the consolidated statements of operations.      The
Company evaluates its debt securities for other-than-temporary impairment ( OTTI ) on an ongoing basis. OTTI is assessed when fair value is below amortized cost. OTTI can be triggered when a company has the intent to sell a security, is
more likely than not required to sell the security before recovery of the amortized cost basis, or does not expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the security. The Company has not presented required separate disclosures because its
gross unrealized loss positions in debt securities for the periods presented are not material. In addition, the credit and non-credit loss components of debt securities on the balance sheet for which OTTI was previously recognized were not material.
The Company recognized $9 million in OTTI during fiscal 2009 primarily related to corporate debt, mortgage backed and asset backed securities. In fiscal 2008, the Company recognized $9 million in OTTI primarily related to auction rate securities.
     Trading assets include mutual fund equity security investments related to various employee compensation and benefit plans. The trading
activity of these investments is dependent upon the actions of the Company s employees. On October 1, 2008, the Company adopted FASB ASC 825 and elected the fair value option to account for these investments, which had previously been
reported as available-for-sale investments. There was no impact to the consolidated statements of operations as a result of this adoption. Changes in fair value are recorded in investment income, net, and offset in personnel expense on the
consolidated statements of operations.      The Company uses the equity method of accounting for investments in other entities when it holds
between 20% and 50% ownership in the entity or when it exercises significant influence. Under the equity method, the Company s share of each entity s profit or loss is reflected in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates on the
consolidated statements of operations. The equity method of accounting is also used for flow-through entities such as limited partnerships and limited liability
        
   71   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)        September 30, 2009
       (in millions, except as noted)             
companies when the investment ownership percentage is equal to or greater than 5% of outstanding ownership interests, regardless of whether the Company has significant influence over the
investees.      The Company accounts for investments in other entities under the historical cost method of accounting when it holds less
than 20% ownership in the entity or for flow-through entities when the investment ownership is less than 5%, and the Company does not exercise significant influence. These investments consist of equity holdings in non-public companies and are
recorded in other assets on the consolidated balance sheets.      The Company regularly reviews investments accounted for under the cost and
equity methods for possible impairment, which generally involves an analysis of the facts and circumstances influencing the investment, expectations of the entity s cash flows and capital needs, and the viability of its business model.
      Financial instruments  The Company considers the following to be financial instruments: cash and cash equivalents,
restricted cash-litigation escrow, trading and available-for sale investments, the Reserve Primary Fund (see  Note 6 Prepaid Expenses and Other Assets ), accounts receivable, non-marketable equity investments, customer collateral, accounts
payable, debt, settlement guarantees, derivative instruments, the Visa Europe put option, and settlement receivable and payable. The estimated fair value of such instruments at September 30, 2009 approximates their carrying value as reported on
the consolidated balance sheets except as otherwise disclosed, or as deemed impracticable to estimate the fair value, such as for non marketable equity investments. See  Note 5 Investments and Fair Value Measurements.        Settlement receivable and payable  The Company operates systems for clearing and settling customer payment transactions. Net settlements
are generally cleared within one to two business days, resulting in amounts due to and from financial institution customers. These settlement receivables and payables are stated at cost and are presented gross on the consolidated balance sheets.
      Customer collateral  The Company holds cash deposits and other noncash assets from certain customers in order to ensure
their performance of settlement obligations arising from credit, debit and travelers cheque product clearings. The cash collateral assets are restricted and fully offset by corresponding liabilities and both balances are presented on the
consolidated balance sheets. Noncash collateral assets are held on behalf of the Company by a third party and are not recorded on the consolidated balance sheets. See  Note 12 Settlement Guarantee Management.        Property, equipment and technology, net  Property, equipment, and technology, net are recorded at historical cost less accumulated
depreciation and amortization, which are computed on a straight-line basis over the asset s estimated useful life. Depreciation and amortization of technology, furniture, fixtures and equipment are computed over estimated useful lives ranging
from 2 to 7 years. Capital leases are amortized over the lease term and leasehold improvements are amortized over the shorter of the useful life of the asset or lease term. Building improvements are depreciated between 3 and 40 years, and buildings
are depreciated over 40 years. Improvements that increase functionality of the asset are capitalized and depreciated over the asset s remaining useful life. Land and construction-in-progress are not depreciated. Fully depreciated assets are
retained in property, equipment and technology, net, until removed from service.         
   72   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)        September 30, 2009
       (in millions, except as noted)             Technology includes both purchased and internally developed software. Internally developed software represents software primarily used by the VisaNet
electronic payment network. Internal and external costs incurred during the preliminary project stage are expensed as incurred. Qualifying costs incurred during the application development stage are capitalized. Once the project is substantially
complete and ready for its intended use these costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over the technology s estimated useful life.       Leases  The Company enters into operating and capital leases for the use of premises, software and equipment. Rent expense related to lease agreements which contain lease incentives are recorded on a straight-line basis.
      Intangible assets  The Company records identifiable intangible assets at fair value on the date of acquisition and evaluates
the useful life of each asset. Intangible assets with finite useful lives are amortized on a straight-line basis. Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortized but are evaluated for impairment annually or whenever events and
circumstances indicate that impairment may exist. Intangible assets consist of tradename, customer relationships and Visa Europe franchise right, all of which have indefinite useful lives.      The Company tests each category of intangible assets for impairment on an aggregate basis, which may require the allocation of cash flows and/or an
estimate of fair value to those assets or asset group. Impairment exists if the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset is less than the carrying value. The Company relies on a number of factors when completing impairment assessment
including a review of discounted future cash flows, business plans and use of present value techniques. The Company evaluated its intangible assets for impairment as of July 1, 2009 and concluded there was no impairment as of that date. No
recent events or circumstances indicate that impairment may exist.       Goodwill  Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase
price over the fair value of the net assets acquired in a business combination. Goodwill is not amortized but is evaluated for impairment at the reporting unit level annually or whenever events and circumstances indicate that impairment may exist.
The Company has only one reporting unit, which is the level in which discrete financial information is available and reviewed by the chief operating decision maker.      Impairment is reviewed using a two-step process. The first step compares the fair value of the reporting unit to its carrying value. If the fair value exceeds the carrying value, no impairment exists, and the
second step is not performed. If the fair value is less than the carrying value, the second step is performed to compute the amount of the impairment by comparing the implied fair value of reporting unit goodwill with the carrying amount of that
goodwill. The Company relies on a number of factors when completing impairment assessment including a review of discounted future cash flows, business plans and use of present value techniques. The Company evaluated its goodwill for impairment as of
July 1, 2009 and concluded there was no impairment as of that date. No recent events or circumstances indicate that impairment may exist as reflected by the Company s overall business performance and market capitalization.       Impairment of long-lived assets  The Company evaluates the recoverability of long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or asset group may not be recoverable. If the sum of expected undiscounted future cash flows is less than the carrying amount of an asset or asset group, an impairment loss is recognized.
The loss is measured as the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset or asset group exceeds its fair value.         
   73   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)        September 30, 2009
       (in millions, except as noted)              Volume and support incentives  The Company enters into incentive agreements with financial institution customers, merchants, and other
business partners designed to build payments volume and to increase product acceptance. These incentives are generally accounted for as reductions of operating revenues or expenses where an identifiable benefit can be identified. The Company
generally capitalizes certain incentive payments under these agreements if certain criteria are met. The capitalization criteria includes the existence of legally enforceable recoverability clauses, such as early termination clauses,
management s ability and intent to enforce the recoverability clauses and the ability to generate future earnings from the agreement in excess of the deferred amounts. Incentives are accrued systematically and rationally based on
management s estimate of the customers  performance. These accruals are regularly reviewed and estimates of performance are adjusted as appropriate. Capitalized amounts are amortized over the period of contractual recoverability.
      Accrued litigation  The Company evaluates the likelihood of an unfavorable outcome of legal or regulatory proceedings to
which it is a party and records a loss contingency when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. These judgments are subjective, based on legal or regulatory proceedings, the merits of
the Company s defenses and consultation with corporate and external legal counsel, and actual outcomes of related legal proceedings may materially differ from the Company s judgment. Accrued litigation associated with settled obligations
to be paid over periods longer than one year is initially recorded using the present value of future payment obligations. The obligation is accreted to its full payment value with the corresponding accretion charge included in interest expense on
the consolidated statement of operations. The Company expenses legal costs as incurred in professional and consulting fees. See also  Note 21   Legal Matters.         Revenue recognition  The Company s operating revenues are comprised principally of service revenues, data processing revenues,
international transaction revenues and other revenues, reduced by costs incurred under volume and support incentives. The Company recognizes revenue when the price is fixed or determinable, persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the service
is performed and collectability of the resulting receivable is reasonably assured.      Service revenues predominantly represent payments by
customers with respect to their card programs carrying marks of the Visa brand and are based principally upon spending on Visa-branded cards for goods and services. Current quarter service revenues are assessed using a calculation of pricing applied
to the prior quarter s payments volume. The Company also earns revenues from assessments designed to support ongoing acceptance and volume growth initiatives. These revenues are recognized in the same period the related volume is transacted.
     Data processing revenues represent revenues earned for authorization, clearing, settlement, transaction processing services and other
maintenance and support services that facilitate transaction and information processing among the Company s customers globally and Visa Europe. These revenues are recognized in the same period the related transactions occur or services are
rendered.      International transaction revenues are assessed to customers on cardholder transactions where the cardholder s issuer
country is different from the merchant s country. Revenues from these cross-border transactions are recognized in the same period the related transactions occur or services are rendered.      Other revenues include revenues earned from Visa Europe in connection with the Framework Agreement  ( see  Note 3 Visa Europe) ,
optional card enhancements, such as extended cardholder
        
   74   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)        September 30, 2009
       (in millions, except as noted)             
protection and concierge services, cardholder services, and other services provided to customers. Other revenues are recognized in the same period the related transactions occur or services are
rendered.       Advertising, marketing and promotion  The Company expenses costs for the production of advertising as incurred.
The cost of media advertising is expensed when the advertising takes place. Sponsorship costs are recognized over the period in which the Company benefits from the sponsorship rights. Promotional items are expensed as incurred, when the related
services are received, or when the related event occurs.       Income taxes  The Company s income tax expense consists of two
components: current and deferred. Current income tax expense represents taxes to be paid for the current period. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to temporary differences between the
financial statement carrying amounts and the respective tax basis of existing assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary
differences are expected to be recovered or settled. In assessing whether deferred tax assets are realizable, management considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. A
valuation allowance is recorded for the portions that are not expected to be realized based on the level of historical taxable income, projections of future taxable income over the periods in which the temporary differences are deductible, and
allowable tax planning strategies.      Where interpretation of the tax law may be uncertain, the Company recognizes, measures and discloses
income tax uncertainties. The Company accounts for interest expense and penalties related to uncertain tax positions in other income (expense) in the consolidated statement of operations.      The Company files a consolidated federal income tax return and, in certain states, combined state tax returns. Foreign taxes paid are generally
deducted to reduce federal income taxes payable.       Pension and other postretirement benefit plans  The Company s defined
benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans are actuarially evaluated, incorporating various critical assumptions including the discount rate and the expected rate of return on plan assets (for qualified pension plans). The discount rate
is based on matching the duration of a pool of high quality corporate bonds to the expected benefit payment stream, and is used to determine the present value of the Company s future benefit obligations. The expected rate of return on pension
plan assets considers the current and expected asset allocation, as well as historical and expected returns on each plan asset class. Any difference between actual and expected plan experience, including asset return experience, in excess of a 10%
corridor is recognized in the net periodic pension calculation over the expected average employee future service period, approximately 8 years for United States plans. Other assumptions involve demographic factors such as retirement, mortality,
attrition and the rate of compensation increases. The Company evaluates assumptions annually and modifies them as appropriate.      The
Company recognizes the funded status of its benefit plans in its consolidated balance sheet as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) within stockholders  equity. The Company immediately recognizes settlement
losses when it settles pension benefit obligations, including making lump-sum cash payments to plan participants in exchange for their rights to receive specified pension benefits. See  Note 11   Pension, Postretirement and Other
Benefits .         
   75   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)        September 30, 2009
       (in millions, except as noted)              Foreign currency remeasurement and translation  The Company s functional currency is the U.S. dollar for the majority of its foreign
operations. Transactions denominated in currencies other than the applicable functional currency are remeasured to the functional currency at the exchange rate on the transaction date. Monetary assets and liabilities are remeasured to the functional
currency using exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date. Non-monetary assets and liabilities are maintained at historical exchange rates. Gains and losses related to remeasurement are recorded in administrative and other in the
consolidated statements of operations.      The functional currency in Canada is the Canadian dollar. Translation from the Canadian dollar
to the U.S. dollar is performed for balance sheet accounts using exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date and for revenue and expense accounts using an average exchange rate for the period. Resulting translation adjustments are reported as
a component of accumulated other comprehensive income on the consolidated balance sheets.       Derivative financial
instruments  The Company uses forward foreign exchange contracts to reduce its exposure to foreign currency rate changes on non-functional currency denominated forecasted operating revenues and expenses. Derivatives are carried at fair value
on the consolidated balance sheets. Gains and losses resulting from changes in fair value of derivative instruments are accounted for either in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) on the consolidated balance sheets, or in the consolidated
statements of operations (in the corresponding account where revenue or expense is hedged, or to administrative and other for hedge amounts determined to be ineffective) depending on whether they are designated and qualify for hedge accounting. Fair
value represents the difference in the value of the contracts at the contractual rate and the value at current market rates, and generally reflects the estimated amounts that the Company would receive or pay to terminate the contracts at the
reporting date based on broker quotes for the same or similar instruments.      Additional disclosures that demonstrate how derivative
instruments and related hedged items affect an entity s financial position, financial performance and cash flows have not been presented because the impact of derivative instruments is immaterial to the overall consolidated balance sheets,
statements of operations and statements of comprehensive income. See  Note 13 Derivative Financial Instruments.        Guarantees and indemnifications  The Company recognizes an obligation for guarantees and indemnifications at inception if the fair value is estimable, regardless of the probability of occurrence. The Company indemnifies issuing
and acquiring customers from settlement losses suffered by the failure of any other customer to honor drafts, travelers cheques, or other instruments processed in accordance with Visa s operating regulations. The estimated fair value of the
liability for settlement indemnification is included in accrued liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets and is described in  Note 12 Settlement Guarantee Management . The Company also indemnifies Visa Europe for any claims arising
out of the provision of services brought against Visa Europe by Visa Inc. s customer financial institutions, as described in  Note 18 Commitments and Contingencies.        Share-based compensation  The Company recognizes share-based compensation cost using the fair value method of accounting. The Company
recognizes compensation cost for awards with only service conditions on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period, which is generally the vesting period. Compensation cost for performance awards is initially estimated based on target
performance and is adjusted as appropriate throughout the performance period. See  Note 17 Share-based Compensation.           
   76   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)        September 30, 2009
       (in millions, except as noted)              Net income per share  The Company calculates net income per share using the two-class method to reflect the different rights of each class
and series of outstanding common stock. See  Note 16 Net Income Per Share.  In fiscal 2010, the Company will include unvested instruments granted in share-based payment transactions that have non-forfeitable rights to dividends or dividend
equivalents in the calculation of net income per share as a separate class of security. This change will not result in any impact to fiscal 2009 and 2008 full year diluted class A net income per share.       Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements       In December 2007, FASB ASC 805 was issued which changes the accounting for business combinations including the measurement of acquirer shares issued in consideration for a business combination, the recognition of
contingent consideration, the treatment of acquisition related transaction costs, the accounting for pre-acquisition gain and loss contingencies, the accounting for acquisition-related restructuring cost accruals, and the recognition of changes in
the acquirer s income tax valuation allowance. In April 2009, FASB ASC 805-20 was issued with regard to the initial recognition and measurement, subsequent measurement and accounting, and disclosure of assets and liabilities arising from
contingencies in a business combination. The Company will adopt these standards on October 1, 2009. The adoption is not expected to have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.      In December 2008, FASB ASC 715-20 was issued which provides guidance on an employer s disclosures about plan assets of a defined benefit pension
or other postretirement plan. The disclosures about plan assets required by this standard are effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2009 and are not required for earlier periods presented for comparative purposes. Earlier
application is permitted. This standard impacts disclosures only and will not have an effect on the consolidated financial position or results of operations upon adoption. The Company will adopt this standard in fiscal 2010.      In May 2009, FASB ASC 855 was issued and established standards of accounting for and disclosure of events that occur after the balance sheet date but
before financial statements are issued or are available to be issued. The standard requires entities to disclose the date through which they have evaluated subsequent events and whether the date corresponds to the release of their financial
statements. The Company has since adopted the standard and subsequent events have been evaluated through November 19, 2009.      In
June 2009, FASB ASC 810-10 was issued. ASC 810-10 changes how a company determines when an entity that is insufficiently capitalized or is not controlled through voting (or similar rights) should be consolidated. The determination of whether a
company is required to consolidate an entity is based on, among other things, an entity s purpose and design and a company s ability to direct the activities of the entity that most significantly impact the entity s economic
performance. The Company will adopt ASC 810-10 effective October 1, 2010. Early adoption is prohibited. The Company is evaluating the impact of adopting ASC 810-10 on its consolidated financial statements.         
   77   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)        September 30, 2009
       (in millions, except as noted)              Note 2 The Reorganization        Description
of the Reorganization and Purchase Consideration       In a series of transactions from October 1 to October 3, 2007, Visa
undertook a reorganization in which Visa U.S.A., Visa International, Visa Canada and Inovant became direct or indirect subsidiaries of Visa Inc. and the Retrospective Responsibility Plan was established. See  Note 4 Retrospective
Responsibility Plan . For accounting purposes, the Company reflected the reorganization as a single transaction occurring on October 1 (the  reorganization date ), using the purchase method of accounting with Visa U.S.A. as the
accounting acquirer. The net assets underlying the acquired interests in Visa International, Visa Canada, and Inovant (the  acquired interests ) were recorded at fair value at the reorganization date with the excess purchase price over
this value attributed to goodwill. Visa Europe did not become a subsidiary of Visa Inc., but rather remained owned and governed by its European member financial institutions and entered into a set of contractual arrangements with the Company in
connection with the reorganization.      The Company issued different classes and series of common stock in the reorganization reflecting
the different rights and obligations of the Visa financial institution members and Visa Europe. The allocation of the Company s common stock to each of Visa AP, Visa LAC, Visa CEMEA, Visa Canada (collectively the  acquired regions )
and Visa U.S.A. (collectively  the participating regions ) was based on each entity s expected relative contribution to the Company s projected fiscal 2008 net income, after giving effect to negotiated adjustments. This
allocation was adjusted shortly prior to the IPO (the  true-up ) to reflect actual performance in the four quarters ended December 31, 2007. The allocation of the Company s common stock and other consideration conveyed to Visa
Europe in exchange for its ownership interest in Visa International and Inovant was determined based on the fair value of each element exchanged in the reorganization as discussed below and in  Note 3   Visa Europe . Total shares
authorized and issued to the financial institution member groups of the participating regions and to Visa Europe in the reorganization totaled 775,080,512 shares of class B and class C common stock.      Total purchase consideration, inclusive of the true-up, of approximately $18.4 billion comprised of the following:       
     Visa Inc. Common Stock Issued in Exchange for the Acquired Interests       The value of the purchase consideration conveyed to each of the member groups of the acquired regions was determined by valuing the underlying
businesses contributed by each, after giving effect to negotiated adjustments. The fair value of the purchase consideration, consisting of 258,022,779 shares of class C (series I) common stock, was approximately $12.6 billion, measured at
June 15, 2007, or the date on which all parties entered into the global restructuring agreement. Additional purchase consideration of $1.2 billion, consisting of 26,138,056 incremental shares of class C common stock valued at $44 per share were
issued to the acquired regions shortly before the IPO in connection with the true-up. The fair value of these shares was determined based on the price per share in the IPO.         
   78   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)        September 30, 2009
       (in millions, except as noted)             To value the shares issued on June 15, 2007 (the  measurement date ), the Company primarily relied upon the analysis of comparable
companies with similar industry, business model and financial profiles. This analysis considered a range of metrics including the forward multiples of revenue; earnings before interest, depreciation and amortization; and net income of these
comparable companies. Ultimately, the Company determined that the forward net income multiple was the most appropriate measure to value the acquired regions and reflect anticipated changes in the Company s financial profile prospectively. This
multiple was applied to the corresponding forward net income of the acquired regions to calculate their value. The most comparable company identified was MasterCard Inc. Therefore, the most significant input into this analysis was MasterCard s
forward net income multiple of 27 times net income at the measurement date.       Visa Inc. Common Stock Issued to Visa Europe
      As part of the reorganization, Visa Europe received 62,762,788 shares of class C (series III and IV) common stock valued at $3.1
billion based on the value of the class C (series I) common stock issued to the acquired regions. Visa Europe also received 27,904,464 shares of class C (series II) common stock valued at $1.104 billion determined by discounting the redemption price
of these shares using a risk-free rate of 4.9% over the period to October 2008, when these shares were redeemed by the Company. Prior to the IPO, the Company issued Visa Europe an additional 51,844,393 class C (series II) common stock at a price of
$44 per share in exchange for a subscription receivable. The issuance and subscription receivable were recorded as offsetting entries in temporary equity at September 30, 2008. Completion of the Company s IPO triggered the redemption
feature of this stock and in March 2008, the Company reclassified all outstanding shares of the class C (series II) common stock at its then fair value of $1.125 billion to temporary equity on the consolidated balance sheet with a corresponding
reduction in additional paid-in-capital of $1.104 billion and accumulated income of $21 million. From March 2008 to October 10, 2008, the date these shares were redeemed, the Company recorded accretion of this stock to its redemption price
through accumulated income.       Fair Value of Assets Acquired and Liabilities Assumed       Total purchase consideration has been allocated to the tangible and identifiable intangible assets and liabilities assumed underlying the acquired
interests based on their fair value on the reorganization date. The excess of purchase consideration over net assets assumed was recorded as goodwill. The following table summarizes this allocation.       
       
   79   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)        September 30, 2009
       (in millions, except as noted)              Condensed Pro Forma Results of Operations       The following condensed Visa Inc. pro forma results of operations for fiscal 2007 have been prepared to give effect to the reorganization described above assuming it occurred on October 1, 2006. The condensed
pro forma results below are presented for illustrative purposes only and have been prepared by applying adjustments to the historical consolidated statements of operations of Visa U.S.A., Visa International and Visa Canada for fiscal 2007.
      
    The condensed pro forma results presented above reflect the Company s continuing
eligibility to claim the special deduction afforded to companies that operate on a cooperative or mutual basis under California Revenue and Taxation Code  24405. Had ineligibility for the special deduction been reflected at October 1, 2006
in the condensed pro forma results, pro forma income tax benefit would decrease and pro forma net loss would increase by approximately $31 million.       Note 3 Visa Europe       Under the terms of the reorganization, Visa Europe exchanged its ownership interest in Visa
International and Inovant for Visa Inc. common stock as described in  Note 2 The Reorganization,  a put-call option agreement and a Framework Agreement, as described below.       Visa Europe Put Option Agreement       The Company granted Visa Europe a perpetual put option, which if exercised, will require Visa Inc. to purchase all of the outstanding shares of capital stock of Visa Europe from its members. The put option became exercisable during fiscal
2009. The Company is required to purchase the shares of Visa Europe no later than 285 days after exercise of the put option. The purchase price of the Visa Europe shares under the put option is based upon a formula that, subject to certain
adjustments, applies Visa Inc. s forward price-to-earnings multiple (the  P/E ratio ) at the time the option is exercised (as defined in the option agreement) to Visa Europe s projected sustainable adjusted net operating income
for the forward 12-month period ( adjusted sustainable income ). Visa Europe s adjusted sustainable income is calculated under the terms of the put option agreement and includes potentially material adjustments for cost synergies and
other negotiated items.         
   80   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)        September 30, 2009
       (in millions, except as noted)              Fair Value of Put Option.  At September 30, 2009, the Company determined the fair value of the put option to be approximately $346 million.
While this amount represents the fair value of the put option at September 30, 2009, it does not represent the actual purchase price that the Company may be required to pay if the option is exercised, which could be several billion dollars or
more. The fair value of the put option represents the value of Visa Europe s option, which under certain conditions could obligate the Company to purchase its member equity interest for an amount above fair value. While the put option is in
fact non-transferable, its fair value represents the Company s estimate of the amount the Company would be required to pay a third party market participant to transfer the potential obligation in an orderly transaction.      The fair value of the put option is computed using probability-weighted models designed to estimate the Company s liability assuming various
possible exercise decisions that Visa Europe could make under different economic conditions in the future, including the possibility that Visa Europe will never exercise its option. The most significant of these estimates are the assumed probability
that Visa Europe will elect to exercise its option and the estimated differential between the P/E ratio and the P/E ratio applicable to Visa Europe on a stand alone basis at the time of exercise, which the Company refers to as the  P/E
differential .      Exercise of the put option is at the sole discretion of Visa Europe (on behalf of the Visa Europe shareholders
pursuant to authority granted to Visa Europe, under its articles of association). The Company estimates the assumed probability of exercise based on reasonably available information including, but not limited to: (i) Visa Europe s stated
intentions; (ii) indications that Visa Europe is preparing to exercise as reflected in its reported financial results; (iii) evaluation of market conditions, including the regulatory environment, that could impact the potential future
profitability of Visa Europe; and (iv) qualitative factors applicable to Visa Europe s largest members, which could indicate a change in their need or desire to liquidate their investment holdings. Factors impacting the assumed P/E
differential used in the calculation include material changes in the P/E ratio of Visa Inc. and those of a group of comparable companies used to estimate the forward price-to-earnings multiple applicable to Visa Europe.      In determining the fair value of the put option at September 30, 2009, the Company assumed a 40% probability of exercise by Visa Europe at some
point in the future and a P/E differential at the time of exercise of 5.3x. These assumptions are consistent with those used in the valuation of the put option at September 30, 2008. The put option is exercisable at any time at the sole
discretion of Visa Europe. As such, the put option liability is included in accrued liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet at September 30, 2009. Classification in current liabilities is not an indication of management s expectation
of exercise and simply reflects the fact that the obligation resulting from the exercise of the instrument could become payable within 12 months. Changes in fair value are included in the Company s consolidated statement of operations. See
 Note 5 Investments and Fair Value Measurements  for additional discussion of the fair value of the put option.       Visa Call
Option Agreement       Visa Europe granted to Visa Inc. a perpetual call option under which the Company may be entitled to purchase all of
the share capital of Visa Europe. The Company may exercise the call option, in the event of certain triggering events. These triggering events involve the performance of Visa Europe measured as an unremediated decline in the number of merchants or
ATM s in the Visa Europe region that accept Visa-branded products. The Company believes the likelihood of these triggers occurring to be remote.         
   81   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)        September 30, 2009
       (in millions, except as noted)              The Framework Agreement       The
relationship between Visa Inc. and Visa Europe is governed by a Framework Agreement, which provides for trademark and technology licenses and bilateral services as described below.      Visa Inc., Visa U.S.A., Visa International and Inovant, as licensors, granted to Visa Europe exclusive, irrevocable and perpetual licenses to use the
Visa trademarks and technology intellectual property owned by the licensors and certain affiliates within the Visa Europe region for use in the field of financial services, payments, related information technology and information processing services
and participation in the Visa system. Visa Europe may sublicense the Visa trademarks and technology intellectual property to its members and other sublicensees under agreed upon circumstances.      The fee payable for these irrevocable and perpetual licenses is approximately $143 million per year, payable quarterly ( quarterly base
fee ), except for the year ended September 30, 2008 during which the fee payable was $41 million due to an agreed upon formula. In calculating total purchase consideration in the reorganization, the Company included a liability of $132
million, which represented the estimated obligation to provide the licenses during fiscal 2008 at below fair value. The difference in this estimate and the actual results in fiscal 2008 was primarily due to changes in the three-month LIBOR rate
during the period, which were used in the agreed upon formula to calculate the fee. Changes in this liability as a result of movement in the three-month LIBOR rate were reflected in the consolidated statement of operations in fiscal 2008. The
liability was fully settled upon redemption of Visa Europe s class C (series II) and class C (series III) common shares on October 10, 2008.      Beginning November 9, 2010, the quarterly base fee will be adjusted annually based on the annual growth of the gross domestic product of the European Union. The Company determined through an analysis of the
fee rates implied by the economics of the agreement that the quarterly base fee, as adjusted in future periods based on the growth of the gross domestic product of the European Union, approximates fair value.      Visa Europe must comply with certain agreed upon global rules governing the use and interoperability of the Visa trademarks and interoperability of
Visa Inc. s systems with the systems of Visa Europe. The parties will also guarantee the obligations of their respective customers and members to settle transactions, manage certain relationships with sponsors, customers and merchants, and
comply with rules relating to the operation of the Visa enterprise. The Company will indemnify Visa Europe for claims arising from activities in the field of financial payment and processing services brought outside Visa Europe s region and
Visa Europe will indemnify Visa Inc. for any likewise claims brought within Visa Europe s region. The Company has not recorded liabilities associated with these obligations as the fair value of such obligations was determined to be nominal at
September 30, 2009 and 2008, respectively.      Visa Inc. provides Visa Europe with transitional and ongoing authorization services for
cross-border transactions involving Visa Europe s region and the rest of the world, as well as clearing and settlement system services between Visa Europe s region and the rest of the world. Until Visa Europe s regional clearing and
settlement system is fully deployed, Visa Inc. will provide clearing and settlement system services within Visa Europe s region. In addition, the parties share foreign exchange revenues related to currency conversion for transactions involving
European cardholders as well as other cross-border transactions that take place in Visa Europe s region until Visa Europe s regional clearing and
        
   82   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)        September 30, 2009
       (in millions, except as noted)             
settlement system is fully deployed, at which time this arrangement will cease. The parties also use each others  switching and processing services. The Company has determined that the value
of services exchanged as a result of these various agreements approximate fair value at September 30, 2009 and 2008, respectively.       Note
4 Retrospective Responsibility Plan       The Company has established several related mechanisms designed to address potential
liability under certain litigation referred to as the  covered litigation . These mechanisms are included in and referred to as the Retrospective Responsibility Plan (the  Plan ) and consist of an escrow agreement, a loss sharing
agreement, an interchange judgment sharing agreement, the conversion feature of the Company s shares of class B common stock and the indemnification obligations of the Visa U.S.A. members pursuant to Visa U.S.A. s certificate of
incorporation and bylaws and in accordance with their membership agreements.      In accordance with the escrow agreement, following the
Company s IPO in fiscal 2008, the Company deposited $3.0 billion of the proceeds of the offering in an Escrow Account from which settlements of, or judgments in, the covered litigation are being paid. Under the terms of the Plan, when the
Company funds the Escrow Account, the shares of class B common stock are subject to dilution through an adjustment to the conversion rate of the shares of class B common stock to shares of class A common stock. As a result of the initial
deposit, the conversion rate applicable to the Company s class B common stock outstanding was reduced to 0.7143 class A shares. The escrow funds are held in money market investments along with the income earned, less applicable taxes, and are
classified as restricted cash on the consolidated balance sheet. The amount of the escrow funds is equivalent to the actual, undiscounted amount of covered litigation payments expected to be made beyond one year from the balance sheet date for
settled claims and is classified as a non-current asset. The amount of the escrow was determined by the litigation committee. The litigation committee was established pursuant to the litigation management agreement among Visa Inc., Visa U.S.A., Visa
International and the members of the litigation committee, all of whom are affiliated with, or act for, certain Visa U.S.A. members.      On
December 16, 2008, upon the recommendation of the Company s board of directors, the Company s stockholders approved and adopted an amendment and restatement of its then existing certificate of incorporation to permit the Company
greater flexibility in funding the Escrow Account and made other clarifying modifications. These amendments enabled the Company to, under certain conditions, deposit operating cash directly into the Escrow Account resulting in a further reduction in
the conversion rate applicable to the Company s class B common shares. As a result, the Company filed a Fifth Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation with the Secretary of State of Delaware on December 16, 2008.        During fiscal 2009, the Company deposited an additional $1.8 billion into the Escrow Account. The funding further reduced the conversion rate
applicable to the Company s class B common stock outstanding from 0.7143 class A shares to 0.5824 class A shares. See  Note 15 Stockholders  Equity.          
   83   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)        September 30, 2009
       (in millions, except as noted)             The following table sets forth the changes in the Escrow Account:      

(1)   
        The Company made payments totaling
$1.9 billion related to the Discover settlement during fiscal 2009. Of the $1.9 billion payment, $1.7 billion was funded through the Escrow Account under the Plan and $145 million, $65 million of which was reimbursed by Morgan Stanley evenly over
the four fiscal 2009 quarters, was funded from the Company s operating cash.         An accrual for covered litigation
is recorded when loss is deemed to be probable and reasonably estimable. In making this determination, the Company evaluates information including funding decisions made by the litigation committee. The accrual related to covered litigation could be
either higher or lower than the Escrow Account balance.      The Company, at the request of the litigation committee, may conduct additional
sales of class A common stock in order to increase the size of the Escrow Account, in which case the conversion rate of the class B into class A common stock will be subject to additional dilutive adjustments to the extent of the proceeds from those
sales. To the extent that amounts available under the escrow arrangement and agreements in the Plan are insufficient to fully resolve the covered litigation, the Company will use commercially reasonable efforts to enforce the indemnification
obligations of Visa U.S.A. s members for such excess amount, including but not limited to enforcing indemnification obligations pursuant to Visa U.S.A. s certificate of incorporation and bylaws and in accordance with their membership
agreements.      Visa Inc. has entered into a loss sharing agreement with Visa U.S.A., Visa International and certain Visa U.S.A. members.
The loss sharing agreement provides for the indemnification of Visa U.S.A., Visa International and, in certain circumstances, Visa Inc. with respect to: (i) the amount of a final judgment paid by Visa U.S.A. or Visa International in the covered
litigation after the operation of the interchange judgment sharing agreement, plus any amounts reimbursable to the interchange judgment sharing agreement signatories; or (ii) the damages portion of a settlement of a covered litigation that is
approved as required under Visa U.S.A. s certificate of incorporation by the vote of Visa U.S.A. s specified voting members. The several obligation of each bank that is a party to the loss sharing agreement will equal the amount of any
final judgment enforceable against Visa U.S.A., Visa International or any other signatory to the interchange judgment sharing agreement, or the amount of any approved settlement of a covered litigation, multiplied by such bank s then-current
membership proportion as calculated in accordance with Visa U.S.A. s certificate of incorporation.      Visa U.S.A. and Visa
International also entered into an interchange judgment sharing agreement with certain Visa U.S.A. members that have been named as defendants in the interchange litigation.
        
   84   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)        September 30, 2009
       (in millions, except as noted)             
Under this judgment sharing agreement, Visa U.S.A. members that are signatories will pay their membership proportion of the amount of a final judgment not allocated to the conduct of MasterCard.
      Note 5 Investments and Fair Value Measurements       The Company measures certain assets and liabilities at fair value. See  Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies .       Assets and Liabilities that are Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis       Assets and
liabilities carried at fair value on a recurring basis are as follows:       

Fair Value Measurements at September 30, 2009 Using Inputs Considered as 

Level 1   
      
   Level 2   
      
   Level 3    

(in millions)    
 
     Assets    

Cash equivalents and restricted cash    

Money market funds and time deposits   
      
  $  
  5,977  

Investment securities    

U.S. government-sponsored agency debt securities   

$  
  169  

Canadian government debt securities   

7  

Equity securities   

73  

Corporate debt securities   

$  
  10   
 
    Mortgage backed securities   

6   
 
    Other asset backed securities   

5   
 
    Auction rate securities   

13   
 
     Derivative financial instruments    

Foreign exchange derivative instruments   

16  

$   
   6,050   
      
   $   
   192   
      
   $   
   34    

Liabilities    

Other liabilities    

Visa Europe put option   

$  
  346   
 
    Foreign exchange derivative instruments   

$  
  96  

Level 3 Assets and Liabilities that are Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis  
      Corporate debt securities, mortgage backed securities and other asset backed securities.  These securities have been classified as
Level 3 due to a lack of trading in active markets and a lack of observable inputs in measuring fair value. Valuations for these securities are provided by the Company s pricing vendors and are based on significant unobservable inputs. The
valuations provided by these pricing vendors were insignificant to the Company s consolidated financial statements.       Auction
rate securities.  These securities have been classified within Level 3 as their valuation requires substantial judgment and estimation of factors that are not currently observable in the market due to the lack of trading in these securities.
        
   85   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)        September 30, 2009
       (in millions, except as noted)              Visa Europe put option agreement.  The Company granted Visa Europe a perpetual put option which is carried at fair value in accrued liabilities
on the consolidated balance sheet with changes in the fair value recorded in the consolidated statement of operations. See  Note 3 Visa Europe.  The liability is classified within Level 3 as the assumed probability that Visa Europe will
elect to exercise its option and the estimated P/E differential are unobservable inputs used to value the put option. There was no change in the fair value of the put option during fiscal 2009.      The table below provides a roll-forward of Level 3 investments which are measured at fair value on a recurring basis from October 1, 2008 to
September 30, 2009:       
     Assets Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis       Certain financial assets are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis and therefore are not included in the tables above.       Non-marketable equity investments . The Company applies fair value measurement to its strategic investments which are accounted for under the
cost and equity methods. Strategic investments are classified as Level 3 due to the absence of quoted market prices, inherent lack of liquidity, and the fact that inputs used to measure the fair value are unobservable and require management
judgment. If events or circumstances indicate that these investments may be impaired, the Company revalues the investments using various assumptions including financial metrics and ratios of comparable public companies. During fiscal 2009, certain
events and circumstances triggered impairment analyses for certain non-marketable equity securities which resulted in recognized losses of $7 million. The Company will estimate the fair value of the non-marketable equity investments in the event of
a triggering event that would require an impairment assessment. At September 30, 2009, non-marketable equity security investments totaled $102 million in other assets on the consolidated balance sheet. During fiscal 2009, Visa International, a
wholly-owned subsidiary, sold its investment in Companhia Brasileira de Meios de Pagamento ( VisaNet do Brasil ). See  Note 6 Prepaid Expenses and Other Assets.         Reserve Primary Fund.  The Company s investment in the Reserve Primary Fund (the  Fund ) was originally recorded as a cash
equivalent on the consolidated balance sheet. In September 2008, the Fund was unable to honor the Company s request for the full redemption of its investment and the Company considered its shares in the Fund to represent an equity investment
for which a market price
        
   86   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)        September 30, 2009
       (in millions, except as noted)             
is not readily determinable. Therefore, the investment is accounted for under the cost method of accounting and classified within prepaid expenses and other current assets on the consolidated
balance sheet at September 2008 and 2009. The investment is considered a Level 3 asset as the fair value is estimated by discounting the Company s pro-rata ownership of the Fund s underlying investment holdings based upon an estimate of
inherent risk. See  Note 6 Prepaid Expenses and Other Assets  for additional information regarding this asset and  Note 21 Legal Matters  regarding legal action on this matter.      Long-lived assets such as goodwill, finite-lived intangible assets, and property, plant and equipment are considered non-financial assets, and are
measured at fair value only when impairment indicators exist. The accounting and disclosure provisions of ASC 820 as related to non-financial assets and non-financial liabilities are effective beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2010 and are
not expected to have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements. See  Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.         Available-for-sale investments       Available-for-sale investment securities, which are recorded at
fair value, consist of the types of securities presented below. The amortized cost, unrealized gains and losses, and fair value of available-for-sale securities are as follows:       
       
   87   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)        September 30, 2009
       (in millions, except as noted)          
    The contractual maturity of available-for-sale debt securities regardless of their balance
sheet classification is presented below. Contractual maturities may differ from expected maturities as borrowers may have the right to prepay certain obligations in advance of the contractual due date.       
     Trading assets       Trading assets primarily consist of mutual fund investments related to various employee compensation plans. Employees bear the risk of market
fluctuations over the term of their participation in these compensation plans. See  Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies . As of September 30, 2009, trading assets totaled $59 million.         
   88   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)        September 30, 2009
       (in millions, except as noted)              Investment income       Investment
income, net, consisted of the following:       
     Note 6 Prepaid Expenses and Other Assets       Prepaid expenses and other current assets consisted of the following:       

    Other non-current assets consisted of the following:       
    The money market investment represents the carrying value of the Company s
investment in the Reserve Primary Fund (the  Fund ). The Fund balance reflects a $29 million other-than-temporary impairment which was recorded in fiscal 2008 against the Company s original investment of $982 million. The
other-than-temporary impairment reflected a change in the per share value of $1.00 to approximately $0.97 per share. During fiscal 2009, the Company received distributions totaling $884 million. On August 25, 2009, the Fund issued a statement
stating that each unpaid shareholder may
        
   89   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)        September 30, 2009
       (in millions, except as noted)             
receive total distributions which would be equivalent to a per share value of $0.987 based on certain assumptions. On September 23, 2009, the Court held a hearing where the judge considered
a proposed plan by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission to distribute the Fund s remaining assets. Applying this per share value to Visa s unredeemed shares at September 30, 2009 would result in an additional distribution
totaling approximately $86 million. Based on recent developments, the Company believes it is likely that the Fund will liquidate and distribute the remaining assets within a twelve month period, and has therefore included the Reserve Primary Fund
balance as a current asset at September 30, 2009. See  Note 5 Investments and Fair Value Measurements  and  Note 21 Legal Matters.  On October 5, 2009, the Company received an additional $19 million distribution
from the Fund.      The other investment balance represents equity investments in privately-held companies. On June 29, 2009, the
Company sold its investment in VisaNet do Brasil for proceeds of approximately $1.0 billion, which was received on July 2, 2009. Prior to the sale, the Company accounted for the investment under the cost method with a book value of
approximately $535 million, reflected in other non-current assets on its balance sheet. Approximately $517 million of the book value was recorded in the reorganization as part of the allocation of the purchase price to acquired assets and
liabilities. The Company recognized a pre-tax gain of $473 million in investment income, net on its statement of operations as a result of the sale. The amount of the gain net of tax was $237 million. The decrease in other non-current assets was
offset by $50 million of new investments in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009.       Note 7 Property, Equipment and Technology       Property, equipment and technology, net consisted of the following:       
    Construction-in-progress balance at September 30, 2008 primarily reflects costs related to
the construction of the Company s east coast data center, which commenced operations in fiscal 2009.      Technology consists of both
purchased and internally developed software. Internally developed software represents software utilized by the VisaNet electronic payment network. At September 30, 2009, and September 30, 2008, accumulated amortization for technology was
$434 million and $304 million, respectively.         
   90   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)        September 30, 2009
       (in millions, except as noted)             At September 30, 2009, estimated future amortization expense on technology placed in service was as follows:       
    Depreciation and amortization expenses related to property, equipment and technology was $226
million and $237 million for fiscal 2009 and 2008, respectively. Included in those amounts are amortization expense on technology of $128 million and $129 million for fiscal 2009 and 2008, respectively.       Note 8 Intangible Assets       Intangible
assets at September 30, 2009 and 2008 consisted of customer relationships of $6.8 billion, a tradename of $2.6 billion and a Visa Europe franchise right of $1.5 billion which were acquired from Visa International and Visa Canada in the
reorganization. Customer relationships represent the value of the Company s relationships with its customers in Canada and the acquired regions of Visa International. Tradename represents the value of the Visa brand utilized in Canada and the
acquired regions of Visa International. Visa Europe s franchise right represents the value of the right to franchise the use of the Visa brand, use of Visa technology and access to the overall Visa network in the Visa Europe region. There was
no amortization or impairment related to these intangible assets during fiscal 2009 or 2008 as these have been determined to be indefinite-lived intangible assets.       Note 9 Accrued and Other Liabilities       Accrued liabilities consisted of the following:
      
    Other long-term liabilities consisted of the following:       
       
   91   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)        September 30, 2009
       (in millions, except as noted)              

(1)     
    At September 30, 2009, the put option is exercisable at any time at the sole discretion of Visa Europe with payment required 285 days thereafter. As such, the
put option liability is included in accrued liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet at September 30, 2009. As the put option did not become exercisable until March 2009, it was classified as long-term at September 30, 2008. Classification
in current liabilities is not an indication of management s expectation of exercise and simply reflects the fact that the obligation resulting from the exercise of the instrument could become payable within 12 months.
         Note 10 Debt       The Company had outstanding debt as follows:       
    The estimated fair value of the Company s debt at September 30, 2009 and 2008 is $64
million and $115 million, respectively, based on credit ratings for similar notes.       5.60% Senior Secured Notes-Series B
      In December 2002, Visa U.S.A. issued $68 million in series B senior secured notes with a maturity date of ten years. The note
is collateralized by the Company s Colorado facility, which consists of two data centers and an office building, in addition to processing assets and developed software.       7.53% Medium-Term Notes       Visa
International established a medium-term note program in 1992 to offer up to $250 million of unsecured private placement notes. At September 30, 2009, the Company had no outstanding obligations under these notes and terminated this private
placement program.         
   92   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)        September 30, 2009
       (in millions, except as noted)              8.28% Secured Notes-Series B       In
September 1994, a real estate partnership owned jointly by Visa U.S.A. and Visa International issued notes that are secured by certain office properties and facilities in California which are used by the Company ( 1994 Lease Agreement ).
Series B of these notes, totaling $26 million, were issued with an interest rate of 8.28% and a stated maturity of September 23, 2014, and are payable monthly with interest-only payments for the first ten years and payments of interest and
principal for the remainder of the term. In May 2008, Visa Inc., Visa U.S.A. and Visa International executed an Amendment and Waiver to the 1994 Lease Agreement ( Amended 1994 Lease Agreement ) under which remaining obligations are
guaranteed by Visa Inc. The Amended 1994 Lease Agreement stipulates that the interest rate will be adjusted upward if the long-term senior unsecured debt rating of Visa Inc. falls below certain stipulated levels.       7.83% Secured Notes Series B       In September 1995, a real estate partnership owned jointly by Visa U.S.A. and Visa International issued notes that are secured by certain office properties and facilities in California which are used by the Company ( 1995 Lease
Agreement ). Series B of these notes, totaling $27 million, was issued with an interest rate of 7.83% and a stated maturity of September 15, 2015, and is payable monthly with interest-only payments for the first ten years and payments of
interest and principal for the remainder of the term. In May 2008, Visa Inc., Visa U.S.A. and Visa International executed an Amendment and Waiver to the 1995 Lease Agreement ( Amended 1995 Lease Agreement ), that guarantees remaining
obligations under the agreement by Visa Inc.       Future Principal Payments       Future principal payments on the Company s outstanding debt are as follows:       
     U.S. Commercial Paper Program       Visa International maintains a U.S. commercial paper program to support its working capital requirements and for general corporate purposes. This
program allows the Company to issue up to $500 million of unsecured debt securities, with maturities up to 270 days from the date of issuance and at interest rates generally extended to companies with comparable credit ratings. At September 30,
2009, the Company had no outstanding obligations under this program.       Revolving Credit Facilities       In 2008, Visa Inc. entered into a $3.0 billion five-year revolving credit facility (the  February 2008 Agreement ). The February 2008
Agreement matures on February 15, 2013 and contains covenants and events of defaults customary for facilities of this type. The participating lenders in this revolving credit facility include affiliates of certain holders of the Company s
class B and class C common stock, and certain of the Company s customers or affiliates of its customers. This revolving credit facility is maintained to provide liquidity in the event of settlement failures by its customers, to back up the
commercial paper program and for general corporate purposes.         
   93   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)        September 30, 2009
       (in millions, except as noted)             Loans under the five-year facility may be in the form of: (1) Base Rate Advance, which will bear interest at a rate equal to the higher of the
Federal Funds Rate plus 0.5% or the Bank of America prime rate; (2) Eurocurrency Advance, which will bear interest at a rate equal to LIBOR (as adjusted for applicable reserve requirements) plus an applicable cost adjustment and an applicable
margin of 0.11% to 0.30% based on our credit rating; or (3) U.S. Swing Loan, Euro Swing Loan, or Foreign Currency Swing Loan, which will bear interest at the rate equal to the applicable Swing Loan rate for that currency plus the same
applicable margin plus additionally for Euro and Sterling loans, an applicable reserve requirement and cost adjustment. The Company also agrees to pay a facility fee on the aggregate commitment amount, whether used or unused, at a rate ranging from
0.04% to 0.10% and a utilization fee on loans at a rate ranging from 0.05% to 0.10% based on the Company s credit rating. Currently, the applicable margin is 0.15%, the facility fee is 0.05% and the utilization fee is 0.05%.      There are no borrowings under the revolving credit facility at September 30, 2009 and the Company is in compliance with all related covenants.
      Note 11 Pension, Postretirement and Other Benefits       The Company sponsors various qualified and non-qualified defined benefit pension and postretirement benefit plans which provide for retirement and medical benefits for substantially all employees residing in the
United States. The Company uses a September 30 measurement date for its pension and postretirement benefit plans.       Defined
Benefit Pension Plan       The defined benefit pension plan benefits are based on years of service, age and the employee s highest
average of any three consecutive years during the final five years of earnings; and for employees hired after September 30, 2002, the employee s final five years of earnings. Expense for the pension benefits is accrued levelly throughout
an employee s career. The funding policy is to contribute annually no less than the minimum required contribution under ERISA.      In
August 2007, the Company approved changes to the pension plan and began transitioning from a traditional final average pay formula to a cash balance formula for determining pension benefits, effective January 1, 2008. The cash balance formula
will provide contributions at a rate of 6% of eligible compensation and will credit interest on account balances at the 30 year Treasury Bond rate. Effective October 1, 2008, the pension plan was amended to provide death benefits of 100% of the
value of the accrued benefit to a participant s beneficiary or estate. Prior to this amendment, the plan provided a 50% death benefit only to a participant s spouse.       Postretirement Benefits Plan       The postretirement benefits plan provides medical benefits for retirees and dependents who meet minimum age and service requirements. Benefits are provided from retirement date until age sixty-five. Retirees must contribute on a monthly
basis for the same coverage that is generally available to active employees and their dependents. The Company s contributions are funded on a current basis.      In August 2008, the Company amended its postretirement benefits plan to discontinue the employer subsidy for all participants not yet retirement eligible at December 31, 2008 and recorded a curtailment gain of
$2 million in fiscal 2008.         
   94   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)        September 30, 2009
       (in millions, except as noted)              Summary of Plan Activities        Change in Projected Benefit Obligation/Accumulated Postretirement Benefit Obligation:        
     Amounts from accumulated other comprehensive income to be amortized into net periodic
benefit cost in fiscal 2010:        

Pension Benefits   

Other Postretirement Benefits   

(in millions)   

Actuarial (gain)/loss   
      
  $  
  25  

$  

Prior service (credit)/cost   

(7  
  )   

(3  
  )    

Total   
      
  $  
  18  

$  
  (3  
  )    

95   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)        September 30, 2009
       (in millions, except as noted)              Benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets with obligations in excess of plan assets:        
     Net periodic pension and other postretirement plan cost        
     Other changes in plan assets and benefit obligations recognized in other comprehensive
income:        
       
   96   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)        September 30, 2009
       (in millions, except as noted)              Weighted Average Actuarial Assumptions:        

(1)   
        Based on a  bond duration
matching  methodology, which reflects the matching of projected plan liability cash flows to an average of high-quality corporate bond yield curves whose duration matches the projected cash flows.      

(2)   
        Primarily based on the targeted
allocation, and evaluated for reasonableness by considering such factors as: (i) actual return on plan assets; (ii) historical rates of return on various asset classes in the portfolio; (iii) projections of returns on various asset
classes; and (iv) current and prospective capital market conditions and economic forecasts. Any difference between actual and expected plan experience, including asset return experience in excess of the greater of 10% of plan assets or the
projected benefit obligations, is recognized in net periodic pension cost over the average remaining service period of employees expected to receive benefits under the plan, which is currently eight years.      
    The assumed annual rate of future increases in health benefits for the other postretirement benefits plan is 9% for
fiscal 2010. The rate is assumed to decrease to 5% by 2017 and remain at that level thereafter. These trend rates reflect management s expectations of future rates. Increasing or decreasing the healthcare cost trend by 1% would increase
(decrease) the postretirement accumulated plan benefit obligation by less than $1 million.       Pension Plan Assets       The pension plan s weighted-average asset allocations at September 30 were as follows:       
       
   97   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)        September 30, 2009
       (in millions, except as noted)             Plan assets are managed with a long-term perspective to ensure that there is an adequate level of assets to support benefit payments to participants
over the life of the pension plan. Plan assets are managed by external investment managers. Investment manager performance is measured against benchmarks for each asset class on a quarterly basis. An independent consultant assists management with
investment manager selections and performance evaluations. Plan assets are broadly diversified to maintain a prudent level of risk. The other category includes cash that is available to meet expected benefit payments and expenses. Pension plan
assets in the other category increased on September 30, 2008 due to an additional contribution made on the last day of the plan year, to ensure ERISA contribution requirements were met. The amount was reinvested subsequently in line with target
asset allocations.       Cash Flows        
     Other Benefits       The Company participates in a defined contribution plan, which covers substantially all of its employees residing in the United States. Personnel costs
included $28 million, $33 million and $26 million in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, for expenses attributable to the Company s employees under the plan. The Company s contributions to this plan are funded on a current basis, and
the related expenses are recognized in the period that the payroll expenses are incurred.       Note 12 Settlement Guarantee Management
      The Company indemnifies customers for settlement losses suffered due to failure of any other customer to honor Visa cards, travelers
cheques, deposit access products, point-of-sale check service drivers and other instruments processed in accordance with the operating regulations. This indemnification creates settlement risk for the Company due to the difference in timing between
the date of a payment transaction and the date of subsequent settlement. The term and amount of the indemnification are unlimited. Settlement at risk (or exposure) is estimated based on the sum of the following inputs: (1) average daily volumes
during the quarter multiplied by the estimated number of days to settle plus a safety margin; (2) four months of rolling average chargebacks volume; and (3) the
        
   98   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)        September 30, 2009
       (in millions, except as noted)             
total balance for outstanding travelers cheques. The Company maintains global credit settlement risk policies and procedures to manage settlement risk which may require customers to post
collateral if certain credit standards are not met.      During the first quarter of fiscal 2009, the Company updated its settlement risk
policy and raised the safety margin from two days to three days. The Company s estimated maximum settlement exposure was approximately $41.8 billion at September 30, 2009 compared to $34.8 billion at September 30, 2008. Of these
amounts, $3.7 billion at September 30, 2009 and $3.0 billion at September 30, 2008, are covered by collateral. The total available collateral balances presented below are greater than the settlement exposure covered by customer collateral
held due to instances in which the available collateral exceeds the total settlement exposure for certain financial institutions at each date presented.      The Company maintained collateral as follows:       
    Cash equivalents collateral is reflected in customer collateral on the consolidated balance
sheet as it is held in escrow in the Company s name. All other collateral is excluded from the consolidated balance sheet. Pledged securities are held by third parties in trust for the Company and customers. Guarantees are provided primarily by
parent financial institutions to secure the obligations of their subsidiaries, and the Company routinely evaluates the financial viability of institutions providing the guarantees.      The fair value of the settlement risk guarantee is estimated using a proprietary model which considers statistically derived loss factors based on
historical experience, estimated settlement exposures at period end and a standardized grading process for customers (using, where available, third-party estimates of the probability of customer failure). The estimated probability-weighted value of
the guarantee was less than $1 million at September 30, 2009 and 2008 and is reflected in accrued liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet.       Note 13 Derivative Financial Instruments       The functional currency for the Company is the U.S. dollar
( USD ) for the majority of its foreign operations. The Company transacts business in USD and in various foreign currencies. This activity subjects the Company to exposure from movements in foreign currency exchange rates. The
Company s policy is to enter into foreign exchange forward derivative contracts to manage the variability in expected future cash flows attributable to changes in foreign exchange rates. At September 30, 2009, all derivative instruments
outstanding mature within 21 months or less. The Company does not use foreign exchange forward contracts for speculative or trading purposes. All
        
   99   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)        September 30, 2009
       (in millions, except as noted)             
derivatives are recorded on the consolidated balance sheet at fair value in prepaid expenses and other current assets or accrued liabilities and the resulting gains or losses from changes in fair
value are accounted for depending on whether they are designated and qualify for hedge accounting.      The Company enters into forward
contracts to hedge certain operational ( cash flow ) exposures resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Such cash flow exposures result from portions of forecasted revenues and expenses being denominated in or based on
currencies other than USD. In fiscal 2009 the Company implemented a rolling hedge strategy program. Under this strategy, the Company seeks to reduce the exchange rate risk from forecasted net exposure of revenues derived from and payments made in
foreign currencies during the immediately following 12 months. The aggregate notional amount of the Company s foreign currency forward contracts outstanding in its exchange rate risk management program was $742 million and
$4 million, respectively, at September 30, 2009 and September 30, 2008. The aggregate notional amount of $742 million outstanding at September 30, 2009 is fully consistent with the Company s strategy and treasury policy
aimed at reducing foreign exchange risk below a predetermined and approved threshold. However, actual results for this period could materially differ from the Company s forecast. As of September 30, 2009, the Company s cash flow
hedges in an asset position totaled $18 million and are classified in prepaid expenses and other current assets on the consolidated balance sheet, while cash flow hedges in a liability position totaled $94 million and are classified in
accrued liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet. See  Note 5     Investments and Fair Value Measurements.       To
qualify for cash flow hedge accounting treatment, the Company formally documents, at inception of the hedge, all relationships between hedging transactions and hedged items, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking
various hedge transactions. The Company also formally assesses whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in the cash flows of the hedged items and whether those derivatives may be
expected to remain highly effective in future periods.      The Company assesses effectiveness prospectively using regression analysis and
retrospectively using a dollar ratio test. The effectiveness tests are performed on the foreign exchange forward contracts based on changes in the spot rate of the derivative instrument compared to changes in the spot rate of the forecasted hedged
transaction. The Company excludes time value for effectiveness testing and measurement purposes. The excluded time value is reported immediately in earnings. For fiscal 2009 and 2008, the amount by which earnings were reduced relating to excluded
time value and ineffectiveness was $18 million and $2 million, respectively.      The effective portion of changes in the fair value of
derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income on the consolidated balance sheet. When the forecasted transaction occurs and is recognized in earnings, the amount in accumulated other
comprehensive income related to that hedge is reclassified to operating revenue or expense. The balance in accumulated other comprehensive income was $58 million at September 30, 2009 and the Company expects to reclassify the entire amount as a
reduction to earnings in the consolidated statement of operations during fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2011 due to the recognition in earnings of the hedged forecasted transactions.      In the event there is recognized ineffectiveness or the underlying forecasted transaction does not occur within the designated hedge period, or it
becomes remote that the forecasted transaction will
        
   100   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)        September 30, 2009
       (in millions, except as noted)             
occur, the related gains and losses on the cash flow hedges are reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income on the consolidated balance sheet to administrative and other expense on
the consolidated statement of operations at that time.      The Company s derivative financial instruments are subject to both credit
and market risk. The Company monitors the credit-worthiness of the financial institutions that are counterparties to its derivative financial instruments and does not consider the risks of counterparty nonperformance to be significant.
Notwithstanding the Company s efforts to manage foreign exchange risk, there can be no assurance that its hedging activities will adequately protect against the risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations. Credit and market risks
related to derivative instruments were not considered significant at September 30, 2009.       Note 14 Enterprise-wide Disclosures and
Concentration of Business       The Company s long-lived net property, equipment and technology assets are classified by major
geographic area as follows:       
    Revenue by geographic market is primarily based on the location of the issuing bank. Certain
revenues, primarily international service revenues, are shared by geographic locations based upon the location of the merchant involved in the transaction. Visa does not maintain revenues by individual country, other than the U.S. Revenue generated
in the U.S. was approximately 58%, 59% and 92% of total operating revenues in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.      A significant
portion of Visa s operating revenues are concentrated among its largest customers. Loss of business from any of these customers could have an adverse effect on the Company. Revenues from the Company s top five customers were approximately
32%, 26% and 33% of total operating revenues in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. JPMorgan Chase accounted for 10% of the Company s net operating revenues in fiscal 2009. No other customer accounted for 10% or more of total operating
revenues. See  Item 1A Risk Factors.        Note 15 Stockholders  Equity        Reorganization, IPO and Redemptions       As part of the October 2007 reorganization, the Company issued different regional classes and series of common stock reflecting the different rights and obligations of the Visa financial institution members and Visa Europe. The allocation
of these shares to the participating regions was adjusted in the true-up shortly prior to the IPO at which time the regional classes and series of common stock issued were converted into either class B or class C common stock. The shares held by
Visa Europe were not subject to the true-up, but were converted to class C (series II, III, and IV) common stock on a one-for-one basis concurrent with the true-up.         
   101   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)        September 30, 2009
       (in millions, except as noted)             In March 2008, the Company completed its IPO with the issuance of 446,600,000 shares of class A common stock at a net offering price of $42.77 (the IPO
price of $44.00 per share of class A common stock, less underwriting discounts and commissions of $1.23 per share). The Company received net proceeds of $19.1 billion from the IPO, of which $13.4 billion was used to partially redeem shares of class
B and class C common stock in March 2008 and $3.0 billion was used to fund the litigation Escrow Account as discussed below.      In October
2008, the remaining $2.7 billion in IPO proceeds were utilized to fund the redemptions of class C (series II) and class C (series III) common stock. The Company used IPO proceeds to redeem all class C (series II) common stock, which was
purchased for a cash payment of $1.138 billion and the return to Visa Europe of the class C (series II) common stock subscription receivable outstanding. The Company also used $1.508 billion for redemptions of 35,263,585 shares of class C
(series III) common stock at a redemption price of $42.77 per share as was required by the Company s certificate of incorporation as then in effect. Following the October 2008 redemption, the remaining 27,499,203 shares of class C (series III)
and class C (series IV) common stock outstanding automatically converted into shares of class C (series I) common stock on a one-to-one basis. In December 2008, upon adoption of the Fifth Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, shares of
class C (series I) common stock were designated as class C common stock with no series designation.       Class B Common Stock
      The class B common stock is not convertible or transferable until the later of March 25, 2011 or the date on which all of the
covered litigation has been finally resolved, although the Company s board of directors may make exceptions to this transfer restriction after resolution of all covered litigation. This transfer restriction is subject to limited exceptions,
including transfers to other class B stockholders. After termination of the restrictions, the class B common stock will be convertible into class A common stock if transferred to a person that was not a Visa member or similar person or affiliate of
a Visa member or similar person. Upon such transfer, each share of class B common stock will automatically convert into a number of shares of class A common stock based upon the applicable conversion rate in effect at the time of such transfer.
      Funding of the Litigation Escrow Account       Immediately following the IPO in March 2008, the conversion rate applicable to class B common stock was reduced to 0.7143 class A share for each class B share. The conversion rate was adjusted to reflect the
initial deposit of $3.0 billion into the Escrow Account. Further adjustment of the conversion rate occurs upon: (i) the completion of any follow-on offering of class A common stock completed to increase the size of the Escrow Account resulting
in a further corresponding decrease in the conversion rate; or (ii) the final resolution of the covered litigation and the release of funds remaining on deposit in the Escrow Account to the Company resulting in a corresponding increase in the
conversion rate. On December 16, 2008, the Company s stockholders approved and adopted the Company s Fifth Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation which permits the Company greater flexibility in funding the Escrow Account.
See  Note 4 Retrospective Responsibility Plan .      On December 19, 2008, the Company funded the Escrow Account with $1.1
billion, which reduced the conversion rate applicable to Visa s class B common stock from 0.7143 class A share per class B share to 0.6296 class A share per class B share. With respect to the number of shares of class A

102   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)        September 30, 2009
       (in millions, except as noted)             
common stock outstanding on an as-converted basis, this funding had the effect of a repurchase by the Company of the equivalent of 20,800,824 class A shares. The repurchase amount per share
of $52.88 was calculated using the volume-weighted average price of the Company s class A shares for the 15-trading day period from December 1, 2008, to December 19, 2008 in accordance with the Fifth Amended and Restated
Certificate of Incorporation of Visa Inc.      On July 16, 2009, the Company funded the Escrow Account with an additional $700 million,
which reduced the conversion rate applicable to Visa s class B common stock from 0.6296 class A share per class B share to 0.5824 class A share per class B share. With respect to the number of shares of class A common stock
outstanding on an as-converted basis, this funding had the effect of a repurchase by the Company of the equivalent of 11,578,878 class A shares. The repurchase amount per share of $60.45 was calculated using the volume weighted average
price of the Company s class A shares for the 11-trading day pricing period from June 30, 2009 to July 15, 2009 in accordance with the Fifth Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Visa Inc.      After giving effect to the fiscal 2009 escrow fundings and the corresponding reduction in the conversion rate applicable to class B common stock
outstanding, the number of class A shares outstanding on an as-converted basis is as follows:       
     Accelerated Class C Share Release Program       On April 27, 2009, the Company s board of directors approved a program in which class C stockholders were permitted to liquidate up to
30% of their class C common stock anytime between July 1, 2009 and September 30, 2009, subject to certain terms and conditions. The release of the class C common stock did not increase the number of outstanding shares of the
Company and there was no dilutive effect to the outstanding share count from these transactions. Class C common stock sold under this program to a person that was not, immediately after the reorganization, a Visa member, automatically converted
to class A shares. Under this program, 40 million class C common stock were released from trading restrictions, of which 21 million shares were converted from class C common stock to class A common stock through September 30,
2009.      The remaining class C shares will continue to be subject to the general transfer restrictions that expire on March 25,
2011 under Visa s certificate of incorporation and will not be transferable or convert into class A common stock until such date. This transfer restriction is subject to limited exceptions, including transfers to other class C stockholders. The
Company s board of directors may make additional exceptions to this transfer restriction. After termination of the restrictions, the class C common stock will convert into class A common stock if transferred to a person that was not,
immediately after the reorganization, a Visa member. In connection with such a transfer, each share of class C common stock will automatically convert into a number of shares of class A common stock on a one-to-one basis, subject to adjustments for
stock splits, recapitalizations and similar transactions.         
   103   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)        September 30, 2009
       (in millions, except as noted)              Special IPO Cash and Stock Dividends Received from Cost Method Investees       Several of the Company s cost method investees are also holders of class C common stock and elected to declare a special cash dividend to return
to their owners on a pro rata basis, the proceeds received as a result of the redemption of a portion of their class C common stock. As a result of the Company s ownership interest in these cost method investees, the Company recorded
approximately $2 million and $29 million of special dividends from these investees during fiscal 2009 and 2008, respectively. In addition, the Company received 24,449 and 525,443 shares of its own class C common stock during fiscal 2009 and 2008,
respectively, from similar cost method investees and recorded $1 million and $35 million, respectively, as treasury stock.      These
special cash and stock dividends are recorded as an increase in additional paid-in capital, net of tax, and are not recorded as income in the consolidated statements of operations as they represent the same redemption proceeds and shares issued by
the Company as part of the reorganization. Any value recorded upon their return would be the result of appreciation in the Company s own stock, which is therefore not recorded as income. The value of the treasury stock was calculated based on
other class C common stock transactions by other class C stockholders with unrelated third parties. In fiscal 2009, the Company retired the 525,443 shares of treasury stock received during fiscal 2008.       Preferred Stock       Preferred
stock may be issued as redeemable or non-redeemable, and it has preference over any class or series of common stock with respect to the payment of dividends and distribution of the Company s assets in the event of a liquidation or dissolution.
      Voting Rights       The holders of class A common stock have the right to vote on all matters on which stockholders generally are entitled to vote. All holders of class B and class C common stock have no right to vote on any matters, except for certain defined
matters, including any consolidation, merger, combination or any decision to exit the core payments business, in which the holders of class B and class C common stock are entitled to cast a number of votes equal to the number of shares of class B or
class C common stock held multiplied by the applicable conversion rate in effect on the record date.       Dividends Declared  
     On October 20, 2009, the Company s board of directors declared a dividend in the aggregate amount of $0.125 per share of class
A common stock (determined in the case of class B and class C common stock on an as-converted basis) to be paid on December 1, 2009 to all holders of record of the Company s class A, class B and class C common stock as of
November 16, 2009. The Company declared and paid dividends in the aggregate amount of $0.42 per share in fiscal 2009.       Note 16 Net Income
Per Share       Basic net income per share is computed for each class and series of common stock outstanding during the period by dividing
net income available to each class and series by the weighted average number of common stock outstanding during the period. Prior to the IPO, net income was allocated to
        
   104   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)        September 30, 2009
       (in millions, except as noted)             
each class and series of common stock based on each class  proportional ownership. Following the Company s IPO, net income is ascribed to each class and series of common stock
proportionally on an as-converted basis into class A common stock, after accretion has been allocated to the class C (series II) common stock. The weighted number of shares of each class and series of common stock outstanding reflects changes in
ownership over the periods. See  Note 15 Stockholders  Equity .      Diluted net income per share for each class and series
of common stock is computed by dividing net income available by the weighted average number of common stock and, if dilutive, potential class A common stock equivalent shares outstanding during the period consisting of incremental class A common
shares issuable upon the conversion of class B and class C common stock based on the conversion rate in effect through the period, exercise of employee stock options, vesting of restricted share awards, restricted share units and performance shares
to certain employees and directors.      For fiscal 2007, Visa U.S.A. was a non-stock corporation and therefore there was no comparable
measure of net income per share.      The following table presents basic and diluted earnings per share for fiscal 2009.       

(1)     
    The calculation of class A common stock diluted earnings per share assumes potential class A common stock equivalent shares outstanding, including
305 million incremental class A common shares issuable upon the conversion of class B and C common stock and 2 million dilutive stock options, restricted stock units, restricted stock awards and performance shares. The computation of
average dilutive shares outstanding excluded stock options to purchase less than 1 million shares of common stock, and less than 1 million of restricted stock awards and restricted stock units in fiscal 2009. These amounts were excluded
because their effect would be antidilutive.      

(2)     
    Net income is attributed to each class and series of common stock on an as-converted basis. On an as-converted basis and for the purpose of calculating net
income allocated to each class and series of common stock, the weighted average numbers of shares of class B common stock outstanding is 157 million for fiscal 2009.      

(3)     
    Net income was attributed to the redeemed common stock for the period during which they were outstanding. See  Note 15 Stockholders  Equity.  
           
   105   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)        September 30, 2009
       (in millions, except as noted)             The following table presents basic and diluted earnings per share for fiscal 2008.       

(1      )     
    Net income is attributed to each class and series of common stock on an as-converted basis. For the period subsequent to the IPO, net income attributed to class
B common stock reflects its conversion rate during that period of 0.7143 shares of class A common stock for each share of class B common stock. On an as-converted basis and for the purpose of calculating net income allocated, the weighted average
number of shares of class B common stock outstanding for fiscal 2008 is 295 million.          Note 17 Share-based Compensation  
     The Company s 2007 Equity Incentive Compensation Plan ( the  EIP ) authorizes the compensation committee of the
board of directors to grant non-qualified stock options ( options ), restricted stock awards ( RSAs ), restricted stock units ( RSUs ) and performance-based shares to its employees and non-employee directors, for up to
59,000,000 shares of class A common stock. Shares available for award may be either authorized and unissued or previously issued shares subsequently acquired by the Company. The EIP will continue in effect until all of the common stock available
under the EIP is delivered and all restrictions on those shares have lapsed, unless the EIP is terminated earlier by the Company s board of directors. No awards may be granted under the plan on or after 10 years from its effective date.
     Related compensation expense is recorded net of estimated forfeitures on a straight-line basis for awards with service only conditions,
and on a graded-vesting basis for awards with both service and performance conditions. The Company s estimated forfeiture rate is based on actual and trended forfeiture data and employee attrition rates. For fiscal 2009 and 2008, the Company
recorded share-based compensation expense of $115 million and $74 million, respectively, in personnel on its consolidated statement of operations. The amount of capitalized share-based compensation expense is immaterial during fiscal 2009 and 2008.
        
   106   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)        September 30, 2009
       (in millions, except as noted)              Options       Options issued under
the EIP expire 10 years from the date of grant and vest ratably over three years from the date of grant, subject to earlier vesting in full under certain conditions.      During fiscal 2009 and 2008, the fair value of each stock option was estimated on the date of grant using a Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following assumptions:       

(1)     
    Based on a set of peer companies who issued awards with similar terms.      

(2)     
    Based upon the zero coupon U.S. treasury bond rate over the expected term of the awards.      

(3)     
    Based on the average of the Company s implied and historical volatility. As the Company did not have publicly traded stock historically, historical
volatility relies in part on the historical volatility of a group of peer companies that management believes is generally comparable to Visa. The expected volatilities ranged from 38% to 46%.      

(4)     
    Based on the Company s expected annual dividend rate on the date of grant.         The following table summarizes the Company s option activity for fiscal 2009:       

(5)     
    Calculated using the stock price at September 30, 2009 of $69.11 less the option exercise price, multiplied by the number of instruments.

(6)     
    Adjusted for estimated forfeitures.         For the options exercised during fiscal 2009, the total intrinsic value and the tax benefit realized were $16 million and $5 million, respectively. There were no options exercised during fiscal 2008.      As of September 30, 2009, there was $72 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested options, which is expected to be
recognized over a weighted average period of approximately 1.5 years.         
   107   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)        September 30, 2009
       (in millions, except as noted)              Restricted Stock Awards and Restricted Stock Units       With the exception of RSA s and RSU s issued in connection with the IPO which had a one year vesting period, RSAs and RSUs issued under the EIP generally vest ratably over three years from the date of
grant, subject to earlier vesting in full under certain conditions.      Upon vesting, the RSA awards are settled in class A common stock on
a one-for-one basis. During the vesting period, RSA award recipients are eligible to receive dividends and participate in the same voting rights as those granted to the holders of the underlying class A common stock. Upon vesting, RSU awards can be
settled in class A common stock on a one-for-one basis or in cash, or a combination thereof, at the Company s option. The Company does not currently intend to settle any RSU awards in cash. During the vesting period, RSU award recipients
are eligible to receive dividend equivalents but do not participate in the voting rights granted to the holders of the underlying class A common stock.      The fair value and compensation cost before estimated forfeitures for RSAs and RSUs is calculated using the closing price of class A common stock on the date of grant. The total fair value of RSAs and RSUs
vested during fiscal 2009 was $78 million and no RSAs or RSUs were vested in fiscal 2008.      The following table summarizes the
Company s RSA and RSU activity for fiscal 2009:       
     
    At September 30, 2009, there was $44 million and $10 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested RSAs and RSUs,
respectively, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of approximately 2 years.       Performance-based Shares
      The Company also made awards of performance-based shares during the period. The number of performance shares earned was 295,736 and
was based on the Company s achievement of specified adjusted net income performance targets during the one-year period ended September 30, 2009.
        
   108   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)        September 30, 2009
       (in millions, except as noted)             
Compensation expense for the performance awards is initially estimated based on target performance and is adjusted as appropriate throughout the performance period. The performance shares vest in
two equal installments on the second and the third anniversary from the date of grant, subject to earlier vesting in full under certain conditions. At September 30, 2009, there was $8 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to
non-vested performance-based shares.      The following table summarizes the Company s performance-based shares activity for fiscal
2009:      
     
     Note 18 Commitments and Contingencies        Commitments       The Company leases certain premises and equipment throughout the world with varying expiration dates. The
Company incurred total rent expense of $77 million in fiscal 2009 and 2008, and Visa U.S.A. incurred total rent expense of $39 million in fiscal 2007. The Company s future minimum payments on leases and marketing and sponsorship agreements per
fiscal year, at September 30, 2009 were as follows:       
    In addition to fixed payments included in the above table, certain sponsorship agreements
require the Company to undertake marketing, promotional or other activities up to stated monetary values to support events which the Company is sponsoring. The stated monetary value of these activities typically represents the value in the
marketplace, which may be significantly in excess of the actual costs incurred by the Company.       Volume and Support Incentives  
     The Company has agreements with customers for various programs designed to build payments volume and increase the acceptance of its
products. These agreements, with original terms ranging
        
   109   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)        September 30, 2009
       (in millions, except as noted)             
from one to thirteen years, provide card issuance, and/or conversion, volume targets and marketing and program support based on specific performance requirements. These agreements are designed to
encourage customer business and to increase overall Visa-branded payment volume, thereby reducing unit transaction processing costs and increasing brand awareness for all Visa customers.      Payments made, that qualify for capitalization, and obligations incurred under these programs are included on the balance sheet. Obligations under
these customer agreements are amortized as a reduction to revenue in the same period as the related revenues are earned, based on management s estimate of the customer s performance in accordance with the terms of the incentive agreement.
The agreements may or may not limit the amount of customer incentive payments.      The table below sets forth the expected future reduction
of revenue for volume and support incentive agreements in effect at September 30, 2009:       
    The ultimate amounts that are recorded will be greater or less than the estimates above due to
customer performance, execution of new contracts, or amendments to existing contracts. Based on these agreements, increases in incentive payments are generally driven by increased payment and transaction volume, and as a result, in the event
incentive payments exceed this estimate such payments are not expected to have a material effect on the Company s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.       Note 19 Related Parties       Since becoming a publicly held company in fiscal 2008, Visa
considers an entity to be a related party for purposes of this Note 19 if an entity owns more than 10% of Visa s total voting common stock at the end of the fiscal year or if an officer or employee of an entity also serves on the board of
directors. The Company considers an investee to be a related party if the Company s: (i) ownership interest in the investee is greater than or equal to 10%; or (ii) if the investment is accounted for under the equity method of
accounting. There were no material operating expenses incurred, or amounts due to or from related parties during and at the end of fiscal 2009 and 2008.       Ownership.  At September 30, 2009 and 2008, no entity owned more than 10% of the Company s total voting common stock.       Board representation.  The Company generated total operating revenues of approximately $786 million and $538 million from financial institution customers represented on its board of directors during fiscal
2009 and 2008, respectively. In addition, the Company maintains banking relationships and has credit facilities with financial institution customers that have representation on the board of directors. See  Note 10 Debt .         
   110   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)        September 30, 2009
       (in millions, except as noted)             During fiscal 2008, one of the Company s directors, and the spouse of another of the Company s directors, were officers of entities that
participated in (or were affiliated with an entity that participated in) the IPO as underwriters, and one of those entities was also a customer. As underwriters, each was offered and purchased 113 million shares of class A common stock at a
price of $42.77 per share, a discount of $1.23 per share based on the IPO price of $44.00 per share. This price per share is the same as that paid by all underwriters in the IPO. Also as underwriters, each received total underwriter fees of $139
million in March 2008.       Investees.  The Company generated total operating revenues of $56 million and $39 million, and received
dividend income of $41 million and $65 million from related party investees during fiscal 2009 and 2008, respectively. The Company also received special IPO dividends from certain related party investees which are included in the amounts discussed
in  Note 15 Stockholders  Equity.         Note 20 Income Taxes       The Company s income before taxes by fiscal year consisted of the following:       
    Fiscal 2009 U.S. income before taxes of $3.8 billion includes $1.8 billion from non-U.S.
customers.      Income tax expense by fiscal year consisted of the following:       
       
   111   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)        September 30, 2009
       (in millions, except as noted)             The tax effect of temporary differences that give rise to significant portions of deferred tax assets and liabilities at September 30, 2009 and
2008 are presented below:       
    Total net deferred tax assets and liabilities are included in the Company s consolidated
balance sheets as follows:       
    The decrease in the deferred tax asset for accrued litigation obligation is primarily due to
payments of the Discover settlement during fiscal 2009.      In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers
whether it is more likely than not that all or some portion of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The ultimate realization of the deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during the periods in which
those temporary differences become deductible. Management believes it is more likely than not that the Company will realize the benefits of its deferred tax assets recorded.      The Company had state research and development tax credit carry forwards of approximately $19 million at September 30, 2009 that may be carried
forward indefinitely. The Company expects to realize the benefit of the credit carry forwards in future years.         
   112   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)        September 30, 2009
       (in millions, except as noted)             The income tax expense differs from the amount of income tax determined by applying the applicable U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% to pretax income,
as a result of the following:       
    The difference between the effective income tax rates for fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2009 is
primarily due to the additional non-U.S. tax in fiscal 2009 on the sale of the investment in VisaNet do Brasil, the litigation tax reserves in fiscal 2008, and a one-time rate reduction in fiscal 2008 from the combined effect of the loss of a
California special deduction upon IPO and the deferred tax remeasurement benefit due to the change in state tax apportionment.      The
effective income tax rate for fiscal 2008 differs from that for fiscal 2007 primarily due to the tax reserves related to litigation, and the one time rate reduction in fiscal 2008 described above.      Income taxes receivable of $135 million and $90 million are included in prepaid and other current assets at September 30, 2009 and 2008,
respectively. See  Note 6 Prepaid Expenses and Other Assets . Income taxes payable of $23 million are included in accrued taxes as part of accrued liabilities at September 30, 2009, and accrued income taxes of $304 million and $122
million are included in other long-term liabilities at September 30, 2009 and 2008, respectively. See  Note 9 Accrued and Other Liabilities .      Cumulative undistributed earnings of the Company s international subsidiaries amounted to $276 million at September 30, 2009, all of which are intended to be reinvested indefinitely outside the U.S. The
amount of income taxes that would have resulted had such earnings been repatriated is not practically determinable.      Beginning
October 1, 2008, the Company s subsidiary in Singapore operates under a tax incentive agreement which is effective through September 30, 2014, and may be extended through September 30, 2023, if certain additional requirements are
satisfied. The tax incentive agreement is
        
   113   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)        September 30, 2009
       (in millions, except as noted)             
conditional upon certain employment and investment thresholds being met by the Company. The tax incentive agreement decreased Singapore tax by $16 million for fiscal 2009. The benefit of the tax
incentive agreement on diluted net income per share was $0.02.      In accordance with ASC 740, the Company is required to inventory,
evaluate, and measure all uncertain tax positions taken or to be taken on tax returns, and to record liabilities for the amount of such positions that may not be sustained, or may only partially be sustained, upon examination by the relevant taxing
authorities.      At September 30, 2009 and 2008, the Company s total unrecognized tax benefits were approximately $439 million
and $407 million, respectively, exclusive of interest and penalties described below. Included in the $439 million and $407 million are approximately $397 million and $334 million of unrecognized tax benefits, respectively, that if recognized, would
reduce the effective tax rate in a future period.      A reconciliation of beginning and ending unrecognized tax benefits by fiscal year is
as follows:       
    It is the Company s policy to account for interest expense and penalties related to
uncertain tax positions as interest expense and administrative and other, respectively, in its consolidated statements of operations. In fiscal 2009 and 2008, the Company recognized $17 million and $2 million of interest expense, respectively, and
$4 million and a de minimus amount of penalties, respectively, related to uncertain tax positions in its statements of operations. At September 30, 2009, the Company had cumulatively $22 million and $5 million accrued interest and penalties,
respectively, related to uncertain tax positions in its other long term liabilities.      The Company believes that unrecognized tax
benefits will not significantly increase or decrease within the next 12 months.      The Company s fiscal 2006, 2007 and 2008 U.S.
federal income tax returns are currently under examination by the Internal Revenue Service. The Company is also subject to examinations by various state and foreign tax authorities. The Company has concluded all California income tax matters for
years through fiscal 2003. All material state and foreign tax matters have been concluded for years through fiscal 2002.       Note 21 Legal Matters
      The Company is party to various legal and regulatory proceedings. Some of these proceedings involve complex claims that are subject
to substantial uncertainties and unascertainable damages.
        
   114   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)        September 30, 2009
       (in millions, except as noted)             
Accordingly, except as disclosed, the Company has not established reserves or ranges of possible loss related to these proceedings, as at this time in the proceedings, the matters do not relate
to a probable loss and/or amounts are not reasonably estimable. Although the Company believes that it has strong defenses for the litigation and regulatory proceedings described below, it could in the future incur judgments or fines or enter into
settlements of claims that could have a material adverse effect on the Company s results of operations, financial position or cash flows.      The Company recorded litigation provisions of approximately $2 million, $1,470 million and $2,653 million in fiscal year 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The litigation accrual is an estimate and is based on management s
understanding of its litigation profile, the specifics of each case, advice of counsel to the extent appropriate and management s best estimate of incurred loss at the balance sheet date. From time to time, the Company may engage in settlement
discussions or mediations with respect to one or more of its outstanding litigation matters, either on its own behalf or collectively with other parties.      The following table summarizes the activity related to accrued litigation for both covered and other non-covered litigation for the years ended September 30, 2009 and 2008:       

(1)     
    This balance represents the amount of the Discover settlement refunded to the Company during fiscal 2009 by Morgan Stanley under a separate agreement.
         Covered Litigation       Visa Inc., Visa U.S.A. and Visa International are parties to certain legal proceedings discussed below that are subject to the Retrospective Responsibility Plan, which the Company refers to as the covered litigation. See  Note
4 Retrospective Responsibility Plan . An accrual for covered litigation is recorded when loss is deemed to be probable and reasonably estimable. In making this determination the Company evaluates available information, including funding
decisions made by the litigation committee. The accrual related to covered litigation could be either higher or lower than the Escrow Account balance.       The Discover Litigation       On October 4, 2004, Discover Financial Services, Inc. filed a
complaint against Visa U.S.A., Visa International and MasterCard International Incorporated (MasterCard). The complaint was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York and was designated as a related case to a
        
   115   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)        September 30, 2009
       (in millions, except as noted)             
lawsuit brought by the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) in 1998. The complaint alleged, among other things, that the implementation and enforcement of Visa s bylaw 2.10(e) and
MasterCard s Competitive Programs Policy (CPP) (which prohibited their respective members from issuing American Express or Discover cards) violated Sections 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act and California s Unfair Competition Law, and
sought money damages (subject to trebling) and attorneys  fees and costs.      On October 13, 2008, Visa, MasterCard and Discover
reached an agreement in principle to settle the litigation. The parties executed a final settlement agreement on October 27, 2008 that became effective on November 4, 2008 upon approval by Visa s class B shareholders. Visa s net
share of the settlement totaled $1.8 billion, of which $1.74 billion was paid over four quarters from the Escrow Account established by the Retrospective Responsibility Plan. Visa Inc. also paid $80 million toward Visa s share in connection
with releases obtained from MasterCard with respect to certain potential claims. Visa Inc. also paid an additional $65 million, which was refunded by Morgan Stanley, under a separate agreement related to the settlement. Visa s settlement
obligations were fully satisfied with the September 2009 payment to Discover. The Company s consolidated statement of operations reflect a provision of $1.8 billion for the settlement in fiscal 2008.       The American Express Litigation       On November 15, 2004, American Express filed a complaint against Visa U.S.A., Visa International, MasterCard and several Visa U.S.A. and Visa International member financial institutions in the U.S. District Court for the Southern
District of New York. The complaint alleged that the implementation and enforcement of Visa U.S.A. s bylaw 2.10(e) and MasterCard s CPP violated Sections 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act, and sought money damages (subject to trebling) and
attorneys  fees and costs.      Visa Inc., Visa U.S.A. and Visa International entered into a settlement agreement with American Express
that became effective on November 9, 2007. Under the settlement agreement, American Express will receive maximum payments of $2.25 billion, including up to $2.07 billion from Visa Inc. and $185 million from five co-defendant banks. An initial
payment of $1.13 billion was made on March 31, 2008, including $945 million funded through the litigation Escrow Account established under the Retrospective Responsibility Plan and $185 million from the five co-defendant banks. Beginning April
2008, Visa Inc. will pay American Express an additional amount of up to $70 million each quarter for 16 quarters, for a maximum total of $1.12 billion. The quarterly settlement payments are also covered by the Retrospective Responsibility Plan. The
total settlement was recorded in fiscal 2007 at a discounted value of $1.9 billion using a rate of 4.72% over the payment term. The present value of the remaining obligation is reflected in current and long-term accrued litigation obligation on the
consolidated balance sheets.      The quarterly payments are in an amount equal to 5% of American Express s United States global
network services billings during the quarter up to a maximum of $70 million per quarter; provided, however, that if the payment for any quarter is less than $70 million, the maximum payment for a future quarter or quarters shall be increased by the
difference between $70 million and such lesser amount as was actually paid. American Express has met the performance criteria set forth in the settlement agreement for each quarter thus far, including the fourth fiscal quarter of fiscal 2009, and
Visa has made each of the corresponding settlement payments.         
   116   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)        September 30, 2009
       (in millions, except as noted)              The Attridge Litigation       On
December 8, 2004, a complaint was filed in California state court on behalf of a putative class of consumers asserting claims against Visa U.S.A., Visa International and MasterCard under California s Cartwright Act and Unfair Competition
Law. The claims in this action,  Attridge v. Visa U.S.A. Inc., et al ., seek to piggyback on the portion of the DOJ litigation in which the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York found that Visa s bylaw 2.10(e) and
MasterCard s CPP constitute unlawful restraints of trade under the federal antitrust laws. On May 19, 2006, the court entered an order dismissing plaintiff s Cartwright Act claims with prejudice but allowing the plaintiff to proceed
with his Unfair Competition Law claims, which seek restitution, injunctive relief, and attorneys  fees and costs. On December 14, 2007, the plaintiff amended his complaint to add Visa Inc. as a defendant. No new claims were added to
the complaint.      On July 1, 2009, the court denied in part the Defendants  Motion for Summary Judgment or Summary Adjudication,
but ordered the parties to submit affidavits as to whether further discovery should be conducted prior to the court rendering judgment on the Motion for Summary Adjudication. On August 3, 2009, the court ruled the Motion submitted without any
such further discovery.      On September 14, 2009, Visa entered into a settlement agreement in the California  Indirect
Purchaser   Credit/Debit Card Tying Cases,  also pending in California state court. The settlement agreement is subject to the approval of the court in those cases, and provides that it would release the claims not only in those cases but
also in the  Attridge  case. On September 24, 2009, the  Attridge  court deferred decision on the Motion for Summary Adjudication pending the ruling on preliminary approval of the settlement by the court in the  Credit/Debit Card Tying
Cases .       The Interchange Litigation        Kendall.  On October 8, 2004, a purported class action lawsuit was filed by a group of merchants in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California against Visa U.S.A., MasterCard and
several Visa U.S.A. member financial institutions alleging, among other things, that Visa U.S.A. s and MasterCard s interchange reimbursement fees contravene the Sherman Act and the Clayton Act ( Kendall v. Visa U.S.A. Inc., et al .).
On July 25, 2005, the court granted Visa U.S.A. s motion to dismiss and dismissed the complaint with prejudice.      On
March 7, 2008, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit affirmed the district court s dismissal of the complaint. The court concluded that the plaintiffs had failed to plead facts sufficient to establish a conspiracy, and that no
amendment could cure the pleading defect. In doing so, the Ninth Circuit also held that the plaintiffs were  indirect purchasers  of Visa U.S.A. and could not recover antitrust damages for their claims. Plaintiffs did not seek review of
the Ninth Circuit s ruling.       Multidistrict Litigation Proceedings (MDL).  Beginning in May 2005, approximately 55
complaints, all but 10 of which were styled as class actions, have been filed in U.S. federal district courts on behalf of merchants against Visa U.S.A. and/or MasterCard, and in some cases, certain Visa member financial institutions. Visa
International was also named as a defendant in more than 30 of these complaints. The cases allege, among other things, that Visa s and MasterCard s purported setting of interchange reimbursement fees, their  no surcharge  rules,
and alleged tying and bundling of transaction fees violate federal antitrust laws. On October 19, 2005, the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict
        
   117   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)        September 30, 2009
       (in millions, except as noted)             
Litigation issued an order transferring these cases to the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York for coordination of pre-trial proceedings (Multidistrict Litigation or MDL
1720). On April 24, 2006, the group of purported class plaintiffs filed a First Amended Class Action Complaint. Taken together, the claims in the First Amended Class Action Complaint and in the 10 complaints brought on behalf of individual
merchants are generally brought under Sections 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act. In addition, some of these complaints contain certain state unfair competition law claims. These interchange-related cases also seek treble damages in an unspecified amount
(although several of the complaints allege that the plaintiffs expect that damages will range in the tens of billions of dollars), as well as attorneys  fees and injunctive relief.      As part of the Retrospective Responsibility Plan, Visa Inc. entered into a judgment sharing agreement with Visa U.S.A., Visa International and certain
member financial institutions of Visa U.S.A. on July 1, 2007.      On January 8, 2008, the district court adopted the
recommendation of the Magistrate Judge and granted defendants  motion to dismiss the class plaintiffs  claims for damages incurred prior to January 1, 2004.      On January 29, 2009, putative class plaintiffs filed a Second Consolidated Amended Class Action Complaint. Among other things, this complaint:
(i) added new claims for damages and injunctive relief against Visa and the bank defendants regarding interchange reimbursement fees for Visa PIN-debit cards; (ii) added new claims for damages and injunctive relief against Visa and the
bank defendants since the time of Visa s IPO regarding interchange reimbursement fees for Visa s credit, offline debit, and PIN-debit cards; (iii) eliminated claims for damages relating to the so-called  no-surcharge  rule
and  anti-steering  rules; and (iv) eliminated claims for damages based on the alleged tie of network processing services and payment guarantee services to the payment card system services; and (v) added Visa Inc. as a defendant.
     In addition, putative class plaintiffs filed a Second Supplemental Class Action Complaint (the  Supplemental Complaint )
against Visa Inc. and several financial institutions challenging Visa s reorganization and IPO under Section 1 of the Sherman Act and Section 7 of the Clayton Act. In the Supplemental Complaint, putative class plaintiffs seek
unspecified monetary damages and declaratory and injunctive relief, including an order that the IPO be unwound.      On May 8, 2008,
putative class plaintiffs served on defendants a motion seeking to certify a class of merchants. On March 31, 2009, Visa, jointly with other defendants, moved to dismiss the Supplemental Complaint and the Second Consolidated Amended Class
Action Complaint.       Other Litigation         Retailers  Litigation        Beginning in October 1996, several antitrust class action lawsuits were brought by
U.S. merchants against Visa U.S.A. and MasterCard. The suits were later consolidated in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York,  In re Visa Check/MasterMoney Antitrust Litigation . Among other claims, the plaintiffs
alleged that Visa U.S.A. s  Honor All Cards  rule, which required merchants that accepted
        
   118   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)        September 30, 2009
       (in millions, except as noted)             
Visa cards to accept for payment every validly presented Visa card, and a similar MasterCard rule, constituted an illegal tying arrangement in violation of Section 1 of the Sherman Act. On
June 4, 2003, the parties signed a settlement agreement that was approved by the court on December 19, 2003. Pursuant to the settlement agreement, Visa agreed to modify its  Honor All Cards  rule such that a merchant may accept
only Visa check cards, only Visa credit cards, or both. Visa also agreed to pay approximately $2.0 billion to the merchant class over 10 years in equal annual installments of $200 million per year, among other things.      Subject to court approval, on August 31, 2009, Visa entered into an agreement to prepay its remaining $800 million in settlement payments for
$682 million. On October 2, 2009, the court entered a final order approving the prepayment agreement, and Visa made the prepayment pursuant to the agreement s terms on October 5, 2009. Pursuant to its terms, the prepayment agreement
became final after no appeals to the approval order were filed within the 30-day appeal period.       Retailers   Opt-Outs 
      Several lawsuits were commenced by merchants that opted not to participate in the plaintiff class in  In re Visa Check/MasterMoney
Antitrust Litigation . The majority of these cases were filed in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York. Visa U.S.A. entered into separate settlement agreements with all of these plaintiffs. The last remaining action,
brought by GMRI, Inc. against Visa U.S.A., was dismissed on November 21, 2008 pursuant to a settlement agreement.        Indirect Purchaser  Actions       Complaints were also filed in 19 different states and the District of Columbia
alleging state antitrust, consumer protection and common law claims against Visa U.S.A. and MasterCard (and, in California, Visa International) on behalf of putative classes of consumers. The claims in these actions included allegations mirroring
those made in the U.S. merchant lawsuit and asserting that merchants, faced with excessive merchant discount fees, passed on some portion those fees to consumers in the form of higher prices on goods and services sold. Visa U.S.A. has been
successful in the majority of these cases, as courts in 17 jurisdictions have granted Visa U.S.A. s motions to dismiss for failure to state a claim or plaintiffs have voluntarily dismissed their complaints. The court approved the voluntary
dismissal of one of the consolidated cases in New Mexico on September 16, 2009; the parties are awaiting a decision on Visa U.S.A. s motion to dismiss the other case in New Mexico.      In California, in the consolidated  Credit/Debit Card Tying Cases , the court dismissed claims brought under the Cartwright Act, but denied a
similar motion with respect to Unfair Competition Law claims for unlawful, unfair and/or fraudulent business practices. On October 31, 2007, the court denied the plaintiffs  motion to give collateral estoppel effect to certain elements of
their  tying  claim based on statements in the ruling on cross-motions for summary judgment in  In re Visa Check/MasterMoney Antitrust Litigation . On October 3, 2008, the parties agreed to confidential settlement terms to
resolve the dispute. On September 14, 2009, the parties entered into a written settlement agreement that was then submitted to the court for approval. The amount of the settlement is not considered material to the consolidated financial
statements.         
   119   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)        September 30, 2009
       (in millions, except as noted)               New Zealand Interchange Proceedings        The
Commerce Commission, New Zealand s competition regulator, filed a civil Statement of Claim in the High Court in Wellington on November 9, 2006, alleging that, among other things, the fixing of default interchange rates by Cards NZ Limited,
Visa International, MasterCard and certain Visa International member financial institutions contravenes the New Zealand Commerce Act. On November 27, 2006, a group of New Zealand retailers filed a nearly identical claim against the same
parties before the same tribunal. Both the Commerce Commission and the retailers seek declaratory, injunctive and monetary relief. Both cases were transferred to the commercial list at the High Court in Auckland in April 2007.      The Commerce Commission, Visa International and Visa Worldwide Pte Ltd settled the Commerce Commission case on August 11, 2009, and the court
granted leave to discontinue the claim on August 26, 2009. On October 3, 2009, Visa and the New Zealand retailers entered into an agreement to settle the retailers  case, and the retailers filed a notice of discontinuance on October
7, 2009. The terms of the settlements are not considered material to the consolidated financial statements.        Currency Conversion Litigation
       In 2000, a  representative  action was filed in California state court against Visa U.S.A. and Visa International in
connection with an asserted 1% currency conversion  fee  assessed on member financial institutions by the payment card networks on transactions involving the purchase of goods or services in a foreign currency and the disclosure of that
fee ( Schwartz ). Plaintiffs claimed Visa s currency conversion practices violated California Business   Professions Code Section 17200. Additional California state class actions were filed against Visa U.S.A. and Visa
International challenging currency conversion practices ( Shrieve, Mattingly , and  Baker ). Visa U.S.A., Visa International, MasterCard, Citicorp Diners Club, Inc. (Diners Club) and several Visa member financial institutions are also
defendants in a number of federal class actions that allege, among other things, violations of federal antitrust laws based on the 1% currency conversion fee. The federal complaints were consolidated or coordinated in MDL 1409 ( In re Currency
Conversion Fee Antitrust Litigation ) in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York.      On July 20, 2006, Visa
U.S.A. and Visa International entered into a settlement agreement in MDL 1409. Under the terms of that settlement, Visa U.S.A. and Visa International paid $100.1 million into a settlement fund and agreed that for five years they would separately
identify or itemize any fees added to transactions because they occurred in a foreign country or involved a foreign currency and would require U.S. issuing members to disclose certain changes, if any, to exchange rate practices. Visa U.S.A. and Visa
International also paid into the settlement fund $18.6 million in attorneys  fees to resolve  Schwartz . The  Shrieve ,  Mattingly , and  Baker  plaintiffs agreed that they would ask the court to dismiss their actions with
prejudice as to Visa U.S.A. and Visa International once the MDL 1409 settlement receives court approval. If  Baker  is dismissed, Visa U.S.A. and Visa International shall pay $1.0 million plus interest as attorneys  fees. If  Baker
 is not dismissed within 60 days of final approval of the MDL settlement, Visa U.S.A. and Visa International shall pay $500,000 plus interest as attorneys  fees.      The court granted final approval of the MDL 1409 settlement on October 22, 2009. One or more objectors may appeal the court s ruling.         
   120   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)        September 30, 2009
       (in millions, except as noted)               Morgan Stanley Dean Witter/Discover Litigation        In August 2004, the European Commission in Brussels issued a Statement of Objections against Visa International and Visa Europe alleging a breach of European competition law. The allegation arises from the Visa International and Visa Europe
Rule (bylaw 2.12(b)) that makes certain designated competitors, including Morgan Stanley Dean Witter/Discover, ineligible for membership. On October 3, 2007, the European Commission fined Visa International and Visa Europe      10.2 million ($14.5 million) for infringing European Union rules on restrictive business practices (Article 81 of the EC Treaty and
Article 53 of the EEA Agreement). Visa International and Visa Europe filed an appeal of the ruling with the Court of First Instance on December 19, 2007. Pursuant to existing agreements, Visa Europe has acknowledged full responsibility for the
defense of this action, including any fines that may be payable.        Parke Litigation        On June 27, 2005, a purported consumer and merchant class action was filed in California state court against Visa U.S.A., Visa International,
MasterCard, Merrick Bank and CardSystems Solutions, Inc. The complaint alleged that Visa U.S.A. and Visa International s failure to inform cardholders in a timely manner of a data-security breach at CardSystems, a payment card processor that
handled Visa and other payment brands, constitutes an unlawful and/or unfair business practice under California s Unfair Competition Law and violates California s statutory privacy-notice law. CardSystems filed for bankruptcy in U.S.
District Court for the District of Arizona in May 2006, staying the litigation as to it. Proceedings involving CardSystems continue in the bankruptcy court in Arizona.      On February 13, 2009, the parties executed a settlement agreement in which plaintiffs agreed to withdraw their proof of claim against CardSystems in the bankruptcy action and dismiss their claims with
prejudice against all defendants in the California state court action. On April 23, 2009, the federal bankruptcy court judge approved the withdrawal of plaintiffs  bankruptcy claim against CardSystems, and on June 16, 2009, the state
court judge approved the settlement and dismissed the state court action with prejudice. With the expiration of the appeals period, the settlement became final on August 17, 2009. The settlement amount is not considered material to the
consolidated financial statements.        The ATM Exchange Litigation        On November 14, 2005, The ATM Exchange filed a complaint for money damages against Visa U.S.A. and Visa International in the U.S. District Court
for the Southern District of Ohio. The plaintiff asserted claims of promissory estoppel, negligent misrepresentation and fraudulent misrepresentation, alleging that Visa s deferment of a July 1, 2004 member deadline that required newly
deployed ATMs to be certified by a Visa-recognized laboratory as meeting certain PIN-entry device testing requirements harmed the plaintiff by reducing demand for its ATM upgrade solution. On August 4-6, 2009, a non-binding  summary jury
trial  was held pursuant to the court s local rules. A jury found no liability and awarded no damages. On August 31, 2009, the parties entered into a settlement agreement. The settlement was funded exclusively by Visa s
insurer, and the case has been dismissed with prejudice.         
   121   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)        September 30, 2009
       (in millions, except as noted)               U.S. Department of Justice Civil Investigative Demands        On September 27, 2007, the Antitrust Division of the United States Department of Justice (the  Division ) issued a Civil Investigative Demand, or  CID,  to Visa U.S.A. that sought
information regarding a potential violation of Section 1 or 2 of the Sherman Act, 15 U.S.C.    1, 2. The CID sought documents in response to several requests, which focused on Visa U.S.A. s agreements with banks that issue Visa
debit cards. On February 26, 2008, the Division issued another CID to Visa U.S.A., seeking information regarding a potential violation of the Final Judgment, dated November 26, 2001, in  United States v. Visa U.S.A. Inc. et al ., 163
F.Supp.2d 322 (S.D.N.Y. 2001). The CID sought documents, data and narrative responses to several interrogatories and document requests, which focused on alleged termination and waiver provisions in certain agreements between Visa U.S.A. and Visa
issuers. On February 5, 2009, the Division informed Visa that it closed the investigations that led to the issuance of the September 27, 2007 and February 26, 2008 CIDs.      On October 10, 2008, the Division issued a CID to Visa U.S.A. that seeks information regarding a potential violation of Section 1 or 2 of
the Sherman Act, 15 U.S.C.    1, 2. The CID seeks documents, data and narrative responses to several interrogatories and document requests, which focus on certain Visa U.S.A. policies relating to merchant acceptance practices, including
Visa U.S.A. s policies regarding merchant surcharging and merchants  ability to steer customers to other forms of payment. Visa U.S.A. is cooperating with the Division in connection with the CID.        State Investigative Demands        On
May 15, 2009, the Office of the Attorney General for the State of Ohio issued an Investigative Demand to Visa Inc. seeking information regarding a potential violation of Chapter 1331 of the Ohio Revised Code, Ohio s antitrust law. The Ohio
Attorney General is part of a multistate attorney general working group. The Investigative Demand seeks copies of documents, data and narrative responses that Visa has produced to the Division pursuant to the CID issued on October 10, 2008. The
Investigative Demand focuses on certain Visa U.S.A. policies relating to merchant acceptance practices, including Visa U.S.A. s policies regarding merchant surcharging and merchants  ability to steer customers to other forms of payment.
     As part of the multistate working group s investigation, the Office of the Attorney General of Texas issued a CID to Visa Inc. on
October 9, 2009 seeking information regarding a potential violation of Sections 15.05 of the Texas Free Enterprise and Antitrust Act of 1983, Texas s antitrust law. The CID seeks narrative responses to interrogatories that focus on certain
Visa U.S.A. policies relating to merchant acceptance practices, including Visa U.S.A. s policies regarding merchant surcharging and merchants  ability to steer customers to other forms of payment. Visa Inc. is cooperating with the state
Attorneys General in connection with these requests.        Hill Country Custom Cycles        Robert Smith, individually and doing business as Hill Country Custom Cycles, filed a putative class action lawsuit against Visa Inc., several banks,
and a processor in U.S. District Court for the Central District of California on June 4, 2008. The plaintiff alleged that, due to fluctuations in currency conversion rates, a transaction disputed by a cardholder and ultimately charged back to a
merchant by its acquiring bank (a  chargeback ) may result in a debit to a merchant s account in excess of the
        
   122   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)        September 30, 2009
       (in millions, except as noted)             
original transaction amount. The lawsuit asserted claims under federal and state antitrust law and a variety of common law claims, including fraud and breach of contract. On December 22,
2008, the court issued an order dismissing without prejudice the case against Visa. On April 28, 2009, the parties reached an agreement in principle to settle the litigation, and the case was subsequently dismissed with prejudice. The
settlement amount is not considered material to the consolidated financial statements.        Venezuela Interchange Proceedings        On October 2, 2008, the Superintendencia para la Promoci n y Protecci n de la Libre Competencia ( Competition Authority )
of Venezuela filed an administrative proceeding against  Visa Inc. International  (sic), MasterCard, American Express, Diners Club, Consorcio Credicard, and more than thirty privately held financial institutions. The Competition Authority
alleges that, among other things, the defendants  setting of default interchange rates and merchant discount rates violates Venezuelan competition law. The Competition Authority seeks monetary and injunctive relief.      The evidentiary phase of the investigation has concluded, but the Competition Authority has not yet issued any findings as a result of the
investigation.        European Interchange Proceedings        On April 3, 2009, the European Commission issued a Statement of Objections ( SO ) to Visa Europe, Visa International and Visa Inc. alleging a breach of European competition law. Visa Inc. and Visa
International were served with the Statement of Objections on June 1, 2009. The SO alleges a breach of Article 81 of the EC Treaty and Article 53 of the EEA Agreement. The SO is directed to Visa Inc. and Visa International as to Honor All
Cards, the no-surcharge rule and what the Commission alleges is the  subsidiary application of the Inter-Regional MIFs to the intra-regional POS transactions with consumer cards.  On August 10, 2009, Visa Inc. and Visa
International filed a response to the SO. Pursuant to existing agreements among the parties, Visa Europe is obligated to indemnify Visa International and Visa Inc. in connection with this proceeding, including payment of any fines that may be
imposed.        Canadian Competition Bureau Proceedings        On April 21, 2009, Visa received an oral notification from the Canadian Competition Bureau that it has initiated a civil inquiry regarding interchange and certain of Visa policies relating to merchant
acceptance practices. Visa has not yet received documentation related to the inquiry.        Brazilian Competition Authority Proceedings
       On August 7, 2009, Secretaria de Direito Econ mico (SDE), the Brazilian competition agency, opened an administrative
proceeding against Visa International, Visa do Brasil, and Companhia Brasileira de Meios de Pagamento (d/b/a VisaNet do Brasil) regarding an alleged exclusive relationship between the Company and VisaNet do Brasil, the sole acquirer of Visa
transactions in Brazil. SDE also issued an injunction against Visa International and Visa do Brasil requiring, among other things, that Visa grant additional acquiring licenses to Brazilian financial institutions and suspend Visa s exclusive
        
   123   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)        September 30, 2009
       (in millions, except as noted)             
relationship with VisaNet do Brasil. The SDE administrative proceeding follows the issuance of a report by the Central Bank of Brazil suggesting, among other things, that the single-acquirer
structure in Brazil be changed.      Visa International and Visa do Brasil appealed the injunction to Conselho Administrativo de Defesa
Econ mica (CADE), the Brazilian competition authority, and on September 16, 2009, CADE revoked the injunction in its entirety.        Kabuki
Restaurants        On January 5, 2009, Kabuki Restaurants, Inc. filed a putative class action lawsuit against Visa Inc. in
California Superior Court. The plaintiff alleged that Visa s practice of imposing fines on acquiring banks for their merchants  failure to abide by certain Visa rules, including fines related to the Cardholder Information Security Program
(CISP) and Account Data Compromise Recovery (ADCR) process, violates California state law, including Business and Professions Code   17200  et seq . Before Visa filed a responsive pleading, Kabuki voluntarily dismissed the action
without prejudice and re-filed the suit on an individual basis. On July 22, 2009, the parties executed an agreement to settle the litigation, and the case was subsequently dismissed with prejudice. The settlement amount is not considered
material to the consolidated financial statements.        Loiseau        On March 17, 2009, Robert Loiseau filed a putative class action against Visa U.S.A. in California Superior Court asserting claims for breach of contract, unjust enrichment and violations of Business and
Professions Code   17200  et seq . The plaintiff alleges that certain terms and conditions associated with Visa gift cards are unlawful. On June 2, 2009, plaintiff amended the complaint to add the card issuer, Metabank, as a
defendant. On September 1, 2009, plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint that included more specific class allegations. On the basis of those allegations, on October 2, 2009, Metabank removed the case to the U.S. District Court for
the Southern District of California. Visa moved to dismiss the Second Amended Complaint as to Visa on October 9, 2009. On November 17, 2009, the court granted Visa s motion and dismissed the complaint without prejudice, giving plaintiff
leave to file an amended complaint.        The Reserve Primary Fund        On May 5, 2009, Visa U.S.A. commenced an action in the United States Court for the Southern District of New York against The Reserve Primary Fund
(the  Fund ) and related entities in connection with the Fund s failure to promptly redeem in full Visa U.S.A. s investment in a money market mutual fund. On September 15, 2008, Visa U.S.A. sought to redeem its entire
investment of over $981 million, plus accrued dividends. The Fund failed to return Visa U.S.A. s investment within one business day as required by the Fund s prospectus. Since that time, the Fund announced a liquidation plan and has so far
made interim distributions returning approximately 90% of Visa U.S.A. s investment. Visa U.S.A. is seeking damages in excess of $98 million, the amount of its investment currently held by the Fund. Also see  Note 5 Investments and Fair
Value Measurements  and  Note 6 Prepaid Expenses and Other Assets . On May 5, 2009, the SEC commenced an action in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York against the Fund and has proposed an alternative plan
of liquidation.         
   124   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)        September 30, 2009
       (in millions, except as noted)               Intellectual Property Litigation         Vale
Canjeable       On November 21, 2006, Vale Canjeable Ticketven, C.A. filed an action in the Fifth Municipal Court of Caracas
( Fifth Municipal court ), Venezuela against Todoticket 2004, C.A., and Visa International seeking a preliminary injunction preventing use of the Visa Vale mark in Venezuela. In December 2006, the plaintiff also filed a claim with the
Fourth Commercial Court of First Instance of Caracas ( First Instance court ), alleging that the defendants infringed the plaintiff s rights as the holder of the trademark registries and requesting declarative, injunctive and monetary
relief.      On November 29, 2006, the Fifth Municipal court granted a preliminary injunction prohibiting use of the  Vale 
in the Venezuelan market of food vouchers. On December 6, 2006, Visa International filed a constitutional objection to that ruling. The objection was dismissed, and Visa International appealed the decision through the appellate courts.
     On September 25, 2007, Visa International s request for removal of the First Instance judge from the case was granted. A new
judge was assigned to finalize the discovery phase of the case.      After all appeals to the lower appellate courts had been rejected, on
March 14, 2008, Visa International filed an extraordinary appeal of the preliminary injunction ruling with the Commercial Chamber of the Supreme Court. On August 6, 2008, the Supreme Court accepted Visa International s appeal and
declared the lower court s decision null and void. Pursuant to the Supreme Court s order, on March 25, 2009, the First Commercial Judge of Appeals of Caracas issued a new decision. The decision (i) dismissed Visa
International s appeal; (ii) ratified the preliminary injunction; and (iii) found Visa and Todoticket liable for legal fees and costs in connection with the appeal. On July 9, 2009, Visa International filed a further appeal as to
the March 25 decision on preliminary relief.       Starpay and VIMachine       On May 8, 2003, Starpay and VIMachine sued Visa U.S.A. and Visa International in U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Texas, claiming
that Visa used information provided by Starpay in 2000 to create Verified by Visa ( VbV ) and to file a Visa patent application on the technology underlying VbV. Two claims are asserted: infringement of VIMachine s patent and
misappropriation of Starpay s trade secrets. On February 23, 2004, Visa U.S.A. and Visa International answered the complaint and filed a counterclaim for a declaratory judgment that Visa U.S.A. and Visa International are not infringing the
asserted patent and/or that the patent is invalid. On March 16, 2004, Starpay filed an answer to the counterclaim.      The parties
reached an agreement in principle to settle the dispute in January 2008. On May 16, 2008, Visa U.S.A. and Visa International filed a Motion to Enforce the Settlement Agreement against all parties to the agreement, including the inventor.
VIMachine and the inventor filed a Motion to Compel Further Mediation on November 7, 2008 and sought a stay in favor of arbitration on December 17, 2008.      The parties executed a revised settlement agreement (the  Revised Settlement ) in June 2009, and on September 11, 2009, the court issued an order dismissing all claims with prejudice. The
settlement amount in the Revised Settlement is not considered material to the consolidated financial statements.         
   125   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)        September 30, 2009
       (in millions, except as noted)              Every Penny Counts, Inc. Prepaid Cards       On July 17, 2007, Every Penny Counts, Inc. filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida against Visa U.S.A., MasterCard and American Express for patent infringement.
Plaintiff amended its complaint on September 27, 2007 to add Green Dot Corp. as a party and to add a patent to its suit. The complaint now alleges that the defendants   open  prepaid card products infringe five U.S.
Patents held by the plaintiff. After the court denied Visa U.S.A. s motion to dismiss, on November 13, 2007, Visa U.S.A. filed its answer and counterclaims alleging that Visa does not infringe the plaintiff s patents, that the
plaintiff s patents are invalid, and that the plaintiff s patents are unenforceable due to prosecution laches and inequitable conduct.      At a claims construction hearing on May 22, 2008, the court ruled in favor of defendants on all five of plaintiff s patents. In light of this ruling, plaintiff orally agreed to a stipulated judgment in favor of all defendants on
all claims. The court entered judgment for all defendants on May 23, 2008, which was affirmed by the Federal Circuit on April 30, 2009. The Federal Circuit denied Every Penny Counts s petition for rehearing on May 26, 2009
and issued its mandate on June 2, 2009. Judgment was entered pursuant to that mandate on June 10, 2009. The U.S. Supreme Court denied Every Penny Counts s petition for writ of certiorari on November 9, 2009.       Calabrese Stemer Transaction Notification Alerts       On February 19, 2009, Calabrese Stemer LLC and Charge Notification Services Corp, Inc. filed suit against Visa Inc. in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida for patent infringement.
Plaintiffs allege that Visa offers to perform certain transaction notification pilot services that would infringe U.S. Patent No. 7,357,310 ( Mobile Phone Charge Card Notification and Authorization Method ). On June 11, 2009,
Plaintiff filed a Notice of Voluntary Dismissal Without Prejudice. On June 16, 2009, the Court issued an Order of Closeout dismissing the Plaintiffs  claims without prejudice.       TQP Development, LLC Data Encryption       On March 25, 2009, TQP Development, LLC filed a lawsuit against Visa Inc., Visa U.S.A., Visa International and a number of other companies, including American Express, MasterCard and Barclays, in the U.S.
District Court for the Eastern District of Texas alleging that methods practiced on the defendants  websites infringe U.S. Patent No. 5,412,730 ( Encrypted Data Transmission System Employing Means for Randomly Altering the Encryption
Keys ). On May 22, 2009, Visa answered the complaint and filed a counterclaim for a declaratory judgment that Visa is not infringing the patent and/or that the patent is invalid.       Actus, LLC Prepaid Cards       On April 9, 2009, Actus, LLC filed a lawsuit against Visa Inc. and a number of other companies in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas alleging that certain Visa prepaid products infringe U.S. Patent
No. 7,328,189 ( Method and Apparatus for Conducting Electronic Commerce Transactions Using Electronic Tokens ) and U.S. Patent No. 7,249,099 ( Method and Apparatus for Conducting Electronic Commerce Transactions Using
Electronic Tokens ). On June 11, 2009, Visa filed a motion to dismiss plaintiff s claims. Actus filed a second amended complaint on August 17,
        
   126   

Table of Contents  

    VISA INC.        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)        September 30, 2009
       (in millions, except as noted)             
2009, to address the issues raised in Visa s motion, and Visa and other defendants filed a renewed motion to dismiss on September 8, 2009.       Joao Bock Transaction Systems Transaction Security       On May 11, 2009, Joao Bock Transaction Systems of Texas, LLC filed a lawsuit against Visa Inc. and a number of other companies in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas alleging that certain
Visa products and/or services infringe U.S. Patent No. 7,096,003 ( Transaction Security Apparatus ). On June 23, 2009, plaintiff filed a first amended complaint. On July 10, 2009, Visa filed a motion to dismiss
plaintiff s claim. On October 1, 2009, the parties executed an agreement to settle the litigation, and the case was dismissed with prejudice on October 13, 2009. The settlement amount is not considered material to the consolidated
financial statements.       Restricted Spending Solutions, LLC Prepaid and Commercial Cards       On June 23, 2009, Restricted Spending Solutions, LLC filed a lawsuit against Visa U.S.A. and a number of other companies in the U.S. District
Court for the Northern District of Illinois alleging that certain Visa prepaid and commercial cards infringe U.S. Patent No. 6,044,360 ( Third Party Credit Card ). On October 30, 2009, Visa U.S.A. answered the complaint and filed
a counterclaim for a declaratory judgment that Visa is not infringing the patent and/or that the patent is invalid.       Note 22 Subsequent Events
      In October 2009, the Company s board of directors authorized a $1.0 billion share repurchase plan. The authorization will be in
place through September 30, 2010, and is subject to extension or expansion at the determination of the Company s board of directors. The Company began repurchasing its class A shares from the open market in late October 2009 and has
continued to do so into November 2009.      In fiscal 2009, the Company entered into an agreement to modify its remaining payment
obligations under the original retailers  litigation settlement agreement, which was approved by the court on October 2, 2009. Pursuant to this agreement, the Company made a payment of $682 million to fully satisfy the remaining $800 million
obligation on October 5, 2009, and the prepayment agreement became final after no appeals to the approval order were filed within the 30-day appeal period. See  Note 21 Legal Matters .         
   127   

Table of Contents  

    Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)        (in millions, except per share data)       The following tables show selected quarterly operating results for each quarter and full year of fiscal 2009 and 2008 for Visa Inc.:       

(i)   
        In October 2008, the Company redeemed
all shares of class C (series II), and partial shares of class C (series III) common stock. Following the redemptions, the remaining shares of class C (series III) and class C (series IV) common stock automatically converted into shares of class C
(series I) common stock. Under the Fifth Amended and Restated Certificated of Incorporation, shares of class C (series I) common stock were designated as class C common stock with no series designation.      

(ii)   
        For the quarter ended
December 31, 2007, the Company did not have any dilutive potential common shares. Each regional class and series of common stock were legally entitled to equal per share distributions and the Company therefore presented a single earnings per
share amount for period presented ending prior to the IPO.      

(iii)   
        Following the IPO, the Company
calculated net income per share using the two-class method to reflect the different rights of each class and series of outstanding common stock.            
   128   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 9.   
   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosures         Not applicable.       

ITEM 9A.   
   Controls and Procedures          Evaluation of
Disclosure Controls and Procedures       We maintain a system of disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in the Rules 13a-15(e) and
15(d)-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act )) that is designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in our Exchange Act reports is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within
the time periods specified in the SEC s rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions
regarding required disclosures.      Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we conducted an evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures. Based on this evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as of September 30, 2009, our
disclosure controls and procedures were effective.      There are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system of disclosure
controls and procedures. These limitations include the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of the controls and procedures and reasonable resource constraints. In addition, because we have designed our system of controls based
on certain assumptions, which we believe are reasonable, about the likelihood of future events, our system of controls may not achieve its desired purpose under all possible future conditions. Accordingly, our disclosure controls and procedures
provide reasonable assurance, but not absolute assurance, of achieving their objectives.       Management s Report on Internal
Control over Financial Reporting       The Company s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal
control over financial reporting for the Company. Management assessed the effectiveness of Company s internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2009. Based on management s assessment, management has concluded that
Company s internal control over financial reporting was effective as of September 30, 2009 using the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in  Internal Control Integrated
Framework .      Our internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance regarding
the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. There are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system of internal control over financial
reporting. These limitations include the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of the system and reasonable resource constraints. Because of its inherent limitations, our internal control over financial reporting may not
prevent or detect misstatements. Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risks discussed in  Item 1A Risk Factors  in this report.      Based on management s assessment, management has concluded that Company s internal control over financial reporting was effective as of
September 30, 2009.      The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2009 has been
audited by KPMG LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm and is included in Item 8 of this Report.         
   129   

Table of Contents  

    Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting       In preparation for management s report on internal control over financial reporting, we documented and tested the design and operating
effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. During fiscal 2009, there were no significant changes in our internal controls over financial reporting that occurred during the year ended September 30, 2009 that have materially
affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company s internal control over financial reporting.       

ITEM 9B.   
   Other Information         Not applicable.
        
   130   

Table of Contents  

      PART III       Certain information required by Part III is omitted from this Report and the Company will file a definitive proxy statement pursuant to Regulation 14A
under the Exchange Act (the  Proxy Statement ) not later than 120 days after the end of the fiscal year ended September 30, 2009, and certain information included therein is incorporated herein by reference. Only those sections of the
Proxy Statement that specifically address the items set forth herein are incorporated by reference. Such incorporation does not include the report of the Audit and Risk Committee included in the Proxy Statement.       

ITEM 10.   
   Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance         The information required by this item concerning the Company s directors, executive officers, the code of ethics and corporate governance matters is incorporated herein by reference to the sections entitled
 Proposal 1 Election of Class III Directors,   Class I Directors Continuing in Office until Our 2011 Annual Meeting,   Class II Directors Continuing in Office until our 2012 Annual Meeting,   Executive
Officers,   Code of Business Conduct and Ethics,   Corporate Governance  and  Board of Directors and Committees of the Board  in our Proxy Statement.      The information required by this item regarding delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is incorporated herein by reference to the
section entitled  Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  in our Proxy Statement.      Our codes of business
conduct and ethics and significant corporate governance principles are available on the investor relations page of our website at www.investor.visa.com. Printed copies of these documents are also available to stockholders without charge upon written
request directed to Corporate Secretary, P.O. Box 8999, San Francisco, California 94128.       

ITEM 11.   
   Executive Compensation         The information
required by this item concerning executive compensation is incorporated herein by reference to the sections entitled  Director Compensation  and  Executive Compensation  in our Proxy Statement.      The information required by this item pursuant to Item 407(e)(4) of Regulation S-K is incorporated herein by reference to the section entitled
 Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation  in our Proxy Statement.      The information required by this item
pursuant to Item 407(e)(5) of Regulation S-K is incorporated herein by reference to the section entitled  Compensation Committee Report  in our Proxy Statement.       

ITEM 12.   
   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters         The information required by this item pursuant to Item 403 of Regulation S-K is incorporated herein by reference to the section entitled  Security
Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management  in our Proxy Statement.      For the information required by item 201(d) of
Regulation S-K, refer to  Item 5  in this report.         
   131   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 13.   
   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence         The information required by this item concerning related party transactions pursuant to Item 404 of Regulation S-K is incorporated herein by reference to the section entitled  Certain Relationships and Related
Person Transactions  in our Proxy Statement.      The information required by this item concerning director independence pursuant to
Item 407(a) of Regulation S-K is incorporated herein by reference to the section entitled  Independence of Directors  in our Proxy Statement.       

ITEM 14.   
   Principal Accountant Fees and Services         The
information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the section entitled  Auditor Services and Fees  in our Proxy Statement.         
   132   

Table of Contents  

      PART IV        

ITEM 15.   
   Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules         (a) The following documents are filed as part of this Report:      1. Consolidated Financial Statements   
  See Index to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report.      2. Consolidated Financial Statement Schedules      None.      3. The following exhibits are filed as part of this Report or, where indicated, were previously filed and are hereby incorporated by reference:      Refer to the Exhibit Index herein.         
   133   

Table of Contents  

    SIGNATURES       Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this Annual Report on Form 10-K to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.        

VISA INC.   

By:  
     
  / S /    J OSEPH  W.
S AUNDERS            
 
   Name:   
     
   Joseph W. Saunders    
 
   Title:   
     
   Chief Executive Officer    
 
   Date:   
     
   November 19, 2009    
 
   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant in the capacities and on the dates indicated.       

Signature    
      
     Title    
     
     Date     

/ S /    J OSEPH  W.
S AUNDERS               Joseph W. Saunders    
      
  Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors (principal executive officer)  
     
  November 19, 2009   

/ S /    B YRON  H.
P OLLITT               Byron H. Pollitt    
      
    Chief Financial Officer     (principal financial
officer and principal accounting officer)   
     
  November 19, 2009   

/ S /    H ANI 
A L -Q ADI               Hani Al-Qadi    
      
  Director  
     
  November 19, 2009   

/ S /    T HOMAS 
C AMPBELL               Thomas Campbell    
      
  Director  
     
  November 10, 2009   

/ S /    G ARY 
C OUGHLAN               Gary Coughlan    
      
  Director  
     
  November 19, 2009   

/ S /    M ARY  B.
C RANSTON               Mary B. Cranston    
      
  Director  
     
  November 11, 2009   

/ S /    C HARLES  T.
D OYLE               Charles T. Doyle    
      
  Director  
     
  November 19, 2009   
       
   134   

Table of Contents  

135   

Table of Contents  

    EXHIBIT INDEX        

Table of Contents  

2   

Table of Contents  

3   

Table of Contents  

Exhibit       Number    
     
     Description of Documents     

31.1*  
     
  Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 302   

31.2*  
     
  Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302   

32.1*  
     
  Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 906   

32.2*  
     
  Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 906   

101*+  
     
    The following materials from the Visa Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2009, filed on November 20, 2009 formatted
in Extensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL):     (i) Consolidated Balance Sheets,     (ii) Consolidated Statements of Operations,     (iii) Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income,     (iv) Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders  Equity,     (v) Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows and     (vi) related notes, tagged as blocks of text.    

(1)   
        We have agreed to furnish to the SEC,
upon request, a copy of each instrument with respect to issuances of long-term debt of Visa Inc. and its subsidiaries.      

Portions of this exhibit were omitted and have been filed separately with the Secretary of the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to the Registrant s application
requesting confidential treatment under Rule 406 of the Securities Act.     

*  
  Filed or furnished herewith.     

+  
  Users of this data are advised pursuant to Rule 401 of Regulation S-T that the financial information contained in these XBRL documents is unaudited and that these are not the
official publicly filed financial statements of Visa Inc. The purpose of submitting these XBRL documents is to test the related format and technology and, as a result, investors should continue to rely on the official filed version of the furnished
documents and not rely on this information in making investment decisions. In accordance with Rule 402 of Regulation S-T, the information in these exhibits shall not be deemed to be  filed  for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be
expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.           
   4   

<EX-10.38>
 2
 dex1038.htm
 FORM OF VISA INC. 2007 EQUITY INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN

Form of Visa Inc. 2007 Equity Incentive Compensation Plan 

Exhibit 10.38        VISA INC. 2007 EQUITY INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN        Performance Share Award Agreement  
     This PERFORMANCE SHARE AWARD AGREEMENT (this   Agreement  ), dated November 5, 2009 (the   Grant
Date  ), is by and between VISA INC. (the   Company  ) and              (the   Participant  ), pursuant to the Visa Inc. 2007 Equity Incentive
Compensation Plan (the   Plan  ). Capitalized terms that are not defined herein shall have the meanings given to such terms in the Plan.       WHEREAS , pursuant to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee has authorized the grant to the Participant of Performance Shares in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement; and   
   WHEREAS , the Participant and the Company desire to enter into this Agreement to evidence and confirm the grant of such Performance Shares on
the terms and conditions set forth herein.       NOW ,  THEREFORE , the Participant and the Company agree as follows:   
  1.  Grant of Performance Shares . Pursuant to the provisions of the Plan and this Agreement, the Company on the Grant Date has granted and
hereby evidences the grant to the Participant, subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Plan, of an award of              Performance Shares (this
  Award  ).      2.  Payment of Earned and Vested Performance Shares . Subject to the provisions of this Section 2
and Sections 4 and 5 of the Agreement, the Payment Value of each Performance Share covered by this Award that has been determined, in writing, to be earned and vested pursuant to Sections 3, 4(b) or 5 shall be paid or delivered to the Participant on
a date that is as soon as administratively practicable (but no later than 60 days) after the applicable vesting date described in Sections 3(b), 4(b) or 5 on which such Performance Share initially becomes vested. For purposes of this Agreement,
  Payment Value   means the Fair Market Value of a Share on the applicable vesting date. Payments hereunder shall be made in Shares, unless the Committee, in its discretion, determines to make such payments in cash or a combination of
cash and Shares. The foregoing to the contrary notwithstanding, if the Participant s Separation from Service occurs under any circumstances other than death, any such payment due by reason of such Separation from Service shall be delayed for
six months from the date of the Participant s Separation from Service if the Participant is a  specified employee  (as such term is defined in Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Code).      3.  Performance Criteria and Vesting Applicable to Performance Shares .      (a)  Performance Criteria .      (i)  Performance Cycle . The Performance Cycle for this Award shall end on September 30, 2011.      (ii)  Performance
Goals . The Performance Goals for this Award are (A) specified levels of the Company s GAAP Net Income and (B) the total
        
   1   

shareholder return of the Company ranked against the total shareholder return of companies that are included in the Standard   Poor s 500 Index (  S P 500
Index  ) as of the end of the applicable period used for purposes of calculating this goal, as described below (  TSR Rank  ). For this purpose,   GAAP Net Income   means the Company s cumulative fiscal
year 2010 and 2011 GAAP net income reported in its annual report on Form 10-K for the applicable years. The Committee, in its discretion, may determine to adjust the results by excluding some or all of the effects of certain unusual items.  TSR
Rank  means the aggregate total shareholder return on Shares over the approximately two year period beginning October 28, 2009 and ending on the day the Company s earnings are announced following the close of the Company s 2011
fiscal year, ranked against the total shareholder return over the same two year period for each of the companies that comprise the S P 500 Index. Total shareholder return will be calculated using a beginning price equal to the trading volume
weighted average price over the period from October 8, 2009 to November 18, 2009, and an ending price equal to the trading volume weighted average price over the period beginning 14 trading days before and ending 15 trading days after the
date of the release of the Company s fiscal year 2011 earnings, and accounting for reinvestment of dividends over this period; provided, however, that if the date of the release of the Company s fiscal year 2011 earnings is fewer than 15
trading days prior to November 21, 2011, then the ending price will be equal to the average price over the 30-trading day period ending on November 21, 2011.      (iii)  Percentage of Performance Shares Earned . Following the end of the Performance Cycle, the Committee will determine the extent to which Performance Shares have become earned according to the product of
the results of the following two schedules:       

Performance Level    
      
     GAAP Net Income (in Millions)    
      
     Base Percentage of Performance Shares
Earned     

Less than $[        ]  
      
      0%   
 
    Threshold   
      
  $[        ]  
      
    50%   
 
    Target   
      
  $[        ]  
      
  100%   
 
    Maximum   
      
  $[        ] or more  
      
  200%   
    If the GAAP Net Income falls between Threshold and Target, or between Target and Maximum, then the percentage
of Performance Shares earned shall be the sum of the Base Percentage of Performance Shares Earned in the schedule above for the lower such Performance Level plus the product of (i) the difference between the Base Percentage of Performance
Shares Earned in the schedule above for the greater and lower such Performance Levels and (ii) a fraction, the numerator of which is the amount by which the GAAP Net Income achieved exceeds the GAAP Net Income in the schedule above for the
lower such Performance Level and the denominator of which is the difference between GAAP Net Income amounts in the schedule above for the greater and lower of such Performance Levels. The Percentage of Performance Shares Earned with respect to GAAP
Net Income shall never exceed 200%.         
   2   

If the Performance Level for TSR Rank falls between Threshold and Target, or between Target and Maximum, then
the Adjustment Multiplier shall be the sum of the Adjustment Multiplier in the schedule above for the lower such Performance Level plus the product of (i) the difference between the Adjustment Multiplier in the schedule above for the greater
and lower such Performance Levels and (ii) a fraction, the numerator of which is the amount by which the TSR Rank achieved exceeds the TSR Rank in the schedule above for the lower such Performance Level and the denominator of which is the
difference between TSR Ranks in the schedule above for the greater and lower of such Performance Levels. The Adjustment Multiplier for the TSR Rank shall never exceed 125%. The product of the Base Percentage Performance Shares Earned and the
Adjustment Multiplier shall be limited to a maximum of 200% and is then multiplied by the grant amount to determine the number of Performance Shares earned.      (iv)  Notification . As soon as practicable following the end of the Performance Cycle, the Participant shall be notified in writing of the number of Performance Shares earned.      (b)  Vesting . Subject to Sections 4 and 5 of this Agreement, one-half of the Performance Shares that are earned pursuant to Section 3(a)
shall become vested on each of November [    ], 2011, and November [    ], 2012.      (c)
 Separate Payments . For purposes of this Award and Agreement, each amount to be paid hereunder shall be construed as a separate identified payment for purposes of Section 409A of the Code.      4.  Termination of Employment .      (a)  In General . Except as otherwise provided in this Section 4 or in Section 5 of this Agreement or in the Plan, all Performance Shares subject to this Award that have not become vested pursuant to Section 3(b) prior
to the date of the Participant s Termination shall be immediately forfeited upon such Termination.      (b) This Section 4(b)
applies only in the event that (I) a Change of Control has not occurred prior to November [    ], 2012, or (II) a Change of Control has occurred prior to November [    ], 2012, but the Participant s
Separation from Service has not occurred within two years following the Change of Control:      (i)  Separation from Service by Reason of
Death, Disability or Retirement Before the End of the Performance Cycle : Upon a Participant s Separation from Service before the end of the Performance Cycle (A) due to death or Disability (as defined below), or (B) by the
Participant at or after attainment of normal retirement eligibility under the
        
   3   

generally applicable retirement plan of the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate under which the Participant is covered in his or her home country (  Retirement  ), then the
Participant shall be fully vested, as of November [    ], 2011, in a prorated number of Performance Shares calculated by multiplying the number of Performance Shares that would have been both earned pursuant to
Section 3(a)(iii), and vested pursuant to Section 3(b), had the Participant remained in employment through November [    ], 2012, by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of full calendar days that the
Participant was actively employed during the Performance Cycle and the denominator of which is the total number of calendar days in the Performance Cycle.      (ii)  Separation from Service by Reason of Death, Disability or Retirement After the End of the Performance Cycle : Upon a Participant s Separation from Service after the end of the Performance Cycle
(A) due to death or Disability, or (B) by the Participant by reason of Retirement, then the Participant shall be fully vested, as of the date of such Separation from Service, or if later, as of November [    ], 2011, in
all of his or her Performance Shares that had been earned pursuant to Section 3(a)(iii) but had not yet vested under Section 3(b) as of the date of such Separation from Service.      (iii)  Termination, Whether Before or After the End of the Performance Cycle, Other than by Reason of Death, Disability or Retirement : Upon a
Participant s Termination, whether before or after the end of the Performance Cycle, other than by reason of death, Disability or Retirement, then any and all of the Performance Shares that have not vested as the date of such Termination shall
be forfeited.      5.  Change of Control .      (a) This Section 5(a) applies (I) only in the event that (A) a Change of Control has occurred prior to November [    ], 2012, and (B) the Participant s Separation from
Service has occurred within two years following the Change of Control, and (II) notwithstanding any provision in Sections 2, 3 or 4 of this Agreement to the contrary:      (i)  Separation from Service by Reason of Death, Disability, Without Cause, Good Reason or Retirement Before the End of the Performance Cycle : Upon a Participant s Separation from Service before the end
of the Performance Cycle (A) due to death or Disability, (B) either by the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate without Cause (as defined below), (C) by the Participant for Good Reason (as defined below) or (D) by the
Participant by reason of Retirement, then, as of the date of such Separation from Service, the Participant will become vested in that number of Performance Shares subject to this Award that would have been earned under Section 3(a)(iii), as of
the end of the Performance Cycle, based on the deemed achievement of the Target Performance Level (within the meaning of Section 3(a)(iii)).      (ii)  Separation from Service by Reason of Death, Disability, without Cause, Good Reason or Retirement After the End of the Performance Cycle : Upon a Participant s Separation from Service after the end
of the Performance Cycle (A) due to death or Disability, (B) either by the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate without Cause, (C) by the Participant for Good Reason or (D) by the Participant by reason of Retirement, then the
Participant shall be fully vested, as of such Separation from Service, or if later, as of November [    ], 2011, in all of his or her Performance Shares that have been earned pursuant to Section 3(a)(iii) but have not yet
vested under Section 3(b); provided, however, that if the Change of Control had occurred prior to the end of the Performance Cycle, then the Participant shall become vested, as of such Separation from Service, or, if later, as of November
[    ], 2011, in the
        
   4   

greater of (I) all of his or her Performance Shares that have been earned pursuant to Section 3(a)(iii) but have not yet vested under Section 3(b) as of the date of such Separation
from Service, and (II) that number of Performance Shares subject to this Award that would have been earned as of the end of the Performance Cycle under Section 3(a)(iii), based on the deemed achievement of the Target Performance Level (within
the meaning of Section 3(a)(iii)), multiplied by 50% if the Participant s Separation from Service occurs after November [    ], 2011.      (iii)  Termination, Whether Before or After the End of the Performance Cycle by the Company for Cause or by the Participant Other than by Reason of Death, Disability, Good Reason or Retirement ; Upon a
Participant s Termination, whether before or after the end of the Performance Cycle, (A) by the Company for Cause, or (B) by the Participant other than by reason of death, Disability, Good Reason or Retirement, then any of the
Performance Shares that have not vested as the date of such Termination shall be forfeited.      (b) For purposes of this Agreement, no
Change of Control shall be deemed to have occurred unless it constitutes a  change in the ownership or effective control of the corporation, or in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of the corporation  within the meaning
of Section 409A of the Code.      (c) For the avoidance of doubt, Section 14.1(b) of the Plan shall not apply to the Performance
Shares subject to this Agreement to the extent such provision conflicts with this Section 5, but the applicable provisions of Article XIV of the Plan shall otherwise apply to this Agreement.      6.  Restrictions on Transfer . Performance Shares may not be sold, assigned, hypothecated, pledged or otherwise transferred or encumbered in any
manner except (a) by will or the laws of descent and distribution or (b) as otherwise permitted pursuant to the Plan.      7.
 Dividend Equivalents . Each Performance Share subject to this Award shall entitle the Participant to Dividend Equivalents with respect to regular cash dividends that would otherwise be paid on one Share during the period from the date such
Performance Share is earned in accordance with Section 3(a) to the date such Performance Share is paid in accordance with Section 2 or forfeited in accordance with Section 4 or 5. Any such Dividend Equivalent shall be paid to the
Participant at (or within thirty (30) days following) the time such related dividends are paid to holders of Shares.      8.  No
Rights as a Shareholder Prior to Issuance of Shares . Neither the Participant nor any other person shall become the beneficial owner of any Shares that may become payable with respect to the Performance Shares subject to this Award, nor have any
rights to dividends or other rights as a shareholder with respect to any such Shares, until and after such Shares, if any, have been actually issued in satisfaction of the Company s obligations under this Award, in the time and manner specified
in Section 2, and such Shares are transferred on the books and records of the Company or its agent in accordance with the terms of the Plan and this Agreement.      9.  Taxes and Withholding . The Company shall have the right to deduct from all amounts otherwise payable to the Participant in cash in respect of Performance Shares covered by this Award any amount of taxes
of any kind required by law to be withheld as may
        
   5   

be necessary in the opinion of the Company to satisfy tax withholding required under the laws of any country, state, province, city or other jurisdiction. In the case of any payments in the form
of Shares of Performance Shares covered by this Award, at the Committee s discretion, the Participant shall be required to either pay to the Company in cash the amount of any such taxes required to be withheld with respect to such Shares or, in
lieu thereof, the Company shall have the right to retain (or the Participant may be offered the opportunity to elect to tender) the number of Shares for which the Fair Market Value equals such amount required to be withheld;  provided ,
 however , that the amount of any Shares so retained shall not exceed the amount necessary to satisfy required Federal, state, local and non-United States withholding obligations using the minimum statutory withholding rates for Federal, state,
local and/or non-U.S. tax purposes, including payroll taxes, that are applicable to supplemental taxable income. To the extent any such taxes are required by law to be withheld with respect to the Performance Shares covered by this Award prior to
the date such Performance Shares are paid in accordance with Section 2, the Participant shall be required to pay to the Company in cash the amount of such taxes promptly following written notice thereof by the Company.      10.  No Right to Continued Employment . Neither the Performance Shares covered by this Award nor any terms contained in this Agreement shall
confer upon the Participant any rights or claims except in accordance with the express provisions of the Plan and this Agreement, and shall not give the Participant any express or implied right to be retained in the employment or service of the
Company or any Subsidiary or Affiliate for any period or in any particular position or at any particular rate of compensation, nor restrict in any way the right of the Company or any Subsidiary or Affiliate, which right is hereby expressly reserved,
to modify or terminate the Participant s employment or service at any time for any reason. The Participant acknowledges and agrees that any right to vesting of this Award is earned only by continuing as an employee of the Company or a
Subsidiary or Affiliate at the will of the Company or such Subsidiary or Affiliate, or satisfaction of any other applicable terms and conditions contained in the Plan and this Agreement, and not through the act of being hired or being granted this
Award.      11.  The Plan . By accepting any benefit under this Agreement, the Participant and any person claiming under or through the
Participant shall be conclusively deemed to have indicated his or her acceptance and ratification of, and consent to, all of the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Agreement and any action taken under the Plan by the Board, the Committee or
the Company, in any case in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Plan. Subject to Section 5(c) of this Agreement, in the event of any conflict between the provisions of the Plan and this Agreement, the provisions of the Plan shall
control, and this Agreement shall be deemed to be modified accordingly. This Agreement is subject to all the terms, provisions and conditions of the Plan, which are incorporated herein by reference, and to such rules, policies and regulations as may
from time to time be adopted by the Committee. The Plan and the prospectus describing the Plan can be found on the Company s HR intranet. A paper copy of the Plan and the prospectus shall be provided to the Participant upon the
Participant s written request to the Company at 900 Metro Center Blvd., Foster City, California 94404, Attention: Stock Plan Administrator.         
   6   

12.  Certain Defined Terms . For purposes of this Agreement, the following terms shall have the
meanings set forth below:      (a)   Cause   means: (i) engaging in (A) willful or gross misconduct or
(B) willful or gross neglect; (ii) repeatedly failing to adhere to the directions of superiors or the Board or the written policies and practices of the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate; (iii) the commission of a felony or a
crime of moral turpitude, dishonesty, breach of trust or unethical business conduct, or any crime involving the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate; (iv) fraud, misappropriation or embezzlement; (v) a material breach of the
Participant s employment agreement (if any) with the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate; (vi) acts or omissions constituting a material failure to perform substantially and adequately the duties assigned to the Participant;
(vii) any illegal act detrimental to the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate; or (viii) repeated failure to devote substantially all of Participant s business time and efforts to the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate if required
by the Participant s employment agreement;  provided ,  however , that, if at any particular time the Participant is subject to an effective employment agreement with the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate, then, in lieu of the
foregoing definition,  Cause  shall at that time have such meaning as may be specified in such employment agreement.      (b)
  Disability   shall have the meaning set forth for such term in the Company s or its Affiliate s long-term disability plan under which the Participant is covered from time to time;  provided ,  however , that, if
at any particular time the Participant is subject to an effective employment agreement with the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate, then, in lieu of the foregoing definition,  Disability  shall at that time have such meaning as may be
specified in such employment agreement (or as may be specified for a term of similar import, such as  Permanent Disability ).      (c)   Good Reason   means: (i) a material reduction by the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate in the Participant s rate of annual base salary from that in effect immediately prior to the Change of Control;
(ii) a material reduction by the Company or a Subsidiary or an Affiliate in the Participant s annual target bonus opportunity from that in effect immediately prior to the Change of Control; or (iii) the Company, a Subsidiary or an
Affiliate requires the Participant to change the Participant s principal location of work to a location that is in excess of fifty (50) miles from the location thereof immediately prior to the Change of Control. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, a Termination of a Participant for Good Reason shall not have occurred unless (i) the Participant gives written notice to the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate, as applicable, of Termination within thirty (30) days after the
Participant first becomes aware of the occurrence of the circumstances constituting Good Reason, specifying in reasonable detail the circumstances constituting Good Reason, and the Company, the Subsidiary or the Affiliate, as the case may be, has
failed within thirty (30) days after receipt of such notice to cure the circumstances constituting Good Reason. The foregoing to the contrary notwithstanding, if at any particular time the Participant is subject to an effective employment
agreement with the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate, then, in lieu of the foregoing definition,  Good Reason  shall at that time have such meaning as may be specified in such employment agreement.      13.  Compliance with Laws and Regulations .      (a) The Performance Shares subject to this Award and the obligation of the Company to deliver Shares or cash payments hereunder shall be subject in all respects to (i) all applicable Federal and state laws,
rules and regulations; and (ii) any registration, qualification, approvals or other requirements imposed by any government or regulatory agency
        
   7   

or body which the Committee shall, in its discretion, determine to be necessary or applicable. Moreover, the Company shall not deliver any certificates for Shares to the Participant or any other
person pursuant to this Agreement if doing so would be contrary to applicable law. If at any time the Company determines, in its discretion, that the listing, registration or qualification of Shares upon any national securities exchange or under any
state or federal law, or the consent or approval of any governmental regulatory body, is necessary or desirable, the Company shall not be required to deliver any certificates for Shares to the Participant or any other person pursuant to this
Agreement unless and until such listing, registration, qualification, consent or approval has been effected or obtained, or otherwise provided for, free of any conditions not acceptable to the Company.      (b) It is intended that any Shares received pursuant to this Agreement shall have been registered under the Securities Act. If the Participant is an
 affiliate  of the Company, as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act (  Rule 144  ), the Participant may not sell the Shares received except in compliance with Rule 144. Certificates representing Shares
issued to an  affiliate  of the Company may bear a legend setting forth such restrictions on the disposition or transfer of the Shares as the Company deems appropriate to comply with federal and state securities laws.      (c) If at any time the Shares are not registered under the Securities Act, and/or there is no current prospectus in effect under the Securities Act
with respect to the Shares, the Participant shall execute, prior to the delivery of any Shares to the Participant by the Company pursuant to this Agreement, an agreement (in such form as the Company may specify) in which the Participant represents
and warrants that the Participant is purchasing or acquiring the Shares acquired under this Agreement for the Participant s own account, for investment only and not with a view to the resale or distribution thereof, and represents and agrees
that any subsequent offer for sale or distribution of any kind of such Shares shall be made only pursuant to either (i) a registration statement on an appropriate form under the Securities Act, which registration statement has become effective
and is current with regard to the Shares being offered or sold; or (ii) a specific exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act, but in claiming such exemption the Participant shall, prior to any offer for sale of such
Shares, obtain a prior favorable written opinion, in form and substance satisfactory to the Company, from counsel for or approved by the Company, as to the applicability of such exemption thereto.      14.  Notices . All notices by the Participant or the Participant s successors or permitted assigns shall be addressed to the Company at 900
Metro Center Blvd., Foster City, California 94404, Attention: Stock Plan Administrator, or such other address as the Company may from time to time specify. All notices to the Participant shall be addressed to the Participant at the
Participant s address in the Company s records.      15.  Other Plans . The Participant acknowledges that any income derived
from this Award shall not affect the Participant s participation in, or benefits under, any other benefit plan or other contract or arrangement maintained by the Company or any Subsidiary or Affiliate.      16.  Acceptance or Rejection of this Award . If you do not want to accept this Award, please complete the on-line form ( Accept or Reject
Your Grant ) as promptly as possible, but, in any case, within thirty (30) days after the Grant Date, to reject this Award. You can access this on-line form through your account at eac.Schwab.com. If you do not reject this Award
within thirty (30) days after the Grant Date, you will have accepted this Award and agreed to the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and the terms and conditions of the Plan.         
   8   

</EX-10.38>

<EX-10.39>
 3
 dex1039.htm
 FORM OF VISA INC. 2007 EQUITY INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN

Form of Visa Inc. 2007 Equity Incentive Compensation Plan 

Exhibit 10.39        VISA INC. 2007 EQUITY INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN        Performance Share Award Agreement  
     This PERFORMANCE SHARE AWARD AGREEMENT (this   Agreement  ), dated November 5, 2009 (the   Grant
Date  ), is by and between VISA INC. (the   Company  ) and              (the   Participant  ), pursuant to the Visa Inc. 2007 Equity Incentive
Compensation Plan (the   Plan  ). Capitalized terms that are not defined herein shall have the meanings given to such terms in the Plan.       WHEREAS , pursuant to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee has authorized the grant to the Participant of Performance Shares in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement; and   
   WHEREAS , the Participant and the Company desire to enter into this Agreement to evidence and confirm the grant of such Performance Shares on
the terms and conditions set forth herein.       NOW ,  THEREFORE , the Participant and the Company agree as follows:   
  1.  Grant of Performance Shares . Pursuant to the provisions of the Plan and this Agreement, the Company on the Grant Date has granted and
hereby evidences the grant to the Participant, subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Plan, of an award of              Performance Shares (this
  Award  ).      2.  Payment of Earned and Vested Performance Shares . Subject to the provisions of this Section 2
and Sections 4 and 5 of the Agreement, the Payment Value of each Performance Share covered by this Award that has been determined, in writing, to be earned and vested pursuant to Sections 3, 4(b) or 5 shall be paid or delivered to the Participant on
a date that is as soon as administratively practicable (but no later than 60 days) after the applicable vesting date described in Sections 3(b), 4(b) or 5 on which such Performance Share initially becomes vested. For purposes of this Agreement,
  Payment Value   means the Fair Market Value of a Share on the applicable vesting date. Payments hereunder shall be made in Shares, unless the Committee, in its discretion, determines to make such payments in cash or a combination of
cash and Shares. The foregoing to the contrary notwithstanding, if the Participant s Separation from Service occurs under any circumstances other than death, any such payment due by reason of such Separation from Service shall be delayed for
six months from the date of the Participant s Separation from Service if the Participant is a  specified employee  (as such term is defined in Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Code).      3.  Performance Criteria and Vesting Applicable to Performance Shares .      (a)  Performance Criteria .      (i)  Performance Cycle . The Performance Cycle for this Award shall end on September 30, 2011.      (ii)  Performance
Goals . The Performance Goals for this Award are (A) specified levels of the Company s GAAP Net Income and (B) the total
        
   1   

shareholder return of the Company ranked against the total shareholder return of companies that are included in the Standard   Poor s 500 Index (  S P 500
Index  ) as of the end of the applicable period used for purposes of calculating this goal, as described below (  TSR Rank  ). For this purpose,   GAAP Net Income   means the Company s cumulative fiscal
year 2010 and 2011 GAAP net income reported in its annual report on Form 10-K for the applicable years. The Committee, in its discretion, may determine to adjust the results by excluding some or all of the effects of certain unusual items.  TSR
Rank  means the aggregate total shareholder return on Shares over the approximately two year period beginning October 28, 2009 and ending on the day the Company s earnings are announced following the close of the Company s 2011
fiscal year, ranked against the total shareholder return over the same two year period for each of the companies that comprise the S P 500 Index. Total shareholder return will be calculated using a beginning price equal to the trading volume
weighted average price over the period from October 8, 2009 to November 18, 2009, and an ending price equal to the trading volume weighted average price over the period beginning 14 trading days before and ending 15 trading days after the
date of the release of the Company s fiscal year 2011 earnings, and accounting for reinvestment of dividends over this period; provided, however, that if the date of the release of the Company s fiscal year 2011 earnings is fewer than 15
trading days prior to November 21, 2011, then the ending price will be equal to the average price over the 30-trading day period ending on November 21, 2011.      (iii)  Percentage of Performance Shares Earned . Following the end of the Performance Cycle, the Committee will determine the extent to which Performance Shares have become earned according to the product of
the results of the following two schedules:       

Performance Level    
      
     GAAP Net Income (in Millions)    
      
     Base Percentage of Performance Shares
Earned     

Less than $[        ]  
      
      0%   
 
    Threshold   
      
  $[        ]  
      
    50%   
 
    Target   
      
  $[        ]  
      
  100%   
 
    Maximum   
      
  $[        ] or more  
      
  200%   
    If the GAAP Net Income falls between Threshold and Target, or between Target and Maximum, then the percentage
of Performance Shares earned shall be the sum of the Base Percentage of Performance Shares Earned in the schedule above for the lower such Performance Level plus the product of (i) the difference between the Base Percentage of Performance
Shares Earned in the schedule above for the greater and lower such Performance Levels and (ii) a fraction, the numerator of which is the amount by which the GAAP Net Income achieved exceeds the GAAP Net Income in the schedule above for the
lower such Performance Level and the denominator of which is the difference between GAAP Net Income amounts in the schedule above for the greater and lower of such Performance Levels. The Percentage of Performance Shares Earned with respect to GAAP
Net Income shall never exceed 200%.         
   2   

If the Performance Level for TSR Rank falls between Threshold and Target, or between Target and Maximum, then
the Adjustment Multiplier shall be the sum of the Adjustment Multiplier in the schedule above for the lower such Performance Level plus the product of (i) the difference between the Adjustment Multiplier in the schedule above for the greater
and lower such Performance Levels and (ii) a fraction, the numerator of which is the amount by which the TSR Rank achieved exceeds the TSR Rank in the schedule above for the lower such Performance Level and the denominator of which is the
difference between TSR Ranks in the schedule above for the greater and lower of such Performance Levels. The Adjustment Multiplier for the TSR Rank shall never exceed 125%. The product of the Base Percentage Performance Shares Earned and the
Adjustment Multiplier shall be limited to a maximum of 200% and is then multiplied by the grant amount to determine the number of Performance Shares earned.      (iv)  Notification . As soon as practicable following the end of the Performance Cycle, the Participant shall be notified in writing of the number of Performance Shares earned.      (b)  Vesting . Subject to Sections 4 and 5 of this Agreement, one-half of the Performance Shares that are earned pursuant to Section 3(a)
shall become vested on each of November [    ], 2011, and November [    ], 2012.      (c)
 Separate Payments . For purposes of this Award and Agreement, each amount to be paid hereunder shall be construed as a separate identified payment for purposes of Section 409A of the Code.      4.  Termination of Employment .      (a)  In General . Except as otherwise provided in this Section 4 or in Section 5 of this Agreement or in the Plan, all Performance Shares subject to this Award that have not become vested pursuant to Section 3(b) prior
to the date of the Participant s Termination shall be immediately forfeited upon such Termination.      (b) This Section 4(b)
applies only in the event that (I) a Change of Control has not occurred prior to November [    ], 2012, or (II) a Change of Control has occurred prior to November [    ], 2012, but the Participant s
Separation from Service has not occurred within two years following the Change of Control:      (i)  Separation from Service by Reason of
Death, Disability, Without Cause or Retirement Before the End of the Performance Cycle : Upon a Participant s
        
   3   

Separation from Service before the end of the Performance Cycle (A) due to death or Disability (as defined below), (B) either by the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate without Cause
(as defined below), or (C) by the Participant at or after attainment of normal retirement eligibility under the generally applicable retirement plan of the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate under which the Participant is covered in his or
her home country (  Retirement  ), then the Participant shall be fully vested, as of November [    ], 2011, in all of the Performance Shares that would have been both earned pursuant to Section 3(a)(iii), and
vested pursuant to Section 3(b), had the Participant remained in employment through November [    ], 2012.      (ii)  Separation from Service by Reason of Death, Disability, Without Cause or Retirement After the End of the Performance Cycle : Upon a Participant s Separation from Service after the end of the Performance Cycle (A) due to
death or Disability, (B) either by the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate without Cause, or (C) by the Participant by reason of Retirement, then the Participant shall be fully vested, as of the date of such Separation from Service, or
if later, as of November [    ], 2011, in all of his or her Performance Shares that had been earned pursuant to Section 3(a)(iii) but had not yet vested under Section 3(b) as of the date of such Separation from Service.
     (iii)  Termination, Whether Before or After the End of the Performance Cycle, by the Company for Cause or by the Participant Other
than by Reason of Death, Disability, or Retirement : Upon a Participant s Termination, whether before or after the end of the Performance Cycle, (A) by the Company for Cause, or (B) by the Participant other than by reason of death,
Disability or Retirement, then any and all of the Performance Shares that have not vested as the date of such Termination shall be forfeited.      5.  Change of Control .      (a) This Section 5(a) applies (I) only in the event that (A) a Change of Control
has occurred prior to November [    ], 2012, and (B) the Participant s Separation from Service has occurred within two years following the Change of Control, and (II) notwithstanding any provision in Sections 2, 3 or 4
of this Agreement to the contrary:      (i)  Separation from Service by Reason of Death, Disability, Without Cause, Good Reason or
Retirement Before the End of the Performance Cycle : Upon a Participant s Separation from Service before the end of the Performance Cycle (A) due to death or Disability, (B) either by the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate
without Cause, (C) by the Participant for Good Reason (as defined below) or (D) by the Participant by reason of Retirement, then, as of the date of such Separation from Service, the Participant will become vested in that number of
Performance Shares subject to this Award that would have been earned under Section 3(a)(iii), as of the end of the Performance Cycle, based on the deemed achievement of the Target Performance Level (within the meaning of
Section 3(a)(iii)).      (ii)  Separation from Service by Reason of Death, Disability, without Cause, Good Reason or Retirement
After the End of the Performance Cycle : Upon a Participant s Separation from Service after the end of the Performance Cycle (A) due to death or Disability, (B) either by the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate without Cause,
(C) by the Participant for Good Reason or (D) by the Participant by reason of Retirement, then the Participant shall be fully vested, as of such Separation from Service, or if later, as of November [    ], 2011, in all
of his or her Performance Shares that have been earned pursuant to Section 3(a)(iii) but have not yet vested under Section 3(b); provided, however, that if the Change of
        
   4   

Control had occurred prior to the end of the Performance Cycle, then the Participant shall become vested, as of such Separation from Service, or, if later, as of November
[    ], 2011, in the greater of (I) all of his or her Performance Shares that have been earned pursuant to Section 3(a)(iii) but have not yet vested under Section 3(b) as of the date of such Separation from
Service, and (II) that number of Performance Shares subject to this Award that would have been earned as of the end of the Performance Cycle under Section 3(a)(iii), based on the deemed achievement of the Target Performance Level (within the
meaning of Section 3(a)(iii)), multiplied by 50% if the Participant s Separation from Service occurs after November [    ], 2011.      (iii)  Termination, Whether Before or After the End of the Performance Cycle by the Company for Cause or by the Participant Other than by Reason of Death, Disability, Good Reason or Retirement ; Upon a
Participant s Termination, whether before or after the end of the Performance Cycle, (A) by the Company for Cause, or (B) by the Participant other than by reason of death, Disability, Good Reason or Retirement, then any of the
Performance Shares that have not vested as the date of such Termination shall be forfeited.      (b) For purposes of this Agreement, no
Change of Control shall be deemed to have occurred unless it constitutes a  change in the ownership or effective control of the corporation, or in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of the corporation  within the meaning
of Section 409A of the Code.      (c) For the avoidance of doubt, Section 14.1(b) of the Plan shall not apply to the Performance
Shares subject to this Agreement to the extent such provision conflicts with this Section 5, but the applicable provisions of Article XIV of the Plan shall otherwise apply to this Agreement.      6.  Restrictions on Transfer . Performance Shares may not be sold, assigned, hypothecated, pledged or otherwise transferred or encumbered in any
manner except (a) by will or the laws of descent and distribution or (b) as otherwise permitted pursuant to the Plan.      7.
 Dividend Equivalents . Each Performance Share subject to this Award shall entitle the Participant to Dividend Equivalents with respect to regular cash dividends that would otherwise be paid on one Share during the period from the date such
Performance Share is earned in accordance with Section 3(a) to the date such Performance Share is paid in accordance with Section 2 or forfeited in accordance with Section 4 or 5. Any such Dividend Equivalent shall be paid to the
Participant at (or within thirty (30) days following) the time such related dividends are paid to holders of Shares.      8.  No
Rights as a Shareholder Prior to Issuance of Shares . Neither the Participant nor any other person shall become the beneficial owner of any Shares that may become payable with respect to the Performance Shares subject to this Award, nor have any
rights to dividends or other rights as a shareholder with respect to any such Shares, until and after such Shares, if any, have been actually issued in satisfaction of the Company s obligations under this Award, in the time and manner specified
in Section 2, and such Shares are transferred on the books and records of the Company or its agent in accordance with the terms of the Plan and this Agreement.         
   5   

9.  Taxes and Withholding . The Company shall have the right to deduct from all amounts otherwise
payable to the Participant in cash in respect of Performance Shares covered by this Award any amount of taxes of any kind required by law to be withheld as may be necessary in the opinion of the Company to satisfy tax withholding required under the
laws of any country, state, province, city or other jurisdiction. In the case of any payments in the form of Shares of Performance Shares covered by this Award, at the Committee s discretion, the Participant shall be required to either pay to
the Company in cash the amount of any such taxes required to be withheld with respect to such Shares or, in lieu thereof, the Company shall have the right to retain (or the Participant may be offered the opportunity to elect to tender) the number of
Shares for which the Fair Market Value equals such amount required to be withheld;  provided ,  however , that the amount of any Shares so retained shall not exceed the amount necessary to satisfy required Federal, state, local and
non-United States withholding obligations using the minimum statutory withholding rates for Federal, state, local and/or non-U.S. tax purposes, including payroll taxes, that are applicable to supplemental taxable income. To the extent any such taxes
are required by law to be withheld with respect to the Performance Shares covered by this Award prior to the date such Performance Shares are paid in accordance with Section 2, the Participant shall be required to pay to the Company in cash the
amount of such taxes promptly following written notice thereof by the Company.      10.  No Right to Continued Employment . Neither the
Performance Shares covered by this Award nor any terms contained in this Agreement shall confer upon the Participant any rights or claims except in accordance with the express provisions of the Plan and this Agreement, and shall not give the
Participant any express or implied right to be retained in the employment or service of the Company or any Subsidiary or Affiliate for any period or in any particular position or at any particular rate of compensation, nor restrict in any way the
right of the Company or any Subsidiary or Affiliate, which right is hereby expressly reserved, to modify or terminate the Participant s employment or service at any time for any reason. The Participant acknowledges and agrees that any right to
vesting of this Award is earned only by continuing as an employee of the Company or a Subsidiary or Affiliate at the will of the Company or such Subsidiary or Affiliate, or satisfaction of any other applicable terms and conditions contained in the
Plan and this Agreement, and not through the act of being hired or being granted this Award.      11.  The Plan . By accepting any
benefit under this Agreement, the Participant and any person claiming under or through the Participant shall be conclusively deemed to have indicated his or her acceptance and ratification of, and consent to, all of the terms and conditions of the
Plan and this Agreement and any action taken under the Plan by the Board, the Committee or the Company, in any case in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Plan. Subject to Section 5(c) of this Agreement, in the event of any conflict
between the provisions of the Plan and this Agreement, the provisions of the Plan shall control, and this Agreement shall be deemed to be modified accordingly. This Agreement is subject to all the terms, provisions and conditions of the Plan, which
are incorporated herein by reference, and to such rules, policies and regulations as may from time to time be adopted by the Committee. The Plan and the prospectus describing the Plan can be found on the Company s HR intranet. A paper copy of
the Plan and the prospectus shall be provided to the Participant upon the Participant s written request to the Company at 900 Metro Center Blvd., Foster City, California 94404, Attention: Stock Plan Administrator.         
   6   

12.  Certain Defined Terms . For purposes of this Agreement, the following terms shall have the
meanings set forth below:      (a)   Cause   means: (i) engaging in (A) willful or gross misconduct or
(B) willful or gross neglect; (ii) repeatedly failing to adhere to the directions of superiors or the Board or the written policies and practices of the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate; (iii) the commission of a felony or a
crime of moral turpitude, dishonesty, breach of trust or unethical business conduct, or any crime involving the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate; (iv) fraud, misappropriation or embezzlement; (v) a material breach of the
Participant s employment agreement (if any) with the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate; (vi) acts or omissions constituting a material failure to perform substantially and adequately the duties assigned to the Participant;
(vii) any illegal act detrimental to the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate; or (viii) repeated failure to devote substantially all of Participant s business time and efforts to the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate if required
by the Participant s employment agreement;  provided ,  however , that, if at any particular time the Participant is subject to an effective employment agreement with the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate, then, in lieu of the
foregoing definition,  Cause  shall at that time have such meaning as may be specified in such employment agreement.      (b)
  Disability   shall have the meaning set forth for such term in the Company s or its Affiliate s long-term disability plan under which the Participant is covered from time to time;  provided ,  however , that, if
at any particular time the Participant is subject to an effective employment agreement with the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate, then, in lieu of the foregoing definition,  Disability  shall at that time have such meaning as may be
specified in such employment agreement (or as may be specified for a term of similar import, such as  Permanent Disability ).      (c)   Good Reason   means: (i) a material reduction by the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate in the Participant s rate of annual base salary from that in effect immediately prior to the Change of Control;
(ii) a material reduction by the Company or a Subsidiary or an Affiliate in the Participant s annual target bonus opportunity from that in effect immediately prior to the Change of Control; or (iii) the Company, a Subsidiary or an
Affiliate requires the Participant to change the Participant s principal location of work to a location that is in excess of fifty (50) miles from the location thereof immediately prior to the Change of Control. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, a Termination of a Participant for Good Reason shall not have occurred unless (i) the Participant gives written notice to the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate, as applicable, of Termination within thirty (30) days after the
Participant first becomes aware of the occurrence of the circumstances constituting Good Reason, specifying in reasonable detail the circumstances constituting Good Reason, and the Company, the Subsidiary or the Affiliate, as the case may be, has
failed within thirty (30) days after receipt of such notice to cure the circumstances constituting Good Reason. The foregoing to the contrary notwithstanding, if at any particular time the Participant is subject to an effective employment
agreement with the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate, then, in lieu of the foregoing definition,  Good Reason  shall at that time have such meaning as may be specified in such employment agreement.      13.  Compliance with Laws and Regulations .      (a) The Performance Shares subject to this Award and the obligation of the Company to deliver Shares or cash payments hereunder shall be subject in all respects to (i) all applicable Federal and state laws,
rules and regulations; and (ii) any registration,
        
   7   

qualification, approvals or other requirements imposed by any government or regulatory agency or body which the Committee shall, in its discretion, determine to be necessary or applicable.
Moreover, the Company shall not deliver any certificates for Shares to the Participant or any other person pursuant to this Agreement if doing so would be contrary to applicable law. If at any time the Company determines, in its discretion, that the
listing, registration or qualification of Shares upon any national securities exchange or under any state or federal law, or the consent or approval of any governmental regulatory body, is necessary or desirable, the Company shall not be required to
deliver any certificates for Shares to the Participant or any other person pursuant to this Agreement unless and until such listing, registration, qualification, consent or approval has been effected or obtained, or otherwise provided for, free of
any conditions not acceptable to the Company.      (b) It is intended that any Shares received pursuant to this Agreement shall have been
registered under the Securities Act. If the Participant is an  affiliate  of the Company, as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act (  Rule 144  ), the Participant may not sell the Shares received except
in compliance with Rule 144. Certificates representing Shares issued to an  affiliate  of the Company may bear a legend setting forth such restrictions on the disposition or transfer of the Shares as the Company deems appropriate to comply
with federal and state securities laws.      (c) If at any time the Shares are not registered under the Securities Act, and/or there is no
current prospectus in effect under the Securities Act with respect to the Shares, the Participant shall execute, prior to the delivery of any Shares to the Participant by the Company pursuant to this Agreement, an agreement (in such form as the
Company may specify) in which the Participant represents and warrants that the Participant is purchasing or acquiring the Shares acquired under this Agreement for the Participant s own account, for investment only and not with a view to the
resale or distribution thereof, and represents and agrees that any subsequent offer for sale or distribution of any kind of such Shares shall be made only pursuant to either (i) a registration statement on an appropriate form under the
Securities Act, which registration statement has become effective and is current with regard to the Shares being offered or sold; or (ii) a specific exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act, but in claiming such
exemption the Participant shall, prior to any offer for sale of such Shares, obtain a prior favorable written opinion, in form and substance satisfactory to the Company, from counsel for or approved by the Company, as to the applicability of such
exemption thereto.      14.  Notices . All notices by the Participant or the Participant s successors or permitted assigns shall
be addressed to the Company at 900 Metro Center Blvd., Foster City, California 94404, Attention: Stock Plan Administrator, or such other address as the Company may from time to time specify. All notices to the Participant shall be addressed to the
Participant at the Participant s address in the Company s records.      15.  Other Plans . The Participant acknowledges that
any income derived from this Award shall not affect the Participant s participation in, or benefits under, any other benefit plan or other contract or arrangement maintained by the Company or any Subsidiary or Affiliate.      16.  Acceptance or Rejection of this Award . If you do not want to accept this Award, please complete the on-line form ( Accept or Reject
Your Grant ) as promptly as possible, but, in any case, within thirty (30) days after the Grant Date, to reject this Award. You can access this on-line form through your account at eac.Schwab.com. If you do not reject this Award
within thirty (30) days after the Grant Date, you will have accepted this Award and agreed to the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and the terms and conditions of the Plan.         
   8   

</EX-10.39>

<EX-10.40>
 4
 dex1040.htm
 FORM OF VISA INC. 2007 EQUITY INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN FOR THE CEO

Form of Visa Inc. 2007 Equity Incentive Compensation Plan for the CEO 

Exhibit 10.40        VISA INC. 2007 EQUITY INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN        Performance Share Award Agreement  
     This PERFORMANCE SHARE AWARD AGREEMENT (this   Agreement  ), dated November 5, 2009 (the   Grant
Date  ), is by and between VISA INC. (the   Company  ) and              (the   Participant  ), pursuant to the Visa Inc. 2007 Equity Incentive
Compensation Plan (the   Plan  ). Capitalized terms that are not defined herein shall have the meanings given to such terms in the Plan.       WHEREAS , pursuant to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee has authorized the grant to the Participant of Performance Shares in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement; and   
   WHEREAS , the Participant and the Company desire to enter into this Agreement to evidence and confirm the grant of such Performance Shares on
the terms and conditions set forth herein.       NOW ,  THEREFORE , the Participant and the Company agree as follows:   
  1.  Grant of Performance Shares . Pursuant to the provisions of the Plan and this Agreement, the Company on the Grant Date has granted and
hereby evidences the grant to the Participant, subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Plan, of an award of              Performance Shares (this
  Award  ).      2.  Payment of Earned and Vested Performance Shares . Subject to the provisions of this Section 2
and Sections 4 and 5 of the Agreement, the Payment Value of each Performance Share covered by this Award that has been determined, in writing, to be earned and vested pursuant to Sections 3, 4(b) or 5 shall be paid or delivered to the Participant on
a date that is as soon as administratively practicable (but no later than 60 days) after the applicable vesting date described in Sections 3(b), 4(b) or 5 on which such Performance Share initially becomes vested. For purposes of this Agreement,
  Payment Value   means the Fair Market Value of a Share on the applicable vesting date. Payments hereunder shall be made in Shares, unless the Committee, in its discretion, determines to make such payments in cash or a combination of
cash and Shares. The foregoing to the contrary notwithstanding, if the Participant s Separation from Service occurs under any circumstances other than death, any such payment due by reason of such Separation from Service shall be delayed for
six months from the date of the Participant s Separation from Service if the Participant is a  specified employee  (as such term is defined in Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Code).      3.  Performance Criteria and Vesting Applicable to Performance Shares .      (a)  Performance Criteria .      (i)  Performance Cycle . The Performance Cycle for this Award shall end on September 30, 2011.      (ii)  Performance
Goals . The Performance Goals for this Award are (A) specified levels of the Company s GAAP Net Income and (B) the total
        
   1   

shareholder return of the Company ranked against the total shareholder return of companies that are included in the Standard   Poor s 500 Index (  S P 500
Index  ) as of the end of the applicable period used for purposes of calculating this goal, as described below (  TSR Rank  ). For this purpose,   GAAP Net Income   means the Company s cumulative fiscal
year 2010 and 2011 GAAP net income reported in its annual report on Form 10-K for the applicable years. The Committee, in its discretion, may determine to adjust the results by excluding some or all of the effects of certain unusual items.  TSR
Rank  means the aggregate total shareholder return on Shares over the approximately two year period beginning October 28, 2009 and ending on the day the Company s earnings are announced following the close of the Company s 2011
fiscal year, ranked against the total shareholder return over the same two year period for each of the companies that comprise the S P 500 Index. Total shareholder return will be calculated using a beginning price equal to the trading volume
weighted average price over the period from October 8, 2009 to November 18, 2009, and an ending price equal to the trading volume weighted average price over the period beginning 14 trading days before and ending 15 trading days after the
date of the release of the Company s fiscal year 2011 earnings, and accounting for reinvestment of dividends over this period; provided, however, that if the date of the release of the Company s fiscal year 2011 earnings is fewer than 15
trading days prior to November 21, 2011, then the ending price will be equal to the average price over the 30-trading day period ending on November 21, 2011.      (iii)  Percentage of Performance Shares Earned . Following the end of the Performance Cycle, the Committee will determine the extent to which Performance Shares have become earned according to the product of
the results of the following two schedules:       

Performance Level    
      
     GAAP Net Income (in Millions)    
      
     Base Percentage of Performance Shares
Earned     

Less than $[        ]  
      
      0%   
 
    Threshold   
      
  $[        ]  
      
    50%   
 
    Target   
      
  $[        ]  
      
  100%   
 
    Maximum   
      
  $[        ] or more  
      
  200%   
    If the GAAP Net Income falls between Threshold and Target, or between Target and Maximum, then the percentage
of Performance Shares earned shall be the sum of the Base Percentage of Performance Shares Earned in the schedule above for the lower such Performance Level plus the product of (i) the difference between the Base Percentage of Performance
Shares Earned in the schedule above for the greater and lower such Performance Levels and (ii) a fraction, the numerator of which is the amount by which the GAAP Net Income achieved exceeds the GAAP Net Income in the schedule above for the
lower such Performance Level and the denominator of which is the difference between GAAP Net Income amounts in the schedule above for the greater and lower of such Performance Levels. The Percentage of Performance Shares Earned with respect to GAAP
Net Income shall never exceed 200%.         
   2   

If the Performance Level for TSR Rank falls between Threshold and Target, or between Target and Maximum, then
the Adjustment Multiplier shall be the sum of the Adjustment Multiplier in the schedule above for the lower such Performance Level plus the product of (i) the difference between the Adjustment Multiplier in the schedule above for the greater
and lower such Performance Levels and (ii) a fraction, the numerator of which is the amount by which the TSR Rank achieved exceeds the TSR Rank in the schedule above for the lower such Performance Level and the denominator of which is the
difference between TSR Ranks in the schedule above for the greater and lower of such Performance Levels. The Adjustment Multiplier for the TSR Rank shall never exceed 125%. The product of the Base Percentage Performance Shares Earned and the
Adjustment Multiplier shall be limited to a maximum of 200% and is then multiplied by the grant amount to determine the number of Performance Shares earned.      (iv)  Notification . As soon as practicable following the end of the Performance Cycle, the Participant shall be notified in writing of the number of Performance Shares earned.      (b)  Vesting . Subject to Sections 4 and 5 of this Agreement, one-half of the Performance Shares that are earned pursuant to Section 3(a)
shall become vested on each of November [    ], 2011, and November [    ], 2012.      (c)
 Separate Payments . For purposes of this Award and Agreement, each amount to be paid hereunder shall be construed as a separate identified payment for purposes of Section 409A of the Code.      4.  Termination of Employment .      (a)  In General . Except as otherwise provided in this Section 4 or in Section 5 of this Agreement or in the Plan, all Performance Shares subject to this Award that have not become vested pursuant to Section 3(b) prior
to the date of the Participant s Termination shall be immediately forfeited upon such Termination.      (b) This Section 4(b)
applies only in the event that (I) a Change of Control has not occurred prior to November [    ], 2012, or (II) a Change of Control has occurred prior to November [    ], 2012, but the Participant s
Separation from Service has not occurred within two years following the Change of Control:      (i)  Separation from Service by Reason of
Death, Disability, Without Cause, Good Reason or Retirement Before the End of the Performance Cycle : Upon a
        
   3   

Participant s Separation from Service before the end of the Performance Cycle (A) due to death or Disability (as defined below), (B) either by the Company, a Subsidiary or an
Affiliate without Cause (as defined below), (C) by the Participant for Good Reason (as defined below) or (D) by the Participant at or after attainment of normal retirement eligibility under the generally applicable retirement plan of the
Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate under which the Participant is covered in his or her home country (  Retirement  ), then the Participant shall be fully vested, as of November [    ], 2011, in all of the
Performance Shares that would have been both earned pursuant to Section 3(a)(iii), and vested pursuant to Section 3(b), had the Participant remained in employment through November [    ], 2012.      (ii)  Separation from Service by Reason of Death, Disability, Without Cause, Good Reason or Retirement After the End of the Performance Cycle :
Upon a Participant s Separation from Service after the end of the Performance Cycle (A) due to death or Disability, (B) either by the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate without Cause, (C) by the Participant for Good Reason or
(D) by the Participant by reason of Retirement, then the Participant shall be fully vested, as of the date of such Separation from Service, or if later, as of November [    ], 2011, in all of his or her Performance Shares
that had been earned pursuant to Section 3(a)(iii) but had not yet vested under Section 3(b) as of the date of such Separation from Service.      (iii)  Termination, Whether Before or After the End of the Performance Cycle, by the Company for Cause or by the Participant Other than by Reason of Death, Disability, Good Reason or Retirement : Upon a
Participant s Termination, whether before or after the end of the Performance Cycle, (A) by the Company for Cause, or (B) by the Participant other than by reason of death, Disability, Good Reason or Retirement, then any and all of the
Performance Shares that have not vested as the date of such Termination shall be forfeited.      5.  Change of Control .      (a) This Section 5(a) applies (I) only in the event that (A) a Change of Control has occurred prior to November
[    ], 2012, and (B) the Participant s Separation from Service has occurred within two years following the Change of Control, and (II) notwithstanding any provision in Sections 2, 3 or 4 of this Agreement to the
contrary:      (i)  Separation from Service by Reason of Death, Disability, Without Cause, Good Reason or Retirement Before the End of
the Performance Cycle : Upon a Participant s Separation from Service before the end of the Performance Cycle (A) due to death or Disability, (B) either by the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate without Cause, (C) by the
Participant for Good Reason or (D) by the Participant by reason of Retirement, then, as of the date of such Separation from Service, the Participant will become vested in that number of Performance Shares subject to this Award that would have
been earned under Section 3(a)(iii), as of the end of the Performance Cycle, based on the deemed achievement of the Target Performance Level (within the meaning of Section 3(a)(iii)).      (ii)  Separation from Service by Reason of Death, Disability, without Cause, Good Reason or Retirement After the End of the Performance Cycle :
Upon a Participant s Separation from Service after the end of the Performance Cycle (A) due to death or Disability, (B) either by the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate without Cause, (C) by the Participant for Good Reason or
(D) by the Participant by reason of Retirement, then the Participant shall be fully vested, as of such Separation from Service, or if later, as of November [    ],
        
   4   

2011, in all of his or her Performance Shares that have been earned pursuant to Section 3(a)(iii) but have not yet vested under Section 3(b); provided, however, that if the Change of
Control had occurred prior to the end of the Performance Cycle, then the Participant shall become vested, as of such Separation from Service, or, if later, as of November [    ], 2011, in the greater of (I) all of his or her
Performance Shares that have been earned pursuant to Section 3(a)(iii) but have not yet vested under Section 3(b) as of the date of such Separation from Service, and (II) that number of Performance Shares subject to this Award that would
have been earned as of the end of the Performance Cycle under Section 3(a)(iii), based on the deemed achievement of the Target Performance Level (within the meaning of Section 3(a)(iii)), multiplied by 50% if the Participant s
Separation from Service occurs after November [    ], 2011.      (iii)  Termination, Whether Before or After the End
of the Performance Cycle by the Company for Cause or by the Participant Other than by Reason of Death, Disability, Good Reason or Retirement ; Upon a Participant s Termination, whether before or after the end of the Performance Cycle,
(A) by the Company for Cause, or (B) by the Participant other than by reason of death, Disability, Good Reason or Retirement, then any of the Performance Shares that have not vested as the date of such Termination shall be forfeited.
     (b) For purposes of this Agreement, no Change of Control shall be deemed to have occurred unless it constitutes a  change in the
ownership or effective control of the corporation, or in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of the corporation  within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code.      (c) For the avoidance of doubt, Section 14.1(b) of the Plan shall not apply to the Performance Shares subject to this Agreement to the extent
such provision conflicts with this Section 5, but the applicable provisions of Article XIV of the Plan shall otherwise apply to this Agreement.      6.  Restrictions on Transfer . Performance Shares may not be sold, assigned, hypothecated, pledged or otherwise transferred or encumbered in any manner except (a) by will or the laws of descent and
distribution or (b) as otherwise permitted pursuant to the Plan.      7.  Dividend Equivalents . Each Performance Share subject to
this Award shall entitle the Participant to Dividend Equivalents with respect to regular cash dividends that would otherwise be paid on one Share during the period from the date such Performance Share is earned in accordance with Section 3(a)
to the date such Performance Share is paid in accordance with Section 2 or forfeited in accordance with Section 4 or 5. Any such Dividend Equivalent shall be paid to the Participant at (or within thirty (30) days following) the time
such related dividends are paid to holders of Shares.      8.  No Rights as a Shareholder Prior to Issuance of Shares . Neither the
Participant nor any other person shall become the beneficial owner of any Shares that may become payable with respect to the Performance Shares subject to this Award, nor have any rights to dividends or other rights as a shareholder with respect to
any such Shares, until and after such Shares, if any, have been actually issued in satisfaction of the Company s obligations under this Award, in the time and manner specified in Section 2, and such Shares are transferred on the books and
records of the Company or its agent in accordance with the terms of the Plan and this Agreement.         
   5   

9.  Taxes and Withholding . The Company shall have the right to deduct from all amounts otherwise
payable to the Participant in cash in respect of Performance Shares covered by this Award any amount of taxes of any kind required by law to be withheld as may be necessary in the opinion of the Company to satisfy tax withholding required under the
laws of any country, state, province, city or other jurisdiction. In the case of any payments in the form of Shares of Performance Shares covered by this Award, at the Committee s discretion, the Participant shall be required to either pay to
the Company in cash the amount of any such taxes required to be withheld with respect to such Shares or, in lieu thereof, the Company shall have the right to retain (or the Participant may be offered the opportunity to elect to tender) the number of
Shares for which the Fair Market Value equals such amount required to be withheld;  provided ,  however , that the amount of any Shares so retained shall not exceed the amount necessary to satisfy required Federal, state, local and
non-United States withholding obligations using the minimum statutory withholding rates for Federal, state, local and/or non-U.S. tax purposes, including payroll taxes, that are applicable to supplemental taxable income. To the extent any such taxes
are required by law to be withheld with respect to the Performance Shares covered by this Award prior to the date such Performance Shares are paid in accordance with Section 2, the Participant shall be required to pay to the Company in cash the
amount of such taxes promptly following written notice thereof by the Company.      10.  No Right to Continued Employment . Neither the
Performance Shares covered by this Award nor any terms contained in this Agreement shall confer upon the Participant any rights or claims except in accordance with the express provisions of the Plan and this Agreement, and shall not give the
Participant any express or implied right to be retained in the employment or service of the Company or any Subsidiary or Affiliate for any period or in any particular position or at any particular rate of compensation, nor restrict in any way the
right of the Company or any Subsidiary or Affiliate, which right is hereby expressly reserved, to modify or terminate the Participant s employment or service at any time for any reason. The Participant acknowledges and agrees that any right to
vesting of this Award is earned only by continuing as an employee of the Company or a Subsidiary or Affiliate at the will of the Company or such Subsidiary or Affiliate, or satisfaction of any other applicable terms and conditions contained in the
Plan and this Agreement, and not through the act of being hired or being granted this Award.      11.  The Plan . By accepting any
benefit under this Agreement, the Participant and any person claiming under or through the Participant shall be conclusively deemed to have indicated his or her acceptance and ratification of, and consent to, all of the terms and conditions of the
Plan and this Agreement and any action taken under the Plan by the Board, the Committee or the Company, in any case in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Plan. Subject to Section 5(c) of this Agreement, in the event of any conflict
between the provisions of the Plan and this Agreement, the provisions of the Plan shall control, and this Agreement shall be deemed to be modified accordingly. This Agreement is subject to all the terms, provisions and conditions of the Plan, which
are incorporated herein by reference, and to such rules, policies and regulations as may from time to time be adopted by the Committee. The Plan and the prospectus describing the Plan can be found on the Company s HR intranet. A paper copy of
the Plan and the prospectus shall be provided to the Participant upon the Participant s written request to the Company at 900 Metro Center Blvd., Foster City, California 94404, Attention: Stock Plan Administrator.         
   6   

12.  Certain Defined Terms . For purposes of this Agreement, the following terms shall have the
meanings set forth below:      (a)   Cause   means: (i) engaging in (A) willful or gross misconduct or
(B) willful or gross neglect; (ii) repeatedly failing to adhere to the directions of superiors or the Board or the written policies and practices of the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate; (iii) the commission of a felony or a
crime of moral turpitude, dishonesty, breach of trust or unethical business conduct, or any crime involving the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate; (iv) fraud, misappropriation or embezzlement; (v) a material breach of the
Participant s employment agreement (if any) with the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate; (vi) acts or omissions constituting a material failure to perform substantially and adequately the duties assigned to the Participant;
(vii) any illegal act detrimental to the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate; or (viii) repeated failure to devote substantially all of Participant s business time and efforts to the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate if required
by the Participant s employment agreement;  provided ,  however , that, if at any particular time the Participant is subject to an effective employment agreement with the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate, then, in lieu of the
foregoing definition,  Cause  shall at that time have such meaning as may be specified in such employment agreement.      (b)
  Disability   shall have the meaning set forth for such term in the Company s or its Affiliate s long-term disability plan under which the Participant is covered from time to time;  provided ,  however , that, if
at any particular time the Participant is subject to an effective employment agreement with the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate, then, in lieu of the foregoing definition,  Disability  shall at that time have such meaning as may be
specified in such employment agreement (or as may be specified for a term of similar import, such as  Permanent Disability ).      (c)   Good Reason   means: (i) a material reduction by the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate in the Participant s rate of annual base salary from that in effect as of the Grant Date, or, if a Change of Control
has occurred following the Grant Date, then immediately prior to the Change of Control; (ii) a material reduction by the Company or a Subsidiary or an Affiliate in the Participant s annual target bonus opportunity from that in effect as of
the Grant Date or, if a Change of Control has occurred following the Grant Date, then immediately prior to the Change of Control; or (iii) the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate requires the Participant to change the Participant s
principal location of work to a location that is in excess of fifty (50) miles from the location thereof as of the Grant Date, or, if a Change of Control has occurred following the Grant Date, then immediately prior to the Change of Control.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Termination of a Participant for Good Reason shall not have occurred unless (i) the Participant gives written notice to the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate, as applicable, of Termination within thirty
(30) days after the Participant first becomes aware of the occurrence of the circumstances constituting Good Reason, specifying in reasonable detail the circumstances constituting Good Reason, and the Company, the Subsidiary or the Affiliate,
as the case may be, has failed within thirty (30) days after receipt of such notice to cure the circumstances constituting Good Reason. The foregoing to the contrary notwithstanding, if at any particular time the Participant is subject to an
effective employment agreement with the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate, then, in lieu of the foregoing definition,  Good Reason  shall at that time have such meaning as may be specified in such employment agreement.         
   7   

13.  Compliance with Laws and Regulations .      (a) The Performance Shares subject to this Award and the obligation of the Company to deliver Shares or cash payments hereunder shall be subject in
all respects to (i) all applicable Federal and state laws, rules and regulations; and (ii) any registration, qualification, approvals or other requirements imposed by any government or regulatory agency or body which the Committee shall,
in its discretion, determine to be necessary or applicable. Moreover, the Company shall not deliver any certificates for Shares to the Participant or any other person pursuant to this Agreement if doing so would be contrary to applicable law. If at
any time the Company determines, in its discretion, that the listing, registration or qualification of Shares upon any national securities exchange or under any state or federal law, or the consent or approval of any governmental regulatory body, is
necessary or desirable, the Company shall not be required to deliver any certificates for Shares to the Participant or any other person pursuant to this Agreement unless and until such listing, registration, qualification, consent or approval has
been effected or obtained, or otherwise provided for, free of any conditions not acceptable to the Company.      (b) It is intended that
any Shares received pursuant to this Agreement shall have been registered under the Securities Act. If the Participant is an  affiliate  of the Company, as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act (  Rule
144  ), the Participant may not sell the Shares received except in compliance with Rule 144. Certificates representing Shares issued to an  affiliate  of the Company may bear a legend setting forth such restrictions on the
disposition or transfer of the Shares as the Company deems appropriate to comply with federal and state securities laws.      (c) If at any
time the Shares are not registered under the Securities Act, and/or there is no current prospectus in effect under the Securities Act with respect to the Shares, the Participant shall execute, prior to the delivery of any Shares to the Participant
by the Company pursuant to this Agreement, an agreement (in such form as the Company may specify) in which the Participant represents and warrants that the Participant is purchasing or acquiring the Shares acquired under this Agreement for the
Participant s own account, for investment only and not with a view to the resale or distribution thereof, and represents and agrees that any subsequent offer for sale or distribution of any kind of such Shares shall be made only pursuant to
either (i) a registration statement on an appropriate form under the Securities Act, which registration statement has become effective and is current with regard to the Shares being offered or sold; or (ii) a specific exemption from the
registration requirements of the Securities Act, but in claiming such exemption the Participant shall, prior to any offer for sale of such Shares, obtain a prior favorable written opinion, in form and substance satisfactory to the Company, from
counsel for or approved by the Company, as to the applicability of such exemption thereto.      14.  Notices . All notices by the
Participant or the Participant s successors or permitted assigns shall be addressed to the Company at 900 Metro Center Blvd., Foster City, California 94404, Attention: Stock Plan Administrator, or such other address as the Company may from time
to time specify. All notices to the Participant shall be addressed to the Participant at the Participant s address in the Company s records.      15.  Other Plans . The Participant acknowledges that any income derived from this Award shall not affect the Participant s participation in, or benefits under, any other benefit plan or other contract or
arrangement maintained by the Company or any Subsidiary or Affiliate.         
   8   

16.  Acceptance or Rejection of this Award . If you do not want to accept this Award, please
complete the on-line form ( Accept or Reject Your Grant ) as promptly as possible, but, in any case, within thirty (30) days after the Grant Date, to reject this Award. You can access this on-line form through your account
at eac.Schwab.com. If you do not reject this Award within thirty (30) days after the Grant Date, you will have accepted this Award and agreed to the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and the terms and conditions of the Plan.
        
   9   

</EX-10.40>

<EX-21.1>
 5
 dex211.htm
 LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES OF VISA INC.

List of Subsidiaries of Visa Inc. 

Exhibit 21.1        

Name    
      
     Jurisdiction     
 
    Advanced Resolution Services, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
  Compa  a Mexicana de Mercadotecnia y Publicidad, S. de R.L. de C.V.  
      
  Mexico   
 
    Debit Processing Services, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Gerencia y Administracion, S. A.   
      
  Guatemala   
 
    Inovant LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Integrated Solutions Concepts, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Interlink Network, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    payclick Australia Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Plus System, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Servicios Visa International Limitada   
      
  Chile   
 
    SET Secure Electronic Transaction LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    VCA Inovant Investments Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
  Visa Consolidated Support Services (India) Private Limited  
      
  India   
 
    Visa International Asia Pacific Korea, Ltd.   
      
  Republic of Korea   
 
    Visa International (Asia-Pacific), LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Visa International Mexico S. A. de C.V.   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Visa AP (Australia) Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Visa Canada Corporation   
      
  Canada   
 
    Visa CEMEA (UK) Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Visa Do Brasil Empreendimentos Ltda.   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Visa Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Visa Hong Kong Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Visa International (Holland) B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Visa International Holdings LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
  Visa International Singapore Holdings Pte. Limited  
      
  Singapore   
 
  Visa Information Systems (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.  
      
  China   
 
    Visa International Service Association   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Visa International Servicios de Pago LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Visa Land Management II, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Visa Land Management III LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Visa Land Management IV LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Visa Land Management, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Visa Land Development I, L.P.   
      
    California    

Name    
      
     Jurisdiction     

Visa Land Development II, L.P.   
      
    California    
 
    Visa Management Services Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  Visa Processing Service (India) Private Limited  
      
  India   
 
    Visa Processing Service Pte. Limited   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Visa Resources   
      
    California    
 
    Visa Risk Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  Visa Sub-Saharan Africa (Proprietary) Limited  
      
  South Africa   
 
    Visa U.S.A. Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Visa Worldwide (Cayman) Co.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Visa Worldwide (Japan) Co., Ltd.   
      
  Japan   
 
    Visa Worldwide LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Visa Worldwide Pte. Limited   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Visa International Venezuela S.A.   
      
  Venezuela   
 
    Visa Support Services (Singapore) Pte Ltd   
      
  Singapore   
 
    White Pike Financial Services International B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 6
 dex231.htm
 CONSENT OF KPMG LLP, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Consent of KPMG LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

Exhibit 23.1        Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm       The Board of Directors Visa Inc.:      We consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statements (No. 333-150426 and No. 333-157191) on Form S-8 and (No. 333-159001)
on Form S-3 of Visa Inc. (the Company) of our report dated November 19, 2009, with respect to the consolidated balance sheets of Visa Inc. and subsidiaries as of September 30, 2009 and 2008, and the related consolidated statements of
operations, changes in stockholders  equity, comprehensive income, and cash flows for each of the years in the two-year period ended September 30, 2009, and the consolidated statements of operations, changes in stockholders  equity,
comprehensive income, and cash flows of Visa U.S.A. Inc. and subsidiaries for the year ended September 30, 2007, and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Visa Inc. as of September 30, 2009, which report appears
in the September 30, 2009 annual report on Form 10-K of the Company. Our report on the aforementioned consolidated financial statements notes that Visa U.S.A. Inc. is the accounting acquirer in the reorganization.        

/s/ KPMG LLP   
 
   San Francisco, California      November 19, 2009   

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 7
 dex311.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, PURSUANT TO SECTION 302

Certification of Chief Executive Officer, pursuant to Section 302 

Exhibit 31.1        CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO        EXCHANGE ACT RULE
13A-14(A)/15D-14(A)        AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 302        OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       I, Joseph W. Saunders, certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Visa Inc.;         

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of
the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results
of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)), for the registrant and have:         

(a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;         

(b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;         

(c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation;         

(d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and         

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

(a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

(b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

Date: November 19, 2009   
      
    / S /    J OSEPH  W.
S AUNDERS             

Joseph W. Saunders   

Chief Executive Officer and     Chairman of the Board of Directors    

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 8
 dex312.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER, PURSUANT TO SECTION 302

Certification of Chief Financial Officer, pursuant to Section 302 

Exhibit 31.2        CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO        EXCHANGE ACT RULE
13A-14(A)/15D-14(A)        AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 302        OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       I, Byron H. Pollitt, certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Visa Inc.;         

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of
the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results
of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)), for the registrant and have:         

(a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;         

(b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;         

(c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation;         

(e)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and         

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

(a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

(b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

Date: November 19, 2009   
      
    / S /    B YRON  H.
P OLLITT             

Byron H. Pollitt   

Chief Financial Officer   

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 9
 dex321.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, PURSUANT TO SECTION 906

Certification of Chief Executive Officer, pursuant to Section 906 

Exhibit 32.1        CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO        18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350
       AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906        OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       In connection with the Annual Report of Visa Inc. (the  Company )
on Form 10-K for the period ended September 30, 2009, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Joseph W. Saunders, Chief Executive Officer of the Company do hereby certify, pursuant to
18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that, to my knowledge:       

the Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and         

the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.         

Date: November 19, 2009   
     
    / S /    J OSEPH  W.
S AUNDERS             

Joseph W. Saunders   

Chief Executive Officer and     Chairman of the Board of Directors    

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 10
 dex322.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER, PURSUANT TO SECTION 906

Certification of Chief Financial Officer, pursuant to Section 906 

Exhibit 32.2        CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO        18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350
       AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906        OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       In connection with the Annual Report of Visa Inc. (the  Company )
on Form 10-K for the period ended September 30, 2009, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Byron H. Pollitt, Chief Financial Officer of the Company do hereby certify, pursuant to
18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that, to my knowledge:       

the Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and         

the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.         

Date: November 19, 2009   
     
    / S /    B YRON  H.
P OLLITT             

Byron H. Pollitt   

Chief Financial Officer   

</EX-32.2>

<EX-101.INS>
 11
 v-20090930.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 12
 v-20090930.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 13
 v-20090930_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 14
 v-20090930_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 15
 v-20090930_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 16
 v-20090930_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

