<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20110225_10-K_edgar_data_72971_0000950123-11-018541_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>71924153</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>850251</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>10977098</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>2014842</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>13992975</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>42739593</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>190</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>19</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950123-11-018541.hdr.sgml : 20110225
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20110225144028
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950123-11-018541
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		21
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20101231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20110225
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20110225

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			WELLS FARGO & CO/MN
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000072971
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS [6021]
		IRS NUMBER:				410449260
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-02979
		FILM NUMBER:		11640324

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		420 MONTGOMERY STREET
		CITY:			SAN FRANCISCO
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94163
		BUSINESS PHONE:		6126671234

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		WELLS FARGO & COMPANY
		STREET 2:		420 MONTGOMERY STREET
		CITY:			SAN FRANCISCO
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94163

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	NORWEST CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	NORTHWEST BANCORPORATION
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19830516

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 AdLQ9Y+NOkb6yDqnPDI6yOiyVTKXRrIdcSxBVTk86PaBvB5XLxyEjGYY/pBMFkB2
 O9T+eDawehMTpRw/IEg82Q==

 0000950123-11-018541.txt : 20110225

10-K
 1
 f56816e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington, D.C. 20549 

Form 10-K 

Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31,
2010                     Commission File Number 001-2979

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY  
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

420 Montgomery Street, San Francisco, California 94163 
(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip code)

Registrant s telephone number, including area code: 1-866-878-5865

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 

Name of Each Exchange 

Title of Each Class

on Which Registered

Common Stock, par value $1-2/3

New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE ) 

Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/40 th  interest in a
share of 8.00% Non- 
Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series J

NYSE 

7.5% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Convertible Class A Preferred Stock, Series L 
Warrants to purchase shares of Common Stock (expiring October 28, 2018)

NYSE 
NYSE 

See list of additional securities listed on the NYSE on the page directly following this cover
page.

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  

Dividend Equalization Preferred Shares, no par value

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of
the Securities Act.      Yes             No           

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or
Section 15(d) of the Act.  Yes            No            

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months, and (2)
has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.             Yes             No

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its
corporate Website, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant
to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to submit and post such files).             Yes             No

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K.               

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated
filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See definitions of  large
accelerated filer,   accelerated filer,  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large accelerated filer    

Accelerated filer     

Non-accelerated filer    

Smaller reporting company    

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company) 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell Company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Act).

Yes            No            

At June 30, 2010, the aggregate market value of common stock held by non-affiliates was
approximately $132.9 billion, based on a closing price of $25.60. At January 31, 2011,
5,268,078,757 shares of common stock were outstanding.

Documents Incorporated by Reference in Form 10-K 

TABLE OF CONTENTS  

PART I.   
     ITEM 1.  BUSINESS   
     ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS   
     ITEM 1B.  UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS   
     ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES   
     ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS   
     ITEM 4.   REMOVED AND RESERVED .   
     PART II   
     ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES   
     ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA   
     ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   
     ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK   
     ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA   
     ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE   
     ITEM 9A.  CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES   
     ITEM 9B.  OTHER INFORMATION   
     PART III   
     ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE   
     ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION   
     ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS   
     ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE   
     ITEM 14.  PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES   
     PART IV   
     ITEM 15.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES   
   SIGNATURES   
   EX-10.A   
   EX-10.X   
   EX-12.A   
   EX-12.B   
   EX-13   
   EX-21   
   EX-23   
   EX-24   
   EX-31.A   
   EX-31.B   
   EX-32.A   
   EX-32.B   
   EX-99   
   EX-101 INSTANCE DOCUMENT   
   EX-101 SCHEMA DOCUMENT   
   EX-101 CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT   
   EX-101 LABELS LINKBASE DOCUMENT   
   EX-101 PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT   
   EX-101 DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT   

Table of Contents   

  Additional securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act: 

Name of Each Exchange 

Title of Each Class

on Which Registered

Guarantee of 7.0% Capital Securities of Wells Fargo Capital IV

NYSE 

Guarantee of 5.85% Trust Preferred Securities (TRUPS   ) of Wells
Fargo Capital VII

NYSE 

Guarantee of 5.625% Trust Preferred Securities of Wells Fargo Capital VIII

NYSE 

Guarantee of 5.625% Trust Originated Preferred Securities
(TOPrS SM ) of Wells Fargo Capital IX

NYSE 

Guarantee of 6.25% Enhanced Trust Preferred Securities (Enhanced
TruPS   ) of Wells Fargo Capital XI

NYSE 

Guarantee of 7.875% Enhanced Trust Preferred Securities (Enhanced
TruPS   ) of Wells Fargo Capital XII

NYSE 

Guarantee of 7.70% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Normal Preferred Purchase
Securities of Wells Fargo Capital XIII

NYSE 

Remarketable 7.50% Junior Subordinated Notes due 2044

NYSE 

Guarantee of 8.625% Enhanced Trust Preferred Securities (Enhanced
TruPS   ) of Wells Fargo Capital XIV

NYSE 

Guarantee of 9.75% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Normal Preferred Purchase
Securities of Wells Fargo Capital XV

NYSE 

Remarketable 9.25% Junior Subordinated Notes due 2044

NYSE 

Guarantee of 5.80% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Normal Wachovia Income Trust
Securities of Wachovia Capital Trust III

NYSE 

Guarantee of 6.375% Trust Preferred Securities of Wachovia Capital Trust IV

NYSE 

Guarantee of 6.375% Trust Preferred Securities of Wachovia Capital Trust IX

NYSE 

Guarantee of 7.85% Trust Preferred Securities of Wachovia Capital Trust X

NYSE 

Table of Contents   

PART I. 

ITEM
1.        BUSINESS 

Wells Fargo   Company is a corporation organized under the laws of Delaware and a financial holding
company and a bank holding company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as
amended (BHC Act). Its principal business is to act as a holding company for its subsidiaries.
References in this report to  the Parent  mean the holding company. References to  we,   our,   us 
or  the Company  mean the holding company and its subsidiaries that are consolidated for financial
reporting purposes.

On December 31, 2008, we acquired Wachovia Corporation (Wachovia) in a transaction valued at $12.5
billion to Wachovia common stockholders. Wachovia, based in Charlotte, North Carolina, was one of
the nation s largest diversified financial services companies, providing a broad range of retail
banking, asset and wealth management, and corporate and investment banking products and services to
customers through 3,300 financial centers in 21 states from Connecticut to Florida and west to
Texas and California. It also provided nationwide retail brokerage, mortgage lending and auto
finance businesses.

At December 31, 2010, we had assets of $1.3 trillion, loans of $757 billion, deposits of $848
billion and stockholders  equity of $126 billion. Based on assets, we were the fourth largest bank
holding company in the United States. At December 31, 2010, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. was the
Company s principal subsidiary with assets of $1.1 trillion, or 88% of the Company s assets.

At December 31, 2010, we had 272,200 active, full-time equivalent team members.

Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and
amendments to those reports, are available free at www.wellsfargo.com (select  About Us,  then
 Investor Relations   More,  then  More SEC Filings ) as soon as reasonably practicable after they
are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). They
are also available free on the SEC s website at www.sec.gov.

1 

Table of Contents   

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS 

General 

We are a diversified financial services company. We provide retail, commercial and corporate
banking services through banking stores located in 39 states and the District of Columbia:

Alabama

Iowa

North Dakota 

Alaska

Kansas

Ohio 

Arizona

Maryland

Oregon 

Arkansas

Michigan

Pennsylvania 

California

Minnesota

South Carolina 

Colorado

Mississippi

South Dakota 

Connecticut

Montana

Tennessee 

Delaware

Nebraska

Texas 

Florida

Nevada

Utah 

Georgia

New Jersey

Virginia 

Idaho

New Mexico

Washington 

Illinois

New York

Wisconsin 

Indiana

North Carolina

Wyoming 

We provide other financial services through subsidiaries engaged in various businesses,
principally: wholesale banking, mortgage banking, consumer finance, equipment leasing, agricultural
finance, commercial finance, securities brokerage and investment banking, insurance agency and
brokerage services, computer and data processing services, trust services, investment advisory
services, mortgage-backed securities servicing and venture capital investment.

We have three operating segments for management reporting purposes: Community Banking; Wholesale
Banking; and Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement. The 2010 Annual Report to Stockholders includes
financial information and descriptions of these operating segments.

Competition 

The financial services industry is highly competitive. Our subsidiaries compete with financial
services providers such as banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, finance companies,
mortgage banking companies, insurance companies, and mutual fund companies. They also face
increased competition from nonbank institutions such as brokerage houses, as well as from financial
services subsidiaries of commercial and manufacturing companies. Many of these competitors enjoy
fewer regulatory constraints and some may have lower cost structures.

Securities firms and insurance companies that elect to become financial holding companies may
acquire banks and other financial institutions. Combinations of this type could significantly
change the competitive environment in which we conduct business. The financial services industry is
also likely to become more competitive as further technological advances enable more companies to
provide financial services. These technological advances may diminish the importance of depository
institutions and other financial intermediaries in the transfer of funds between parties.

2 

Table of Contents   
 
  REGULATION AND SUPERVISION 

We describe below, and in Notes 3 (Cash, Loan and Dividend Restrictions) and 25 (Regulatory and
Agency Capital Requirements) to Financial Statements included in the 2010 Annual Report to
Stockholders, the material elements of the regulatory framework applicable to us. The description
is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the statutes, regulations and
policies that are described. Banking statutes, regulations and policies are continually under
review by Congress and state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies, and a change
in them, including changes in how they are interpreted or implemented, could have a material effect
on our business. The regulatory framework applicable to bank holding companies is intended to
protect depositors, federal deposit insurance funds, consumers and the banking system as a whole,
and not necessarily investors in bank holding companies such as the Company.

Statutes, regulations and policies could restrict our ability to diversify into other areas of
financial services, acquire depository institutions, and pay dividends on our capital stock. They
may also require us to provide financial support to one or more of our subsidiary banks, maintain
capital balances in excess of those desired by management, and pay higher deposit insurance
premiums as a result of a general deterioration in the financial condition of depository
institutions. See the  Risk Factors  section in the 2010 Annual Report to Stockholders for
additional information.

General 

Parent Bank Holding Company.  As a bank holding company, the Parent is subject to regulation under
the BHC Act and to inspection, examination and supervision by its primary regulator, the Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve Board or FRB). The Parent is also subject
to the disclosure and regulatory requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, both as administered by the SEC. As a listed company
on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), the Parent is subject to the rules of the NYSE for listed
companies.

Subsidiary Banks.  Our subsidiary national banks are subject to regulation and examination
primarily by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) and also by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and the FRB. The foreign branches and representative offices of our
subsidiary national banks are subject to regulation and examination by their respective foreign
financial regulators as well as by the OCC and the FRB. Our state-chartered banks are subject to
primary federal regulation and examination by the FDIC and, in addition, are regulated and examined
by their respective state banking departments.

Nonbank Subsidiaries.  Many of our nonbank subsidiaries are also subject to regulation by the FRB
and other applicable federal and state agencies. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to
regulation by applicable state insurance regulatory agencies, as well as the FRB. Our brokerage
subsidiaries are regulated by the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) and, in
some cases, the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, and state securities regulators. Our other
nonbank subsidiaries may be subject to the laws and regulations of the federal government and/or
the various states as well as foreign countries in which they conduct business.

3 

Table of Contents   
 
  Parent Bank Holding Company Activities 

Financial in Nature  Requirement.  We became a financial holding company effective March 13, 2000.
We continue to maintain our status as a bank holding company for purposes of other FRB regulations.
As a bank holding company that has elected to become a financial holding company pursuant to the
BHC Act, we may affiliate with securities firms and insurance companies and engage in other
activities that are financial in nature or incidental or complementary to activities that are
financial in nature.  Financial in nature  activities include securities underwriting, dealing and
market making; sponsoring mutual funds and investment companies; insurance underwriting and agency;
merchant banking; and activities that the FRB, in consultation with the Secretary of the U.S.
Treasury, determines to be financial in nature or incidental to such financial activity.
 Complementary activities  are activities that the FRB determines upon application to be
complementary to a financial activity and do not pose a safety and soundness risk.

FRB approval is not required for us to acquire a company (other than a bank holding company, bank
or savings association) engaged in activities that are financial in nature or incidental to
activities that are financial in nature, as determined by the FRB. Prior FRB approval is required
before we may acquire the beneficial ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares or
substantially all of the assets of a bank holding company, bank or savings association.

Because we are a financial holding company, if any of our subsidiary banks receives a rating under
the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977, as amended (CRA), of less than satisfactory, we will be
prohibited, until the rating is raised to satisfactory or better, from engaging in new activities
or acquiring companies other than bank holding companies, banks or savings associations, except
that we could engage in new activities, or acquire companies engaged in activities, that are
closely related to banking under the BHC Act. In addition, if the FRB finds that any of our
subsidiary banks is not well capitalized or well managed, we would be required to enter into an
agreement with the FRB to comply with all applicable capital and management requirements and which
may contain additional limitations or conditions. Until corrected, we could be prohibited from
engaging in any new activity or acquiring companies engaged in activities that are not closely
related to banking under the BHC Act without prior FRB approval. If we fail to correct any such
condition within a prescribed period, the FRB could order us to divest our banking subsidiaries or,
in the alternative, to cease engaging in activities other than those closely related to banking
under the BHC Act.

Interstate Banking . Under the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Act (Riegle-Neal Act),
a bank holding company may acquire banks in states other than its home state, subject to any state
requirement that the bank has been organized and operating for a minimum period of time, not to
exceed five years, and the requirement that the bank holding company not control, prior to or
following the proposed acquisition, more than 10% of the total amount of deposits of insured
depository institutions nationwide or, unless the acquisition is the bank holding company s initial
entry into the state, more than 30% of such deposits in the state (or such lesser or greater amount
set by the state).

The Riegle-Neal Act also authorizes banks to merge across state lines, thereby creating interstate
branches. Banks are also permitted to acquire and to establish new branches in other states where
authorized under the laws of those states.

4 

Table of Contents   
 
  Regulatory Approval.  In determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition, federal bank
regulators will consider, among other factors, the effect of the acquisition on competition,
financial condition, and future prospects including current and projected capital ratios and
levels, the competence, experience, and integrity of management and record of compliance with laws
and regulations, the convenience and needs of the communities to be served, including the acquiring
institution s record of compliance under the CRA, and the effectiveness of the acquiring
institution in combating money laundering activities.

Dividend Restrictions 

The Parent is a legal entity separate and distinct from its subsidiary banks and other
subsidiaries. A significant source of funds to pay dividends on our common and preferred stock and
principal and interest on our debt is dividends from the Parent s subsidiaries. Various federal and
state statutory provisions and regulations limit the amount of dividends the Parent s subsidiary
banks and certain other subsidiaries may pay without regulatory approval. Federal bank regulatory
agencies have the authority to prohibit the Parent s subsidiary banks from engaging in unsafe or
unsound practices in conducting their businesses. The payment of dividends, depending on the
financial condition of the bank in question, could be deemed an unsafe or unsound practice. The
ability of the Parent s subsidiary banks to pay dividends in the future is currently, and could be
further, influenced by bank regulatory policies and capital guidelines. For information about the
restrictions applicable to the Parent s subsidiary banks, see Note 3 (Cash, Loan and Dividend
Restrictions) to Financial Statements included in the 2010 Annual Report to Stockholders.

The Parent s Board reduced its quarterly common stock dividend to $0.05 per share in second quarter
2009 to retain current period earnings and build common equity. As a participant in the Supervisory
Capital Assessment Program (SCAP), the Parent must consult with the Federal Reserve staff before
increasing the level of dividends. The FRB published clarifying supervisory guidance in first
quarter 2009,  SR 09-4 Applying Supervisory Guidance and Regulations on the Payment of Dividends,
Stock Redemptions, and Stock Repurchases at Bank Holding Companies,  pertaining to the FRB s
criteria, assessment and approval process for reductions in capital. As with all 19 participants in
the SCAP, under this supervisory letter, before raising our common stock dividend, the Parent must
consult with the Federal Reserve staff and demonstrate that its actions are consistent with the
existing supervisory guidance, including demonstrating that its internal capital assessment process
is consistent with the complexity of its activities and risk profile. In November 2010, the FRB
updated the SR 09-4 guidance to require the original 19 SCAP participants, including the Company,
to submit a Capital Plan Review (CPR) proposal to the FRB no later than January 7, 2011. The
Company has submitted a CPR to the FRB that outlines proposed capital actions by the Company
including per share dividend increases and share repurchases from the Company s benefit plans and
in the open market. The Company cannot guarantee whether or when the
FRB will approve its CPR or
what other conditions the FRB may impose on the Company in order for the Company to increase its
common stock dividend or repurchase shares.

5 

Table of Contents   
 
  Holding Company Structure 

Transfer of Funds from Subsidiary Banks.  The Parent s subsidiary banks are subject to restrictions
under federal law that limit the transfer of funds or other items of value from such subsidiaries
to the Parent and its nonbank subsidiaries (including affiliates) in so-called  covered
transactions.  In general, covered transactions include loans and other extensions of credit,
investments and asset purchases, as well as certain other transactions involving the transfer of
value from a subsidiary bank to an affiliate or for the benefit of an affiliate. Unless an
exemption applies, covered transactions by a subsidiary bank with a single affiliate are limited to
10% of the subsidiary bank s capital and surplus and, with respect to all covered transactions with
affiliates in the aggregate, to 20% of the subsidiary bank s capital and surplus. Also, loans and
extensions of credit to affiliates generally are required to be secured by qualifying collateral. A
bank s transactions with its nonbank affiliates are also generally required to be on arm s length
terms.

Source of Strength.  The FRB has a policy that a bank holding company is expected to act as a
source of financial and managerial strength to each of its subsidiary banks and, under appropriate
circumstances, to commit resources to support each such subsidiary bank. This support may be
required at times when the bank holding company may not have the resources to provide the support.

The OCC may order an assessment of the Parent if the capital of one of its national bank
subsidiaries were to become impaired. If the Parent failed to pay the assessment within three
months, the OCC could order the sale of the Parent s stock in the national bank to cover the
deficiency.

Capital loans by the Parent to any of its subsidiary banks are subordinate in right of payment to
deposits and certain other indebtedness of the subsidiary bank. In addition, in the event of the
Parent s bankruptcy, any commitment by the Parent to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain
the capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a
priority of payment.

Depositor Preference.  The Federal Deposit Insurance Act (FDI Act) provides that, in the event of
the  liquidation or other resolution  of an insured depository institution, the claims of
depositors of the institution (including the claims of the FDIC as subrogee of insured depositors)
and certain claims for administrative expenses of the FDIC as a receiver will have priority over
other general unsecured claims against the institution. If an insured depository institution fails,
insured and uninsured depositors, along with the FDIC, will have priority in payment ahead of
unsecured, nondeposit creditors, including the Parent, with respect to any extensions of credit
they have made to such insured depository institution.

Liability of Commonly Controlled Institutions.  All of the Company s subsidiary banks are insured
by the FDIC. FDIC-insured depository institutions can be held liable for any loss incurred, or
reasonably expected to be incurred, by the FDIC due to the default of an FDIC-insured depository
institution controlled by the same bank holding company, and for any assistance provided by the
FDIC to an FDIC-insured depository institution that is in danger of default and that is controlled
by the same bank holding company.  Default  means generally the appointment of a conservator or
receiver.  In danger of default  means generally the existence of certain conditions indicating
that a default is likely to occur in the absence of regulatory assistance.

6 

Table of Contents   
 
  Dodd-Frank Act 

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act), enacted on July 21,
2010, will result in broad changes to the U.S. financial system and is the most significant
financial reform legislation since the 1930s. Although much of the impact is not yet known, we
anticipate the Dodd-Frank Act will affect most of our businesses in some way, either directly
through regulation of specific activities or indirectly through regulation of concentration risks,
capital or liquidity. At the enterprise level, the many provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act regarding
enhanced supervision and regulation of large banking organizations and other systemically
significant firms are expected to significantly increase our compliance and regulatory
requirements.

The Dodd-Frank Act authorizes or requires numerous rulemakings by federal regulatory agencies on a
wide range of topics including the enhanced supervision and regulation of systemically significant
firms; the establishment of the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, the Financial Stability
Oversight Council, and the Office of Financial Research; the application of federal preemption on
national banks and their operating subsidiaries; the development of the FDIC s orderly liquidation
authority for covered financial companies; the exclusion of trust preferred securities from
treatment as Tier 1 capital (the Collins Amendment); changes to the method of calculating FDIC
assessments; the adoption of a number of corporate governance and executive compensation reforms;
the regulation of debit card interchange fees (the Durbin Amendment); the regulation of swaps and
other derivative activities; the repeal of limits on the payment of interest on business deposit
accounts; changes to asset-backed securities markets; restrictions on proprietary trading by
financial institutions (the Volcker Rule); additional regulation of securities brokers and
investment advisers; and additional regulation of the residential mortgage business. Although a
number of rulemaking proposals have already been issued by regulatory agencies, the great majority
of the rulemakings required or authorized under the Dodd-Frank Act will not become effective until
well into 2011 or thereafter. We have done considerable analysis to estimate the level of
operational or compliance impact of these rulemakings on different parts of our organization.
However, in the absence of specific final rules we cannot quantify the financial impacts of these
rulemakings on the Company.

Capital Requirements 

We are subject to regulatory capital requirements and guidelines imposed by the FRB, which are
substantially similar to those imposed by the OCC and the FDIC on depository institutions within
their jurisdictions. Under these guidelines, a depository institution s or a holding company s
assets and certain specified off-balance sheet commitments and obligations are assigned to various
risk categories. Tier 1 capital is considered core capital and generally includes common
stockholders  equity, qualifying preferred stock, and trust preferred securities, and
noncontrolling interests in consolidated subsidiaries, reduced by goodwill, net of related taxes,
certain intangible and other assets in excess of prescribed limitations, and adjusted for the
aggregate impact of certain items included in other comprehensive income. Total capital includes
Tier 1 capital, subordinated debt and other components that do not qualify for Tier 1 capital, and
the aggregate allowance for credit losses up to a specified percentage of risk-weighted assets. In
addition to measures of Tier 1 and Total capital, a further measure of capital, Tier 1 common
capital, reflects common equity and retained earnings, less goodwill and certain other deductions.

7 

Table of Contents   

Under the Dodd-Frank Act, trust preferred securities will be excluded from the calculation of Tier
1 capital pursuant to a provision known as the Collins Amendment. We will be required to phase
existing trust preferred securities out of Tier 1 capital over three years beginning January 1,
2013. We expect proposed rules implementing the Collins Amendment to provide additional clarity
regarding the timing of the phase out.

National banks and bank holding companies currently are required to maintain Tier 1 and Total
capital equal to at least 4% and 8%, respectively, of their total risk-weighted assets (including
certain off-balance sheet items, such as standby letters of credit). The risk-based capital rules
state that the capital requirements are minimum standards based primarily on broad credit-risk
considerations and do not take into account the other types of risk a banking organization may be
exposed to (e.g., interest rate, market, liquidity and operational risks). The FRB may, therefore,
set higher capital requirements for categories of banks (e.g. systematically important firms), or
for an individual bank as situations warrant. For example, holding companies experiencing internal
growth or making acquisitions are expected to maintain strong capital positions substantially above
the minimum supervisory levels, without significant reliance on intangible assets. For these
reasons, we are expected to operate with a capital position well above the minimum ratios, with the
amount of capital held to be determined by us through an internal capital assessment that
corresponds to our broad risk exposure.

The regulatory capital rules state that voting common stockholders  equity should be the dominant
element within Tier 1 capital and that banking organizations should avoid overreliance on
non-common equity elements. During 2009, in conjunction with the FRB s SCAP stress test process,
the ratio of Tier 1 common equity to risk-weighted assets became significant as a measurement of
the predominance of common equity in Tier 1 capital. There is currently no mandated minimum ratio.

In June 2004, the Basel Committee on Bank Supervision published new international guidelines for
determining regulatory capital that are designed to be more risk sensitive than the existing
framework and to promote enhanced risk management practices among large, internationally active
banking organizations. The United States federal bank regulatory agencies each approved a final
rule similar to the international guidelines in November 2007. This advanced capital adequacy
framework is known as  Basel II,  and is intended to more closely align regulatory capital
requirements with actual risks. Basel II incorporates three pillars that address (a) capital
adequacy, (b) supervisory review, which relates to the computation of capital and internal
assessment processes, and (c) market discipline, through increased disclosure requirements.
Embodied within these pillars are aspects of risk strategy, measurement and management that relate
to credit risk, market risk, and operational risk. Banking organizations are required to enhance
the measurement and management of those risks through the use of advanced approaches for
calculating risk-based capital requirements. Basel II includes safeguards that include a
requirement that banking organizations conduct a parallel run over a period of four consecutive
calendar quarters for measuring regulatory capital under the new regulatory capital rules and the
existing general risk-based capital rules before solely operating under the Basel II framework; a
requirement that an institution satisfactorily complete a series of transitional periods before
operating under Basel II without floors; and a commitment by the federal bank regulatory agencies
to conduct ongoing analysis of the framework to ensure Basel II is working as intended. Following a
successful parallel run period, a banking organization would have to progress through three
transitional periods (each lasting at least one year), during which there would be floors on
potential declines in risk-based capital requirements as calculated under the current rules. Those
transitional floors provide for

8 

Table of Contents   
 
 maximum cumulative reductions of required risk-based capital of 5% during the first year of
implementation, 10% in the second year and 15% in the third year. A banking organization will need
approval from its primary Federal regulator to move into each of the transitional floor periods,
and at the end of the third transitional floor period to move to full implementation. Wells Fargo
is implementing the advanced approach under Basel II, and has established a project management
infrastructure to implement the regulations and enter the parallel run in 2012 with regulatory
approval. Our delayed entry into the parallel run phase was approved by the FRB in 2010 as a result
of our acquisition of Wachovia.

In addition, the federal bank regulatory agencies have established minimum leverage (Tier 1 capital
to adjusted average total assets) guidelines for banks within their regulatory jurisdiction. These
guidelines provide for a minimum leverage ratio of 3% for banks that meet certain specified
criteria, including excellent asset quality, high liquidity, low interest rate exposure and the
highest regulatory rating. Institutions not meeting these criteria are required to maintain a
leverage ratio of 4%. Our Tier 1 and total risk-based capital ratios and leverage ratio as of
December 31, 2010, are included in Note 25 (Regulatory and Agency Capital Requirements) to
Financial Statements included in the 2010 Annual Report to Stockholders. At December 31, 2010, the
Company and each of its subsidiary banks were  well capitalized  under the applicable regulatory
capital adequacy guidelines.

In July 2009, the Basel Committee on Bank Supervision published an additional set of international
guidelines for review known as Basel III, which were finalized in December 2010. The additional
guidelines were developed in response to the financial crisis of 2008 - 2010 and address many of
the weaknesses identified in the banking sector as contributing to the crisis, including excessive
leverage, inadequate and low quality capital and insufficient liquidity buffers. Basel III
fundamentals:

raise the quality of capital so banks are better able to absorb losses on both a going
concern and gone concern basis; 

increase the risk coverage of the capital framework, specifically for trading
activities, securitizations, exposures to off-balance sheet vehicles, and counterparty
credit exposures arising from derivatives; 

raise the level of minimum capital requirements; 

establish an international leverage ratio; 

develop capital buffers; and 

raise standards for the supervisory review process (Pillar 2) and public disclosures
(Pillar 3). 

The U.S. regulatory bodies are reviewing the final Basel III international standards and final U.S.
rulemaking is expected to be completed in 2011. Although uncertainty exists regarding the final
U.S. rules, we have used our best efforts to interpret and estimate the effects of Basel III on our
capital ratios.

In December 2010, the FRB determined to conduct a second stress test survey of the 19 original SCAP
participants to forecast capital levels for financial institutions under a FRB-defined set of
adverse economic assumptions. The stress test survey also required us to provide forecasts under
two additional firm-defined scenarios and provide a list of capital actions, including dividend
increases, share repurchases, and securities redemptions, that the Company would pursue if results
of the stress test survey were approved by the FRB. The Company
submitted its CPR by the January 7,
2011 deadline. The Company cannot guarantee whether or when the FRB
will approve its CPR or what
other conditions the FRB may impose in order for the Company to pursue its proposed capital
actions.

9 

Table of Contents   
 
 From time to time, the FRB and the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC)
propose changes and amendments to, and issue interpretations of, risk-based capital guidelines and
related reporting instructions. In addition, the FRB has closely monitored capital levels of the
institutions it supervises during the ongoing financial disruption, and may require such
institutions to modify capital levels based on FRB determinations. Such determinations, proposals
or interpretations could, if implemented in the future, affect our reported capital ratios and net
risk-adjusted assets.

As an additional means to identify problems in the financial management of depository institutions,
the FDI Act requires federal bank regulatory agencies to establish certain non-capital safety and
soundness standards for institutions for which they are the primary federal regulator. The
standards relate generally to operations and management, asset quality, interest rate exposure,
executive compensation and risk management. The agencies are authorized to take action against
institutions that fail to meet such standards.

The FDI Act requires federal bank regulatory agencies to take  prompt corrective action  with
respect to FDIC-insured depository institutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements. A
depository institution s treatment for purposes of the prompt corrective action provisions will
depend upon how its capital levels compare to various capital measures and certain other factors,
as established by regulation.

Deposit Insurance Assessments 

Our bank subsidiaries, including Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., are members of the Deposit Insurance Fund
(DIF) maintained by the FDIC. Through the DIF, the FDIC insures the deposits of our banks up to
prescribed limits for each depositor. The DIF was formed March 31, 2006, upon the merger of the
Bank Insurance Fund and the Savings Insurance Fund in accordance with the Federal Deposit Insurance
Reform Act of 2005 (the Act). The Act established a range of 1.15% to 1.50% within which the FDIC
board of directors may set the Designated Reserve Ratio (reserve ratio or DRR). The Act also
granted the FDIC Board the discretion to price deposit insurance according to risk for all insured
institutions regardless of the level of the reserve ratio.

The Dodd-Frank Act gave the FDIC greater discretion to manage the DIF, raised the minimum DRR to
1.35% and removed the upper limit. In October 2010, the FDIC Board adopted a Restoration Plan to
ensure that the DIF reserve ratio reaches 1.35% by September 30, 2020, as required by the
Dodd-Frank Act. At the same time, the FDIC Board proposed a comprehensive, long-range plan for DIF
management. In December 2010, as part of the comprehensive plan, the FDIC Board adopted a final
rule to set the DRR at 2%, and in February 2011, the FDIC Board approved the remainder of the
comprehensive plan. The Restoration Plan foregoes a 3 basis point increase in the annual assessment
rates that was to take effect January 1, 2011.

To maintain the DIF, member institutions are assessed an insurance premium based on their deposits
(assessment base) and their institutional risk category (assessment rate). The FDIC determines an
institution s risk category by combining its supervisory ratings with its financial ratios and
other risk measures. For large institutions (assets of $10 billion or more), the FDIC generally
determines risk by combining supervisory ratings, the institution s long-term debt issuer ratings
and, beginning April 1, 2009, certain financial ratios.

10 

Table of Contents   
 
 In 2009, the FDIC undertook several measures in an effort to replenish the DIF. On February 27,
2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule modifying the risk-based assessment system and set new initial
base assessment rates beginning April 1, 2009. Rates range from a minimum of 12 cents per $100 of
domestic deposits for well-managed, well-capitalized institutions with the highest credit ratings,
to 45 cents per $100 for those institutions posing the most risk to the DIF. Risk-based adjustments
to the initial assessment rate may lower the rate to 7 cents per $100 of domestic deposits for
well-managed, well-capitalized banks with the highest credit ratings or raise the rate to 77.5
cents per $100 for depository institutions posing the most risk to the DIF. On May 22, 2009, the
FDIC adopted a final rule imposing a 5 basis point special assessment on each insured depository
institution s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009. The amount of the special assessment
for any institution was limited to 10 basis points times the institution s assessment base for the
second quarter 2009. On November 17, 2009, the FDIC amended its regulations to require insured
institutions to prepay their estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for fourth quarter 2009,
and all of 2010, 2011, and 2012. For purposes of determining the prepayment, the FDIC used the
institution s assessment rate in effect on September 30, 2009. The combined prepayment amount for
our banking subsidiaries was $3.9 billion, of which $2.6 billion remains available to offset future
assessments.

On February 7, 2011, the FDIC Board approved a final rule on assessments, dividends, assessment
base and large bank pricing that will take effect on April 1, 2011. The final rule approves the
comprehensive plan for DIF management that was proposed in October 2010; changes the assessment
base for all institutions from deposits to average consolidated total assets minus average tangible
equity, as required by the Dodd-Frank Act; and modifies the risk-based assessment system for large
institutions. Under the final rule, risk categories and long-term debt issuer ratings are
eliminated as factors for determining an institution s assessment rate. The new system combines
supervisory ratings and certain financial measures into two scorecards, one for most of the large
institutions and another for highly complex institutions (those that are very large and are
structurally and operationally complex or that pose unique challenges and risks in the case of
failure). The score received by an institution will be converted into an assessment rate for the
institution. The FDIC retains the ability to adjust the total score of large institutions based
upon quantitative or qualitative measures not adequately captured in the scorecards. We estimate
these changes will result in additional quarterly deposit insurance assessments of $40 million
(after tax) beginning with the second quarter of 2011.

All FDIC-insured depository institutions must also pay a quarterly assessment towards interest
payments on bonds issued by the Financing Corporation, a federal corporation chartered under the
authority of the Federal Housing Finance Board. The bonds (commonly referred to as FICO bonds) were
issued to capitalize the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation. FDIC-insured depository
institutions paid approximately 1.04 to 1.06 cents per $100 of assessable deposits in 2010. The
FDIC established the FICO assessment rate effective for first quarter 2011 at 1.02 cents annually
per $100 of assessable deposits. For the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company s FDIC deposit
insurance assessments, including FICO assessments, totaled $1.2 billion.

The FDIC may terminate a depository institution s deposit insurance upon a finding that the
institution s financial condition is unsafe or unsound or that the institution has engaged in
unsafe or unsound practices or has violated any applicable rule, regulation, order or condition
enacted or imposed by the institution s regulatory agency. The termination of deposit insurance for
one or more of our bank subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our earnings,
depending on the collective size of the particular banks involved.

11 

Table of Contents   
 
  Fiscal and Monetary Policies 

Our business and earnings are affected significantly by the fiscal and monetary policies of the
federal government and its agencies. We are particularly affected by the policies of the FRB, which
regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Among the instruments of monetary
policy available to the FRB are (a) conducting open market operations in United States government
securities, (b) changing the discount rates of borrowings of depository institutions, (c) imposing
or changing reserve requirements against depository institutions  deposits, and (d) imposing or
changing reserve requirements against certain borrowings by banks and their affiliates. These
methods are used in varying degrees and combinations to directly affect the availability of bank
loans and deposits, as well as the interest rates charged on loans and paid on deposits. The
policies of the FRB may have a material effect on our business, results of operations and financial
condition.

Privacy Provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and Restrictions on Cross-Selling 

Federal banking regulators, as required under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (the GLB Act), have
adopted rules limiting the ability of banks and other financial institutions to disclose nonpublic
information about consumers to nonaffiliated third parties. The rules require disclosure of privacy
policies to consumers and, in some circumstances, allow consumers to prevent disclosure of certain
personal information to nonaffiliated third parties. The privacy provisions of the GLB Act affect
how consumer information is transmitted through diversified financial services companies and
conveyed to outside vendors. Federal financial regulators have issued regulations under the Fair
and Accurate Credit Transactions Act that have the effect of increasing the length of the waiting
period, after privacy disclosures are provided to new customers, before information can be shared
among different affiliated companies for the purpose of cross-selling products and services between
those affiliated companies.

Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Sarbanes-Oxley) implemented a broad range of corporate governance
and accounting measures to increase corporate responsibility, to provide for enhanced penalties for
accounting and auditing improprieties at publicly traded companies, and to protect investors by
improving the accuracy and reliability of disclosures under federal securities laws. We are subject
to Sarbanes-Oxley because we are required to file periodic reports with the SEC under the
Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. Among other things, Sarbanes-Oxley and/or its implementing
regulations established membership requirements and additional responsibilities for our audit
committee, imposed restrictions on the relationship between us and our outside auditors (including
restrictions on the types of non-audit services our auditors may provide to us), imposed additional
responsibilities for our external financial statements on our chief executive officer and chief
financial officer, expanded the disclosure requirements for our corporate insiders, required our
management to evaluate our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over
financial reporting, and required our auditors to issue a report on our internal control over
financial reporting.

12 

Table of Contents   
 
  Patriot Act 

The Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and
Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (Patriot Act) is intended to strengthen the ability of U.S. law
enforcement agencies and intelligence communities to work together to combat terrorism on a variety
of fronts. The Patriot Act has significant implications for depository institutions, brokers,
dealers and other businesses involved in the transfer of money. The Patriot Act required us to
implement new or revised policies and procedures relating to anti-money laundering, compliance,
suspicious activities, and currency transaction reporting and due diligence on customers. The
Patriot Act also requires federal bank regulators to evaluate the effectiveness of an applicant in
combating money laundering in determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition.

Future Legislation or Regulation 

In light of recent conditions in the U.S. and global financial markets and the U.S. and global
economy, legislators, the presidential administration and regulators have increased their focus on
the regulation of the financial services industry. Proposals that could substantially intensify the
regulation of the financial services industry have been and are expected to continue to be
introduced in the U.S. Congress, in state legislatures and from applicable regulatory authorities.
These proposals may change banking statutes and regulation and our operating environment in
substantial and unpredictable ways. If enacted, these proposals could increase our cost of doing
business, affect our compensation structure, limit or expand permissible activities or affect the
competitive balance among banks, savings associations, credit unions, and other financial
institutions. We cannot predict whether any of these proposals will be enacted and, if enacted, the
effect that it, or any implementing regulations, would have on our business, results of operations
or financial condition.

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 

Additional information in response to this Item 1 can be found in the 2010 Annual Report to
Stockholders under  Financial Review  and under  Financial Statements.  That information is incorporated into this item by reference.

ITEM 1A.      RISK FACTORS 

Information in response to this Item 1A can be found in this report on pages 2-13 and in the 2010
Annual Report to Stockholders under  Financial Review   Risk Factors.  That
information is incorporated into this item by reference.

ITEM 1B.      UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 

Not applicable.

13 

Table of Contents   

ITEM 2.      PROPERTIES 

We own our corporate headquarters building in San Francisco, California. We also own administrative
facilities in Anchorage, Alaska; Chandler, Phoenix, and Tempe, Arizona; El Monte, Irvine and San
Francisco, California; Minneapolis and Shoreview, Minnesota; Billings, Montana; Omaha, Nebraska;
Albuquerque, New Mexico; Portland, Oregon; Sioux Falls, South Dakota; Salt Lake City, Utah; Des
Moines, Iowa; St. Louis, Missouri; Charlotte and Raleigh, North Carolina; Summit, New Jersey; and
Glen Allen, Virginia; as well as operations/servicing centers in Sioux Falls, South Dakota;
Birmingham and Homewood, Alabama; San Leandro, California; St. Louis, Missouri; Charlotte and
Winston-Salem, North Carolina; San Antonio, Texas; Springfield, Illinois; West Des Moines, Iowa;
and Minneapolis, Minnesota.

In addition, we lease office space for various administrative departments in major locations in
Arizona, California, Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Iowa, Kansas, Maryland, Massachusetts, Minnesota,
Missouri, Nevada, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Oregon, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, South
Dakota, Texas, Utah, Virginia, Washington, Wisconsin, Ontario, Canada, and Puerto Rico; as well as
operations/servicing centers in California, Florida, Georgia, North Carolina, Oregon, Pennsylvania
and Virginia.

As of December 31, 2010, we provided banking, insurance, investments, mortgage and consumer and
commercial finance from more than 9,000 stores under ownership and lease agreements.

We are also a joint venture partner in an office building in downtown Minneapolis, Minnesota.

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 

Additional information in response to this Item 2 can be found in the 2010 Annual Report to
Stockholders under  Financial Statements   Notes to Financial Statements   Note 7 (Premises,
Equipment, Lease Commitments and Other Assets).  That information is incorporated into
this item by reference.

ITEM 3.      LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 

Information in response to this Item 3 can be found in the 2010 Annual Report to Stockholders under
 Financial Statements   Notes to Financial Statements
  Note 14 (Guarantees and Legal Actions).  That information is incorporated into this item by reference.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT 

Information relating to the Company s executive officers is included in Item 10 of this report.

ITEM 4.       REMOVED AND RESERVED . 

14 

Table of Contents   

PART II 

ITEM 5.         
       
      MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF
EQUITY SECURITIES  

MARKET INFORMATION 

The Company s common stock is listed on the NYSE (symbol  WFC ). The Quarterly Financial Data table
of the 2010 Annual Report to Stockholders provides the quarterly prices of, and
quarterly dividends paid on, the Company s common stock for the two-year period ended December 31,
2010, and is incorporated herein by reference. Prices shown represent the daily high and low, and
the quarter-end sale prices of the Company s common stock as reported on the NYSE Composite
Transaction Reporting System for the periods indicated. At January 31, 2011, there were 201,714
holders of record of the Company s common stock.

DIVIDENDS 

The dividend restrictions discussions on page 5 of this report and in the 2010 Annual Report to
Stockholders under  Financial Statements   Notes to Financial Statements   Note 3 (Cash, Loan and
Dividend Restrictions)  are incorporated into this item by reference.

REPURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 

In September 2008, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of 25 million shares of our
common stock. The authorization covered shares repurchased to meet team member benefit plan
requirements. The Company maintains a variety of retirement plans for its team members and
typically is a net issuer of shares of common stock to these plans. From time to time, it also
purchases shares of common stock from these plans to accommodate team member preferences. Share
repurchases are subtracted from the Company s repurchase authority without offset for share
issuances. Shares may be repurchased as part of employee stock option exercises, from the different
benefit plans or in the open market, subject to regulatory approval.

The amount and timing of stock repurchases will be based on various factors, such as management s
assessment of our capital structure and liquidity, the market price of our common stock compared to
management s assessment of the stock s underlying value, and applicable regulatory, legal and
accounting factors. In addition, repurchases in connection with employees surrendering shares to
exercise employee stock options will depend upon the amount and timing of those option exercises.
In June 2010, our Board of Directors also authorized the repurchase of up to $1 billion of warrants
to purchase our common stock. The warrants are listed on the NYSE under the symbol  WFCWS.  The
amount and timing of warrant repurchases will be based on various factors including market
conditions. See the  Capital Management  section in the 2010 Annual Report to Stockholders for
additional information about our common stock and warrant repurchases.

The following table shows the Company s repurchases of its common stock for each calendar month in
the quarter ended December 31, 2010.

15 

Table of Contents   

(1) 
       
     All shares were repurchased under the authorization covering up to 25 million shares of
common stock approved by the Board of Directors and publicly announced by the Company on September
23, 2008. Unless modified or revoked by the Board, this authorization does not expire. 

The following table shows Company repurchases of warrants for each calendar month in the
quarter ended December 31, 2010.

(1) 
       
     All warrants were purchased under the authorization covering up to $1 billion in warrants
approved by the Board of Directors (ratified and approved on June 22, 2010). Unless modified or
revoked by the Board, this authorization does not expire. 

ITEM 6.       
       
      SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA  

Information in response to this Item 6 can be found in the 2010 Annual Report to Stockholders under
 Financial Review  in Table 1. That information is incorporated into this item by
reference.

ITEM 7.       
       
      MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

Information in response to this Item 7 can be found in the 2010 Annual Report to Stockholders under
 Financial Review.  That information is incorporated into this item by reference.

ITEM 7A.     
       
      QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  

Information in response to this Item 7A can be found in the 2010 Annual Report to Stockholders
under  Financial Review   Risk Management   Asset/Liability Management.  That
information is incorporated into this item by reference.

16 

Table of Contents   

ITEM 8.     
       
      FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA  

Information in response to this Item 8 can be found in the 2010 Annual Report to Stockholders under
 Financial Statements  and under  Quarterly Financial
Data.  That
information is incorporated into this item by reference.

ITEM 9.     
       
      CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE  

Not applicable.

ITEM 9A.  
       
      CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES  

Information in response to this Item 9A can be found in the 2010 Annual Report to Stockholders
under  Controls and Procedures.  That information is incorporated into this item
by reference.

ITEM 9B.  
       
      OTHER INFORMATION  

Not applicable.

17 

Table of Contents   

PART III 

ITEM 10.  
       
      DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT 

Howard I. Atkins (age 60)

Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from August 2005 to February
2011;

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from August 2001 to August 2005.

Mr. Atkins served with the Company for 9 years and, following his announced retirement in
February 2011, is no longer an executive officer.

Patricia R. Callahan (age 57)

Senior Executive Vice President since February 2011;

Executive Vice President (Office of Transition) from January 2009 to February 2011;

Executive Vice President (Social Responsibility Group) from June 2008 to December 2008;

Executive Vice President (Compliance and Risk) from June 2005 to September 2007;

Executive Vice President (Human Resources) from November 1998 to June 2005.

Ms. Callahan has served with the Company or its predecessors for 33 years.

David M. Carroll (age 53)

Senior Executive Vice President (Wealth Management, Brokerage and Retirement) since January
2009;

Senior Executive Vice President of Wachovia Corporation from September 2001 to
January 2009.

Mr. Carroll has served with the Company or its predecessors for 29 years.

David A. Hoyt (age 55)

Senior Executive Vice President (Wholesale Banking) since August 2005;

Group Executive Vice President (Wholesale Banking) from November 1998 to August
2005.

Mr. Hoyt has served with the Company or its predecessors for 29 years.

Richard D. Levy (age 53)

Executive Vice President and Controller since February 2007;

Senior Vice President and Controller from September 2002 to February 2007.

Mr. Levy has served with the Company for 8 years.

Michael J. Loughlin (age 55)

Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer since November 2010;

Executive Vice President and Chief Credit and Risk Officer from April 2006 to November 2010;

Deputy Chief Credit Officer from January 2006 to April 2006;

Executive Vice President of Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. from May 2000 to April 2006.

Mr. Loughlin has served with the Company or its predecessors for 29 years.

18 

Table of Contents   

Avid Modjtabai (age 49)

Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer since April 2007;

Executive Vice President (Human Resources) from June 2005 to April 2007;

Ms. Modjtabai has served with the Company or its predecessors for 17 years.

Mark C. Oman (age 56)

Senior Executive Vice President (Home and Consumer Finance) since August 2005;

Group Executive Vice President (Home and Consumer Finance) from September 2002 to
August 2005.

Mr. Oman has served with the Company or its predecessors for 31 years.

Kevin A. Rhein (age 57)

Executive Vice President (Card Services and Consumer Lending) since January 2009;

Executive Vice President of Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. since February 2004.

Mr. Rhein has served with the Company or its predecessors for 32 years.

Timothy J. Sloan (age 50)

Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since February 2011;

Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer from September 2010 to
February 2011;

Executive Vice President of Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. since August 2003.

Mr. Sloan has served with the Company or its predecessors for 23 years.

James M. Strother (age 59)

Executive Vice President and General Counsel since January 2004.

Mr. Strother has served with the Company or its predecessors for 24 years.

John G. Stumpf (age 57)

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer since January 2010;

President and Chief Executive Officer from June 2007 to January 2010;

President and Chief Operating Officer from August 2005 to June 2007;

Group Executive Vice President (Community Banking) from July 2002 to August 2005.

Mr. Stumpf has served with the Company or its predecessors for 29 years.

Carrie L. Tolstedt (age 51)

Senior Executive Vice President (Community Banking) since June 2007;

Group Executive Vice President (Regional Banking) from July 2002 to June 2007.

Ms. Tolstedt has served with the Company or its predecessors for 21 years.

There is no family relationship between any of the Company s executive officers or directors. All
executive officers serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.

19 

Table of Contents   
 
  AUDIT COMMITTEE INFORMATION 

The Audit and Examination Committee is a standing audit committee of the Board of Directors
established in accordance with Section 3(a)(58)(A) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The
Committee has seven members: John D. Baker II, Lloyd H. Dean, Enrique Hernandez, Jr., Cynthia H.
Milligan, Nicholas G. Moore (Chair), Philip J. Quigley and Susan G. Swenson. Each member is
independent, as independence for audit committee members is defined by NYSE rules. The Board of
Directors has determined, in its business judgment, that each member of the Audit and Examination
Committee is financially literate, as required by NYSE rules, and that each qualifies as an  audit
committee financial expert  as defined by SEC regulations.

CODE OF ETHICS AND BUSINESS CONDUCT 

The Company s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct for team members (including executive officers),
Director Code of Ethics, the Company s corporate governance guidelines, and the charters for the
Audit and Examination, Governance and Nominating, Human Resources, Corporate Responsibility,
Credit, Finance, and Risk Committees are available at www.wellsfargo.com (select  About Us,  then
 Corporate Governance ). This information is also available in print to any stockholder upon
written request to the Office of the Secretary, Wells Fargo   Company, MAC N9305-173, Wells Fargo
Center, Sixth and Marquette, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55479.

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 

Additional information in response to this Item 10 can be found in the Company s 2011 Proxy
Statement under  Ownership of Our Common Stock   Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance  and  Item 1   Election of Directors   Director Nominees for Election  and   Other
Matters Relating to Directors.  That information is incorporated into this item by reference.

ITEM 11.  
       
      EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION  

Information in response to this Item 11 can be found in the Company s 2011 Proxy Statement under
 Item 1  Election of Directors   Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation  and
  Director Compensation,  under  Corporate Governance   Risk Management and Compensation
Practices,  under  Executive Compensation  and under  Information About Related Persons   Related
Person Transactions.  That information is incorporated into this item by reference.

ITEM 12.  
       
      SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS  

EQUITY COMPENSATION PLAN INFORMATION 

The following table provides information about our equity compensation plans in effect on December
31, 2010, separately aggregated for plans approved by stockholders and for plans not approved by
stockholders. A description of the material features of each equity compensation plan not approved
by stockholders follows the table. All outstanding awards relate to shares of our common stock.
Information is as of December 31, 2010, unless otherwise indicated.

20 

Table of Contents   
 
  Equity Compensation Plan Information  (1)

(1) 
       
     The table above does not include information about equity compensation plans assumed in
mergers that we froze at the time of the merger. Under these assumed plans
a total of 10,546,728 shares of common stock were issuable upon exercise of options and 67,278
shares upon distribution of vested but deferred share-based awards.
The weighted average exercise price per share of our common stock of the outstanding options
was $130.19. We assumed the amended and restated Wachovia
Corporation 2003 Stock Incentive Plan (2003 SIP) in the Wachovia merger and in February 2009
used substantially all remaining available shares for stock option
grants to legacy Wachovia team members. Information for the 2003 SIP is included in the table
above under the plan category for equity compensation plans not
approved by security holders. No awards have been granted since February 2009, and no future
awards will be granted under the 2003 SIP. 

(2) 
       
     Does not reflect restricted share rights (RSRs), restricted share units (RSUs), or restricted
share awards (RSAs) or deferred compensation benefits because they have
no exercise price. 

(3) 
       
     For the Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan (LTICP), consists of 266,347,313 shares subject
to options, 22,438,100 shares subject to unvested RSRs, 84,356
shares issuable upon distribution of vested but deferred RSRs, and a maximum of 3,846,876
performance shares. For the Supplemental 401(k) Plan, consists of
4,183,124 shares issuable upon distribution of benefits. For the Directors Stock Compensation
and Deferral Plan (Directors Plan), consists of 797,864 shares subject
to options, 199,721 shares issuable upon distribution of vested but deferred stock awards, and
396,481 shares issuable upon distribution of deferred compensation
benefits. 

(4) 
       
     We could have issued the number of shares of our common stock indicated in the following table
pursuant to any of the award types listed for the plan or, if indicated
for the plan, pursuant to distributions of deferred compensation benefits. Each share of
common stock issued under the LTICP pursuant to awards other than options
or SARs counts as two shares. Effective January 25, 2011, the Board authorized an additional
250,000 shares of common stock for issuance under the Directors Plan
for compensation deferrals only. 

(5) 
       
     For the 2003 SIP, consists of 29,876,750 shares subject to options and 598,621 shares
subject to RSAs. For the PartnerShares Stock Option Plan (PartnerShares),
consists of 8,474,545 shares subject to options. For the other plans, consists of 6,574,311
shares of common stock issuable upon distribution of deferred
compensation benefits. 

(6) 
       
     We could have issued the number of shares of our common stock indicated in the following table
pursuant to any of the award types listed for the plan or, if indicated
for the plan, pursuant to distributions of deferred compensation benefits. No information is
provided for the 2003 SIP, PartnerShares Plan, the Norwest Corporation
Directors  Formula Stock Award Plan and the Norwest Corporation Directors  Stock Deferral Plan
because no future awards or deferrals will be made under these
plans and because column (a) reflects all shares issuable under those plans upon exercise or
distribution of outstanding awards or deferred compensation benefits. 

Plan 
       
     # of shares 
       
     Award types 

Deferred Compensation Plan

3,611,960 

Deferral distribution 

Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan for Independent

Contractors

474,775 

Deferral distribution 

Material Features of Equity Compensation Plans Not Approved by Stockholders 

The 2003 SIP  . The amended and restated Wachovia Corporation 2003 Stock Incentive Plan
(2003 SIP) was originally approved by Wachovia s shareholders in 2003 and prior to the merger had
been used for equity awards to Wachovia s executive officers and other key employees. We assumed
the 2003 SIP in the merger and in February 2009 used substantially all remaining available shares
for stock option grants to legacy Wachovia team members. No awards have been granted since then,
and no future awards will be granted under the 2003 SIP.

21 

Table of Contents   
 
 At December 31, 2010, only options and stock awards in the form of RSAs were outstanding under the
2003 SIP. The options generally expire on the tenth anniversary of the grant date and vest ratably
over a three-year period from the grant date. The option price is payable to us in full by methods
the Board s Human Resources Committee (HRC) designates, including, but not limited to, in cash or
its equivalent, by tendering or withholding shares of our common stock having a fair market value
at the time of exercise equal to the total option price, or by a combination of the foregoing.
Unless the HRC determines otherwise or except as prohibited by applicable law, options may also be
exercised by a  cashless exercise  where the participant gives irrevocable instructions to a broker
to promptly deliver to us the amount of sale proceeds from the shares covered by the option
exercised, together with any withholding taxes due to the Company. The proceeds from any cash
payments upon option exercise are added to our general funds and used for general corporate
purposes. The outstanding RSAs vest upon the achievement of the specified performance criteria.
Prior to vesting, the holders of RSAs may exercise full voting rights with respect to those shares
and are entitled to receive all dividends and other distributions paid with respect to those
shares. Each participant s award agreement will state the extent, if any, to which the participant
may receive unvested stock awards following termination of employment.

PartnerShares Plan  . We used the PartnerShares Stock Option Plan (PartnerShares) from
1996-2002 primarily for equity awards to team members not eligible for grants under the LTICP. The
plan was in effect at December 31, 2010, only as to the issuance of common stock upon exercise of
outstanding options. No future awards may be granted under the PartnerShares Plan.

Options under the PartnerShares Plan are exercisable at the closing share price of our common stock
as of the trading day immediately before the grant date. All options granted under the plan were
vested at December 31, 2010. Options are exercisable for ten years from the grant date or one year
from the participant s death, whichever occurs first. If a participant leaves the Company other
than because of death, permanent disability or discharge for cause, the option terminates
immediately or three months after termination, as specified in the grant terms. If a participant is
discharged for cause, the option terminates immediately. Participants can pay the exercise price in
cash or by cashless exercise through a broker.

Deferred Compensation Plan  . Under the Deferred Compensation Plan eligible team members may
defer receipt of salary, bonuses and certain other compensation subject to the terms of the plan.
Deferral elections are irrevocable once made except for limited re-deferral opportunities. We treat
amounts deferred by a participant as if invested in the earnings options selected by the
participant, and determine the deferred compensation benefit payable to the participant based on
the performance of those earnings options. The plan offers a number of earnings options, including
one based on our common stock with dividends reinvested. We generally distribute amounts allocated
to the common stock option in shares of common stock. Participants have no direct interest in any
of the earnings options and are general unsecured creditors of the Company with respect to their
deferred compensation benefits under the plan.

Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan for Independent Contractors  . Under the
Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan for Independent Contractors participants who perform
qualifying investment or other financial services for participating affiliates as independent
contractors may defer all or part of their eligible compensation payable to them by the affiliate
subject to the terms of the plan. Deferral elections are irrevocable once made. Amounts deferred by
a participant are treated as if

22 

Table of Contents   
 
 invested in the earnings options selected by the participant, which determine the deferred
compensation benefit payable to the participant. The plan offers a number of earnings options,
including one based on our common stock with dividends reinvested. We generally distribute amounts
allocated to the common stock option in shares of common stock. The plan is sponsored by a wholly
owned subsidiary, WF Deferred Compensation Holdings, Inc. We have guaranteed its obligations under
the plan. Participants have no direct interest in any of the earnings options and are general
unsecured creditors of the plan sponsor and the Company with respect to their deferred compensation
benefits under the plan.

Norwest Corporation Directors  Formula Stock Award Plan  . Under the Norwest Corporation
Directors  Formula Stock Award Plan we awarded shares of common stock to non-employee directors.
The plan allowed participants to defer receipt of all or a portion of their awards, with dividends
reinvested, until a future year or years as selected by the participants subject to the terms of
the plan. Participants can elect one time to defer commencement of distribution of their deferral
accounts if the election is made sufficiently in advance of the original distribution commencement
date and the new distribution commencement date is sufficiently beyond the original distribution
commencement date. Participants have no direct interest in the shares deferred under the plan and
are general unsecured creditors of the Company with respect to payment of their deferred stock
awards under the plan. No future stock awards or deferrals may be made under this plan.

Norwest Corporation Directors  Stock Deferral Plan  . Under the Norwest Corporation
Directors  Stock Deferral Plan a participating director could defer receipt of all or part of the
annual cash retainer and meeting fees payable to the director until a future year or years as
selected by the director subject to the terms of the plan. A participating director could elect
distribution of his or her deferral account in a lump sum in either cash or whole shares of common
stock, or a combination of both. Alternatively, the director could elect to receive the
distribution in up to ten annual installments of cash. A participant can elect one time to defer
commencement of distribution of his or her deferral account if the election is made sufficiently in
advance of the original distribution commencement date and the new distribution commencement date
is sufficiently beyond the original distribution commencement date. No future deferrals may be made
under this plan.

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 

Additional information in response to this Item 12 can be found in the Company s 2011 Proxy
Statement under  Ownership of Our Common Stock   Directors and Executive Officers  and
  Principal Stockholders.  That information is incorporated into this item by reference.

ITEM 13.  
       
      CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE  

Information in response to this Item 13 can be found in the Company s 2011 Proxy Statement under
 Corporate Governance   Director Independence  and under  Information About Related Persons.  That
information is incorporated into this item by reference.

23 

Table of Contents   

ITEM 14.  
       
      PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES  

Information in response to this Item 14 can be found in the Company s 2011 Proxy Statement under
 Item 4   Appointment of Independent Auditors   KPMG Fees  and   Audit and Examination Committee
Pre-Approval Policies and Procedures.  That information is incorporated into this item by
reference.

PART IV 

ITEM 15.  
       
      EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES  

1.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

The Company s consolidated financial statements, including the notes thereto, and the report of the
independent registered public accounting firm thereon, are set forth
in the 2010 Annual Report to Stockholders, and are incorporated into this item by reference.

2.  FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 

All financial statement schedules for the Company have been included in the consolidated financial
statements or the related footnotes, or are either inapplicable or not required.

3.  EXHIBITS 

A list of exhibits to this Form 10-K is set forth on the Exhibit Index immediately preceding such
exhibits and is incorporated into this item by reference.

Stockholders may obtain a copy of any of the following exhibits, upon payment of a reasonable fee,
by writing to Wells Fargo   Company, Office of the Secretary, Wells Fargo Center, N9305-173, Sixth
and Marquette, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55479.

The Company s SEC file number is 001-2979. On and before November 2, 1998, the Company filed
documents with the SEC under the name Norwest Corporation. The former Wells Fargo   Company filed
documents under SEC file number 001-6214. The former Wachovia Corporation filed documents under SEC
file number 001-10000.

24 

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized, on February 25, 2011.

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY  

By:   
                               /s/ JOHN G. STUMPF

John G. Stumpf  
Chairman, President and Chief  
Executive Officer  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed
below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates
indicated.

By:   
              /s/ JOHN G. STUMPF

John G. Stumpf  
Chairman, President and Chief  
Executive Officer 
(Principal Executive Officer)  
February 25, 2011  

By:   
              /s/ TIMOTHY J. SLOAN

Timothy J. Sloan  

Senior Executive Vice President and  
Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer) 
February 25, 2011  

By:   
              /s/ RICHARD D. LEVY

Richard D. Levy  
Executive Vice President and Controller  
(Principal Accounting Officer)  
February 25, 2011  

The Directors of Wells Fargo   Company listed below have duly executed powers of attorney
empowering Nicholas G. Moore to sign this document on their behalf.

John D. Baker II

Cynthia H. Milligan 

John S. Chen

Nicholas G. Moore 

Lloyd H. Dean

Philip J. Quigley 

Susan E. Engel

Judith M. Runstad 

Enrique Hernandez, Jr.

Stephen W. Sanger 

Donald M. James

John G. Stumpf 

Richard D. McCormick

Susan G. Swenson 

Mackey J. McDonald

By:   
                          /s/ NICHOLAS G. MOORE

Nicholas G. Moore  
Director and Attorney-in-fact  
February 25, 2011  

Table of Contents   

EXHIBIT INDEX 

Exhibit 

Number 
       
     Description 
       
     Location 

3(a)

Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended and
in effect on the date hereof.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
3(a) to the Company s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended March 31, 2010. 
 
       3(b)

By-Laws.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
3.1 to the Company s Current Report
on Form 8-K filed January 28, 2011. 
 
       4(a)

See Exhibits 3(a) and 3(b). 

4(b)

The Company agrees to furnish upon request to the
Commission a copy of each instrument defining the
rights of holders of senior and subordinated debt of
the Company. 

10(a) * 

Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(a) to the Company s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended June 30, 2009. 

Forms
of Performance Share Award Agreement:

For grants on or after February 22, 2011; and

Filed herewith. 

For grants to John G. Stumpf, Howard I. Atkins, David
M. Carroll, David A. Hoyt, Mark C. Oman and Carrie L.
Tolstedt on June 22, 2010.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(a) to the Company s Current
Report on Form 8-K filed June 25,
2010. 

Form of Retention Performance Share Award Agreement
for grants to John G. Stumpf, Howard I. Atkins, David
A. Hoyt, Mark C. Oman and Carrie L. Tolstedt on
December 24, 2009.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(a) to the Company s Current
Report on Form 8-K filed December
31, 2009. 

Forms of Award Agreement for grants of stock awards
to John G. Stumpf, Howard I. Atkins, David A. Hoyt
and Mark C. Oman.

Incorporated by reference to
Exhibits 10(a), 10(b), 10(c) and
10(d) to the Company s Current
Report on Form 8-K filed August 6,
2009. 

Forms
of Restricted Share Rights Award Agreement.

For grants on or after February 22, 2011, including
grants to John G. Stumpf, Howard I. Atkins, David A.
Hoyt, Mark C. Oman, Timothy J. Sloan and Carrie L.
Tolstedt; and

Filed herewith. 

For grants prior to February 22, 2011, including
grants to John G. Stumpf, Howard I. Atkins, David A.
Hoyt, Mark C. Oman, Timothy J. Sloan and Carrie L.
Tolstedt;

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(a) to the Company s Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2009. 

*  
       
     Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement. 

26 

Table of Contents   

Exhibit 

Number 
       
     Description 
       
     Location 

10(a)*

For
grant to David M. Carroll on December 24, 2009;

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(a) to the Company s Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2009. 

For grant to John G. Stumpf on August 3, 2009; and

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(e) to the Company s Current
Report on Form 8-K filed August 6,
2009. 

For grants to Howard I. Atkins, David A. Hoyt, Mark
C. Oman and Carrie L. Tolstedt on February 24, 2009,
as amended on November 16, 2010.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(a) to the Company s Current
Report on Form 8-K filed February
27, 2009, amendment filed herewith. 

Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement,
including grants to John G. Stumpf, Howard I. Atkins,
David M. Carroll, David A. Hoyt, Mark C. Oman,
Timothy J. Sloan and Carrie L. Tolstedt.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(a) to the Company s Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2009. 
 
       10(b)*

Long-Term Incentive Plan.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
A to the former Wells Fargo s Proxy
Statement filed March 14, 1994. 
 
       10(c)*

Wells Fargo Bonus Plan, as amended effective January
1, 2010.

Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10(b) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
the quarter ended June 30, 2010. 
 
       10(d)*

Performance-Based Compensation Policy.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(b) to the Company s Current
Report on Form 8-K filed May 5,
2008. 

10(e)*

Executive Officer Performance Plan.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(a) to the Company s Current
Report on Form 8-K filed November
23, 2009. 
 
       10(f)*

Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended effective
January 1, 2008.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(f) to the Company s Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2009. 

Amendment to Deferred Compensation Plan, effective
December 1, 2009.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(f) to the Company s Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2009. 
 
       10(g)*

Directors Stock Compensation and Deferral Plan.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(f) to the Company s Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2007. 

Amendment to Directors Stock Compensation and
Deferral Plan, effective February 24, 2009.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(a) to the Company s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended March 31, 2009. 

Amendments to Directors Stock Compensation and
Deferral Plan, effective September 23, 2008.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(a) to the Company s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended September 30, 2008. 

Amendment to Directors Stock Compensation and
Deferral Plan, effective January 22, 2008.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(f) to the Company s Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2007. 

27 

Table of Contents   

Exhibit 

Number 
       
     Description 
       
     Location 

Action of Governance and Nominating Committee
Increasing Amount of Formula Stock and Option Awards
Under Directors Stock Compensation and Deferral Plan,
effective January 1, 2007.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(f) to the Company s Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2006. 
 
       10(h)*

1990 Director Option Plan for directors of the former
Wells Fargo.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(c) to the former Wells Fargo s
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 1997. 
 
       10(i)*

1987 Director Option Plan for directors of the former
Wells Fargo.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
A to the former Wells Fargo s Proxy
Statement filed March 10, 1995. 

Amendment to 1987 Director Option Plan, effective
September 16, 1997.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10 to the former Wells Fargo s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
the quarter ended September 30,
1997. 
 
       10(j)*

Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors
of the former Norwest.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(c) to the Company s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended September 30, 1999. 

Amendment to Deferred Compensation Plan for
Non-Employee Directors, effective November 1, 2000.

Filed as paragraph (4) of Exhibit
10(ff) to the Company s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2000. 

Amendment to Deferred Compensation Plan for
Non-Employee Directors, effective January 1, 2004.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(a) to the Company s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended September 30, 2003. 
 
       10(k)*

Directors  Stock Deferral Plan for directors of the
former Norwest.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(d) to the Company s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended September 30, 1999. 

Amendment to Directors  Stock Deferral Plan,
effective November 1, 2000.

Filed as paragraph (5) of Exhibit
10(ff) to the Company s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2000. 

Amendment to Directors  Stock Deferral Plan,
effective January 1, 2004.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(c) to the Company s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended September 30, 2003. 
 
       10(l)*

Directors  Formula Stock Award Plan for directors of
the former Norwest.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(e) to the Company s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended September 30, 1999. 

Amendment to Directors  Formula Stock Award Plan,
effective November 1, 2000.

Filed as paragraph (6) of Exhibit
10(ff) to the Company s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2000. 

Amendment to Directors  Formula Stock Award Plan,
effective January 1, 2004.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(b) to the Company s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended September 30, 2003. 

10(m)*

Deferral Plan for Directors of the former Wells Fargo.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(b) to the former Wells Fargo s
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 1997. 

28 

Table of Contents   

Exhibit 

Number 
       
     Description 
       
     Location 

Amendment
to Deferral Plan, effective January 1, 2004.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(d) to the Company s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended September 30, 2003. 
 
       10(n)*

Supplemental 401(k) Plan.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(c) to the Company s Current
Report on Form 8-K filed May 4,
2009. 
 
       10(o)*

Supplemental Cash Balance Plan.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(b) to the Company s Current
Report on Form 8-K filed May 4,
2009. 
 
       10(p)*

Supplemental Long-Term Disability Plan.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(f) to the Company s Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 1990. 

Amendment
to Supplemental Long-Term Disability Plan.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(g) to the Company s Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 1992. 
 
       10(q)*

Agreement, dated July 11, 2001, between the Company
and Howard I. Atkins.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10 to the Company s Quarterly Report
on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
September 30, 2001. 
 
       10(r)*

Agreement between the Company and Mark C. Oman, dated
May 7, 1999.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(y) to the Company s Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 1999. 

Amendment No. 1 to Agreement between the Company and
Mark C. Oman, effective December 29, 2008.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(q) to the Company s Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2008. 
 
       10(s)*

Description of Relocation Program.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(y) to the Company s Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2003. 
 
       10(t)*

Description of Executive Financial Planning Program.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(w) to the Company s Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2004. 
 
       10(u)

PartnerShares Stock Option Plan.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(x) to the Company s Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2004. 

Amendment to PartnerShares Stock Option Plan,
effective August 1, 2005.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(c) to the Company s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended September 30, 2005. 

Amendment to PartnerShares Stock Option Plan,
effective August 4, 2006.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(c) to the Company s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended September 30, 2006. 

Amendment to PartnerShares Stock Option Plan,
effective January 1, 2007.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(g) to the Company s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended March 31, 2007. 

Amendment to PartnerShares Stock Option Plan,
effective January 22, 2008.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(v) to the Company s Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2007. 

29 

Table of Contents   

Exhibit 

Number 
       
     Description 
       
     Location 

10(v)

Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan for
Independent Contractors.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(x) to the Company s Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2007. 

Amendment to Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan
for Independent Contractors, effective January 1,
2009.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(w) to the Company s Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2009. 
 
       10(w)*

Description of Chairman/CEO Post-Retirement Policy.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(w) to the Company s Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2008. 
 
       10(x)*

Description of Non-Employee Director Equity
Compensation Program.

Filed herewith. 
 
       10(y)*

Employment Agreement, dated December 30, 2008,
between the Company and David M. Carroll.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(y) to the Company s Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2008. 
 
       10(z)*

Amended and Restated Wachovia Corporation Deferred
Compensation Plan for Non-Employee
Directors.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
(10)(f) to Wachovia
Corporation s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed December 29, 2008. 

Amendment to Amended and Restated Wachovia
Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan for
Non-Employee Directors, effective June 1, 2009.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(aa) to the Company s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2009. 
 
       10(aa)*

Wachovia Corporation Executive Deferred Compensation
Plan.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
(10)(d) to Wachovia
Corporation s Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 1997. 
 
       10(bb)*

Wachovia Corporation Supplemental Executive
Long-Term Disability Plan, as amended and
restated.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
(99) to Wachovia Corporation s
Current Report on Form 8-K
filed January 5, 2005. 
 
       10(cc)*

Amended and Restated Wachovia Corporation Elective
Deferral Plan (as amended and restated
effective January 1, 2009).

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
(10)(a) to Wachovia
Corporation s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed December 29, 2008. 
 
       10(dd)*

Wachovia Corporation 1998 Stock Incentive Plan, as
amended.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
(10)(j) to Wachovia
Corporation s Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2001. 
 
       10(ee)*

Employment Agreement between Wachovia Corporation
and David M. Carroll.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
(10)(m) to Wachovia
Corporation s Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2004. 

Amendment No. 1 to Employment Agreement between
Wachovia Corporation and David M. Carroll.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
(10)(a) to Wachovia
Corporation s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed December 22, 2005. 

Amendment No. 2 to Employment Agreement between
Wachovia Corporation and David M. Carroll.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
(10)(h) to Wachovia
Corporation s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed December 29, 2008. 

30 

Table of Contents   

Exhibit 

Number 
       
     Description 
       
     Location 

10(ff)*

Wachovia Corporation 2001 Stock Incentive Plan.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
(10)(v) to Wachovia
Corporation s Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2001. 
 
       10(gg)*

Wachovia Corporation Savings Restoration Plan.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
(10)(gg) to Wachovia
Corporation s Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2002. 
 
       10(hh)*

Amendment 2007-1 to Wachovia Corporation Savings
Restoration Plan.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
(10)(b) to Wachovia
Corporation s Current
Report on Form 8-K filed December
20, 2007. 

Amendment 2008-1 to Wachovia Corporation Savings
Restoration Plan.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
(10)(c) to Wachovia
Corporation s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed December 29, 2008. 
 
       10(ii)*

Amended and Restated Wachovia Corporation
Savings Restoration Plan.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
(10)(b) to Wachovia
Corporation s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed December 29, 2008. 
 
       10(jj)*

Wachovia Corporation 2003 Stock Incentive Plan.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
(10) to Wachovia
Corporation s Quarterly Report
on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
March 31, 2003. 
 
       10(kk)*

Form of stock award agreement for Executive Officers
of Wachovia Corporation, including David
M. Carroll.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
(10)(ss) to Wachovia
Corporation s Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2004. 
 
       10(ll)*

Amended and Restated Wachovia Corporation 2003
Stock Incentive Plan.

Incorporated by reference to
Appendix E to Wachovia
Corporation s
Registration Statement on Form
S-4 (Reg. No. 333-134656)
filed on July 24, 2006. 

Amendment to Amended and Restated Wachovia
Corporation 2003 Stock Incentive Plan, effective
February 24, 2009.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(b) to the Company s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended March 31, 2009. 
 
       12(a)

Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges: 
       
     Filed herewith. 

31 

Table of Contents   

Exhibit 

Number 
       
     Description 
       
     Location 

12(b)

Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges
and Preferred Dividends:

Filed herewith. 

13

2010 Annual Report to Stockholders.

Filed herewith. 
 
       21

Subsidiaries of the Company.

Filed herewith. 
 
       23

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting
Firm.

Filed herewith. 
 
       24

Powers of Attorney.

Filed herewith. 
 
       31(a)

Certification of principal executive officer pursuant
to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

Filed herewith. 
 
       31(b)

Certification of principal financial officer pursuant
to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

Filed herewith. 
 
       32(a)

Certification of Periodic Financial Report by Chief
Executive Officer Pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and 18 U.S.C.   1350.

Furnished herewith. 
 
       32(b)

Certification of Periodic Financial Report by Chief
Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and 18 U.S.C.   1350.

Furnished herewith. 
 
       99

Description of Replacement Capital Covenants of Wells
Fargo and Wachovia.

Filed herewith. 
 
       101**

Pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T, the following
financial information from the Company s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31,
2010, is formatted in XBRL interactive data files:

Furnished herewith. 

(i) Consolidated Statement of Income for each of the
years in the three-year period ended December 31,
2010; (ii) Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31,
2010, and December 31, 2009; (iii) Consolidated
Statement of Changes in Equity and Comprehensive
Income for each of the years in the three-year period
ended December 31, 2010; (iv) Consolidated Statement
of Cash Flows for each of the years in the three-year
period ended December 31, 2010; and (v) Notes to
Financial Statements. 

32 

<EX-10.A>
 2
 f56816exv10wa.htm
 EX-10.A

exv10wa 

Exhibit 10(a) 

Form of Performance Share Award Agreement for Grants on or after February 22, 2011   *  

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY 
LONG-TERM INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN 
PERFORMANCE SHARE AWARD AGREEMENT 

Name: 

Grant Date:  

I.D.  Number: 

Target Award Number 
of Performance Shares:  

1. 
       
      Award.  Wells Fargo   Company (the  Company ) has awarded you Performance Shares to
provide an incentive for you to remain in the Company s employment and provide valuable
services to the Company. The target number of Performance Shares ( Target Award Number )
awarded you is set forth above. The Target Award Number shall be adjusted upward or
downward based on Company performance as set forth on Exhibit A. The number of
Performance Shares that you may receive under this Award Agreement, after giving effect
to such adjustment, is referred to herein as the  Final Award Number.  Each Performance
Share entitles you to receive one share of Wells Fargo   Company common stock ( Common
Stock ) contingent upon earning such Performance Share based on Company performance set
forth on Exhibit A, vesting as set forth in paragraph 2 and subject to the other terms
and conditions set forth in the Company s Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan (the
 Plan ) and this Award Agreement. 

2. 
       
      Vesting.  Except as otherwise provided in this Award Agreement, the Final Award
Number of Performance Shares will vest in full on the Determination Date as set forth on
Exhibit A ( Determination Date ). Shares of Common Stock will be issued to you or, in
case of your death, your Beneficiary determined in accordance with the Plan. You will
have no rights as a stockholder of the Company with respect to your Performance Shares
until settlement. However, you may be entitled to dividend equivalents as set forth in
paragraph 4. Except as otherwise provided in the Plan or this Award Agreement, vested
Performance Shares will be settled and distributed in shares of Common Stock on  insert
applicable date . 

3. 
       
      Termination.  

(a) 
       
     If prior to  insert end of Performance Cycle or other applicable date  you cease to
be an Employee due to your death, the Target Award Number of Performance Shares awarded
hereby (and any Performance Shares with respect to dividend equivalents as provided
below) will immediately vest upon the date of your death and will be distributed to your
Beneficiary in shares of Common Stock on  insert applicable date . If you cease to be an
Employee due to your death on or after  insert end of Performance Cycle or other
applicable date  and prior to the Determination Date, the Final Award Number of
Performance Shares under this Award Agreement (and any Performance Shares granted with
respect to dividend equivalents as provided below) will vest as of the Determination Date
and will be distributed to your Beneficiary on  insert applicable date . 

(b) 
       
     If prior to the Determination Date you have an involuntary Separation from Service
under the Company s Extended Absence Policy (as in effect as of the Grant Date) in
connection with a Disability, the Final Award Number of Performance Shares under this
Award Agreement (and any Performance Shares granted with respect to dividend equivalents
as provided below) will vest as of the Determination Date and will be distributed to you
(or your Beneficiary if you have died before such distribution) in shares of Common Stock
on  insert applicable date . For purposes of this Award, the term  Separation from
Service  is determined by the Company in accordance with Section 409A (as defined in
paragraph 11 below) and in accordance with the definition set forth on Exhibit B to this
Award Agreement, which definition is incorporated by reference herein. For purposes of
this Award, the term  Disability  is defined as set forth on Exhibit B to this Award
Agreement, which definition is incorporated by reference herein. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, if you die following such involuntary Separation from Service and prior to
 insert end of Performance Cycle or other applicable date , the Target Award Number of
Performance Shares under this Award Agreement will immediately vest and will be
distributed to your Beneficiary in accordance with paragraph 3(a) above. 

*  
       
     Brackets identify provisions that may
vary depending on the particular grant, grant recipient and/or other relevant
factor. 

(c) 
       
     If prior to the Determination Date you have an involuntary Separation from Service
other than for Cause, the Final Award Number of Performance Shares awarded hereby (and
any Performance Shares with respect to dividend equivalents as provided below) will vest
as of the Determination Date and will be distributed to you (or your Beneficiary if you
have died before such distribution) in shares of Common Stock on  insert applicable
date . For purposes of this Award,  Cause  is defined as set forth on Exhibit B to this
Award Agreement, which definition is incorporated by reference herein. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, if you die following such involuntary Separation from Service and prior to
 insert end of Performance Cycle or other applicable date , the Target Award Number of
Performance Shares under this Award Agreement will immediately vest and will be
distributed to your Beneficiary in accordance with paragraph 3(a) above. 

(d) 
       
     If prior to the Determination Date you have a Separation from Service that
constitutes a Retirement under the Plan, the Final Award Number of Performance Shares
awarded hereby (and any Performance Shares with respect to dividend equivalents as
provided below) will vest upon the Determination Date and will be distributed to you (or
your Beneficiary if you have died before such distribution) in shares of Common Stock on
 insert applicable date  provided that beginning immediately after you cease to be an
Employee and continuing until the vesting date you satisfy each of the following
conditions ( vesting conditions ): (i) you comply with the terms of the attached Wells
Fargo Agreement Regarding Trade Secrets, Confidential Information, and Non-Solicitation,
which agreement is incorporated by reference herein, (ii) you do not express any
derogatory or damaging statements about the Company or any Affiliate, the management or
the board of directors of the Company or any Affiliate, the products, services or the
business condition of the Company or any Affiliate in any public way or to anyone who
could make those statements public, and (iii) you do not perform services as an officer,
director, employee, consultant or otherwise for any business which is in competition with
any line of business of the Company or any Affiliate for which you had executive
responsibilities while you were employed by the Company or any Affiliate (including
predecessors thereof) and which does business in any location in the geographic footprint
of the Company or any Affiliate in which you had executive responsibilities.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you die following your Retirement and prior to  insert
end of Performance Cycle or other applicable date  and have satisfied the vesting
conditions set forth above through your date of death, the Target Award Number of
Performance Shares under this Award Agreement will immediately vest and will be
distributed to your Beneficiary in accordance with paragraph 3(a) above. 

(e) 
       
     If you cease to be an Employee other than as described in paragraph 3(a), 3(b),
3(c) or 3(d), or you fail to comply with any applicable vesting condition (including the
vesting conditions set forth in paragraph 3(d)), any then unvested Performance Shares
awarded hereby (including any Performance Shares granted with respect to dividend
equivalents as provided below) will immediately terminate without notice to you and will
be forfeited. For avoidance of doubt, a  Separation from Service other than as described
in paragraph 3(a), 3(b), 3(c) or 3(d)  includes, without limitation, a voluntary
Separation from Service that does not constitute a Retirement or an involuntary
Separation from Service for Cause. 

4. 
       
      Dividend Equivalents.   During the period beginning on the Grant Date and ending on
the date the Performance Shares vest or terminate, whichever occurs first, if the Company
pays a dividend on the Common Stock, you will automatically receive, as of the payment
date for such dividend, dividend equivalents in the form of additional Performance Shares
based on the amount or number of shares that would have been paid on the Final Award
Number of Performance Shares (or Target Award Number of Performance Shares as applicable
under paragraphs 3(a), 3(b), 3(c) and 3(d)) had they been issued and outstanding shares
of Common Stock as of the record date and, if a cash dividend, the closing price of the
Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange as of the dividend payment date. You will
also automatically receive dividend equivalents with respect to the additional
Performance Shares, to be granted in the same manner. Performance Shares granted with
respect to dividend equivalents will be subject to the same vesting schedule and
conditions as the underlying Performance Shares and will be distributed in shares of
Common Stock when, and if, the underlying Performance Shares are settled and
distributed.   During the period beginning on the Grant Date and ending on the date the
Performance Shares vest or terminate, whichever occurs first, if the Company pays a cash
dividend on the Common Stock, you will receive cash payments based on and payable at
approximately the same time as the cash dividend that would have been paid on the  Target
Award Number of Performance Shares  had they been issued and outstanding shares of Common
Stock as of the record date for the dividend. Cash payments will be net of federal, state
and local withholding taxes.   During the period beginning on the Grant Date and ending
on the date the Performance Shares vest and are distributed, or terminate, whichever
occurs first, if the Company pays a cash dividend on the Common Stock, you will not be
entitled to receive any dividend equivalents or cash payments in respect of such
dividend.  

2 

5. 
       
      Tax Withholding.  The Company will withhold from the number of shares of Common
Stock otherwise issuable hereunder (including with respect to dividend equivalents) a
number of shares necessary to satisfy any and all applicable federal, state, local and
foreign tax withholding obligations and employment-related tax requirements. 

6. 
       
      Nontransferable.  Unless the Committee provides otherwise, (i) no rights under this
Award will be assignable or transferable, and neither you nor your Beneficiary will have
any power to anticipate, alienate, dispose of, pledge or encumber any rights under this
Award, and (ii) the rights and the benefits of this Award may be exercised and received
during your lifetime only by you or your legal representative. 

7. 
       
      Other Restrictions; Amendment.  The issuance of Common Stock hereunder is subject
to compliance by the Company and you with all legal requirements applicable thereto,
including tax withholding obligations, and with all applicable regulations of any stock
exchange on which the Common Stock may be listed at the time of issuance. Subject to
paragraph 11 below, the Committee may, in its sole discretion and without your consent,
reduce, delay vesting, modify, revoke, cancel, impose additional conditions and
restrictions on or recover all or a portion of this Award if the Committee deems it
necessary or advisable to comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations. This Award
is subject to any applicable recoupment or  clawback  policies of the Company, as amended
from time to time, and any applicable recoupment or clawback requirements imposed under
laws, rules and regulations. 

8. 
       
       Hold Through Retirement Provision.  As a condition to receiving this Award, you
agree to hold, while employed by the Company or any Affiliate and for a period of one
year after your Retirement, shares of Common Stock equal to at least 50% of the after-tax
 shares of Common Stock (assuming a 50% tax rate) acquired upon vesting and settlement of
this Award.  

Hold While Employed Provision.  Consistent with the Company s Stock Ownership Policy, you
are expected to hold, while employed by the Company or any Affiliate, shares of Common
Stock equal to at least 50% of the after-tax shares of Common Stock (assuming a 50% tax
rate) acquired upon vesting and settlement of this Award.  

9. 
       
      Additional Provisions.  This Award Agreement is subject to the provisions of the
Plan. Capitalized terms not defined in this Award Agreement or by reference to another
document are used as defined in the Plan. If the Plan and this Award Agreement are
inconsistent, the provisions of the Plan will govern. Interpretations of the Plan and
this Award Agreement by the Committee are binding on you and the Company. 

10. 
       
      No Employment Agreement.  Neither the award to you of the Performance Shares nor
the delivery to you of this Award Agreement or any other document relating to the
Performance Shares will confer on you the right to continued employment with the Company
or any Affiliate. You understand that your employment with the Company or any Affiliate
is  at will  and nothing in this document changes, alters or modifies your  at will 
status or your obligation to comply with all policies, procedures and rules of the
Company, as they may be adopted or amended from time to time. 

11. 
       
      Section 409A . This Award is intended to comply with the requirements of Section
409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the applicable Treasury
regulations or other binding guidance thereunder ( Section 409A ). Accordingly, all
provisions included in this Award, or incorporated by reference, will be interpreted and
administered in accordance with that intent. If any provision of the Plan would
otherwise conflict with or frustrate this intent, that provision will be interpreted and
deemed amended or limited so as to avoid the conflict; provided, however, that the
Company makes no representation that the Award is exempt from or complies with Section
409A and makes no undertaking to preclude Section 409A from applying to the Award. 

12. 
       
      Six-month Delay . Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan or this Award Agreement
to the contrary, if, upon your Separation from Service with the Company for any reason,
the Company determines that you are a  Specified Employee  as defined in Section 409A and
in accordance with the definition set forth on Exhibit B to this Award Agreement, which
definition is incorporated by reference herein, your Performance Shares, if subject to
settlement upon your Separation from Service and if required pursuant to Section 409A,
will not settle before the date that is the first business day following the six-month
anniversary of such Separation from Service, or, if earlier, upon your death. 

13. 
       
      Severability and Judicial Modification.  If any provision of this Award Agreement
is held to be invalid or unenforceable under pertinent state law or otherwise or Wells
Fargo elects not to enforce such restriction, the remaining provisions shall remain in
full force and effect and the invalid or unenforceable provision shall be modified only
to the extent necessary to render that provision valid and enforceable to the fullest

3 

extent permitted by law. If the invalid or unenforceable provision cannot be, or is not,
modified, that provision shall be severed from the Award Agreement and all other
provisions shall remain valid and enforceable. 

14. 
       
      Applicable Law.  This Award Agreement and the award of Performance Shares
evidenced hereby will be governed by, and construed in accordance with the laws of the
state of Delaware (without regard to their choice-of-law provisions) except to the extent
Federal law would apply. 

15. 
       
      Electronic Delivery and Acceptance.  The Company is electronically delivering
documents related to current or future participation in the Plan and is requesting your
consent to participate in the Plan by electronic means. You hereby consent to receive
such documents by electronic delivery and agree to participate in the Plan through the
current plan administrator s on-line system, or any other on-line system or electronic
means that the Company may decide, in its sole discretion, to use in the future. 

Insert requirement to acknowledge and accept grant terms  

4 

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY 
LONG-TERM INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN 
PERFORMANCE SHARE AWARD AGREEMENT 

Exhibit A to Performance Share Award Agreement  

This Exhibit A sets forth the manner in which the Final Award Number will be determined.

Definitions 

Capitalized terms used but not defined herein (including, but not limited to, Return on Realized
Common Equity) shall have the same meanings assigned to them in the Plan and the Award Agreement.
In addition, the following terms used in the text of this Exhibit A shall have the meanings set
forth below:

Average Return on Realized Common Equity  means for each of the Financial Performance Group
Companies the sum of such company s Return on Realized Common Equity for each of the 12-month
periods ending  insert applicable date(s) , which sum is then divided by  insert applicable
number .

Company Return on Realized Common Equity Ranking  means the rank of the Company s Average
Return on Realized Common Equity relative to the Average Return on Realized Common Equity
achieved by each of the other Financial Performance Group Companies.

Final Award Number Percentage  means the  Final Award Number Percentage  determined in
accordance with the Determination of Final Award Number section of this Exhibit A.

Financial Performance Group Companies  means, in addition to the Company, the companies
listed below provided that any such company for which financial data as of  insert end of
Performance Cycle or other applicable date , is not publicly available shall be eliminated as
a Financial Performance Group Company.

Bank of America Corporation

BB T Corporation

Capital One Corporation

Citigroup Inc.

Fifth Third Bancorp

JPMorgan Chase   Co.

KeyCorp

The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc.

Regions Financial Corporation

SunTrust Banks, Inc.

U.S. Bancorp 

Insert alternative or additional companies or index of companies 

Determination of Final Award Number  

Your Target Award Number will be adjusted upward or downward depending on the Company Return on
Realized Common Equity Ranking in accordance with the chart below to arrive at your Final Award
Number of Performance Shares. The Final Award Number of Performance Shares will be determined by
multiplying (i) the Final Award Number Percentage by (ii) your Target Award Number and then adding
to such product additional Performance Shares granted with respect to dividend equivalents as
provided in paragraph 4. In the event the Final Award Number is not a whole number, then the Final
Award Number shall be rounded down to the nearest whole number.

Company Return on Realized  
       
      Final Award Number  
       
      Final Award Number of  

Common Equity Ranking  
       
      Percentage  
       
      Performance Shares  

insert applicable % or % range 

insert applicable % 

insert applicable %  x Target Award Number 

insert applicable % or % range 

insert applicable % 

insert applicable %  x Target Award Number 

insert applicable % or % range 

insert applicable % 

insert applicable %  x Target Award Number 

insert applicable % or % range 

insert applicable % 

insert applicable %  x Target Award Number 

5 

If the Company Return on Realized Common Equity Ranking is between  insert applicable range , the
Final Award Number Percentage shall be interpolated on a straight-line basis between  insert
applicable range  and the Final Award Number of Performance Shares shall be interpolated on a
corresponding straight-line basis between  insert applicable range  of the Target Award Number.

If the Company Return on Realized Common Equity Ranking is between  insert applicable range , the
Final Award Number Percentage shall be interpolated on a straight-line basis between  insert
applicable range  and the Final Award Number of Performance Shares shall be interpolated on a
corresponding straight-line basis between  insert applicable range  of the Target Award Number.

If the Company does not have the lowest Average Return on Realized Common Equity among the
Financial Performance Group Companies and the Company Return on Realized Common Equity Ranking is
less than  insert applicable percentage , the Final Award Number Percentage shall be interpolated
on a straight-line basis between  insert applicable range  and the Final Award Number of
Performance Shares shall be interpolated on a straight-line basis between  insert applicable range 
of the Target Award Number.   If the Company Return on Realized Common Equity is less than  insert
applicable percentage , the Final Award Percentage shall be  insert applicable percentage  and the
Final Award number of Performance Shares shall be  insert applicable number . 

In no event shall the Final Award Number Percentage be greater than  insert applicable percentage 
nor shall the Final Award Number of Performance Shares be greater than  insert applicable
percentage  of the Target Award Number (plus dividend equivalents pursuant to paragraph 4 of the
Award Agreement). 

Insert alternative method(s) for determining the Final Award Number of Performance Shares,
including additional or alternative Qualifying Performance Criteria as defined in the Plan. 

Committee Determination 

The Committee shall determine the Final Award Number of Performance Shares after  end of
Performance Cycle  and not later than  insert applicable date  and the date the Committee makes
such determination is referred to in this Award as the  Determination Date.  The Committee shall
make all determinations in calculating the Final Award Number of Performance Shares and the
Committee s determination shall be binding.

6 

LONG-TERM INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN 
PERFORMANCE SHARE AWARD AGREEMENT 

Exhibit B to Performance Share Award Agreement  

Cause 

Cause  means your termination of employment by the Company arising from or on or after (1) the
continued failure by you to substantially perform your duties; (2) your conviction of a crime
involving dishonesty or breach of trust, conviction of a felony, or commission of any act that
makes you ineligible for coverage under Wells Fargo s fidelity bond or otherwise makes you
ineligible for continued employment; or (3) your violation of the Company s policies, including but
not limited to Wells Fargo s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, Information Security Policies and
Compliance and Risk Management Accountability Policy.

Disability 

You will be considered to a have a  Disability  if you are receiving income replacement benefits
for a period of not less than three months under the Company s long-term disability plan as a
result of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result
in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months.

Separation from Service 

A  Separation from Service  occurs upon your death, retirement or other termination of employment
or other event that qualifies as a  separation from service  under Internal Revenue Code Section
409A and the applicable regulations thereunder as in effect from time to time. The Company shall
determine in each case when a Separation from Service has occurred, which determination shall be
made in a manner consistent with Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(h). The Company shall
determine that a Separation from Service has occurred as of a certain date when the facts and
circumstances indicate that the Company (or an Affiliate, if applicable) and you reasonably
anticipate that, after that date, you will render no further services, or your level of bona fide
services (either as an employee or independent contractor) will permanently decrease to a level
that is 20% or less than the average level of your bona fide services (either as an employee or
independent contractor) previously in effect for you over the immediately preceding 36-month period
(or your entire period of service, if you have been providing services for less than 36 months).

The following presumptions shall also apply to all such determinations:

(1) 
       
      Transfers . A Separation from Service has not occurred upon your transfer of
employment from the Company to an Affiliate or vice versa, or from an Affiliate to another
Affiliate. 

(2) 
       
      Medical leave of absence . Where you have a medical leave of absence due to any
medically determinable physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result in death
or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than six months, and you have
not returned to employment with the Company or an Affiliate, a Separation from Service has
occurred on the earlier of: (A) the first day on which you would not be considered  disabled 
under any disability policy of the Company or Affiliate under which you are then receiving a
benefit; or (B) the first day on which your medical leave of absence period exceeds 29 months. 

(3) 
       
      Military leave of absence . Where you have a military leave of absence, and you have
not returned to employment with the Company or an Affiliate, a Separation from Service has
occurred on the day next following the last day on which you are entitled to reemployment
rights under USERRA. 

(4) 
       
      Salary continuation leave . A Separation from Service has occurred on the first day
of your salary continuation leave taken under the Company s salary continuation leave program. 

(5) 
       
      Other leaves of absence . In the event that you are on a bona fide leave of absence,
not otherwise described in this definition, from which you have not returned to employment
with the Company or an Affiliate, your Separation from Service has occurred on the first day
on which your leave of absence period exceeds six months or, if earlier, upon your termination
of employment (provided that such termination of employment constitutes a Separation from
Service in accordance with the last sentence of the first paragraph of this definition). 

7 

(6) 
       
      Asset purchase transaction . If, in connection with the sale or other disposition of
substantial assets (such as a division or substantially all assets of a trade or business) of
the Company or an Affiliate to an unrelated buyer, you become an employee of the buyer or an
affiliate of the buyer upon the closing of or in connection with such transaction, a
Separation from Service has not occurred if the Company and the buyer have specified that such
transaction will not, with respect to any individual affected by such transaction who becomes
an employee of the buyer or an affiliate, be considered a  separation from service  under
Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(h), and such specification meets the requirements of
Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(h)(4). 

Specified Employee 

A  Specified Employee  means:

(1) 
       
     Any Participant who is a  key employee  under Internal Revenue Code Section
416(i)(1)(A)(i), (ii) or (iii) (applied in accordance with the regulations thereunder
and disregarding Internal Revenue Code Section 416(i)(5)) at any time during the
12-month period ending on the specified employee identification date. For purposes of
determining  key employee  status under Internal Revenue Code Section 416(i)(1)(A)(i),
except as required under such provision and the regulations thereunder, the term
 officer  shall refer to an employee of the Company or an Affiliate with the title
Senior Vice President or above, and 

(2) 
       
     Any participant who served as a member of the Company s Management Committee at
any time during the 12-month period ending on the specified employee identification
date. 

For purposes of applying Internal Revenue Code section 409A, the  specified employee identification
date  is each December 31. Any person described in (1) or (2) above on a specified employee
effective date shall be treated as a Specified Employee for the entire 12-month period beginning on
the following April 1.

Notwithstanding the above, in the event of a corporate transaction to which the Company or an
Affiliate is a party, the Company may, in its discretion, establish a method for determining
Specified Employees pursuant to Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(i)(6).

8 

Wells Fargo Agreement 
Regarding Trade Secrets, Confidential Information, and Non-Solicitation 

I. Introduction 

In consideration for the Performance Share Award granted to me by Wells Fargo   Company on  insert
applicable date , on the terms and conditions contained in the Performance Share Award Agreement
( Performance Share Award Agreement ), I acknowledge that the nature of my employment with and
performance of services for Wells Fargo   Company and its affiliates (the  Company ) permits me to
have access to certain of its trade secrets and confidential and proprietary information and that
such information is, and shall always remain, the sole property of the Company. Any unauthorized
disclosure or use of this information would be wrongful and would cause the Company irreparable
harm. Therefore, I agree as follows:

II. Trade Secrets and Confidential Information 

During the course of my employment I have acquired, and will acquire, knowledge of the Company s
Trade Secrets and other proprietary information relating to its business, business methods,
personnel, and customers (collectively referenced as  Confidential Information ).  Trade Secrets 
are defined as information, including but not limited to, a formula, pattern, compilation, program,
device, method, technique, or process, that: (1) derives independent economic value, actual or
potential, from not being generally known to the public or to other persons who can obtain economic
value from its disclosure or use and (2) is the subject of efforts that are reasonable under the
circumstances to maintain its secrecy. The Company s Trade Secrets include, but are not limited to,
the following:

the names, address, and contact information of the Company s customers and prospective
customers, as well as any other personal or financial information relating to any customer
or prospect, including, without limitation, account numbers, balances, portfolios, maturity
and/or expiration or renewal dates, loans, policies, investment activities, purchasing
practices, insurance, annuity policies and objectives; 

any information concerning the Company s operations, including without limitation,
information related to its methods, services, pricing, costs, margins and mark-ups,
finances, practices, strategies, business plans, agreements, decision-making, systems,
technology, policies, procedures, marketing, sales, techniques, agent information and
processes; 

any other proprietary and/or confidential information relating to the Company s
customers, employees, products, services, sales, technologies, or business affairs. 

I understand that Records of the Company also constitute Confidential Information and that my
obligation to maintain the confidentiality thereof continues at all times during and after my
employment.  Records  include, but are not limited to, original, duplicated, computerized,
memorized, handwritten or any other form of information, whether contained in materials provided to
me by the Company, or by any institution acquired by the Company, or compiled by me in any form or
manner including information in documents or electronic devices, such as software, flowcharts,
graphs, spreadsheets, resource manuals, videotapes, calendars, day timers, planners, rolodexes, or
telephone directories maintained in personal computers, laptop computers, personal digital
assistants or any other device. These records do not become any less confidential or proprietary to
the Company because I may commit some of them to memory or because I may otherwise maintain them
outside of the Company s offices.

I agree that Confidential Information of the Company is to be used by me solely and exclusively for
the purpose of conducting business on behalf of the Company. I am expected to keep such
Confidential Information confidential and not to divulge,use or disclose this information except
for that purpose. If I resign or am terminated from my employment for any reason, I agree to
immediately return to the Company all Records and Confidential Information, including information
maintained by me in my office, personal electronic devices, and/or at home.

III. Non-Solicitation of Company s Employees and Customers 

I agree that for the period beginning on my termination date with the Company through the greater
of (i) the period beginning on my termination date through the Determination Date as defined in the
Performance Share Award Agreement or (ii) the one-year period following my termination date ( the
Non-Solicitation Period ), I will not do any of the following, either directly or indirectly or
through associates, agents, or employees:

a. 
       
     solicit, recruit or promote the solicitation or recruitment of any employee or consultant of
the Company for the purpose of encouraging that employee or consultant to leave the Company s
employ or sever an agreement for services; or 

b. 
       
     solicit, participate in or promote the solicitation of any of the Company s clients,
customers, or prospective customers with whom I had Material Contact and/or regarding whom I
received Confidential Information, for the purpose of providing products or services
( Competitive Products/Services ).  Material Contact  means

9 

interaction between me and the customer, client or prospective customer within one (1) year
prior to my Separation of Service (as defined in the Performance Award Agreement) which
takes place to manage, service or further the business relationship. 

This limitation is not intended to limit the Company s right to prevent misappropriation of its
Confidential Information beyond the Non-Solicitation Period.

IV. Assignment of Inventions 

I acknowledge and agree that all inventions and all worldwide intellectual property rights that I
make, conceive or first reduce to practice (alone or in conjunction with others) during my
employment with the Company are owned by the Company that (1) relate at the time of conception or
reduction to practice of the invention to the Company s business, or actual or demonstrably
anticipated research or development of the Company whether or not I made, conceived or first
reduced the inventions to practice during normal working hours; and (2) involve the use of any
time, material, information, or facility of the Company.

V. Partial Invalidity 

If any provision of this Agreement is held to be invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect and
the invalid or unenforceable provision shall be modified only to the extent necessary to render
that provision valid and enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law. If the invalid or
unenforceable provision cannot be modified, that provision shall be severed from the Agreement and
all other provisions shall remain valid and enforceable.

VI. Choice of Law/Integration/Survival 

This Agreement and any dispute, controversy or claim which arises under or relates in any way to it
shall be governed by the law of the state where the incident(s) giving rise to the dispute or claim
arose. This Agreement supersedes any prior written or verbal agreements pertaining to the subject
matter herein, and is intended to be a final expression of our Agreement with respect only to the
terms contained herein; provided, however, that the employee and customer non-solicitation
provisions herein are in addition to, and not in lieu of, any such provisions contained in any
prior agreements. There may be no modification of this Agreement except in writing signed by me and
an executive officer of the Company. This Agreement shall survive my employment by the Company,
inure to the benefit of successors and assigns of the Company, and is binding upon my heirs and
legal representatives.

Acknowledgement 

I acknowledge that I have read, understand, and received a copy of this Agreement, and will abide
by its terms.

Name of Executive 

Date 

End of Form of Performance Share Award Agreement 
for Grants on or after February 22, 2011 

10 

Form of Restricted Share Rights Award Agreement for Grants on or after February 22, 2011   *  

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY 
LONG-TERM INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN 
RESTRICTED SHARE RIGHTS AWARD AGREEMENT 

Name: 

Grant Date:  

I.D. Number: 

Number of RSRs:  

1. 
       
      Award.  To encourage your continued employment with the Company or any Affiliate and to
motivate you to help the Company increase stockholder value over the long term, Wells Fargo  
Company (the  Company ) has awarded you the number of Restricted Share Rights indicated above
(the  Award ). Each Restricted Share Right entitles you to receive one share of Wells Fargo
  Company common stock ( Common Stock ) contingent upon vesting and subject to the other
terms and conditions set forth in the Company s Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan (the
 Plan ) and this Award Agreement. 

2. 
       
      Vesting.  Except as otherwise provided in this Award Agreement, and subject to the
Company s right to recoup this Award as provided in this Award Agreement, the Restricted
Share Rights will vest according to the following schedule: 

insert vesting schedule 

Shares of Common Stock will be issued to you or, in case of your death, your Beneficiary
determined in accordance with the Plan. Except for dividend equivalents as provided below, you
will have no rights as a stockholder of the Company with respect to your Restricted Share
Rights until settlement. Upon vesting, Restricted Share Rights will be settled and distributed
in shares of Common Stock except as otherwise provided in the Plan or this Award Agreement. 

3. 
       
      Termination.  

(a) 
       
     If you cease to be an Employee due to your death, any then unvested Restricted Share
Right awarded hereby (including any Restricted Share Right granted with respect to
dividend equivalents as provided below) will immediately vest upon your date of death and
will be settled and distributed to your Beneficiary in shares of Common Stock on the
January 2 following the year in which you die or, if January 2 is not a business day, the
first business day following that January 2. 

(b) 
       
     If you have an involuntary Separation from Service under the Company s Extended
Absence Policy in connection with a Disability, any then unvested Restricted Share Right
awarded hereby (including any Restricted Share Right granted with respect to dividend
equivalents as provided below) will immediately vest and will be settled and distributed
to you in shares of Common Stock within 90 days from your Separation from Service. For
purposes of this Award, the term  Separation from Service  is determined by the Company in
accordance with Section 409A (as defined in paragraph      below) and in accordance with
the definition set forth on Exhibit A to this Award Agreement, which definition is
incorporated by reference herein. For purposes of this Award, you will be considered to a
have a  Disability  if you are receiving income replacement benefits for a period of not
less than three months under the Company s long-term disability plan as a result of any
medically determinable physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result in
death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months. 

(c) 
       
     If you have an involuntary Separation from Service other than for Cause, any then
unvested Restricted Share Right awarded hereby (including any Restricted Share Right
granted with respect to dividend equivalents as provided below) will immediately vest and
will be settled and distributed to you in shares of Common Stock within 90 days from your
Separation from Service. For purposes of this Award,  Cause  is defined as your
termination of employment by the Company arising from or on or after (1) the continued
failure by you to substantially perform your duties; (2) your conviction of a crime
involving dishonesty or breach of trust, conviction of a felony, or commission of any act
that makes you ineligible for coverage under Wells Fargo s fidelity bond or otherwise
makes you ineligible for continued employment; or (3) your violation of the Company s
policies, including but not limited to Wells Fargo s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct,
Information Security Policies and Compliance and Risk Management Accountability Policy. 

*  
       
      Brackets identify provisions that may
vary depending on the particular grant, grant recipient and/or other relevant
factor, including whether the recipient will be retirement eligible prior to
final scheduled vesting and whether the recipient is subject to a jurisdiction
outside the United States. 

11 

(d) 
       
     If you have a Separation from Service that constitutes a Retirement under the Plan,
any then unvested Restricted Share Right awarded hereby (including any Restricted Share
Right granted with respect to dividend equivalents as provided below) will vest upon the
scheduled vesting date as set forth in paragraph 2 above; provided, however, if you die
following Retirement, any then unvested Restricted Share Right will vest immediately upon
your date of death and will be settled and distributed to your Beneficiary in shares of
Common Stock on the January 2 following the year in which you die or, if January 2 is not
a business day, the first business day following that January 2. 

(e) 
       
     If you cease to be an Employee other than due to your death, your Retirement, your
involuntary Separation from Service under the Company s Extended Absence Policy in
connection with a Disability or your involuntary Separation from Service other than for
Cause, any then unvested Restricted Share Right awarded hereby (including any Restricted
Share Right granted with respect to dividend equivalents as provided below) will
immediately terminate without notice to you and will be forfeited. 

Alternative Paragraph 3  

(a) 
       
     If you cease to be an Employee due to your death, any then unvested Restricted Share
Right awarded hereby (including any Restricted Share Right granted with respect to
dividend equivalents as provided below) will immediately vest upon your date of death and
will be settled and distributed to your Beneficiary in shares of Common Stock no later
than March 1 of the year immediately following the year in which you die. 

(b) 
       
     If you have an involuntary Separation from Service under the Company s Extended
Absence Policy in connection with a Disability, any then unvested Restricted Share Right
awarded hereby (including any Restricted Share Right granted with respect to dividend
equivalents as provided below) will immediately vest and will be settled and distributed
to you in shares of Common Stock no later than March 1 of the year immediately following
the year in which your employment has been terminated. For purposes of this Award, the
term  Separation from Service  is determined by the Company in accordance with Section
409A (as defined in paragraph      below) and in accordance with the definition set forth
on Exhibit A to this Award Agreement, which definition is incorporated by reference
herein. For purposes of this Award, you will be considered to a have a  Disability  if
you are receiving income replacement benefits for a period of not less than three months
under the Company s long-term disability plan as a result of any medically determinable
physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result in death or can be expected
to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months. 

(c) 
       
     If you have an involuntary Separation from Service other than for Cause, any then
unvested Restricted Share Right awarded hereby (including any Restricted Share Right
granted with respect to dividend equivalents as provided below) will immediately vest and
will be settled and distributed to you in shares of Common Stock no later than March 1 of
the year immediately following the year in which you incurred the Separation from Service.
For purposes of this Award,  Cause  is defined as your termination of employment by the
Company arising from or on or after (1) the continued failure by you to substantially
perform your duties; (2) your conviction of a crime involving dishonesty or breach of
trust, conviction of a felony, or commission of any act that makes you ineligible for
coverage under Wells Fargo s fidelity bond or otherwise makes you ineligible for continued
employment; or (3) your violation of the Company s policies, including but not limited to
Wells Fargo s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, Information Security Policies and
Compliance and Risk Management Accountability Policy. 

(d) 
       
     If you cease to be an Employee other than due to your death, your involuntary
Separation from Service under the Company s Extended Absence Policy in connection with a
Disability or your involuntary Separation from Service other than for Cause, any then
unvested Restricted Share Right awarded hereby (including any Restricted Share Right
granted with respect to dividend equivalents as provided below) will immediately terminate
without notice to you and will be forfeited. 

Alternative Paragraph 3  

(a) 
       
     If you cease to be an Employee due to your death, any then unvested Restricted Share
Right awarded hereby (including any Restricted Share Right granted with respect to
dividend equivalents as provided below) will immediately vest upon your date of death and
will be settled and distributed to your Beneficiary in shares of Common Stock no later
than March 1 of the year immediately following the year in which you die. 

(b) 
       
     If you cease to be an Employee other than due to your death, any then unvested
Restricted Share Right awarded hereby (including any Restricted Share Right granted with
respect to dividend equivalents as provided below) will immediately terminate without
notice to you and will be forfeited. 

4. 
       
      Dividend Equivalents.   During the period beginning on the Grant Date and ending on the
date the Restricted Share Rights vest and are distributed, or terminate, whichever occurs
first, if the Company pays a dividend on the Common Stock, you will automatically receive, as
of the payment date for such dividend, dividend

12 

equivalents in the form of additional Restricted Share Rights based on the amount or number of
shares that would have been paid on the Restricted Share Rights had they been issued and
outstanding shares of Common Stock as of the record date and, if a cash dividend, the closing
price of the Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange as of the dividend payment date. You
will also automatically receive dividend equivalents with respect to the additional Restricted
Share Rights, to be granted in the same manner. Restricted Share Rights granted with respect
to dividend equivalents will be subject to the same vesting schedule and conditions as the
underlying Restricted Share Rights, including the Company s right of recoupment, and will be
distributed in shares of Common Stock when, and if, the underlying Restricted Share Rights are
settled and distributed.  During the period beginning on the Grant Date and ending on the date
the Restricted Share Rights vest and are distributed, or terminate, whichever occurs first, if
the Company pays a cash dividend on the Common Stock, you will receive cash payments based on
and payable at approximately the same time as the cash dividend that would have been paid on
the Restricted Share Rights had they been issued and outstanding shares of Common Stock as of
the record date for the dividend. Cash payments will be net of federal, state and local
withholding taxes.   During the period beginning on the Grant Date and ending on the date the
Restricted Share Rights vest and are distributed, or terminate, whichever occurs first, if the
Company pays a cash dividend on the Common Stock, you will not be entitled to receive any
dividend equivalents or cash payments in respect of such dividend.  

5. 
       
      Tax Withholding.  The Company will withhold from the number of shares of Common Stock
otherwise issuable hereunder (including with respect to dividend equivalents) a number of
shares necessary to satisfy any and all applicable federal, state, local and foreign tax
withholding obligations and employment-related tax requirements. In addition, the Company
may withhold from your compensation any and all applicable federal, state, local, foreign and
employment-related taxes in the event all or a portion of the Restricted Share Rights are
treated as taxable prior to or other than on the vesting dates set forth in paragraph 2 above
and the number of shares of Common Stock otherwise issuable is insufficient to satisfy such
tax withholding obligations and employment-related tax requirements. 

6. 
       
      Nontransferable.  Unless the Committee provides otherwise, (i) no rights under this Award
will be assignable or transferable, and neither you nor your Beneficiary will have any power
to anticipate, alienate, dispose of, pledge or encumber any rights under this Award, and (ii)
the rights and the benefits of this Award may be exercised and received during your lifetime
only by you or your legal representative. 

7. 
       
      Other Restrictions; Amendment.  The issuance of Common Stock hereunder is subject to
compliance by the Company and you with all applicable legal requirements applicable thereto,
including tax withholding obligations, and with all applicable regulations of any stock
exchange on which the Common Stock may be listed at the time of issuance.  Subject to
paragraph      below, the Committee may, in its sole discretion and without your consent,
reduce, delay vesting, modify, revoke, cancel, impose additional conditions and restrictions
on or recover all or a portion of this Award if the Committee deems it necessary or advisable
to comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations. This Award is subject to any
applicable recoupment or  clawback  policies of the Company, as amended from time to time,
and any applicable recoupment or clawback requirements imposed under laws, rules and
regulations.  

8. 
       
       Restrictive Covenants.  In consideration of the terms of this Award and your access to
Confidential Information, you agree to the restrictive covenants and associated remedies as
set forth below, which exist independently of and in addition to any obligation to which you
are subject under the terms of the Wells Fargo Agreement Regarding Trade Secrets,
Confidential Information, Non-Solicitation, And Assignment Of Inventions (the  TSA ): 

(a) 
       
      Trade Secrets and Confidential Information.  During the course of your employment,
you will acquire knowledge of the Company s and/or any Affiliate s (collectively  WFC )
Trade Secrets and other proprietary information relating to its business, business
methods, personnel, and customers (collectively,  Confidential Information ).  Trade
Secrets  means WFC s confidential information, which has an economic value in being secret
and which WFC has taken steps to keep secret and you understand and agree that Trade
Secrets include, but are not limited to confidentially maintained client and customer
lists and information, and confidentially maintained prospective client and customer lists
and information. You agree that Confidential Information of WFC is to be used solely and
exclusively for the purpose of conducting business on behalf of WFC. You agree to keep
such Confidential Information confidential and will not divulge, use or disclose this
information except for that purpose. In addition, you agree that, both during and after
your employment, you will not remove, share, disseminate or otherwise use WFC s Trade
Secrets to directly or indirectly solicit, participate in or promote the solicitation of
any of WFC s clients, customers, or prospective customers for the purpose of providing
products or services that are in competition with WFC s products or services. 

(b) 
       
      Assignment of Inventions.  You acknowledge and agree that all inventions and all
worldwide intellectual property rights that you make, conceive or first reduce to
practice (alone or in conjunction with others) during your employment with WFC are owned by
WFC that (1) relate at the time of conception or reduction to 

13 

practice of the invention to WFC s business, or actual or demonstrably anticipated research
or development of WFC whether or not you made, conceived or first reduced the inventions
to practice during normal working hours; and (2) involve the use of any time, material,
information, or facility of WFC. 

(c) 
       
      Non-solicitation.  If you are currently subject to a TSA, you shall continue to be
bound by the terms of the TSA. If you are not currently subject to a TSA, you agree to
the following: 

For a period of one (1) year immediately following termination of your employment for any
reason, you will not do any of the following, either directly or indirectly or through
associates, agents, or employees: 

i. 
       
     solicit, recruit or promote the solicitation or recruitment of any
employee or consultant of WFC for the purpose of encouraging that employee or
consultant to leave WFC s employ or sever an agreement for services; or 

ii. 
       
     to the fullest extent enforceable under the applicable state law, solicit,
participate in or promote the solicitation of any of WFC s clients, customers, or
prospective customers with whom you had Material Contact and/or regarding whom you
received Confidential Information, for the purpose of providing products or services
that are in competition with WFC s products or services.  Material Contact  means
interaction between you and the customer, client or prospective customer within one
(1) year prior to your last day as a team member which takes place to manage, service
or further the business relationship. 

The one-year limitation is not intended to limit WFC s right to prevent misappropriation of
its Confidential Information beyond the one-year period. 

(d) 
       
      Violation of TSA or Restrictive Covenants.  If you breach any of the terms of a TSA
and/or the restrictive covenants above, all unvested Restricted Share Rights shall be
immediately and irrevocably forfeited. For any Restricted Share Rights that vested within
one (1) year prior to the termination of your employment with WFC or at any time after
your termination, you shall be required to repay or otherwise reimburse WFC an amount
having a value equal to the aggregate fair market value (determined as of the date of
vesting) of such vested shares. This paragraph does not constitute the Company s
exclusive remedy for violation of your restrictive covenant obligations, and WFC may seek
any additional legal or equitable remedy, including injunctive relief, for any such
violation.  

9. 
       
      No Employment Agreement.  Neither the award to you of the Restricted Share Rights nor the
delivery to you of this Award Agreement or any other document relating to the Restricted
Share Rights will confer on you the right to continued employment with the Company or any
Affiliate. You understand that your employment with the Company or any Affiliate is  at
will  and nothing in this document changes, alters or modifies your  at will  status or your
obligation to comply with all policies, procedures and rules of the Company, as they may be
adopted or amended from time to time. 

10. 
       
      Section 409A .  This Award is intended to comply with the requirements of Section 409A of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the applicable Treasury Regulations or
other binding guidance thereunder ( Section 409A ). Accordingly, all provisions included in
this Award, or incorporated by reference, will be interpreted and administered in accordance
with that intent. If any provision of the Plan would otherwise conflict with or frustrate
this intent, that provision will be interpreted and deemed amended or limited so as to avoid
the conflict; provided, however, that the Company makes no representation that the Award is
exempt from or complies with Section 409A and makes no undertaking to preclude Section 409A
from applying to the Award.   This Award is intended to be exempt from Section 409A of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986,, as amended, and applicable Treasury Regulations or other
binding guidance thereunder ( Section 409A ). Accordingly, all provisions included in this
Award, or incorporated by reference, will be interpreted and administered in accordance with
that intent. Therefore, all Restricted Share Rights will be settled and distributed no later
than March 1 of the year following the year when such Restricted Share Rights vest. If any
provision of the Plan would otherwise conflict with or frustrate this intent, that provision
will be interpreted and deemed amended or limited so as to avoid the conflict; provided,
however, that the Company makes no representation that the Award is exempt from or complies
with Section 409A and makes no undertaking to preclude Section 409A from applying to the
Award.  

11. 
       
      Six-month Delay . Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan or this Award Agreement to the
contrary, if, upon your Separation from Service with the Company for any reason, the Company
determines that you are a  Specified Employee  as defined in Section 409A and in accordance
with the definition set forth on Exhibit A to this Award Agreement, which definition is
incorporated by reference herein, your Restricted Share Rights, if subject to settlement upon
your Separation from Service and if required pursuant to Section 409A, will not settle 

14 

before the date that is the first business day following the six-month anniversary of such
Separation from Service, or, if earlier, upon your death. 

12. 
       
       Hold Through Retirement Provision.  As a condition to receiving this Award, you agree to
hold, while employed by the Company or any Affiliate and for a period of one year after your
Retirement, shares of Common Stock equal to at least 50% of the after-tax shares of Common
Stock (assuming a 50% tax rate) acquired upon vesting and settlement of this Award.  

Hold While Employed Provision.  Consistent with the Company s Stock Ownership Policy, you are
expected to hold, while employed by the Company or any Affiliate, shares of Common Stock equal
to at least 50% of the after-tax shares of Common Stock (assuming a 50% tax rate) acquired upon
vesting and settlement of this Award.  

13. 
       
      Severability and Judicial Modification.  If any provision of this Award Agreement is held to
be invalid or unenforceable under pertinent state law or otherwise or Wells Fargo elects not
to enforce such restriction , including but not limited to paragraph 8(c)ii,  the remaining
provisions shall remain in full force and effect and the invalid or unenforceable provision
shall be modified only to the extent necessary to render that provision valid and enforceable
to the fullest extent permitted by law. If the invalid or unenforceable provision cannot be,
or is not, modified, that provision shall be severed from the Award Agreement and all other
provisions shall remain valid and enforceable. 

14. 
       
      Additional Provisions.  This Award Agreement is subject to the provisions of the Plan.
Capitalized terms not defined in this Award Agreement are used as defined in the Plan. If
the Plan and this Award Agreement are inconsistent, the provisions of the Plan will govern.
Interpretations of the Plan and this Award Agreement by the Committee are binding on you and
the Company. 

15. 
       
      Applicable Law.  This Award Agreement and the award of Restricted Share Rights evidenced
hereby will be governed by, and construed in accordance with the laws of the state of Delaware
(without regard to their choice-of-law provisions) except to the extent Federal law would
apply. 

16. 
       
      Electronic Delivery and Acceptance.  The Company is electronically delivering documents
related to current or future participation in the Plan and is requesting your consent to
participate in the Plan by electronic means. You hereby consent to receive such documents by
electronic delivery and agree to participate in the Plan through the current plan
administrator s on-line system, or any other on-line system or electronic means that the
Company may decide, in its sole discretion, to use in the future. 

Insert requirement to acknowledge and accept grant terms  

15 

Exhibit A  

Certain Definitions  

Separation from Service 

A Participant s  Separation from Service  occurs upon his or her death, retirement or other
termination of employment or other event that qualifies as a  separation from service  under
Internal Revenue Code Section 409A and the applicable regulations thereunder as in effect from time
to time. The Company shall determine in each case when a Participant s Separation from Service has
occurred, which determination shall be made in a manner consistent with Treasury Regulation Section
1.409A-1(h). The Company shall determine that a Separation from Service has occurred as of a
certain date when the facts and circumstances indicate that the Company (or an Affiliate, if
applicable) and the Participant reasonably anticipate that, after that date, the Participant will
render no further services, or the Participant s level of bona fide services (either as an employee
or independent contractor) will permanently decrease to a level that is 20% or less than the
average level of the Participant s bona fide services (either as an employee or independent
contractor) previously in effect for such Participant over the immediately preceding 36-month
period (or the Participant s entire period of service, if the Participant has been providing
services for less than 36 months).

The
following presumptions shall also apply to all such
determinations:

(1) 
       
      Transfers . A Separation from Service has not occurred upon the Participant s
transfer of employment from the Company to an Affiliate or vice versa, or from an Affiliate
to another Affiliate. 

(2) 
       
      Medical leave of absence . Where the Participant has a medical leave of absence due
to any medically determinable physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result in
death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than six months, and he
or she has not returned to employment with the Company or an Affiliate, a Separation from
Service has occurred on the earlier of: (A) the first day on which the Participant would not
be considered  disabled  under any disability policy of the Company or Affiliate under which
the Participant is then receiving a benefit; or (B) the first day on which the Participant s
medical leave of absence period exceeds 29 months. 

(3) 
       
      Military leave of absence . Where the Participant has a military leave of absence,
and he or she has not returned to employment with the Company or an Affiliate, a Separation
from Service has occurred on the day next following the last day on which the Participant is
entitled to reemployment rights under USERRA. 

(4) 
       
      Salary continuation leave . A Separation from Service has occurred on the first day
of the Participant s salary continuation leave taken under the Company s salary continuation
leave program. 

(5) 
       
      Other leaves of absence . In the event that the Participant is on a bona fide leave
of absence, not otherwise described in this Section 15(b), from which he or she has not
returned to employment with the Company or an Affiliate, the Participant s Separation from
Service has occurred on the first day on which the Participant s leave of absence period
exceeds six months or, if earlier, upon the Participant s termination of employment (provided
that such termination of employment constitutes a Separation from Service in accordance with
the last sentence of the first paragraph of this section). 

(6) 
       
      Asset purchase transaction . If, in connection with the sale or other disposition of
substantial assets (such as a division or substantially all assets of a trade or business) of
the Company or an Affiliate to an unrelated buyer, the Participant becomes an employee of the
buyer or an affiliate of the buyer upon the closing of or in connection with such transaction,
a Separation from Service has not occurred if the Company and the buyer have specified that
such transaction will not, with respect to any individual affected by such transaction who
becomes an employee of the buyer or an affiliate, be considered a  separation from service 
under Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(h), and such specification meets the requirements
of Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(h)(4). 

16 

Specified Employee 

A  Specified Employee  means:

(1) 
       
     Any Participant who is a  key employee  under Internal Revenue Code Section
416(i)(1)(A)(i), (ii) or (iii) (applied in accordance with the regulations thereunder
and disregarding Internal Revenue Code Section 416(i)(5)) at any time during the
12-month period ending on the specified employee identification date. For purposes of
determining  key employee  status under Internal Revenue Code Section 416(i)(1)(A)(i),
except as required under such provision and the regulations thereunder, the term
 officer  shall refer to an employee of the Company or an Affiliate with the title
Senior Vice President or above, and 

(2) 
       
     Any participant who served as a member of the Company s Management Committee at
any time during the 12-month period ending on the specified employee identification
date. 

For purposes of applying Internal Revenue Code section 409A, the  specified employee identification
date  is each December 31. Any person described in (1) or (2) above on a specified employee
effective date shall be treated as a Specified Employee for the entire 12-month period beginning on
the following April 1.

Notwithstanding the above, in the event of a corporate transaction to which the Company or an
Affiliate is a party, the Company may, in its discretion, establish a method for determining
Specified Employees pursuant to Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(i)(6).

End of Form of Restricted Share Rights Award Agreement 
for Grants on or after February 22, 2011 

17 

Action of Human Resources Committee on November 16, 2010 Amending Restricted Share Rights
Award Agreements for February 24, 2009 Grants to Howard I. Atkins, David A. Hoyt, Mark C. Oman and
Carrie L. Tolstedt 

RESOLVED that the Award Agreements for the February 24, 2009 grants of Restricted Share Rights
under the Company s Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan to Howard I. Atkins, David A. Hoyt, Mark
C. Oman and Carrie L. Tolstedt are hereby amended to delete the existing paragraph 3(b) and to
insert the following new paragraphs 3(b) and 3(c):

3. Termination.

(b) 
       
     If you cease to be an Employee due to your Retirement, any then unvested
Restricted Share Rights awarded hereby (including any Restricted Share Rights granted
with respect to dividend equivalents as provided below) will continue to vest upon the
scheduled vesting dates as set forth in paragraph 2 above provided that beginning
immediately after you cease to be an Employee and continuing until the applicable
vesting date you satisfy each of the following conditions ( vesting conditions ): (i)
you comply with the terms of the attached Wells Fargo Agreement Regarding Trade
Secrets, Confidential Information, and Non-Solicitation, which agreement is
incorporated by reference herein, (ii) you do not express any derogatory or damaging
statements about the Company or its affiliates, the management or the board of
directors of the Company or its affiliates, or the products, services or the business
condition of the Company or its affiliates in any public way or to anyone who could
make those statements public, and (iii) you do not perform services, directly or
indirectly, as an officer, director, employee, consultant or otherwise for an entity
that is included in the Company s  Peer Group.  For this purpose,  Peer Group  means,
as of the time of determination, the Company s peer group for financial performance
comparison purposes as set forth in the Company s most recent definitive proxy
statement for its annual stockholders  meeting as filed pursuant to the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you die following your
Retirement and have satisfied the vesting conditions set forth above through your date
of death, all then unvested Restricted Share Rights (including all Restricted Share
Rights granted with respect to dividend equivalents as provided below) will immediately
vest in accordance with paragraph 3(a) as of the date of your death. 

(c) 
       
     If you cease to be an Employee other than due to your death, permanent
disability or Retirement, any then unvested Restricted Share Rights awarded hereby
(including any Restricted Share Rights granted with respect to dividend equivalents as
provided below) will immediately terminate without notice to you and will be forfeited. 

18 

</EX-10.A>

<EX-10.X>
 3
 f56816exv10wx.htm
 EX-10.X

exv10wx 

Exhibit 10(x) 

Description of Non-Employee Director Equity Compensation Program  
(Effective January 1, 2011)

Stock Awards 

Award Value : 

o 
       
     Each non-employee director elected at the Company s
annual meeting of stockholders shall automatically be granted, as of the
date of such meeting, under the Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan
(LTICP), an award of Company common stock having an award value of
$140,000. 

o 
       
     A non-employee director who joins the Board effective
as of any other date shall automatically be granted, as of such other
date, under the LTICP, an award of Company common stock having an award
value based on the full-year award value of $140,000 prorated to reflect
the number of months (rounded up to the next whole month) remaining until
the next annual meeting of stockholders; provided, however, that if the
New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) is not open on the day such director joins
the Board, the award shall be granted as of the next following day on
which the NYSE is open. 

Number of Shares Subject to Award : The number of shares of Company common
stock subject to an award shall be determined by dividing the award value by the
NYSE-only closing price of Company common stock on the date of grant (rounded up to
the nearest whole share). 

Vesting : The stock awards shall vest in full immediately upon grant. 

Deferral : Non-employee directors may elect to defer receipt of their stock
awards in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Company s Directors Stock
Compensation and Deferral Plan. 

</EX-10.X>

<EX-12.A>
 4
 f56816exv12wa.htm
 EX-12.A

exv12wa 

EXHIBIT 12(a)  
 WELLS FARGO   COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
COMPUTATION OF RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES 

(1) 
       
     As defined in Item 503(d) of Regulation S-K. 

(2) 
       
     These computations are included herein in compliance with Securities and Exchange Commission regulations. However, management
believes that fixed charge ratios are not meaningful measures for the business of the Company because of two factors. First, even if
there was no change in net income, the ratios would decline with an increase in the proportion of income which is tax-exempt or,
conversely, they would increase with a decrease in the proportion of income which is tax-exempt. Second, even if there was no change
in net income, the ratios would decline if interest income and interest expense increase by the same amount due to an increase in the
level of interest rates or, conversely, they would increase if interest income and interest expense decrease by the same amount due to
a decrease in the level of interest rates. 

</EX-12.A>

<EX-12.B>
 5
 f56816exv12wb.htm
 EX-12.B

exv12wb 

EXHIBIT 12(b)  
 WELLS FARGO   COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
COMPUTATION OF RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES 
AND PREFERRED DIVIDENDS 

(1) 
       
     As defined in Item 503(d) of Regulation S-K. 

(2) 
       
     The preferred dividends, including accretion, were increased to amounts representing the pretax earnings that would be required to cover such dividend and accretion requirements. 

(3) 
       
     These computations are included herein in compliance with Securities and Exchange Commission regulations. However, management believes that fixed charge ratios are not meaningful measures for the business of the Company because of two
factors. First, even if there was no change in net income, the ratios would decline with an increase in the proportion of income which is tax-exempt or, conversely, they would increase with a decrease in the proportion of income which is
tax-exempt. Second, even if there was no change in net income, the ratios would decline if interest income and interest expense increase by the same amount due to an increase in the level of interest rates or, conversely, they would
increase if interest income and interest expense decrease by the same amount due to a decrease in the level of interest rates. 

</EX-12.B>

<EX-13>
 6
 f56816exv13.htm
 EX-13

exv13 

EXHIBIT
13  

Financial Review  

34 
       
     Overview 

38 
       
     Earnings Performance 

49 
       
     Balance Sheet Analysis 

52 
       
     Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 

54 
       
     Risk Management 

82 
       
     Capital Management 

84 
       
     Critical Accounting Policies 

90 
       
     Current Accounting Developments 

90 
       
     Forward-Looking Statements 

92 
       
     Risk Factors 

Controls and Procedures  

102 
       
     Disclosure Controls and Procedures 

102 
       
     Internal Control over Financial Reporting 

102 
       
     Management s Report on Internal Control over
Financial Reporting 

103 
       
     Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

Financial Statements  

104 
       
     Consolidated Statement of Income 

105 
       
     Consolidated Balance Sheet 

106 
       
     Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and Comprehensive Income 

110 
       
     Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 

Notes to Financial Statements  

111 
       
     1 
       
      Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

121 
       
     2 
       
      Business Combinations

33 

This Annual Report, including the Financial Review and the Financial Statements and related Notes,
contains forward-looking statements, which may include forecasts of our financial results and
condition, expectations for our operations and business, and our assumptions for those forecasts
and expectations. Do not unduly rely on forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ
materially from our forward-looking statements due to several factors. Some of these factors are
described in the Financial Review and in the Financial Statements and related Notes. For a
discussion of other factors, refer to the  Forward-Looking Statements  and  Risk Factors  sections
in this Report and the  Regulation and Supervision  section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for
the year ended December 31, 2010 (2010 Form 10-K). 

See the Glossary of Acronyms at the end of this Report for terms used throughout this Report. 

Financial Review 

Overview 

Wells Fargo   Company is a $1.3 trillion diversified financial services company
providing banking, insurance, trust and investments, mortgage banking, investment banking, retail
banking, brokerage and consumer finance through banking stores, the internet and other distribution
channels to individuals, businesses and institutions in all 50 states, the District of Columbia
(D.C.) and in other countries. We ranked fourth in assets and second in the market value of our
common stock among our large bank peers at December 31, 2010. When we refer to  Wells Fargo,   the
Company,   we,   our  or  us  in this Report, we mean Wells Fargo   Company and Subsidiaries
(consolidated). When we refer to the  Parent,  we mean Wells Fargo   Company. When we refer to
 legacy Wells Fargo,  we mean Wells Fargo excluding Wachovia Corporation (Wachovia).

Our vision is to satisfy all our customers  financial needs, help them succeed financially, be
recognized as the premier financial services company in our markets and be one of America s great
companies. Our primary strategy to achieve this vision is to increase the number of products our
customers buy from us and to offer them all of the financial products that fulfill their needs. Our
cross-sell strategy, diversified business model and the breadth of our geographic reach facilitate
growth in both strong and weak economic cycles, as we can grow by expanding the number of products
our current customers have with us, gain new customers in our extended markets, and increase market
share in many businesses. We continued to earn more of our customers  business in 2010 in both our
retail and commercial banking businesses and in our equally customer-centric securities brokerage
and investment banking businesses.

Reflecting solid growth in a variety of businesses, Wells Fargo net income was a record $12.4
billion in 2010. Diluted earnings per common share were $2.21. Pre-tax pre-provision profit (PTPP)
was $34.8 billion in 2010, which covered almost 2.0 times annual net charge-offs. PTPP is total
revenue less noninterest expense. Management believes that PTPP is a useful financial measure
because it enables investors and others to assess the Company s ability to generate capital to
cover credit losses through a credit cycle.

Our combined company retail bank household cross-sell, reported for the first time in December
2010, was 5.70 products per household, up from 5.47 a year ago. Cross-sell for the

combined
company, which is lower than legacy Wells Fargo stand-alone cross-sell, indicates the opportunity
to earn more business from our Wachovia customers. The cross-sell for customers in the West was
6.14 products, compared with 5.11 for customers in the East. Our goal is eight products per
customer, which is approximately half of our estimate of potential demand for an average U.S.
household. One of every four of our retail banking households has eight or more products. Business
banking cross-sell offers another potential opportunity for growth, with cross-sell of 4.04
products in our Western footprint (including legacy Wells Fargo and converted Wachovia customers).

Wells Fargo remained one of the largest providers of credit to the U.S. economy. We continued
to lend to creditworthy customers and, during 2010, made $665 billion in new loan commitments to
consumer, small business and commercial customers, including $386 billion of residential mortgage
originations. We are an industry leader in loan modifications for homeowners. As of December 31,
2010, more than 620,000 Wells Fargo mortgage customers were in active trial or had completed the
loan modifications since the beginning of 2009. We also continued to support our communities by
making a $400 million charitable contribution to the Wells Fargo Foundation in 2010, covering three
years of estimated future funding.

Our core deposits grew 2% from December 31, 2009. Average core deposits funded 100% of total
average loans in 2010, up from 93% in 2009. We continue to attract high quality core deposits in
the form of checking and savings deposits, which grew 6% to $720.9 billion at December 31, 2010,
from $679.9 billion a year ago, as we continued to gain new customers and deepen our relationships
with existing customers.

On December 31, 2008, Wells Fargo acquired Wachovia, one of the nation s largest diversified
financial services companies. Wachovia s assets and liabilities were included in the December 31,
2008, consolidated balance sheet at their respective fair values on the acquisition date. Because
the acquisition was completed on December 31, 2008, Wachovia s results of operations were not
included in our 2008 income statement. Beginning in 2009, our consolidated results and associated
financial information, as well as our consolidated average balances, include Wachovia.

We
are beginning our third year of the Wachovia integration, which we
expect to substantially complete by the end of 2011.

34 

Our progress to date remains on track and on schedule, with business
and revenue synergies exceeding our expectations at the time the merger was announced. The Wachovia
merger has already proven to be a financial success, with substantially all of the expected savings
already realized and growing revenue synergies reflecting market share gains in many businesses,
including mortgage, auto dealer services and investment banking.

We continued to invest in core businesses while maintaining a strong balance sheet. In 2010,
we opened 47 retail banking stores for a retail network total of 6,314 stores. We converted a total
of 749 Wachovia banking stores in Alabama, Arizona, California, Georgia, Illinois, Kansas,
Mississippi, Nevada, Tennessee and Texas, as well as the Wachovia credit card business and ATM
network. The conversion of the remaining Wachovia eastern markets is expected to be substantially
completed by the end of 2011.

We continued taking actions to further strengthen our balance sheet, including reducing our
non-strategic and liquidating loan portfolios, which have declined $54.6 billion since the Wachovia
acquisition, including $26.3 billion in 2010, to $115.7 billion at December 31, 2010. We
significantly built capital in 2010, up $12.9 billion, or 12%, from a year ago. Our capital growth
since our merger with Wachovia has been driven by record retained earnings and other sources of
internal capital generation, as well as three common stock offerings between October 2008 and
December 2009 totaling over $33 billion. This included the $12.2 billion offering in fourth quarter
2009, which allowed us to repay in full the U.S. Treasury s Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP)
preferred stock investment. We substantially increased the size of the Company with the Wachovia
merger, and experienced cyclically elevated credit costs. However, our capital ratios at December
31, 2010, were higher than they were prior to the Wachovia acquisition. Tier 1 common equity
increased to $81.3 billion at December 31, 2010, or 8.30% of risk-weighted assets. The Tier 1
capital ratio increased to 11.16% and Tier 1 leverage ratio increased to 9.19%. See the  Capital
Management  section in this Report for more information regarding Tier 1 common equity.

We experienced continued and significant improvement in our credit portfolio, with most
metrics showing positive movement by the end of 2010. Net charge-offs declined in 2010 from the
peak in fourth quarter 2009, with almost every major loan category recording lower charge-offs by
the end of 2010. Delinquencies continued to decline from the peak at the end of 2009 and, in the
fourth quarter 2010, nonaccrual loans declined for the first time since the Wachovia merger. The
improvement in credit quality was also evident in the portfolio of purchased credit-impaired (PCI)
loans acquired through the Wachovia merger, which overall has performed better than originally
expected. Reflecting improved performance in our loan portfolios, the provision for credit losses
was $2.0 billion less than net charge-offs for 2010. Absent significant deterioration in the
economy, we expect future reductions in the allowance for credit losses. The improvement in losses,
a more favorable economic outlook and improved credit statistics in several portfolios further
increase our confidence that our credit cycle is turning, provided economic conditions do not
deteriorate.

We believe it is important to maintain a well controlled operating environment as we complete
the integration of the Wachovia businesses and grow the combined company. We manage our credit risk
by establishing what we believe are sound credit policies for underwriting new business, while
monitoring and reviewing the performance of our loan portfolio. We manage the interest rate and
market risks inherent in our asset and liability balances within established ranges, while ensuring
adequate liquidity and funding. We maintain strong capital levels to facilitate future growth.

As a result of PCI accounting for loans acquired in the merger with Wachovia, ratios of the
Company, including the growth rate in nonperforming assets (NPAs) since December 31, 2008, may not
be directly comparable with periods prior to the merger or with credit-related ratios of other
financial institutions. In particular:

Wachovia s high risk loans were written down pursuant to PCI accounting at the time of
merger. Therefore, the allowance for credit losses is lower than otherwise would have been
required without PCI loan accounting; and 

Because we virtually eliminated Wachovia s nonaccrual loans at December 31, 2008, quarterly
growth in our nonaccrual loans during 2010 and 2009 was higher than it would have been without
PCI loan accounting. Similarly, our net charge-offs rate was lower than it otherwise would
have been. 

35 

Overview    (continued)  

Table 1:  Six-Year Summary of Selected Financial Data 

(1) 
       
     Core deposits are noninterest-bearing deposits, interest-bearing checking, savings certificates, certain market rate and other savings, and certain foreign deposits (Eurodollar sweep balances). 

36 

Table 2:  Ratios and Per Common Share Data 

(1) 
       
     The efficiency ratio is noninterest expense divided by total revenue (net interest income and noninterest income). 

(2) 
       
     See Note 25 (Regulatory and Agency Capital Requirements) to Financial Statements in this Report for additional information. 

(3) 
       
     Due to the Wachovia transaction that closed on December 31, 2008, the Tier 1 leverage ratio, which considers period-end Tier 1 capital and quarterly averages in the computation of the ratio,
does not reflect average assets of Wachovia for the full period ended December 31, 2008. 

(4) 
       
     See the  Capital Management  section in this Report for additional information. 

(5) 
       
     Dividends declared per common share as a percentage of earnings per common share. 

(6) 
       
     Based on daily prices reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transaction Reporting System. 

37 

Earnings Performance 

Net income for 2010 was $12.4 billion ($2.21 diluted per share) with $11.6 billion
applicable to common stock, compared with net income of $12.3 billion ($1.75 diluted per share)
with $8.0 billion applicable to common stock for 2009. Preferred stock dividends and accretion of
preferred stock discount included $3.5 billion in 2009 for Series D preferred stock issued to the
U.S. Treasury Department in 2008, which reduced 2009 diluted earnings by $0.76 per share. These
preferred shares were redeemed December 23, 2009, when we repaid the U.S. Treasury Department s
TARP preferred stock investment.

Our 2010 earnings were influenced by a slow recovery from the recession that dominated 2009
and most of 2008 and by a continuation of a low rate environment. These economic conditions caused
declining loan demand, solid deposit generation and continued elevated credit losses. Earnings for
2009 were influenced by the worsening of the recession that began in 2008, and low market rates.
Both 2010 and 2009 were affected by merger integration costs.

Revenue, the sum of net interest income and noninterest income, was $85.2 billion in 2010
compared with $88.7 billion in 2009 and $41.9 billion in 2008. In 2010, net interest income of
$44.8 billion represented 53% of revenue, compared with $46.3 billion (52%) in 2009 and $25.1
billion (60%) in 2008.

Noninterest income was relatively stable in 2010 at $40.5 billion, representing 47% of
revenue, compared with $42.4 billion (48%) in 2009 and $16.7 billion (40%) in 2008. The increase in
2009 to 48% from 40% in 2008 was primarily due to a higher percentage of trust and investment fees
(11% in 2009, up from 7% in 2008) and very strong mortgage banking results (14% in 2009, up from 6%
in 2008, predominantly from legacy Wells Fargo).

Noninterest expense was $50.5 billion in 2010, compared with $49.0 billion in 2009 and $22.6
billion in 2008. Noninterest expense as a percentage of revenue was 59% in 2010, 55% in 2009 and
54% in 2008. Noninterest expense for 2010 included $1.9 billion of Wachovia merger-related
integration expense compared with $895 million in 2009.

Table 3 presents the components of revenue and noninterest expense as a percentage of revenue
for year-over-year results.

38 

Table 3:  Net Interest Income, Noninterest Income and Noninterest Expense as a Percentage of Revenue 

(1) 
       
     See Table 7   Noninterest Income in this Report for additional detail. 

(2) 
       
     See Table 8   Noninterest Expense in this Report for additional detail. 

39 

Earnings Performance    (continued)  

Net Interest Income 

Net interest income is the interest earned on debt securities, loans (including yield-related
loan fees) and other interest-earning assets minus the interest paid for deposits, short-term
borrowings and long-term debt. The net interest margin is the average yield on earning assets minus
the average interest rate paid for deposits and our other sources of funding. Net interest income
and the net interest margin are presented on a taxable-equivalent basis in Table 5 to consistently
reflect income from taxable and tax-exempt loans and securities based on a 35% federal statutory
tax rate.

Net interest income on a taxable-equivalent basis was $45.4 billion in 2010, compared with
$47.0 billion in 2009, and $25.4 billion in 2008. The net interest margin was 4.26% in 2010, down 2
basis points from 4.28% in 2009 and 2009 was down 55 basis points from 4.83% in 2008. During 2010,
net interest income was affected by prepayments of higher yielding mortgage-backed securities,
relatively soft commercial loan demand, and planned runoff of liquidating loan portfolios. The
impact of these factors was mitigated by disciplined deposit pricing and reduced market funding
costs. For 2009, changes in net interest income from 2008 were primarily due to the impact of
acquiring Wachovia. Although the addition of Wachovia increased earning assets and net interest
income, it decreased the net interest margin because Wachovia s net interest margin was lower than
that of legacy Wells Fargo.

Table 4 presents the components of earning assets and funding sources as a percentage of
earning assets to provide a more meaningful analysis of year-over-year changes that influenced net
interest income.

The mix of earning assets and their yields are important drivers of net interest income.
During 2010, there were slight shifts in our earning asset mix from loans and investments to more
liquid assets. Although total loans increased during fourth quarter 2010, the soft loan demand
earlier in 2010 and in 2009, as well as the impact of liquidating certain loan portfolios, reduced
average loans in 2010 to 72% of average earning assets from 75% for 2009 and from 76% in 2008.
Also, average mortgage-backed securities (MBS) dropped to 10% in 2010 from 12% in 2009 and 13% in
2008. Average short-term investments and trading account assets increased to 9% in 2010 from 4% in
2009 and 2% in 2008.

Average interest-bearing deposits increased to 59% of average earning assets for 2010, from
58% for 2009 and 51% for 2008. Average short-term borrowings decreased to 4% of average earning
assets from 5% for 2009 and 13% for 2008. Average interest-bearing deposits increased as a
percentage of funding for earning assets in 2010, yet the cost of deposits declined significantly
as the mix shifted from higher cost certificates of deposit to checking and savings products, which
were at lower yields in 2010 due to the prolonged low interest rate environment. Core deposits are
a low-cost source of funding and thus an important contributor to growth in net interest income and
the net interest margin. Core deposits include noninterest-bearing deposits, interest-bearing
checking, savings certificates, certain market rate and other savings, and certain foreign deposits
(Eurodollar sweep balances). Average core deposits rose to $772.0 billion in 2010 from $762.5
billion in 2009 and funded 100% and 93% of average loans, respectively. In 2008, core deposits of
legacy Wells Fargo funded 82% of average loans. About 90% of our core deposits are now in checking
and savings deposits, one of the highest percentages in the industry.

Table 5 presents the individual components of net interest income and the net interest margin.
The effect on interest income and costs of earning asset and funding mix changes described above,
combined with rate changes during 2010, are analyzed in Table 6.

40 

Table 4:  Average Earning Assets and Funding Sources as a Percentage of Average Earning Assets 

(1) 
       
     Includes certain preferred securities. 

(2) 
       
     Nonaccrual loans are included in their respective loan categories. 

41 

Earnings Performance    (continued)  

Table 5:  Average Balances, Yields and Rates Paid (Taxable-Equivalent Basis) (1)(2)(3) 

(1) 
       
     Because the Wachovia acquisition was completed at the end of 2008, Wachovia s assets and
liabilities are included in average balances, and Wachovia s results are reflected in interest
income/expense beginning in 2009. 

(2) 
       
     Our average prime rate was 3.25%, 3.25%, 5.09%, 8.05%, and 7.96% for 2010, 2009, 2008, 2007,
and 2006, respectively. The average three-month London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) was
0.34%, 0.69%, 2.93%, 5.30%, and 5.20% for the same years, respectively. 

(3) 
       
     Interest rates and amounts include the effects of hedge and risk management activities
associated with the respective asset and liability categories. 

(4) 
       
     Yields and rates are based on
interest income/expense amounts for the period, annualized based on the accrual basis for the
respective accounts. The average balance amounts include the effects of any unrealized gain or
loss marks but those marks carried in other comprehensive income are not included in yield
determination of affected earning assets. Thus yields are based on amortized cost balances
computed on a settlement date basis. 

42 

Table 5:  Average Balances, Yields and Rates Paid (Taxable-Equivalent Basis) (1)(2)(3) 

(5) 
       
     Includes certain preferred securities. 

(6) 
       
     Nonaccrual loans and related income are included in their respective loan categories. 

(7) 
       
     Includes taxable-equivalent adjustments of $629 million, $706 million, $288 million, $146
million and $116 million for 2010, 2009, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, primarily related
to tax-exempt income on certain loans and securities. The federal statutory tax rate utilized
was 35% for the periods presented. 

(8) 
       
     See Note 7 (Premises, Equipment, Lease Commitments and Other Assets) to Financial Statements
in this Report for detail of balances of other noninterest-earning assets at December 31, 2010
and 2009. 

43 

Earnings Performance    (continued)  

Table 6 allocates the changes in net interest income on a taxable-equivalent basis to
changes in either average balances or average rates for both interest-earning assets and
interest-bearing liabilities. Because of the numerous simultaneous volume and rate changes during
any period, it is

not possible to precisely allocate such changes between volume and rate. For this table, changes
that are not solely due to either volume or rate are allocated to these categories in proportion to
the percentage changes in average volume and average rate.

Table 6:  Analysis of Changes in Net Interest Income 

44 

Noninterest Income 

Table 7:  Noninterest Income 

Noninterest income of $40.5 billion represented 47% of revenue for 2010 compared with $42.4
billion or, 48%, for 2009. The decrease from 2009 was primarily the net result of an increase in
trust and investment fees to 13% of 2010 revenues from 11% for 2009, offset by the decrease in
mortgage banking to 11% of 2010 revenues from 14% for 2009.

Our service charges on deposit accounts decreased in 2010 by $825 million from 2009, although
the deposit account portfolio increased for the year. This decrease was related to regulatory
changes to debit card and ATM overdraft practices announced by the Federal Reserve Board (FRB) in
fourth quarter 2009. In third quarter 2009, we also announced policy changes to help customers
limit overdraft and returned item fees. The combination of these changes reduced our 2010 fee
revenue by approximately $810 million.

We earn trust, investment and IRA (Individual Retirement Account) fees from managing and
administering assets, including mutual funds, corporate trust, personal trust, employee benefit
trust and agency assets. At December 31, 2010, these assets totaled $2.1 trillion, up 11% from $1.9
trillion at December 31, 2009. Trust, investment and IRA fees are largely based on a tiered scale
relative to the market value of the assets under management or administration. The fees increased
to $4.0 billion in 2010 from $3.6 billion a year ago.

We receive commissions and other fees for providing services to full-service and discount
brokerage customers. These fees increased to $6.9 billion in 2010 from $6.1 billion a year ago.
These fees include transactional commissions, which are based on the number of transactions
executed at the customer s direction, and asset-based fees, which are based on the market value of
the customer s assets. Brokerage client assets totaled $1.2 trillion at December 31, 2010, up 6%
from a year ago. Commissions and other fees also include fees from investment banking activities
including equity and bond underwriting.

Card fees were $3.7 billion in 2010, essentially flat from 2009. Legislative and regulatory
changes enacted in 2010 caused a reduction in card fee income, which was offset by growth in
purchase volume driven by improvements in the economy. The effect of the Credit Card Accountability
Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 (the Card Act) on card fees is fully reflected in our
2010 results.

Mortgage banking noninterest income is generated by servicing activities and loan
origination/sales activities. This income was $9.7 billion in 2010, compared with $12.0 billion for
2009. The reduction in mortgage banking noninterest income was primarily driven by a $2.5 billion
decline in net servicing income, partially offset by a $160 million increase in net gains on
mortgage origination/sales.

Net servicing income includes both changes in the fair value of mortgage servicing rights
(MSRs) during the period as well as changes in the value of derivatives (economic hedges) used to
hedge the MSRs. Net servicing income for 2010 included a $1.5 billion net MSR valuation gain that
was recorded to earnings ($3.0 billion decrease in the fair value of the MSRs offset by a $4.5
billion hedge gain) and for 2009 included a $5.3 billion net MSR valuation gain ($1.5 billion
decrease in the fair value of MSRs offset by a $6.8 billion hedge gain). The $3.8 billion decline
in the net MSR valuation gain results for 2010 compared with 2009 was primarily due to a decline in
hedge carry income. See the  Risk Management   Mortgage Banking Interest Rate and Market Risk 
section of this Report for a detailed discussion of our MSRs risks and hedging approach. Our
portfolio of loans serviced for others was $1.84 trillion at December 31, 2010, and $1.88 trillion
at December 31, 2009. At December 31, 2010, the ratio of MSRs to related loans serviced for others
was 0.86%, compared with 0.91% at December 31, 2009.

Income from loan origination/sale activities was $6.4 billion in 2010 compared with $6.2
billion for 2009. The slight increase in 2010 was driven by higher margins on loan originations,
offset by lower loan origination volume and higher provision for loan repurchase losses.
Residential real estate originations were $386 billion in 2010 compared with $420 billion a year
ago and mortgage applications were $620 billion in 2010 compared with $651 billion in 2009. The 1-4
family first mortgage unclosed pipeline was $73 billion at December 31, 2010, and $57 billion at
December 31, 2009. For additional detail, see the  Risk Management   Mortgage Banking Interest
Rate and Market Risk  section and Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies), Note 9
(Mortgage Banking Activities) and Note 16 (Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities) to Financial
Statements in this Report.

45 

Earnings Performance    (continued)  

Net gains on mortgage loan origination/sales activities include the cost of any additions to
the mortgage repurchase liability. Mortgage loans are repurchased from third parties
based on standard representations and warranties and early payment default clauses in mortgage sale
contracts. Additions to the mortgage repurchase liability that were charged against net gains on
mortgage loan origination/sales activities during 2010 totaled $1.6 billion ($927 million for
2009), of which $144 million ($302 million for 2009) was related to our estimate of loss content
associated with loan sales during the year and $1.5 billion ($625 million for 2009) was for
subsequent increases in estimated losses on prior year s loan sales because of the current economic
environment. For additional information about mortgage loan repurchases, see the  Risk Management
  Credit Risk Management   Liability for Mortgage Loan Repurchase Losses  section in this Report.

Income from trading activities was $1.6 billion in 2010, down from $2.7 billion a year ago.
This decrease reflects a return to a more normal trading environment from a year ago as well as a
continued reduction in risk levels while we continue to prioritize support for our customer-related
activities.

Net gains on debt and equity securities totaled $455 million for 2010 and $58 million for
2009, after other-than-temporary impairment (OTTI) write-downs of $940 million for 2010 and $1.7
billion for 2009.

Noninterest income of $42.4 billion in 2009 represented 48% of revenue, up from $16.7 billion
(40%) in 2008. The increase in noninterest income as a percentage of revenue was due to a higher
percentage of trust and investment fees (11% in 2009, up from 7% in 2008) with the addition of
Wells Fargo Advisors (formerly Wachovia Securities) retail brokerage business, Wachovia wealth
management and retirement, and reinsurance businesses, and also due to strong mortgage banking
results, primarily from legacy Wells Fargo (14% in 2009, up from 6% in 2008).

Noninterest Expense 

Table 8:  Noninterest Expense 

Noninterest expense increased $1.4 billion (3%) in 2010 over 2009, primarily due to merger
integration costs, Wells Fargo Financial restructuring costs and a charitable donation to the Wells
Fargo Foundation. The increase in 2009 over 2008 was predominantly due to the acquisition of
Wachovia, increased staffing and other costs related to problem loan modifications and workouts,
special deposit assessments and operating losses.

Merger integration costs totaled $1.9 billion in 2010 and $1.1 billion in 2009, and primarily
contributed to the increases in outside professional and contract services for both years. The
acquisition of Wachovia resulted in an expanded geographic platform in our banking businesses and
added capabilities in businesses such as retail brokerage, asset management and investment banking.
As part of our integration investment to enhance both the short- and long-term benefits to our
customers, we added platform team members in the Eastern market to align Wachovia s banking stores
with Wells Fargo s sales and service model. We completed the second year of our merger integration,
converting 749 Wachovia stores in Alabama, Arizona, California, Georgia, Illinois, Kansas,
Mississippi, Nevada, Tennessee and Texas. We migrated major processing systems for credit card,
mortgage, trust, and mutual funds. We expect to substantially complete our integration of Wachovia
by the end of 2011.

In July 2010, we announced the restructuring of our Wells Fargo Financial consumer finance
division, including the closing of 638 Wells Fargo Financial stores, realigning this business into
other Wells Fargo business units and transitioning employees into other parts of our organization.
The restructuring costs totaled $161 million, predominantly for severance and store closures.

46 

Commission and incentive compensation expense increased proportionately more than salaries in
both 2010 and 2009, due to higher revenues generated by businesses with revenue-based compensation,
including the retail securities, brokerage and mortgage businesses.

Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and other deposit assessments decreased in 2010
from 2009, predominantly due to a midyear 2009 FDIC special assessment of $565 million.

Problem loans and foreclosures increased workout-related salaries and foreclosure costs in
both 2010 and 2009. Workout-related costs were influenced in both years by the higher volume of
mortgage loan modifications driven by both federal and our own proprietary loan modification
programs designed to help customers stay in their homes. Foreclosure costs have been affected by
the high volume of foreclosed properties and the length of time the properties remained in
inventory. During 2010, we began to see a decline in nonperforming loans and other indications of
improvement in credit quality.

Operating losses increased in 2010 predominantly due to additional litigation accruals.

We continued to support our communities by making a $400 million charitable contribution to
the Wells Fargo Foundation in 2010, covering three years of estimated future funding.

Income Tax Expense 

The 2010 annual effective tax rate was 33.9% compared with 30.3% in 2009 and 18.5% in 2008. The
increase in 2010 was primarily due to the new health care legislation and fewer favorable
settlements with tax authorities. The increase in 2009 was primarily due to higher pre-tax earnings
and increased tax expense (with a comparable increase in interest income) associated with purchase
accounting for leveraged leases, partially offset by higher levels of tax exempt income, tax
credits and the impact of changes in our liability for uncertain tax positions. We recognized a net
tax benefit of approximately $150 million and $200 million during the fourth quarter and year-ended
December 31, 2009, respectively, primarily related to changes in our uncertain tax positions, due
to federal and state income tax settlements.

Effective January 1, 2009, we adopted new accounting guidance that changed the way
noncontrolling interests are presented in the income statement such that the consolidated income
statement includes amounts from both Wells Fargo interests and the noncontrolling interests. As a
result, our effective tax rate is calculated by dividing income tax expense by income before income
tax expense less the net income from noncontrolling interests.

47 

Earnings Performance    (continued)  

Operating Segment Results 

We define our operating segments by product and customer. In first quarter 2010, we conformed
certain funding and allocation methodologies of Wachovia to those of Wells Fargo; in addition
integration expense related to mergers other than the Wachovia merger is now included in the
segment results. In fourth quarter 2010, we aligned certain lending businesses into Wholesale
Banking from Community Banking to reflect our previously

announced restructuring of Wells Fargo
Financial. Prior periods have been revised to reflect these changes. Table 9 and the
following discussion present our results by operating segment. For a more complete description of
our operating segments, including additional financial information and the underlying management
accounting process, see Note 23 (Operating Segments) to Financial Statements in this Report.

Table 9:  Operating Segment Results   Highlights 

Community Banking  offers a complete line of diversified financial products and services
for consumers and small businesses including investment, insurance and trust services in 39 states
and D.C., and mortgage and home equity loans in all 50 states and D.C. through its Regional Banking
and Wells Fargo Home Mortgage business units.

Community Banking reported net income of $7.1 billion and revenue of $54.7 billion in 2010.
Revenue declined from 2009 driven primarily by a decrease in mortgage banking income compared with
a record year in 2009 (originations of $420 billion in 2009 compared with $384 billion in 2010), as
well as lower deposit service charges due to changes to Regulation E and the planned reduction in
certain liquidating loan portfolios. Core deposits declined due to planned certificates of deposit
(CD) run-off; however, we continued to grow low cost deposits. We saw strong growth in the number
of consumer and business checking accounts (up 7.5% and 4.8%, respectively, from December 31,
2009). Noninterest expense was flat from 2009, with Wells Fargo Financial restructuring costs and
higher charitable contributions offset by continued expense management and realization of merger
synergies. To benefit our customers we continued to add platform team members in regional banking s
Eastern markets as we aligned Wachovia banking stores with the Wells Fargo sales and service model.
The provision for credit losses decreased $4.1 billion from 2009 and credit quality indicators in
most of our consumer and commercial loan portfolios were either stable or continued to improve. Net
credit losses declined in almost all portfolios and we released $1.4 billion in reserves in 2010
compared with a $2.2 billion reserve build in 2009.

Wholesale Banking  provides financial solutions across the U.S. and globally to middle market and
large corporate customers with annual revenue generally in excess of $20 million. Products and
businesses include commercial banking, investment banking and capital markets, securities
investment, government and institutional banking, corporate

banking, commercial real estate,
treasury management, capital finance, international, insurance, real estate capital markets,
commercial mortgage servicing, corporate trust, equipment finance, asset backed finance, and asset
management.

On the strength of increasing credit demands from middle market and international businesses,
solid investment banking and capital markets performance, and a modest rebound in commercial
mortgages, Wholesale Banking generated earnings of $5.8 billion, up 49% from 2009, with revenue of
$22.2 billion, up 8% from 2009. Growth in core deposits, up 15% from 2009, and the related increase
in fees and commissions, helped offset the impact on loan revenues of lower loan balances in 2010.
Total noninterest expense increased 5% as continued focus on expense management helped keep the
rate of expense growth below the rate of revenue growth, resulting in an overall operating
efficiency ratio of 51% versus 52% in 2009. Loan loss rates also improved from 2009 levels, which
allowed for a $561 million release of the allowance for loan losses in 2010.

Our financial results in 2010 were driven by the performance of our many diverse businesses,
including the real estate capital markets group, which re-entered the commercial MBS securitization
market with its first deal in three years; investment banking, which helped drive more than $172
million of growth in trust and investment fees; commercial mortgage servicing, which capitalized on
its strong competitive position to win the servicing rights on more than 70% of new commercial MBS
deals; and commercial real estate, where re-pricing efforts lifted loan portfolio yields 49 basis
points to add $180 million in revenue growth.

Wholesale Banking s performance was also supported by additional efficiencies created by the
merger with Wachovia. Key achievements included funds management group consolidations, leasing and
equipment finance system migrations,  Commercial Electronic Office        
( CEO        ) access for Wachovia Global Connect customers, and building of treasury
product solutions to prepare for full customer migrations in 2011.

48 

Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement  provides a full range of financial advisory services to clients
using a planning approach to meet each client s needs. Wealth Management provides
affluent and high net worth clients with a complete range of wealth management solutions including
financial planning, private banking, credit, investment management and trust. Family Wealth meets
the unique needs of the ultra high net worth customers. Brokerage serves customers  advisory,
brokerage and financial needs as part of one of the largest full-service brokerage firms in the
United States. Retirement is a national leader in providing institutional retirement and trust
services (including 401(k) and pension plan record keeping) for businesses, retail retirement
solutions for individuals, and reinsurance services for the life insurance industry.

Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement earned net income of $1.0 billion in 2010. Revenue of $11.7
billion included a mix of brokerage commissions, asset-based fees and net interest income. Net
interest income growth was dampened by the continued low short-term interest rate environment.
Equity market gains helped drive growth in fee income. During 2010 client assets grew 6% from a
year ago, including managed account asset growth of 20%. Deposit balances grew 10% during 2010.
Expenses increased slightly from the prior year due to growth in broker commissions partially
offset by the realization of merger synergies during the year and the loss reserve for the auction
rate securities (ARS) legal settlement in 2009. The wealth, brokerage and retirement businesses
have strengthened partnerships across the Company, working with Community Banking and Wholesale
Banking to provide financial solutions for clients.

Balance Sheet Analysis 

During 2010, our total assets grew 1%, funded by core deposit growth of 2% and internal
capital generation, partially offset by a reduction in our long-term borrowings. As a result of
continued soft loan demand, our loans decreased 3% and most of our asset growth was therefore in
more liquid earning assets. However, the strength of our business model continued to produce high
rates of internal capital generation as reflected in our improved capital ratios. Tier 1 capital
increased to 11.16% as a percentage of total risk-weighted assets, total capital to 15.01%, Tier 1
leverage to 9.19% and Tier 1 common equity to 8.30% at

December 31, 2010, up from 9.25%, 13.26%,
7.87% and 6.46%, respectively, at December 31, 2009. At December 31, 2010, core deposits funded
105% of the loan portfolio, and we have significant capacity to add loans and higher yielding
long-term MBS to generate future revenue and earnings growth.

The following discussion provides additional information about the major components of our
balance sheet. Information about changes in our asset mix and about our capital is included in the
 Earnings Performance   Net Interest Income  and  Capital Management  sections of this Report.

Securities Available for Sale 

Table 10:  Securities Available for Sale   Summary 

Table 10 presents a summary of our securities available-for-sale portfolio. Securities
available for sale consist of both debt and marketable equity securities. We hold debt securities
available for sale primarily for liquidity, interest rate risk management and long-term yield
enhancement. Accordingly, this portfolio consists primarily of very liquid, high-quality federal
agency debt and privately issued MBS. The total net unrealized gains on securities available for
sale were $8.3 billion at December 31, 2010, up from net unrealized gains of $5.6 billion at
December 31, 2009, due to a general decline in long-term yields and narrowing of credit spreads.

We analyze securities for OTTI quarterly, or more often if a potential loss-triggering event
occurs. Of the $692 million OTTI write-downs in 2010, $672 million related to debt securities and

$20 million to equity securities. For a discussion of our OTTI accounting policies and underlying
considerations and analysis see Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies   Securities)
and Note 5 (Securities Available for Sale) to Financial Statements in this Report.

At December 31, 2010, debt securities available for sale included $19 billion of municipal
bonds, of which 84% were rated  A-  or better, based on external, and in some cases internal,
ratings. Additionally, some of these bonds are guaranteed against loss by bond insurers. These
bonds are predominantly investment grade and were generally underwritten in accordance with our own
investment standards prior to the determination to purchase, without relying on the bond insurer s
guarantee in making the investment decision. These municipal bonds will continue to be monitored as part of

49 

Balance Sheet Analysis    (continued)  

our on-going impairment analysis of
our securities available for sale.

The weighted-average expected maturity of debt securities available for sale was 6.1 years at
December 31, 2010. Because 69% of this portfolio is MBS, the expected remaining maturity may differ
from contractual maturity because borrowers generally have the right to prepay obligations before
the underlying mortgages mature. The estimated effect of a 200 basis point increase or decrease in
interest rates on the fair value and the expected remaining maturity of the MBS available for sale
are shown in Table 11.

Table 11:  Mortgage-Backed Securities 

See Note 5 (Securities Available for Sale) to Financial Statements in this Report for
securities available for sale by security type.

Loan Portfolio 

Table 12:  Loan Portfolios 

Balances decreased during 2010 for nearly all types of loans as demand remained soft in
response to economic conditions. Non-strategic and liquidating loan portfolios decreased by $26.3
billion from 2009. Table 12 provides a breakdown by loan portfolio.

A discussion of average loan balances and a comparative detail of average loan balances is
included in Table 5 under  Earnings Performance   Net Interest Income  earlier in this Report.
Year-end balances and other loan related information are in Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit
Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report.

Effective June 30, 2010, real estate construction outstanding balances and all other related
data include certain commercial real estate (CRE) secured loans acquired from Wachovia previously
classified as real estate mortgage. Balances for 2009 and 2008 have been revised to conform with
the current presentation.

Table 13 shows contractual loan maturities for selected loan categories and sensitivities of those loans to changes in interest rates.

50 

Table 13:  Maturities for Selected Loan Categories 

Deposits 

Deposits totaled $847.9 billion at December 31, 2010, compared with $824.0 billion at December
31, 2009. Table 14 provides additional detail regarding deposits. Comparative detail of average
deposit balances is provided in Table 5 under  Earnings Performance   Net Interest Income  earlier
in this

Report. Total core deposits were $798.2 billion at December 31, 2010, up $17.5 billion from
$780.7 billion at December 31, 2009. We continued to gain new deposit customers and deepen our
relationships with existing customers.

Table 14:  Deposits 

(1) 
       
     Reflects Eurodollar sweep balances included in core deposits. 

51 

Balance Sheet Analysis    (continued)  

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 

In the ordinary course of business, we engage in financial transactions that are not
recorded in the balance sheet, or may be recorded in the balance sheet in amounts that are
different from the full contract or notional amount of the transaction. These transactions are
designed to (1) meet the financial needs of customers, (2) manage our credit, market or liquidity
risks, (3) diversify our funding sources, and/or (4) optimize capital.

Off-Balance Sheet Transactions with Unconsolidated Entities 

We routinely enter into various types of on- and off-balance sheet transactions with special
purpose entities (SPEs), which are corporations, trusts or partnerships that are established for a
limited purpose. Historically, the majority of SPEs were formed in connection with securitization
transactions. For more information on securitizations, including sales proceeds and cash flows from
securitizations, see Note 8 (Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities) to Financial
Statements in this Report.

Newly Consolidated VIE Assets and Liabilities 

Effective January 1, 2010, we adopted new consolidation accounting guidance and, accordingly,
consolidated certain variable interest entities (VIEs) that were not included in our consolidated
financial statements at December 31, 2009. On January 1, 2010, we recorded the assets and
liabilities of the newly consolidated VIEs and derecognized our existing interests in those VIEs.
We also recorded a $183 million increase to beginning retained earnings as a cumulative effect
adjustment and recorded a $173 million increase to other comprehensive income (OCI).

Table 15 presents the net incremental assets recorded on our balance sheet by structure type
upon adoption of new consolidation accounting guidance.

Table
15:  Net Incremental Assets Upon Adoption of New Consolidation Accounting Guidance 

(1) 
       
     Represents certain of our residential
mortgage loans that are not guaranteed by
government-sponsored entities (GSEs)
( nonconforming ). 

In accordance with the transition provisions of the new consolidation accounting guidance,
we initially recorded newly consolidated VIE assets and liabilities on a basis consistent with our
accounting for respective assets at their amortized cost basis, except for those VIEs for which the
fair value option was elected. The carrying amount for loans approximates the outstanding unpaid
principal balance, adjusted for allowance for loan losses. Short-term borrowings and long-term debt
approximate the outstanding principal amount due to creditors.

Upon adoption of new consolidation accounting guidance on January 1, 2010, we elected fair
value option accounting for certain nonconforming residential mortgage loan securitization VIEs.
This election requires us to recognize the VIE s eligible assets and liabilities on the balance
sheet at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in earnings.

Such eligible assets and liabilities consisted primarily of loans and long-term debt,
respectively. The fair value option was elected for those newly consolidated VIEs for which our
interests, prior to January 1, 2010, were predominantly carried at fair value with changes in fair
value recorded to earnings. Accordingly, the fair value option was elected to effectively continue
fair value accounting through earnings for those interests. Conversely, fair value option was not
elected for those newly consolidated VIEs that did not share these characteristics. At January 1,
2010, the fair value for both loans and long-term debt for which the fair value option was elected
was $1.0 billion each. The incremental impact of electing fair value option (compared to not
electing) on the cumulative effect adjustment to retained earnings was an increase of $15 million.

Guarantees and Certain Contingent Arrangements 

Guarantees are contracts that contingently require us to make payments to a guaranteed party based on an event or a change in an underlying asset,
liability, rate or index. Guarantees are generally in the form of standby letters of credit, securities lending and other
indemnifications, liquidity agreements,
written put options, recourse obligations, residual value guarantees and contingent consideration.

For more information on guarantees and certain contingent arrangements, see Note 14 (Guarantees and Legal Actions) to Financial
Statements in this Report.

52 

Contractual Obligations 

In addition to the contractual commitments and arrangements previously described, which,
depending on the nature of the obligation, may or may not require use of our resources, we enter
into other contractual obligations in the ordinary course of business, including debt issuances for
the funding of operations and leases for premises and equipment.

Table 16 summarizes these contractual obligations as of December 31, 2010, excluding
obligations for short-term borrowing arrangements and pension and postretirement benefit plans.
More information on those obligations is in Note 12 (Short-Term Borrowings) and Note 19 (Employee
Benefits and Other Expenses) to Financial Statements in this Report.

Table 16:  Contractual Obligations 

(1) 
       
     Includes interest-bearing and noninterest-bearing checking, and market rate and other savings accounts. 

(2) 
       
     Includes obligations under capital leases of $26 million. 

(3) 
       
     Represents agreements to purchase goods or services. 

We are subject to the income tax laws of the U.S., its states and municipalities, and
those of the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate. We have various unrecognized tax
obligations related to these operations that may require future cash tax payments to various taxing
authorities. Because of their uncertain nature, the expected timing and amounts of these payments
generally are not reasonably estimable or determinable. We attempt to estimate the amount payable
in the next 12 months based on the status of our tax examinations and settlement discussions. See
Note 20 (Income Taxes) to Financial Statements in this Report for more information.

We enter into derivatives, which create contractual obligations, as part of our interest rate
risk management process for our customers or for other trading activities. See the  Risk Management
  Asset/Liability  section and Note 15 (Derivatives) to Financial Statements in this Report for
more information.

Transactions with Related Parties 

The Related Party Disclosures topic of the Codification requires disclosure of material related
party transactions, other than compensation arrangements, expense allowances and other similar
items in the ordinary course of business. We had no related party transactions required to be
reported for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008.

53 

Risk Management 

All financial institutions must manage and control a variety of business risks that can
significantly affect their financial performance. Key among those are credit, asset/liability and
market risk.

Credit Risk Management 

Our credit risk management process is governed centrally, but provides for decentralized
management and accountability by our lines of business. Our overall credit process includes
comprehensive credit policies, judgmental or statistical credit underwriting, frequent and detailed
risk measurement and modeling, extensive credit training programs, and a continual loan review and
audit process. In addition, banking regulatory examiners review and perform detailed tests of our
credit underwriting, loan administration and allowance processes.

A key to our credit risk management is adhering to a well controlled underwriting process,
which we believe is appropriate for the needs of our customers as well as investors who purchase
the loans or securities collateralized by the loans. We approve applications and make loans only if
we believe the customer has the ability to repay the loan or line of credit according to all its
terms. Our underwriting of loans collateralized by residential real property includes appraisals or
automated valuation models (AVMs) to support property values. AVMs are computer-based tools used to
estimate the market value of homes. AVMs are a lower-cost alternative to appraisals and support
valuations of large numbers of properties in a short period of time. AVMs estimate property values
based on processing large volumes of market data including market comparables and price trends for
local market areas. The primary risk associated with the use of AVMs is that the value of an
individual property may vary significantly from the average for the market area. We have processes
to periodically validate AVMs and specific risk management guidelines addressing the circumstances
when AVMs may be used. Generally AVMs are used in underwriting to support property values on loan
originations only where the loan amount is under $250,000. For underwriting residential property
loans of $250,000 or more, we require property visitation appraisals by qualified independent
appraisers.

We continually evaluate and modify our credit policies to address appropriate levels of risk.
Accordingly, from time to time, we designate certain portfolios and loan products as non-strategic
or high risk to limit or cease their continued origination as we actively work to limit losses and
reduce our exposures.

Table 17 identifies our non-strategic and liquidating loan portfolios as of December 31, 2010,
2009 and 2008. These portfolios have decreased 32% since the merger with Wachovia at December 31,
2008, and decreased 19% from the end of 2009. The portfolios consist primarily of the Pick-a-Pay
mortgages portfolio and PCI loans acquired in our acquisition of Wachovia as well as some
portfolios from legacy Wells Fargo home equity and Wells Fargo Financial. The legacy Wells Fargo

Financial debt consolidation portfolio included $1.2 billion and $1.6 billion at December 31, 2010
and 2009, respectively, that was considered prime based on secondary market standards. The
remainder is non-prime but was originated with standards to reduce credit risk. These loans were
originated through our retail channel with documented income, LTV limits based on credit quality
and property characteristics, and risk-based pricing. In addition, the loans were originated
without teaser rates, interest-only or negative amortization features. Credit losses in the
portfolio have increased in the current economic environment compared with historical levels, but
performance has remained similar to prime portfolios in the industry with overall loss rates of
4.15% in 2010 on the entire portfolio. Analysis of the Pick-a-Pay and the commercial and industrial
and CRE domestic PCI portfolios is presented later in this section.

Table 17:  Non-Strategic and Liquidating Loan Portfolios 

(1) 
       
     Net of purchase accounting adjustments related to PCI loans. 

(2) 
       
     These portfolios were designated as non-strategic and liquidating in 2010. Prior periods have been
adjusted to reflect this change. 

(3) 
       
     In July 2010, we announced the restructuring of our Wells Fargo Financial division and the exiting
of the origination of non-prime portfolio mortgage loans. 

Measuring and monitoring our credit risk is an ongoing process that tracks delinquencies,
collateral values, FICO scores, economic trends by geographic areas, loan-level risk grading for
certain portfolios (typically commercial) and other indications of credit risk. Our credit risk
monitoring process is designed to enable early identification of developing risk and to support our
determination of an adequate allowance for credit losses. The following analysis reviews the
relevant concentrations and certain credit metrics of our significant portfolios. See Note 6 (Loans
and Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report for more analysis and
credit metric information.

54 

COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE (CRE)  

The CRE portfolio consists of both CRE mortgages and CRE
construction loans. The combined CRE loans outstanding totaled $124.8 billion at December 31, 2010,
or 16% of total loans. Of the $124.8 billion, approximately $5.8 billion represents the net balance
of PCI CRE loans. CRE construction loans totaled $25.3 billion at December 31, 2010, or 3% of total
loans. CRE mortgage loans totaled $99.4 billion at December 31, 2010, or 13% of total loans, of
which over 40% is to owner-occupants, who historically have a low level of default. The portfolio
is diversified both geographically and by property type. The largest geographic concentrations are
found in California and Florida, which represented 23% and 11% of the total CRE portfolio,
respectively. By property type, the largest concentrations are office buildings at 23% and
industrial/warehouse at 11% of the portfolio.

The underwriting of CRE loans primarily focuses on cash flows and creditworthiness, in
addition to collateral valuations. To identify and manage newly emerging problem CRE loans, we
employ a high level of surveillance and regular customer interaction to understand and manage the
risks associated with these assets, including regular loan reviews and appraisal updates. As issues
are identified, management is engaged and dedicated workout groups are put in place to manage
problem assets. At December 31, 2010, the recorded investment in PCI CRE loans totaled $5.8
billion, down from $12.3 billion since the Wachovia acquisition at December 31, 2008, reflecting
the reduction resulting from loan resolutions and write-downs.

Table 18 summarizes CRE loans by state and property type with the related nonaccrual totals.
At December 31, 2010, the highest concentration of total loans by state was $28.2 billion in
California, more than double the next largest state concentration, and the related nonaccrual loans
totaled about $1.5 billion, or 5% of CRE loans in California. Office buildings, at $28.7 billion,
were the largest property type concentration, more than double the next largest, and the related
nonaccrual loans totaled $1.4 billion, or 5% of total CRE loans for office buildings. In aggregate,
nonaccrual loans totaled 7% of the non-PCI outstanding balance at December 31, 2010.

55 

Risk
Management   Credit Risk Management    (continued)  

Table 18:  CRE Loans by State and Property Type 

* 
       
     Less than 1%. 

(1) 
       
     For PCI loans, amounts represent carrying value. 

(2) 
       
     Includes 35 states; no state had loans in excess of $436 million. 

(3) 
       
     Includes 40 states; no state had loans in excess of $3.1 billion. 

(4) 
       
     Includes $40.0 billion of loans to owner-occupants where 51% or more of the property is used
in the conduct of their business. 

56 

COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL LOANS AND LEASE FINANCING  For purposes of portfolio risk
management, we aggregate commercial and industrial loans and lease financing according to market
segmentation and standard industry codes. Table 19 summarizes commercial and industrial loans and
lease financing by industry with the related nonaccrual totals. While this portfolio has
experienced deterioration in the current credit cycle, we believe this portfolio has experienced
less credit deterioration than our CRE portfolios. For the year ended December 31, 2010, the
commercial and industrial loans and lease financing portfolios had (1) a lower percentage of loans
90 days or more past due and still accruing (0.19% at year end; 0.24% for CRE), (2) a lower
percentage of nonperforming loans to total loans outstanding (2.02% at year end; 6.33% for CRE),
and (3) a lower loss rate to average total loans (1.50% for the year; 1.67% for CRE). We believe
this portfolio is well underwritten and is diverse in its risk with relatively even concentrations
across several industries. A majority of our commercial and industrial loans and lease financing
portfolio is secured by short-term liquid assets, such as accounts receivable, inventory and
securities, as well as long-lived assets, such as equipment and other business assets. Our credit
risk management process for this portfolio primarily focuses on a customer s ability to repay the
loan through their cash flow. Generally, the collateral securing this portfolio represents a
secondary source of repayment.

Table 19:  Commercial and Industrial Loans and Lease Financing by Industry 

* 
       
     Less than 1%. 

(1) 
       
     For PCI loans, amounts represent carrying value. 

(2) 
       
     No other single category had loans in excess of $35 million. 

(3) 
       
     No other single category had loans in excess of $4.6 billion. The next largest categories
included public administration, hotel/restaurant, media, non-residential construction and
securities firms. 

57 

Risk Management   Credit Risk Management    (continued)  

During the recent credit cycle, we have experienced an increase in requests for
extensions of commercial and industrial and CRE loans, which have repayment guarantees. All
extensions granted are based on a re-underwriting of the loan and our assessment of the borrower s
ability to perform under the agreed-upon terms. At the time of extension, borrowers are generally
performing in accordance with the contractual loan terms. Extension terms generally range from six
to thirty-six months and may require that the borrower provide additional economic support in the
form of partial repayment, amortization or additional collateral or guarantees. In cases where the
value of collateral or financial condition of the borrower is insufficient to repay our loan, we
may rely upon the support of an outside repayment guarantee in providing the extension. In
considering the impairment status of the loan, we evaluate the collateral and future cash flows as
well as the anticipated support of any repayment guarantor. When performance under a loan is not
reasonably assured, including the performance of the guarantor, we place the loan on nonaccrual
status and we charge-off all or a portion of a loan based on the fair value of the collateral
securing the loan.

Our ability to seek performance under the guarantee is directly related to the guarantor s
creditworthiness, capacity and willingness to perform, which is evaluated on an annual basis, or
more frequently as warranted. Our evaluation is based on the most current financial information
available and is focused on various key financial metrics, including net worth, leverage, and
current and future liquidity. We consider the guarantor s reputation, creditworthiness, and
willingness to work with us based on our analysis as well as other lenders  experience with the
guarantor. Our assessment of the guarantor s credit strength is reflected in our loan risk ratings
for such loans. The loan risk rating is an important factor in our allowance methodology for
commercial and industrial and CRE loans.

REAL ESTATE 1-4 FAMILY FIRST MORTGAGE LOANS  The concentrations of real estate 1-4 family
mortgage loans by state are presented in Table 20. Our real estate 1-4 family mortgage loans to
borrowers in California represented approximately 14% of total loans (3% of this amount were PCI
loans from Wachovia) at both December 31, 2010 and 2009, mostly within the larger metropolitan
areas, with no single area consisting of more than 3% of total loans. Changes in real estate values
and underlying economic or market conditions for these areas are monitored continuously within our
credit risk management process.

Some of our real estate 1-4 family mortgage loans (representing first mortgage and home equity
products) include an interest-only feature as part of the loan terms. At December 31, 2010, these
loans were approximately 25% of total loans, compared with 26% at the end of 2009. Substantially
all of these loans are considered to be prime or near prime. We believe we have manageable
adjustable-rate mortgage (ARM) reset risk across our Wells Fargo originated and owned mortgage loan
portfolios.

Table 20:  Real Estate 1-4 Family Mortgage Loans by State 

* 
       
     Less than 1%. 

(1) 
       
     Consists of 45 states; no state had loans in excess of $759 million. 

(2) 
       
     Consists of 41 states; no state had loans in excess of $7.2 billion. Includes $15.5 billion
in Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA) pool buyouts. 

58 

PURCHASED CREDIT-IMPAIRED (PCI) LOANS  As of December 31, 2008, certain of the loans
acquired from Wachovia had evidence of credit deterioration since their origination, and it was
probable that we would not collect all contractually required principal and interest payments. Such
loans identified at the time of the acquisition were accounted for using the measurement provisions
for PCI loans. PCI loans were recorded at fair value at the date of acquisition, and the historical
allowance for credit losses related to these loans was not carried over.

PCI loans were written down to an amount estimated to be collectible. Accordingly, such loans
are not classified as nonaccrual, even though they may be contractually past due, because we expect
to fully collect the new carrying values of such loans (that is, the new cost basis arising out of
our purchase accounting).

A nonaccretable difference was established in purchase accounting for PCI loans to absorb
losses expected at that time on those loans. Amounts absorbed by the nonaccretable difference do
not affect the income statement or the allowance for credit losses.

Substantially all commercial and industrial, CRE and foreign PCI loans are accounted for as
individual loans. Conversely, Pick-a-Pay and other consumer PCI loans have been aggregated into
several pools based on common risk characteristics. Each pool is accounted for as a single asset
with a single composite interest rate and an aggregate expectation of cash flows.

Resolutions of loans may include sales of loans to third parties, receipt of payments in
settlement with the borrower, or

foreclosure of the collateral. Our policy is to remove an
individual loan from a pool based on comparing the amount received from its resolution with its
contractual amount. Any difference between these amounts is absorbed by the nonaccretable
difference. This removal method assumes that the amount received from resolution approximates pool
performance expectations. The remaining accretable yield balance is unaffected and any material
change in remaining effective yield caused by this removal method is addressed by our quarterly
cash flow evaluation process for each pool. For loans that are resolved by payment in full, there
is no release of the nonaccretable difference for the pool because there is no difference between
the amount received at resolution and the contractual amount of the loan. Modified PCI loans are
not removed from a pool even if those loans would otherwise be deemed troubled debt restructurings
(TDRs). Modified PCI loans that are accounted for individually are considered TDRs, and removed
from PCI accounting, if there has been a concession granted in excess of the original nonaccretable
difference.

During 2010, we recognized in income $989 million of nonaccretable difference related to
commercial PCI loans due to payoffs and dispositions of these loans. We also transferred $3.4
billion from the nonaccretable difference to the accretable yield, of which $2.4 billion was due to
sustained positive performance in the Pick-a-Pay portfolio evidenced through an increase in
expected cash flows. Table 21 provides an analysis of changes in the nonaccretable difference
related to principal that is not expected to be collected.

Table 21:  Changes in Nonaccretable Difference for PCI Loans 

(1) 
       
     Release of the nonaccretable difference for settlement with borrower, on individually accounted PCI loans, increases interest income in the period of settlement. Pick-a-Pay and Other consumer PCI loans do
not reflect nonaccretable difference releases due to pool accounting for those loans, which assumes that the amount received approximates the pool performance expectations. 

(2) 
       
     Release of the nonaccretable difference as a result of sales to third parties increases noninterest income in the period of the sale. 

(3) 
       
     Reclassification of nonaccretable difference to accretable yield for loans with increased cash flow estimates will result in increased interest income as a prospective yield adjustment over the remaining
life of the loan or pool of loans. 

(4) 
       
     Write-downs to net realizable value of PCI loans are absorbed by the nonaccretable difference when severe delinquency (normally 180 days) or other indications of severe borrower financial stress exist that
indicate there will be a loss of contractually due amounts upon final resolution of the loan. 

59 

Risk Management   Credit Risk Management    (continued)  

Since the Wachovia acquisition, we have released $5.3 billion in nonaccretable difference
for certain PCI loans and pools of loans, including $3.8 billion transferred from the nonaccretable
difference to the accretable yield and $1.5 billion released through loan resolutions. We have
provided $1.6 billion in the allowance for credit losses for certain PCI loans or pools of loans
that have had loss-related decreases to cash flows expected to be collected. The net result is a
$3.7 billion improvement in our initial projected losses on all PCI loans.

At December 31, 2010, the allowance for credit losses in excess of nonaccretable difference on
certain PCI loans was $298 million. The allowance is necessary to absorb decreases in cash flows
expected to be collected since acquisition and primarily relates to individual PCI loans. Table 22
analyzes the actual and projected loss results on PCI loans since the acquisition of Wachovia on
December 31, 2008, through December 31, 2010.

Table 22:  Actual and Projected Loss Results on PCI Loans 

(1) 
       
     Release of the nonaccretable difference for settlement with borrower, on individually accounted PCI loans, increases interest income in the period of settlement. Pick-a-Pay and Other consumer PCI loans do not reflect nonaccretable difference
releases due to pool accounting for those loans, which
assumes that the amount received approximates the pool performance expectations. 

(2) 
       
     Release of the nonaccretable difference as a result of sales to third parties increases noninterest income in the period of the sale. 

(3) 
       
     Reclassification of nonaccretable difference to accretable yield for loans with increased cash flow estimates will result in increased interest income as a prospective yield adjustment over the remaining life of the loan or pool of
loans. 

(4) 
       
     Provision for additional losses recorded as a charge to income, when it is estimated that the cash flows expected to be collected for a PCI loan or pool of loans have decreased subsequent to the acquisition. 

For further detail on PCI loans, see Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
  Loans) and Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this
Report.

60 

PICK-A-PAY PORTFOLIO  The Pick-a-Pay portfolio was one of the consumer residential first
mortgage portfolios we acquired from Wachovia. We considered a majority of the Pick-a-Pay loans to
be PCI loans.

The Pick-a-Pay portfolio had an outstanding balance of $84.2 billion and a carrying value of
$74.8 billion at December 31, 2010. It is a liquidating portfolio, as Wachovia ceased originating
new Pick-a-Pay loans in 2008.

Real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgages and lines of credit associated with Pick-a-Pay
loans are reported in the Home Equity core portfolio. The Pick-a-Pay portfolio includes loans

that
offer payment options (Pick-a-Pay option payment loans), loans that were originated without the
option payment feature, loans that no longer offer the option feature as a result of our
modification efforts since the acquisition, and loans where the customer voluntarily converted to a
fixed-rate product. The Pick-a-Pay portfolio is included in the consumer real estate 1-4 family
first mortgage class of loans in Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial
Statements in this Report. Table 23 provides balances over time related to the types of loans
included in the portfolio.

Table 23:  Pick-a-Pay Portfolio - Balances Over Time 

(1) 
       
     Unpaid principal balance includes write-downs taken on loans where severe delinquency (normally 180 days) or other indications of severe borrower financial stress
exist that indicate there will be a loss of contractually due amounts upon final resolution of the loan. 

PCI loans in the Pick-a-Pay portfolio had an outstanding balance of $41.9 billion and a
carrying value of $32.4 billion at December 31, 2010. The carrying value of the PCI loans is net of
remaining purchase accounting write-downs, which reflected their fair value at acquisition. Upon
acquisition, we recorded a $22.4 billion write-down in purchase accounting on Pick-a-Pay loans that
were impaired.

Due to the sustained positive performance observed on the Pick-a-Pay portfolio compared to the
original acquisition estimates, we have reclassified $2.4 billion from the nonaccretable difference
to the accretable yield since the Wachovia merger. This improvement in the lifetime credit outlook
for this portfolio is primarily attributable to the significant modification efforts as well as the
portfolio s delinquency stabilization. This improvement in the credit outlook is expected to be
realized over the remaining life of the portfolio, which is estimated to have a weighted-average
life of approximately nine years. The accretable yield percentage at the end of 2010 was 4.54%
compared with 5.34% at the end of 2009. Fluctuations in the accretable yield are driven by changes
in interest rate indices for variable rate PCI loans, prepayment assumptions, and expected
principal and interest payments over the estimated life of the portfolio. Changes in the projected
timing of cash flow events, including loan liquidations, modifications and short sales, can also
affect the accretable yield percentage and the estimated weighted-average life of the portfolio.

Pick-a-Pay option payment loans may be adjustable or fixed rate. They are home mortgages on
which the customer has the

option each month to select from among four payment options: (1) a minimum payment as described
below, (2) an interest-only payment, (3) a fully amortizing 15-year payment, or (4) a fully
amortizing 30-year payment.

The minimum monthly payment for substantially all of our Pick-a-Pay loans is reset annually.
The new minimum monthly payment amount usually cannot increase by more than 7.5% of the
then-existing principal and interest payment amount. The minimum payment may not be sufficient to
pay the monthly interest due and in those situations a loan on which the customer has made a
minimum payment is subject to  negative amortization,  where unpaid interest is added to the
principal balance of the loan. The amount of interest that has been added to a loan balance is
referred to as  deferred interest.  Total deferred interest of $2.7 billion at December 31, 2010,
was down from $3.7 billion at December 31, 2009, due to loan modification efforts as well as
falling interest rates resulting in the minimum payment option covering the interest and some
principal on many loans. At December 31, 2010, approximately 75% of customers choosing the minimum
payment option did not defer interest.

Deferral of interest on a Pick-a-Pay loan may continue as long as the loan balance remains
below a pre-defined principal cap, which is based on the percentage that the current loan balance
represents to the original loan balance. Loans with an original loan-to-value (LTV) ratio equal to
or below 85% have a cap of 125% of the original loan balance, and these loans represent
substantially all the Pick-a-Pay portfolio. Loans with an original LTV ratio above 85% have a cap
of 110% of the

61 

Risk Management   Credit Risk Management    (continued)  

original loan balance. Most of the Pick-a-Pay loans on which there is a deferred interest balance
re-amortize (the monthly payment amount is reset or  recast ) on the earlier of the date when the
loan balance reaches its principal cap, or the 10-year anniversary of the loan. For a small
population of Pick-a-Pay loans, the recast occurs at the five-year anniversary. After a recast, the
customers  new payment terms are reset to the amount necessary to repay the balance over the
remainder of the original loan term.

Due to the terms of the Pick-a-Pay portfolio, there is little recast risk over the next three
years. Based on assumptions of a flat rate environment, if all eligible customers elect the minimum
payment option 100% of the time and no balances prepay, we would expect the following balances of
loans to recast based on reaching the principal cap: $3 million in 2011, $4 million in 2012 and $32
million in 2013. In 2010, the amount of loans recast based on reaching the principal cap was $1
million. In addition, we would expect the following balances of loans to start fully

amortizing due
to reaching their recast anniversary date and also having a payment change at the recast date
greater than the annual 7.5% reset: $34 million in 2011, $69 million in 2012 and $275 million in
2013. In 2010, the amount of loans reaching their recast anniversary date and also having a payment
change over the annual 7.5% reset was $39 million.

Table 24 reflects the geographic distribution of the Pick-a-Pay portfolio broken out between
PCI loans and all other loans. In stressed housing markets with declining home prices and
increasing delinquencies, the LTV ratio is a useful metric in predicting future real estate 1-4
family first mortgage loan performance, including potential charge-offs. Because PCI loans were
initially recorded at fair value, including write-downs for expected credit losses, the ratio of
the carrying value to the current collateral value will be lower compared with the LTV based on the
unpaid principal balance. For informational purposes, we have included both ratios in the following
table.

Table 24:  Pick-a-Pay Portfolio (1) 

(1) 
       
     The individual states shown in this table represent the top five states based on the total net carrying value of the Pick-a-Pay loans at the beginning of 2010. 

(2) 
       
     Unpaid principal balance includes write-downs taken on loans where severe delinquency (normally 180 days) or other indications of severe borrower financial stress exist that indicate there will be a loss of contractually due
amounts upon final resolution of the loan. 

(3) 
       
     The current LTV ratio is calculated as the unpaid principal balance divided by the collateral value. Collateral values are generally determined using automated valuation models (AVM) and are updated quarterly. AVMs
are computer-based tools used to estimate market values of homes based on processing large volumes of market data including market comparables and price trends for local market areas. 

(4) 
       
     Carrying value, which does not reflect the allowance for loan losses, includes remaining purchase accounting adjustments, which, for PCI loans may include the nonaccretable difference and the accretable yield and, for all other
loans, an adjustment to mark the loans to a market yield at date of merger less any subsequent charge-offs. 

To maximize return and allow flexibility for customers to avoid foreclosure, we have in
place several loss mitigation strategies for our Pick-a-Pay loan portfolio. We contact customers
who are experiencing difficulty and may in certain cases modify the terms of a loan based on a
customer s documented income and other circumstances.

We also have taken steps to work with customers to refinance or restructure their Pick-a-Pay
loans into other loan products. For customers at risk, we offer combinations of term extensions of
up to 40 years (from 30 years), interest rate reductions, forbearance of principal, and, in
geographies with substantial property value declines, we may offer permanent principal reductions.

In 2009, we rolled out the U.S. Treasury Department s Home Affordability Modification Program
(HAMP) to the customers in

this portfolio. As of December 31, 2010, more than 11,000 HAMP applications were being reviewed by
our loan servicing department and more than 7,000 loans have been approved for the HAMP trial
modification. We believe a key factor to successful loss mitigation is tailoring the revised loan
payment to the customer s sustainable income. We continually reassess our loss mitigation
strategies and may adopt additional or different strategies in the future.

In 2010, we completed more than 27,700 proprietary and HAMP loan modifications and have
completed more than 80,400 modifications since the Wachovia acquisition, resulting in $3.7 billion
of principal forgiveness to our customers. The majority of the loan modifications were concentrated
in our PCI Pick-a-Pay loan portfolio. Approximately 49,000 modification offers were proactively
sent to customers in 2010. As part of the modification process, the loans are re-underwritten, income is documented and the negative
amortization feature is eliminated.

62 

Most of the modifications result in material payment reduction
to the customer. Because of the write-down of the PCI loans in purchase accounting, our post-merger
modifications to PCI Pick-

a-Pay loans have not resulted in any modification-related provision for
credit losses. To the extent we modify loans not in the PCI Pick-a-Pay portfolio, we may establish
an allowance for consumer loans modified in a TDR.

HOME EQUITY PORTFOLIOS  The deterioration in specific segments of the legacy Wells Fargo
Home Equity portfolios, which began in 2007, required a targeted approach to managing these assets.
In fourth quarter 2007, a liquidating portfolio was identified, consisting of home equity loans
generated through the wholesale channel not behind a Wells Fargo first mortgage, and home equity
loans acquired through correspondents. The liquidating portfolio was $6.9 billion at December 31,
2010, compared with $8.4 billion at December 31, 2009. The loans in this liquidating portfolio
represent less than 1% of our total loans outstanding at December 31, 2010, and contain some of the
highest risk in our $117.5 billion Home Equity portfolio, with a loss rate of 10.90% compared with
3.62% for the core portfolio.

The loans in the liquidating portfolio are largely concentrated in geographic markets that
have experienced the most abrupt and steepest declines in housing prices. The core portfolio was
$110.6 billion at December 31, 2010, of which 98% was originated through the retail channel and
approximately 19% of the outstanding balance was in a first lien position. Table 25 includes the
credit attributes of the Home Equity portfolios. California loans represent the largest state
concentration in each of these portfolios and have experienced among the highest early-term
delinquency and loss rates.

Table 25:  Home Equity Portfolios (1) 

(1) 
       
     Consists predominantly of real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgages and first and junior lines of credit secured by real estate, excluding PCI loans. 

(2) 
       
     Includes $1.7 billion and $1.8 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, associated with the Pick-a-Pay portfolio. 

CREDIT CARDS  Our credit card portfolio totaled $22.3 billion at December 31,
2010, which represented 3% of our total outstanding loans and was smaller than the credit card
portfolios of each of our large bank peers. Delinquencies of 30 days or more were 4.4% of credit
card outstandings at December 31, 2010, down from 5.5% a year ago. Net charge-offs were 9.7% for
2010, down from 10.8% in 2009, reflecting previous risk mitigation efforts and overall economic
improvements.

63 

Risk Management   Credit Risk Management    (continued)  

NONACCRUAL LOANS AND OTHER NONPERFORMING ASSETS  

Table 26 shows the five-year trend for
nonaccrual loans and other NPAs. We generally place loans on nonaccrual status when:

the full and timely collection of interest or principal becomes uncertain; 

they are 90 days (120 days with respect to real estate 1-4 family first and junior lien
mortgages) past due for interest or principal, unless both well-secured and in the process of
collection; or 

part of the principal balance has been charged off and no restructuring has occurred. 

Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting
 Policies   Loans) to Financial Statements in this
Report describes our accounting policy for nonaccrual and impaired loans.

Wachovia nonaccrual loans were virtually eliminated at December 31, 2008 (acquisition date),
due to the purchase accounting adjustments. As a result, the rate of growth for nonaccrual loans
since acquisition has been higher than it would have been without the PCI loan accounting. The
impact of purchase accounting on our credit data will diminish over time. Table 27 summarizes NPAs
for each of the four quarters of 2010 and shows a decline in the total balance in fourth quarter
2010 for the first quarter since the acquisition of Wachovia.

Table 26:  Nonaccrual Loans and Other Nonperforming Assets 

(1) 
       
     Includes LHFS of $3 million and $27 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 

(2) 
       
     Includes MHFS of $426 million, $339 million, $193 million, $222 million, and $82 million at December 31, 2010, 2009, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. 

(3) 
       
     Excludes loans acquired from Wachovia that are accounted for as PCI loans because they continue to earn interest income from accretable yield, independent of performance in accordance with their contractual terms. 

(4) 
       
     See Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report for further information on impaired loans. 

(5) 
       
     Consistent with regulatory reporting requirements, foreclosed real estate securing GNMA loans is classified as nonperforming. Both principal and interest for GNMA loans secured by the foreclosed real estate are collectible because the GNMA
loans are
insured by the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) or guaranteed by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). 

(6) 
       
     Includes real estate investments (loans with non-traditional interest terms accounted for as investments) that would be classified as nonaccrual if these assets were recorded as loans, and nonaccrual debt securities. 

64 

Table 27:  Nonaccrual Loans and Other Nonperforming Assets During 2010 

65 

Risk Management   Credit Risk Management    (continued)  

Total NPAs were $32.4 billion (4.27% of total loans) at December 31, 2010, and included
$26.2 billion of nonaccrual loans and $6.0 billion of foreclosed assets. The growth rate in
nonaccrual loans slowed in 2010, peaking in third quarter. Growth occurred in the real estate
portfolios (commercial and

residential) which consist of secured loans. Nonaccruals in all other
loan portfolios were essentially flat or down year over year. New inflows to nonaccrual loans
continued to decline. Table 28 provides an analysis of the changes in nonaccrual loans.

Table 28:  Analysis of Changes in Nonaccrual Loans 

Typically, changes to nonaccrual loans period-over-period represent inflows for loans
that reach a specified past due status, offset by reductions for loans that are charged off, sold,
transferred to foreclosed properties, or are no longer classified as nonaccrual because they return
to accrual status. We have increased our loan modification activity to assist homeowners and other
borrowers in the current difficult economic cycle. Loans are re-underwritten at the time of the modification in accordance with underwriting
guidelines established for governmental and proprietary loan modification programs. For an accruing
loan that has been modified, if the borrower has demonstrated performance under the previous terms
and shows the capacity to continue to perform under the restructured terms, the loan will remain in
accruing status. Otherwise, the loan will be placed in a nonaccrual status generally until the
borrower has made six consecutive months of payments, or equivalent, inclusive of consecutive
payments made prior to modification.

Loss expectations for nonaccrual loans are driven by delinquency rates, default probabilities
and severities. While nonaccrual loans are not free of loss content, we believe the estimated loss
exposure remaining in these balances is significantly mitigated by four factors. First, 99% of
consumer nonaccrual loans and 95% of commercial nonaccrual loans are secured. Second, losses have
already been recognized on 52% of the remaining balance of consumer nonaccruals and commercial
nonaccruals have been written down by $2.6 billion. Residential nonaccrual loans are written down
to net realizable value at 180 days past due, except for loans that go into trial modification
prior to becoming 180 days past due, and which are not written down in the trial period (three
months) as long as trial payments are being made on time. Third, as of December 31, 2010, 57% of
commercial nonaccrual loans were current on interest. Fourth, the inherent risk of loss

in all
nonaccruals is adequately covered by the allowance for loan losses.

Commercial nonaccrual loans, net of write-downs, amounted to $11.4 billion at December 31,
2010, compared with $11.7 billion a year ago. Consumer nonaccrual loans amounted to $14.9 billion
at December 31, 2010, compared with $12.7 billion a year ago. The $2.2 billion increase in
nonaccrual consumer loans from a year ago was due to an increase in 1-4 family first mortgage
loans. Residential mortgage nonaccrual loans increased largely due to slower disposition and assets
brought on the balance sheet upon consolidation of VIEs. Federal government programs, such as HAMP,
and Wells Fargo proprietary programs, such as the Company s Pick-a-Pay Mortgage Assistance program,
require customers to provide updated documentation, and to demonstrate sustained performance by
completing trial payment periods, before the loan can be removed from nonaccrual status. In
addition, for loans in foreclosure, many states, including California and Florida, have enacted
legislation that significantly increases the time frames to complete the foreclosure process,
meaning that loans will remain in nonaccrual status for longer periods. At the conclusion of the
foreclosure process, we continue to sell real estate owned in a timely fashion.

When a consumer real estate loan is 120 days past due, we move it to nonaccrual status. When
the loan reaches 180 days past due it is our policy to write these loans down to net realizable
value, except for modifications in their trial period. Thereafter, we revalue each loan regularly
and recognize additional charges if needed. Of the $14.9 billion of consumer nonaccrual loans at
December 31, 2010, 98% are secured by real estate and 33% have a combined LTV (CLTV) ratio of 80%
or below.

Table 29 provides a summary of foreclosed assets.

66 

Table 29:  Foreclosed Assets 

NPAs at December 31, 2010, included $1.5 billion of foreclosed real estate that is FHA
insured or VA guaranteed and expected to have little to no loss content, and $4.5 billion of
foreclosed assets, which have been written down to the value of the underlying collateral.
Foreclosed assets increased $2.9 billion, or 90%, in 2010 from the prior year. Of this increase,
$1.3 billion were foreclosed loans from the PCI portfolio that are now recorded as foreclosed
assets. At December 31, 2010, substantially all of our foreclosed assets of $6.0 billion have been
in the portfolio one year or less.

Given our real estate-secured loan concentrations and current economic conditions, we
anticipate continuing to hold a high level of NPAs on our balance sheet. The loss content in the
nonaccrual loans has been recognized through charge-offs or provided for in the allowance for
credit losses at December 31, 2010. The performance of any one loan can be affected by external
factors, such as economic or market conditions, or factors affecting a particular borrower. We
increased staffing in our workout and collection organizations to ensure troubled borrowers receive
the attention and help they need. See the  Risk Management   Allowance for Credit Losses  section
in this Report for additional information.

We process foreclosures on a regular basis for the loans we service for others as well as
those we hold in our loan portfolio. However, we utilize foreclosure only as a last resort for
dealing with borrowers who are experiencing financial hardships. We employ extensive contact and
restructuring procedures to attempt to find other solutions for our borrowers, and on average we
attempt to contact borrowers over 75 times by phone and nearly 50 times by letter during the period
from first delinquency to foreclosure sale.

We employ the same foreclosure procedures for loans we service for others as we use for loans
that we hold in our portfolio. We transmit customer and loan data directly from our system of
record to outside foreclosure counsel to help ensure the quality of the customer and loan data
included in our foreclosure affidavits. We continuously test this process to confirm the proper
transmission of the data. Completed foreclosure affidavits that are submitted to the courts are
reviewed, signed, and notarized as one of the last steps in a multi-step process intended to comply
with applicable law and help ensure the quality of customer and loan data. As previously disclosed,
in the course of completing a thorough review of our foreclosure affidavit preparation and
execution procedures, we did identify practices where final steps relating to the execution of
foreclosure affidavits, as well as some aspects of the notarization process were not adhered to.
However, we do not believe that any of these practices led to unwarranted foreclosures. In
addition, we have enhanced those procedures to help ensure that foreclosure affidavits are properly
prepared, reviewed, and signed.

67 

Risk Management   Credit Risk Management    (continued)  

TROUBLED DEBT RESTRUCTURINGS (TDRs) 

Table 30:  Troubled Debt Restructurings (TDRs) 

Table 30 provides information regarding the recorded investment of loans modified in
TDRs. We establish an allowance for loan losses when a loan is modified in a TDR, which was $3.9
billion and $1.8 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Total charge-offs related to
loans modified in a TDR were $812 million in 2010 and $479 million in 2009.

Our nonaccrual policies are generally the same for all loan types when a restructuring is
involved. We underwrite loans at the time of restructuring to determine whether there is sufficient
evidence of sustained repayment capacity based on the borrower s documented income, debt to income
ratios, and other factors. Any loans lacking sufficient evidence of sustained repayment capacity at
the time of modification are charged down to the fair value of the collateral, if applicable. If
the borrower has demonstrated performance under the previous terms and the underwriting process
shows the capacity to continue to perform under the restructured terms, the loan will remain in
accruing status. Otherwise, the loan will be placed in nonaccrual status generally until the
borrower demonstrates a sustained period of performance, generally six consecutive months of
payments, or equivalent, inclusive of consecutive payments made prior to modification. Loans will
also be placed on nonaccrual, and a corresponding charge-off is recorded to the loan balance, if we
believe that principal and interest contractually due under the modified agreement will not be
collectible.

We do not forgive principal for a majority of our TDRs, but in those situations where
principal is forgiven, the entire amount of such principal forgiveness is immediately charged off.
When a TDR performs in accordance with its modified terms, the loan either continues to accrue
interest (for performing loans), or will return to accrual status after the borrower demonstrates a
sustained period of performance.

If interest due on all nonaccrual loans (including loans that were, but are no longer on
nonaccrual at year end) had been accrued under the original terms, approximately $1.3 billion of
interest would have been recorded as income in 2010, compared with $362 million recorded as
interest income.

68 

LOANS 90 DAYS OR MORE PAST DUE AND STILL ACCRUING  Loans included in this category are 90
days or more past due as to interest or principal and still accruing, because they are (1)
well-secured and in the process of collection or (2) real estate 1-4 family mortgage loans or
consumer loans exempt under regulatory rules from being classified as nonaccrual until later
delinquency, usually 120 days past due. PCI loans of $11.6 billion at December 31, 2010, and $16.1
billion at December 31, 2009, are excluded from this disclosure even though they are 90 days or
more contractually past due. These PCI loans are considered to be accruing due to the existence of
the accretable yield and not based on consideration given to contractual interest payments.

Non-PCI loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing were $18.5 billion at December 31,
2010, and $22.2 billion at

December 31, 2009. Those balances include $14.7 billion and $15.3
billion, respectively, in loans whose repayments are insured by the FHA or guaranteed by the VA.

Excluding these insured/guaranteed loans, loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing at
December 31, 2010, were down $3.1 billion, or 45%, from December 31, 2009. The decline was due to
loss mitigation activities including modifications and increased collection capacity/process
improvements, charge-offs, lower early stage delinquency levels and credit stabilization.

Table 31 reflects loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing excluding the
insured/guaranteed loans.

Table 31:  Loans 90 Days or More Past Due and Still Accruing (Excluding Insured/Guaranteed Loans) 

(1) 
       
     Includes MHFS 90 days or more past due and still accruing. 

69 

Risk Management   Credit Risk Management    (continued)  

NET CHARGE-OFFS 

Table 32:  Net Charge-offs 

(1) 
       
     Quarterly net charge-offs as a percentage of average loans are annualized. 

70 

Table 32 presents net charge-offs for the four quarters and full year of 2010 and 2009.
Net charge-offs in 2010 were $17.8 billion (2.30% of average total loans outstanding) compared with
$18.2 billion (2.21%) in 2009. Total net charge-offs decreased in 2010 in part due to lower average
loan balances and as a result of modestly improving economic conditions, aggressive loss mitigation
activities aimed at working with our customers through their financial challenges, and a depletion
of the pool of the most challenged vintages/relationships in the portfolio. Total net charge-offs
decreased each quarter throughout the year from the peak loss level in fourth quarter of 2009.
While loss levels remained elevated, the broad-based improvement across the portfolio was an
encouraging trend.

Net charge-offs in the 1-4 family first mortgage portfolio totaled $4.4 billion in 2010. Our
relatively high quality 1-4 family first mortgage portfolio continued to reflect relatively low
loss rates, although until housing prices fully stabilize, these credit losses will continue to
remain elevated.

Net charge-offs in the real estate 1-4 family junior lien portfolio were $4.7 billion in 2010.
Loss levels increased throughout 2009 and peaked in the first quarter of 2010. Loss levels will
remain elevated, however, until conditions in the real estate markets improve. More information
about the Home Equity portfolio, which includes substantially all of our real estate 1-4 family
junior lien mortgage loans, is available in Table 25 in this Report and the related discussion.

Credit card charge-offs decreased $350 million to $2.2 billion in 2010. Delinquency and loss
levels improved in 2010 as the economy showed signs of stabilization.

Commercial and CRE net charge-offs were $4.8 billion in 2010 compared with $5.2 billion a year
ago. Wholesale credit results improved from 2009 as market liquidity and improving market
conditions helped stabilize performance results. Increased lending activity in fourth quarter 2010
in the majority of our commercial business lines further supported our belief of a turn in the
demand for credit.

ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES  The allowance for credit losses, which consists of the
allowance for loan losses and the allowance for unfunded credit commitments, is management s
estimate of credit losses inherent in the loan portfolio and unfunded credit commitments at the
balance sheet date, excluding loans carried at fair value. The detail of the changes in the
allowance for credit losses by portfolio segment (including charge-offs and recoveries by loan
class) is in Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report.

We employ a disciplined process and methodology to establish our allowance for credit losses
each quarter. This process takes into consideration many factors, including historical and
forecasted loss trends, loan-level credit quality ratings and loan grade-specific loss factors. The
process involves subjective as well as complex judgments. In addition, we review a variety of
credit metrics and trends. However, these trends do not solely determine the adequacy of the
allowance as we use several analytical tools in determining its adequacy. For additional
information on our allowance for credit losses, see the  Critical Accounting Policies   Allowance
for Credit Losses  section and Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial
Statements in this Report.

At December 31, 2010, the allowance for loan losses totaled $23.0 billion (3.04% of total
loans), compared with $24.5 billion (3.13%), at December 31, 2009. The allowance for credit losses
was $23.5 billion (3.10% of total loans) at December 31, 2010, and $25.0 billion (3.20%) at
December 31, 2009. The allowance for credit losses included $298 million and $333 million at
December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, related to PCI loans acquired from Wachovia. The
allowance for unfunded credit commitments was $441 million and $515 million at December 31, 2010
and 2009, respectively. In addition to the allowance for credit losses there was $13.4 billion and
$22.9 billion of nonaccretable difference at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, to absorb
losses for PCI loans. For additional information on PCI loans, see the  Risk Management   Credit
Risk Management   Purchased Credit-Impaired Loans  section and Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for
Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report.

The ratio of the allowance for credit losses to total nonaccrual loans was 89% and 103% at
December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. This ratio may fluctuate significantly from period to
period due to such factors as the mix of loan types in the portfolio, borrower credit strength and
the value and marketability of collateral. Over half of nonaccrual loans were home mortgages, auto
and other consumer loans at December 31, 2010.

The ratio of the allowance for loan losses to annual net charge-offs was 130% and 135% at
December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The $1.5 billion decline in the allowance for loan losses
in 2010 reflected lower loan balances and lower levels of inherent credit loss in the portfolio
compared with previous year-end levels. When anticipated charge-offs are projected to decline from
current levels, this ratio will decrease. As more of the portfolio experiences charge-offs,
charge-off levels continue to increase and the remaining portfolio is anticipated to consist of
higher quality vintage loans subjected to tightened underwriting standards administered during the
downturn in the credit cycle. As charge-off levels peak, we anticipate coverage levels will
decrease until charge-off levels return to more normalized levels. This ratio may fluctuate
significantly from period to period due to many factors, including general economic conditions,
customer credit strength and the marketability of collateral.

71 

Risk Management   Credit Risk Management    (continued)  

Total provision for credit losses was $15.8 billion in 2010, $21.7 billion in 2009 and $16.0
billion in 2008. The 2010 provision was $2.0 billion less than credit losses, compared with a
provision that was $3.5 billion in excess of credit losses in 2009. Absent significant
deterioration in the economy, we expect future reductions in the allowance for credit losses.

Primary drivers of the 2010 provision reduction were continued improvement in the consumer
portfolios and related loss estimates and improvement in management s view of economic conditions.
These drivers were partially offset by an increase in impaired loans and related allowance
primarily associated with increased consumer loan modification efforts and a $693 million
adjustment due to adoption of consolidation accounting guidance on January 1, 2010.

In 2009, the provision of $21.7 billion included a provision in excess of credit losses of
$3.5 billion, which was primarily driven by three factors: (1) deterioration in economic conditions
that increased the projected losses in our commercial portfolios, (2) additional allowance
associated with loan modification programs designed to keep qualifying borrowers in their homes,
and (3) the establishment of additional allowance for PCI loans.

In 2008, the provision of $16.0 billion included a provision in excess of credit losses of
$8.1 billion, which included $3.9 billion to conform loss emergence coverage periods to the most
conservative of legacy Wells Fargo and Wachovia within Federal Financial Institutions Examination
Council guidelines. The remainder of the allowance build was attributable to higher projected loss
rates across the majority of the consumer credit businesses, and some credit deterioration and
growth in the wholesale portfolios.

In determining the appropriate allowance attributable to our residential real estate
portfolios, the loss rates used in our analysis include the impact of our established loan
modification programs. When modifications occur or are probable to occur, our allowance considers
the impact of these modifications, taking into consideration the associated credit cost, including
re-defaults of modified loans and projected loss severity. The loss content associated with
existing and probable loan modifications has been considered in our allowance reserving
methodology.

Changes in the allowance reflect changes in statistically derived loss estimates, historical
loss experience, current trends in borrower risk and/or general economic activity on portfolio
performance, and management s estimate for imprecision and uncertainty.

We believe the allowance for credit losses of $23.5 billion was adequate to cover credit
losses inherent in the loan portfolio, including unfunded credit commitments, at December 31, 2010.
The allowance for credit losses is subject to change and considers existing factors at the time,
including economic or market conditions and ongoing internal and external examination processes.
Due to the sensitivity of the allowance for credit losses to changes in the economic environment,
it is possible that unanticipated economic deterioration would create incremental credit losses not
anticipated as of the balance sheet date. Our process for determining the allowance for credit
losses is discussed in the  Critical Accounting Policies   Allowance for Credit Losses  section
and Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report.

LIABILITY FOR MORTGAGE LOAN REPURCHASE LOSSES  We sell residential mortgage loans to
various parties, including (1) Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae (GSEs) who include the mortgage loans in
GSE-guaranteed mortgage securitizations, (2) SPEs that issue private label MBS, and (3) other
financial institutions that purchase mortgage loans for investment or private label securitization.
In addition, we pool FHA-insured and VA-guaranteed mortgage loans that back securities guaranteed
by GNMA. We may be required to repurchase these mortgage loans, indemnify the securitization trust,
investor or insurer, or reimburse the securitization trust, investor or insurer for credit losses
incurred on loans (collectively  repurchase ) in the event of a breach of such contractual
representations or warranties that is not remedied within a period (usually 90 days or less) after
we receive notice of the breach.

We establish mortgage repurchase liabilities related to various representations and warranties
that reflect management s estimate of losses for loans for which we could have repurchase
obligation, whether or not we currently service those loans, based on a combination of factors.
Currently, repurchase demands primarily relate to 2006 through 2008 vintages and to GSE-guaranteed
MBS.

During 2010, we continued to experience elevated levels of repurchase activity measured by
number of loans, investor repurchase demands and our level of repurchases. We repurchased or
reimbursed investors for incurred losses on mortgage loans with balances of $2.6 billion.
Additionally, in 2010, we negotiated global settlements on pools of mortgage loans of $675 million,
which effectively eliminates the risk of repurchase on these loans from our outstanding servicing
portfolio. We incurred net losses on repurchased loans, investor reimbursements and loan pool
global settlements totaling $1.4 billion in 2010.

Adjustments made to our mortgage repurchase liability in recent periods have incorporated the
increase in repurchase demands, mortgage insurance rescissions, and higher than anticipated losses
on repurchased loans that we have experienced. Table 33 provides the number of unresolved
repurchase demands and mortgage insurance rescissions. We generally do not have unresolved
repurchase demands from the FHA and VA for loans in GNMA-guaranteed securities because those
demands are relatively few and we quickly resolve them.

72 

Table 33:  Unresolved Repurchase Demands and Mortgage Insurance Recissions 

(1) 
      
     Includes repurchase demands on 1,495 loans totaling $291 million and 1,536 loans totaling
$322 million at December 31, 2010, and December 31, 2009, respectively, received from investors on
mortgage servicing rights acquired from other originators. We have the right of recourse against
the seller for these repurchase demands and would incur a loss only for counterparty risk
associated with the seller. 

(2) 
       
     As part of our representations and warranties in our loan sales contracts, we represent that
certain loans have mortgage insurance. To the extent the mortgage insurance is rescinded by the
mortgage insurer, the lack of insurance may result in a repurchase demand from an investor. 

(3) 
       
     While original loan balance related to these demands is presented above, the establishment of
the repurchase reserve is based on a combination of factors, such as our appeals success rates,
reimbursement by correspondent and other third party originators, and projected loss severity,
which is driven by the difference between the current loan balance and the estimated collateral
value less costs to sell the property. 

The level of repurchase demands outstanding at December 31, 2010, was down from a year
ago in both number of outstanding loans and in total dollar balances as we continued to work
through the demands. Customary with industry practice, we have the right of recourse against
correspondent lenders with respect to representations and warranties. Of the repurchase demands
presented in Table 33, approximately 20% relate to loans purchased from correspondent lenders. Due
primarily to the financial difficulties of some correspondent lenders, we typically recover on
average approximately 50% of losses from these lenders. Historical recovery rates as well as
projected lender performance are incorporated in the establishment of our mortgage repurchase
liability.

Our liability for repurchases, included in  Accrued expenses and other liabilities  in our
consolidated financial statements, was $1.3 billion and $1.0 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009,
respectively. In 2010, $1.6 billion of additions to the liability were recorded, which reduced net
gains on mortgage loan origination/sales activities. Our additions to the repurchase liability in
2010 reflect updated assumptions about the losses we expect on repurchases and future demands,
particularly on the 2006-2008 vintages.

We believe we have a high quality residential mortgage loan servicing portfolio. Of the $1.8
trillion in the residential mortgage loan servicing portfolio at December 31, 2010, 92% was
current, less than 2% was subprime at origination, and approximately 1% was home equity
securitizations. Our combined delinquency and foreclosure rate on this portfolio was 8.02% at
December 31, 2010, compared with 8.96% at December 31, 2009. In this portfolio 7% are private
securitizations where we originated the loan and therefore have some repurchase risk; 58% of these
loans are from 2005 vintages or earlier (weighted average age of 63 months); 81% were prime at
origination; and approximately 70% are jumbo loans. The weighted-average LTV as of December 31,
2010, was 72%. In addition, the highest risk segment of these private securitizations are the
subprime loans originated in 2006 and 2007. These subprime loans have seller representations and
warranties and currently have LTVs close to or exceeding 100%, and represent 8% of the 7% private
securitization portion of the residential mortgage servicing portfolio. We had only $114 million of
repurchases related to private securitizations in 2010. Of the
servicing portfolio, 4% is
non-agency acquired servicing and 3% is private whole loan sales. We did not
underwrite and securitize the non-agency acquired servicing and
therefore we have no obligation on that portion of our servicing
portfolio to the investor for any repurchase
demands arising from origination practices.

Table 34 summarizes the changes in our mortgage repurchase reserve.

73 

Risk Management   Credit Risk Management    (continued)  

Table 34:  Changes in Mortgage Repurchase Liability 

(1) 
       
     Reflects purchase accounting refinements.

The mortgage repurchase liability of $1.3 billion at December 31, 2010, represents our
best estimate of the probable loss that we may incur for various representations and warranties in
the contractual provisions of our sales of mortgage loans. There may be a range of reasonably
possible losses in excess of the estimated liability that cannot be estimated with confidence.
Because the level of mortgage loan repurchase losses depends upon economic factors, investor demand
strategies and other external conditions that may change over the life of the underlying loans, the
level of the liability for mortgage loan repurchase losses is difficult to estimate and requires
considerable management judgment. We maintain regular contact with the GSEs and other significant
investors to monitor and address their repurchase demand practices and concerns. For additional
information on our repurchase liability, see the  Critical Accounting Policies   Liability for
Mortgage Loan Repurchase Losses  section and Note 9 (Mortgage Banking Activities) to Financial
Statements in this Report.

The repurchase liability is only applicable to loans we originated and sold with
representations and warranties. Most of these loans are included in our servicing portfolio. Our
repurchase liability estimate involves consideration of many factors that influence the key
assumptions of what our repurchase volume may be and what loss on average we may incur. Those key
assumptions and the sensitivity of the liability to immediate adverse changes in them at December
31, 2010, are presented in Table 35.

Table 35:  Mortgage Repurchase Liability   Sensitivity/Assumptions 

(1) 
       
     Represents total estimated average loss rate on repurchased loans, net of recovery from
third party originators, based on historical experience and current economic conditions. The
average loss rate includes the impact of repurchased loans for which no loss is expected to be
realized. 

To the extent that economic conditions and the housing market do not recover or future
investor repurchase demands and appeals success rates differ from past experience, we could
continue to have increased demands and increased loss severity on repurchases, causing future
additions to the repurchase liability. However, some of the underwriting standards that were
permitted by the GSEs for conforming loans in the 2006 through 2008 vintages, which significantly
contributed to recent levels of repurchase demands, were tightened starting in mid to late 2008.
Accordingly, we do not expect a similar rate of repurchase requests from the 2009 and prospective
vintages, absent deterioration in economic conditions or changes in investor behavior.

74 

RISKS RELATING TO SERVICING ACTIVITIES  In addition to servicing loans in our portfolio,
we act as servicer and/or master servicer of residential mortgage loans included in GSE-guaranteed
mortgage securitizations, GNMA-guaranteed mortgage securitizations and private label mortgage
securitizations, as well as for unsecuritized loans owned by institutional investors. The loans we
service were originated by us or by other mortgage loan originators.
As servicer, our primary duties are typically to (1) collect payment due from
borrowers, (2) advance certain delinquent payments of principal and interest, (3) maintain and
administer any hazard, title or primary mortgage insurance policies relating to the mortgage loans,
(4) maintain any required escrow accounts for payment of taxes and insurance and administer escrow
payments, and (5) foreclose on defaulted mortgage loans or, to the extent consistent with the
documents governing a securitization, consider alternatives to foreclosure, such as loan
modifications or short sales. As master servicer, our primary duties are typically to (1)
supervise, monitor and oversee the servicing of the mortgage loans by the servicer, (2) consult
with each servicer and use reasonable efforts to cause the servicer to observe its servicing
obligations, (3) prepare monthly distribution statements to security holders and, if required by
the securitization documents, certain periodic reports required to be filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC), (4) if required by the securitization documents, calculate distributions
and loss allocations on the mortgage-backed securities, (5) prepare tax and information returns of
the securitization trust, and (6) advance amounts required by non-affiliated servicers who fail to
perform their advancing obligations.

Each agreement under which we act as servicer or master servicer generally specifies a
standard of responsibility for actions we take in such capacity and provides protection against
expenses and liabilities we incur when acting in compliance with the specified standard. For
example, most private label securitization agreements under which we act as servicer or master
servicer typically provide that the servicer and the master servicer are entitled to
indemnification by the securitization trust for taking action or refraining from taking action in
good faith or for errors in judgment. However, we are not indemnified, but rather are required to
indemnify the securitization trustee, against any failure by us, as servicer or master servicer, to
perform our servicing obligations or any of our acts or omissions that involve willful misfeasance,
bad faith or gross negligence in the performance of, or reckless disregard of, our duties. In
addition, if we commit a material breach of our obligations as servicer or master servicer, we may
be subject to termination if the breach is not cured within a specified period following notice,
which can generally be given by the securitization trustee or a specified percentage of security
holders. Whole loan sale contracts under which we act as servicer generally include similar
provisions with respect to our actions as servicer. The standards governing servicing in
GSE-guaranteed securitizations, and the possible remedies for violations of such standards, vary,
and those standards and remedies are determined by servicing guides maintained by the GSEs,
contracts between the GSEs and individual servicers and topical guides published by the GSEs from
time to time. Such remedies could include indemnification or repurchase of an affected mortgage
loan.

During fourth quarter 2010, we completed our review of our foreclosure procedures related to
affidavit preparation and execution. We identified practices where final steps relating to the
execution of foreclosure affidavits, as well as some aspects of the notarization process were not
adhered to. However, we do

not believe that any of these practices led to unwarranted foreclosures.
In addition, we have enhanced those procedures to help ensure that foreclosure affidavits are
properly prepared, reviewed, and signed.

Any re-execution or redelivery of any documents in connection with foreclosures will involve
costs that may not be legally or otherwise reimbursable to us to the extent they relate to
securitized mortgage loans. Further, if the validity of any foreclosure action is challenged by a
borrower, whether successfully or not, we may incur significant litigation costs, which may not be
reimbursable to us to the extent they relate to securitized mortgage loans. In addition, if a court
were to overturn a foreclosure due to errors or deficiencies in the foreclosure process, we may
have liability to the borrower if the required process was not followed and such failure resulted
in damages to the borrower. We could also have liability to a title insurer that insured the title
to the property sold in foreclosure. Any such liabilities may not be reimbursable to us to the
extent they relate to a securitized mortgage loan.

Other concerns cited within recent press reports are that securitization loan files may be
lacking mortgage notes, assignments or other critical documents required to be produced on behalf
of the trust. Although we believe that we delivered all documents in accordance with the
requirements of each securitization involving our mortgage loans, if any required document with
respect to a securitized mortgage loan sold by us is missing or defective, we would be obligated to
cure the defect or to repurchase the loan.

Some commentators also have suggested that the common industry practice of recording a
mortgage in the name of Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems, Inc. (MERS) creates issues
regarding whether a securitization trust has good title to the mortgage loan. MERS is a company
that acts as mortgagee of record and as agent for the owner of the related mortgage note. When
mortgage notes are assigned, such as between an originator and a securitization trust, the change
of ownership is recorded electronically on a register maintained by MERS, which then acts as agent
for the new owner. The purpose of MERS is to save borrowers and lenders from having to record
assignments of mortgages in county land offices each time ownership of the mortgage note is
assigned. Although MERS has been in existence and used for many years, it has recently been
suggested by some commentators that having a mortgagee of record that is different from the owner
of the mortgage note  breaks the chain of title  and clouds the ownership of the loan. We do not
believe that to be the case, and believe that the operative legal principle is that the ownership
of a mortgage follows the ownership of the mortgage note, and that a securitization trust should
have good title to a mortgage loan if the note is endorsed and delivered to it, regardless of
whether MERS is the mortgagee of record or whether an assignment of mortgage is recorded to the
trust.

75 

Risk Management   Credit Risk Management    (continued)  

However, in order to foreclose on the mortgage loan, it may be necessary for an assignment
of the mortgage to be completed by MERS to the trust, in order to comply with state law
requirements governing foreclosure. A delay by a servicer in processing any related assignment of
mortgage to the trust could delay foreclosure, with adverse effects
to security holders and potential for servicer liability. Our practice is to obtain assignments of mortgages from MERS during the foreclosure
process.

The FRB and OCC have completed a joint interagency horizontal examination of
foreclosure processing at large mortgage servicers, including Wells Fargo, to
evaluate the adequacy of their controls and governance over bank foreclosure
processes, including compliance with applicable federal and state law.
The OCC and other federal banking regulators are finalizing actions that
will incorporate remedial requirements and sanctions with respect to servicers
within their relevant jurisdictions for identified deficiencies.

Asset/Liability Management 

Asset/liability management involves the evaluation, monitoring and management of interest rate
risk, market risk, liquidity and funding. The Corporate Asset/Liability Management Committee
(Corporate ALCO), which oversees these risks and reports periodically to the Finance Committee of
the Board of Directors (Board), consists of senior financial and business executives. Each of our
principal business groups has its own asset/liability management committee and process linked to
the Corporate ALCO process.

INTEREST RATE RISK   Interest rate risk, which potentially can have a significant earnings
impact, is an integral part of being a financial intermediary. We are subject to interest rate risk
because:

assets and liabilities may mature or reprice at different times (for example, if assets
reprice faster than liabilities and interest rates are generally falling, earnings will
initially decline); 

assets and liabilities may reprice at the same time but by different amounts (for example,
when the general level of interest rates is falling, we may reduce rates paid on checking and
savings deposit accounts by an amount that is less than the general decline in market interest
rates); 

short-term and long-term market interest rates may change by different amounts (for
example, the shape of the yield curve may affect new loan yields and funding costs
differently); or 

the remaining maturity of various assets or liabilities may shorten or lengthen as interest
rates change (for example, if long-term mortgage interest rates decline sharply, MBS held in
the securities available-for-sale portfolio may prepay significantly earlier than anticipated,
which could reduce portfolio income). 

Interest rates may also have a direct or indirect effect on loan demand, credit losses,
mortgage origination volume, the fair value of MSRs and other financial instruments, the value of
the pension liability and other items affecting earnings.

We assess interest rate risk by comparing our most likely earnings plan with various earnings
simulations using many interest rate scenarios that differ in the direction of interest rate
changes, the degree of change over time, the speed of change and the projected shape of the yield
curve. For example, as of December 31, 2010, our most recent simulation indicated estimated
earnings at risk of approximately 5% of our most likely earnings plan over the next 12 months using
a scenario in which the federal funds rate rises to 4.25% and the 10-year Constant Maturity
Treasury bond yield rises to 5.10%. Simulation estimates depend on, and will change with, the size
and mix of our actual and projected balance sheet at the time of each

simulation. Due to timing differences between the quarterly valuation of MSRs and the eventual
impact of interest rates on mortgage banking volumes, earnings at risk in any particular quarter
could be higher than the average earnings at risk over the 12-month simulation period, depending on
the path of interest rates and on our hedging strategies for MSRs. See the  Risk Management  
Mortgage Banking Interest Rate and Market Risk  section in this Report for more information.

We use exchange-traded and over-the-counter (OTC) interest rate derivatives to hedge our
interest rate exposures. The notional or contractual amount, credit risk amount and estimated net
fair value of these derivatives as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, are presented in Note 15
(Derivatives) to Financial Statements in this Report. We use derivatives for asset/liability
management in three main ways:

to convert a major portion of our long-term fixed-rate debt, which we issue to finance the
Company, from fixed-rate payments to floating-rate payments by entering into receive-fixed
swaps; 

to convert the cash flows from selected asset and/or liability instruments/portfolios from
fixed-rate payments to floating-rate payments or vice versa; and 

to hedge our mortgage origination pipeline, funded mortgage loans and MSRs using interest
rate swaps, swaptions, futures, forwards and options. 

MORTGAGE BANKING INTEREST RATE AND MARKET RISK   
We originate, fund and service mortgage
loans, which subjects us to various risks, including credit, liquidity and interest rate risks.
Based on market conditions and other factors, we reduce credit and liquidity risks by selling or
securitizing some or all of the long-term fixed-rate mortgage loans we originate and most of the
ARMs we originate. On the other hand, we may hold originated ARMs and fixed-rate mortgage loans in
our loan portfolio as an investment for our growing base of core deposits. We determine whether the
loans will be held for investment or held for sale at the time of commitment. We may subsequently
change our intent to hold loans for investment and sell some or all of our ARMs or fixed-rate
mortgages as part of our corporate asset/liability management. We may also acquire and add to our
securities available for sale a portion of the securities issued at the time we securitize MHFS.

Notwithstanding the continued downturn in the housing sector, and the continued lack of
liquidity in the nonconforming secondary markets, our mortgage banking revenue remained strong,
reflecting the complementary origination and servicing

76 

strengths of the business. The secondary
market for agency-conforming mortgages functioned well during the year.

Interest rate and market risk can be substantial in the mortgage business. Changes in interest
rates may potentially reduce total origination and servicing fees, the value of our residential
MSRs measured at fair value, the value of MHFS and the associated income and loss reflected in
mortgage banking noninterest income, the income and expense associated with instruments (economic
hedges) used to hedge changes in the fair value of MSRs and MHFS, and the value of derivative loan
commitments (interest rate  locks ) extended to mortgage applicants.

Interest rates affect the amount and timing of origination and servicing fees because consumer
demand for new mortgages and the level of refinancing activity are sensitive to changes in mortgage
interest rates. Typically, a decline in mortgage interest rates will lead to an increase in
mortgage originations and fees and may also lead to an increase in servicing fee income, depending
on the level of new loans added to the servicing portfolio and prepayments. Given the time it takes
for consumer behavior to fully react to interest rate changes, as well as the time required for
processing a new application, providing the commitment, and securitizing and selling the loan,
interest rate changes will affect origination and servicing fees with a lag. The amount and timing
of the impact on origination and servicing fees will depend on the magnitude, speed and duration of
the change in interest rates.

We measure MHFS at fair value for prime MHFS originations for which an active secondary market
and readily available market prices exist to reliably support fair value pricing models used for
these loans. At December 31, 2008, we measured at fair value similar MHFS acquired from Wachovia.
Loan origination fees on these loans are recorded when earned, and related direct loan origination
costs are recognized when incurred. We also measure at fair value certain of our other interests
held related to residential loan sales and securitizations. We believe fair value measurement for
prime MHFS and other interests held, which we hedge with free-standing derivatives (economic
hedges) along with our MSRs measured at fair value, reduces certain timing differences and better
matches changes in the value of these assets with changes in the value of derivatives used as
economic hedges for these assets. During 2009 and 2010, in response to continued secondary market
illiquidity, we continued to originate certain prime non-agency loans to be held for investment for
the foreseeable future rather than to be held for sale. In addition, in 2010, we have originated
certain prime agency-eligible loans to be held for investment as part of our asset/liability
management strategy.

We initially measure all of our MSRs at fair value and carry substantially all of them at fair
value depending on our strategy for managing interest rate risk. Under this method, the MSRs are
recorded at fair value at the time we sell or securitize the related mortgage loans. The carrying
value of MSRs carried at fair value reflects changes in fair value at the end of each quarter and
changes are included in net servicing income, a component of mortgage banking noninterest income.
If the fair value of the MSRs increases, income is recognized; if the fair value of the MSRs
decreases, a loss is recognized. We use a dynamic and sophisticated model to estimate the fair
value of our MSRs and periodically benchmark our estimates to independent appraisals. The valuation
of MSRs can be highly subjective and involve complex judgments by management about matters that are

inherently unpredictable. See  Critical Accounting Policies   Valuation of Residential Mortgage
Servicing Rights  section of this Report for additional information. Changes in interest rates
influence a variety of significant assumptions included in the periodic valuation of MSRs,
including prepayment speeds, expected returns and potential risks on the servicing asset portfolio,
the value of escrow balances and other servicing valuation elements.

A decline in interest rates generally increases the propensity for refinancing, reduces the
expected duration of the servicing portfolio and therefore reduces the estimated fair value of
MSRs. This reduction in fair value causes a charge to income for MSRs carried at fair value, net of
any gains on free-standing derivatives (economic hedges) used to hedge MSRs. We may choose not to
fully hedge all the potential decline in the value of our MSRs resulting from a decline in interest
rates because the potential increase in origination/servicing fees in that scenario provides a
partial  natural business hedge.  An increase in interest rates generally reduces the propensity
for refinancing, extends the expected duration of the servicing portfolio and therefore increases
the estimated fair value of the MSRs. However, an increase in interest rates can also reduce
mortgage loan demand and therefore reduce origination income.

The price risk associated with our MSRs is economically hedged with a combination of highly
liquid interest rate forward instruments including mortgage forward contracts, interest rate swaps
and interest rate options. All of the instruments included in the hedge are marked to market daily.
Because the hedging instruments are traded in highly liquid markets, their prices are readily
observable and are fully reflected in each quarter s mark to market. Quarterly MSR hedging results
include a combination of directional gain or loss due to market changes as well as any carry income
generated. If the economic hedge is effective, its overall directional hedge gain or loss will
offset the change in the valuation of the underlying MSR asset. Consistent with our longstanding
approach to hedging interest rate risk in the mortgage business, the size of the hedge and the
particular combination of forward hedging instruments at any point in time is designed to reduce
the volatility of the mortgage business s earnings over various time frames within a range of
mortgage interest rates. Because market factors, the composition of the mortgage servicing
portfolio and the relationship between the origination and servicing sides of our mortgage business
change continually, the types of instruments used in our hedging are reviewed daily and rebalanced
based on our evaluation of current market factors and the interest rate risk inherent in our MSRs
portfolio. Throughout 2010, our economic hedging strategy generally used forward mortgage purchase
contracts that were effective at offsetting the impact of interest rates on the value of the MSR
asset.

Mortgage forward contracts are designed to pass the full economics of the underlying reference
mortgage securities to the holder of the contract, including both the directional gain or loss

77 

Risk Management   Asset/Liability Management    (continued)  

from
the forward delivery of the reference securities and the corresponding carry income. Carry income
represents the contract s price accretion from the forward delivery price to the current spot price
including both the yield earned on the reference securities and the market implied cost of
financing during the period. The actual amount of carry income earned on the hedge each quarter
will depend on the amount of the underlying asset that is hedged and the particular instruments
included in the hedge. The level of carry income is driven by the slope of the yield curve and
other market driven supply and
demand factors affecting the specific reference securities. A steep yield curve generally produces
higher carry income while a flat or inverted yield curve can result in lower or potentially
negative carry income. The level of carry income is also affected by the type of instrument used.
In general, mortgage forward contracts tend to produce higher carry income than interest rate swap
contracts. Carry income is recognized over the life of the mortgage forward as a component of the
contract s mark to market gain or loss.

Hedging the various sources of interest rate risk in mortgage banking is a complex process
that requires sophisticated modeling and constant monitoring. While we attempt to balance these
various aspects of the mortgage business, there are several potential risks to earnings:

Valuation changes for MSRs associated with interest rate changes are recorded in earnings
immediately within the accounting period in which those interest rate changes occur, whereas
the impact of those same changes in interest rates on origination and servicing fees occur
with a lag and over time. Thus, the mortgage business could be protected from adverse changes
in interest rates over a period of time on a cumulative basis but still display large
variations in income from one accounting period to the next. 

The degree to which the  natural business hedge  offsets valuation changes for MSRs is
imperfect, varies at different points in the interest rate cycle, and depends not just on the
direction of interest rates but on the pattern of quarterly interest rate changes. 

Origination volumes, the valuation of MSRs and hedging results and associated costs are
also affected by many factors. Such factors include the mix of new business between ARMs and
fixed-rate mortgages, the relationship between short-term and long-term interest rates, the
degree of volatility in interest rates, the relationship between mortgage interest rates and
other interest rate markets, and other interest rate factors. Many of these factors are hard
to predict and we may not be able to directly or perfectly hedge their effect. 

While our hedging activities are designed to balance our mortgage banking interest rate
risks, the financial instruments we use may not perfectly correlate with the values and income
being hedged. For example, the change in the value of ARMs production held for sale from
changes in mortgage interest rates may or may not be fully offset by Treasury and LIBOR
index-based financial instruments used as economic hedges for such ARMs. Additionally, the
hedge-carry income we earn on our economic hedges for the MSRs may not continue if the spread
between short-term and long-term rates decreases, we shift composition of the hedge to more
interest rate swaps, or there are other 

changes in the market for mortgage forwards that
affect the implied carry. 

The total carrying value of our residential and commercial MSRs was $15.9 billion and $17.1
billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The weighted-average note rate on our
portfolio of loans serviced for others was 5.39% and 5.66% at December 31, 2010 and 2009,
respectively. Our total MSRs were 0.86% of mortgage loans serviced for others at December 31, 2010,
compared with 0.91% at December 31, 2009.

As part of our mortgage banking activities, we enter into commitments to fund residential
mortgage loans at specified times in the future. A mortgage loan commitment is an interest rate
lock that binds us to lend funds to a potential borrower at a specified interest rate and within a
specified period of time, generally up to 60 days after inception of the rate lock. These loan
commitments are derivative loan commitments if the loans that will result from the exercise of the
commitments will be held for sale. These derivative loan commitments are recognized at fair value
in the balance sheet with changes in their fair values recorded as part of mortgage banking
noninterest income. The fair value of these commitments include, at inception and during the life
of the loan commitment, the expected net future cash flows related to the associated servicing of
the loan as part of the fair value measurement of derivative loan commitments. Changes subsequent
to inception are based on changes in fair value of the underlying loan resulting from the exercise
of the commitment and changes in the probability that the loan will not fund within the terms of
the commitment, referred to as a fall-out factor. The value of the underlying loan commitment is
affected primarily by changes in interest rates and the passage of time.

Outstanding derivative loan commitments expose us to the risk that the price of the mortgage
loans underlying the commitments might decline due to increases in mortgage interest rates from
inception of the rate lock to the funding of the loan. To minimize this risk, we employ forwards
and options, Eurodollar futures and options, and Treasury futures, forwards and options contracts
as economic hedges against the potential decreases in the values of the loans. We expect that these
derivative financial instruments will experience changes in fair value that will either fully or
partially offset the changes in fair value of the derivative loan commitments. However, changes in
investor demand, such as concerns about credit risk, can also cause changes in the spread
relationships between underlying loan value and the derivative financial instruments that cannot be
hedged.

MARKET RISK   TRADING ACTIVITIES   From a market risk perspective, our net income is
exposed to changes in interest rates, credit spreads, foreign exchange rates, equity and commodity
prices and their implied volatilities. The primary purpose of our trading businesses is to
accommodate customers in the management of their market price risks. Also, we take positions based
on market expectations or to benefit from price

78 

differences between financial instruments and
markets, subject to risk limits established and monitored by Corporate ALCO. All securities,
foreign exchange transactions, commodity transactions and derivatives used in our trading
businesses are carried at fair value. The Institutional Risk Committee establishes and monitors
counterparty risk limits. The credit risk amount and estimated net fair value of all customer
accommodation derivatives at December 31, 2010 and 2009 are included in Note 15 (Derivatives) to
Financial Statements in this Report. Open,  at risk  positions for all trading businesses are
monitored by Corporate ALCO.

The standardized approach for monitoring and reporting market risk for the trading activities
consists of value-at-risk (VaR) metrics complemented with factor analysis and stress testing. VaR
measures the worst expected loss over a given time interval and within a given confidence interval.
We measure and report daily VaR at a 99% confidence interval based on actual changes in rates and
prices over the past 250 trading days. The analysis captures all financial instruments that are
considered trading positions. The average one-day VaR throughout 2010 was $32 million, with a lower
bound of $22 million and an upper bound of $52 million. The average VaR for fourth quarter 2010 was
$30 million, with a lower bound of $22 million and an upper bound of $38 million.

MARKET
RISK   EQUITY MARKETS  We are directly and indirectly affected by changes in the
equity markets. We make and manage direct equity investments in start-up businesses, emerging
growth companies, management buy-outs, acquisitions and corporate recapitalizations. We also invest
in non-affiliated funds that make similar private equity investments. These private equity
investments are made within capital allocations approved by management and the Board. The Board s
policy is to review business developments, key risks and historical returns for the private equity
investment portfolio at least annually. Management reviews the valuations of these investments at
least quarterly and assesses them for possible OTTI. For nonmarketable investments, the analysis is
based on facts and circumstances of each individual investment and the expectations for that
investment s cash flows and capital needs, the viability of its business model and our exit
strategy. Nonmarketable investments include private equity investments accounted for under the cost
method and equity method. Private equity investments are subject to OTTI. Principal investments are
carried at fair value with net unrealized gains and losses reported in noninterest income.

As part of our business to support our customers, we trade public equities, listed/OTC equity
derivatives and convertible bonds. We have risk mandates that govern these activities. We also have
marketable equity securities in the securities available-for-sale portfolio, including securities
relating to our venture capital activities. We manage these investments within capital risk limits
approved by management and the Board and monitored by Corporate ALCO. Gains and losses on these
securities are recognized in net income when realized and periodically include OTTI charges.

Changes in equity market prices may also indirectly affect our net income by affecting (1) the
value of third party assets under management and, hence, fee income, (2) particular borrowers,
whose ability to repay principal and/or interest may be affected by the stock market, or (3)
brokerage activity, related commission income and other business activities. Each business line
monitors and manages these indirect risks.

Table 36 provides information regarding our marketable and nonmarketable equity investments.

Table 36:  Marketable and Nonmarketable Equity Investments 

(1) 
        
     Included in other assets on the balance sheet. See Note 7 (Premises, Equipment, Lease
Commitments and Other Assets) to Financial Statements in this Report for additional information. 

(2) 
       
     Included in securities available for sale. See Note 5 (Securities Available for Sale) to
Financial Statements in this Report for additional information. 

79 

Risk Management   Asset/Liability Management    (continued)  

LIQUIDITY AND FUNDING   The objective of effective liquidity management is to ensure that
we can meet customer loan requests, customer deposit maturities/withdrawals and other cash
commitments efficiently under both normal operating conditions and under unpredictable
circumstances of industry or market stress. To achieve this objective, the Corporate ALCO
establishes and monitors liquidity guidelines that require sufficient asset-based liquidity to
cover potential funding requirements and to avoid over-dependence on volatile, less reliable
funding markets. We set these guidelines for both the consolidated balance sheet and for the Parent
to ensure that the Parent is a source of strength for its regulated, deposit-taking banking
subsidiaries.

Unencumbered debt and equity securities in the securities available-for-sale portfolio provide
asset liquidity, in addition to the immediately liquid resources of cash and due from banks and
federal funds sold, securities purchased under resale agreements and other short-term investments.
The weighted-average expected remaining maturity of the debt securities within this portfolio was
6.1 years at December 31, 2010. Of the $160.1 billion (cost basis) of debt securities in this
portfolio at December 31, 2010, $32.6 billion (20%) is expected to mature or be prepaid in 2011 and
an additional $20.4 billion (13%) in 2012. Asset liquidity is further enhanced by our ability to
sell or securitize loans in secondary markets and to pledge loans to access secured borrowing
facilities through the Federal Home Loan Banks (FHLB) and the FRB. In 2010, we sold mortgage loans
of $363 billion. The amount of mortgage loans and other consumer loans available to be sold,
securitized or pledged was approximately $236 billion at December 31, 2010.

Core customer deposits have historically provided a sizeable source of relatively stable and
low-cost funds. Average core deposits funded 62.9% and 60.4% of average total assets in 2010 and
2009, respectively.

Additional funding is provided by long-term debt (including trust preferred securities), other
foreign deposits, and short-term borrowings. Long-term debt averaged $185.4 billion in 2010 and
$231.8 billion in 2009. Short-term borrowings averaged $46.8 billion in 2010 and $52.0 billion in
2009.

We anticipate making capital expenditures of approximately $1.5 billion in 2011 for our
stores, relocation and remodeling of our facilities, and routine replacement of furniture,
equipment and servers. We fund expenditures from various sources, including retained earnings and
borrowings.

Liquidity is also available through our ability to raise funds in a variety of domestic and
international money and capital markets. We access capital markets for long-term funding through
issuances of registered debt securities, private placements and asset-backed secured funding.
Investors in the long-term capital markets generally will consider, among other factors, a
company s debt rating in making investment decisions. Rating agencies base their ratings on many
quantitative and qualitative factors, including capital adequacy, liquidity, asset quality,
business mix, the level and quality of earnings, and rating agency assumptions regarding the
probability and extent of Federal financial assistance or support for certain large financial
institutions. Adverse changes in these factors could

result in a reduction of our credit rating;
however, a reduction in credit rating would not cause us to violate any of our debt covenants. See
the  Risk Factors  section of this Report for additional information regarding recent legislative
developments and our credit ratings.

We continue to evaluate the potential impact on liquidity management of regulatory proposals,
including Basel III and those required under the Dodd-Frank Act, as they move closer to the final
rule-making process.

Parent   Under SEC rules, the Parent is classified as a  well-known seasoned issuer,  which allows it
to file a registration statement that does not have a limit on issuance capacity.  Well-known
seasoned issuers  generally include those companies with a public float of common equity of at
least $700 million or those companies that have issued at least $1 billion in aggregate principal
amount of non-convertible securities, other than common equity, in the last three years. In June
2009, the Parent filed a registration statement with the SEC for the issuance of senior and
subordinated notes, preferred stock and other securities. The Parent s ability to issue debt and
other securities under this registration statement is limited by the debt issuance authority
granted by the Board. The Parent is currently authorized by the Board to issue $60 billion in
outstanding short-term debt and $170 billion in outstanding long-term debt. During 2010, the Parent
issued $1.3 billion in non-guaranteed registered senior notes. In February 2011, the Parent
remarketed $2.5 billion of junior subordinated notes in connection with Wachovia s 2006 issuance of
5.80% Fixed-to-floating rate Wachovia Income Trust hybrid securities. The junior subordinated notes
were exchanged with Wells Fargo for newly issued senior notes.

The proceeds from securities issued in 2010 were used for general corporate purposes, and we
expect that the proceeds from securities issued in the future will also be used for the same
purposes. The Parent also issues commercial paper from time to time, subject to its short-term debt
limit.

Table 37 provides information regarding the Parent s medium-term note (MTN) programs. The
Parent may issue senior and subordinated debt securities under Series I   J, and the European and
Australian programmes. Under Series K, the Parent may issue senior debt securities linked to one or
more indices.

80 

Table 37:  Medium-Term Note (MTN) Programs 

(1) 
       
     SEC registered. 

(2) 
        
     Not registered with the SEC. May not be offered in the United
States without applicable exemptions from registration. The
Australian MTN amounts are presented in Australian dollars. 

(3) 
       
     As amended in October 2005 and March 2010. 

Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.  
Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. is authorized by its board of directors to issue
$100 billion in outstanding short-term debt and $125 billion in outstanding long-term debt. In
December 2007, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. established a $100 billion bank note program under which,
subject to any other debt outstanding under the limits described above, it may issue $50 billion in
outstanding short-term senior notes and $50 billion in long-term senior or subordinated notes. At
December 31, 2010, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. had remaining issuance capacity on the bank note program
of $50 billion in short-term senior notes and $50 billion in long-term senior or subordinated
notes. Securities are issued under this program as private placements in accordance with Office of
the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) regulations.

Wells Fargo Financial Canada Corporation  In January 2010, Wells Fargo Financial Canada Corporation
(WFFCC), an indirect wholly owned Canadian subsidiary of the Parent, qualified with the Canadian
provincial securities commissions CAD$7.0 billion in medium-term notes for distribution from time
to time in Canada. At December 31, 2010, CAD$7.0 billion remained available for future issuance.
All medium-term notes issued by WFFCC are unconditionally guaranteed by the Parent.

FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK MEMBERSHIP  We are a member of the Federal Home Loan Banks based in
Dallas, Des Moines and San Francisco (collectively, the FHLBs). Each member of each of the FHLBs is
required to maintain a minimum investment in capital stock of the applicable FHLB. The board of
directors of each FHLB can increase the minimum investment requirements in the event it has
concluded that additional capital is required to allow it to meet its own regulatory capital
requirements. Any increase in the minimum investment requirements outside of specified ranges
requires the approval of the Federal Housing Finance Board. Because the extent of any obligation to
increase our investment in any of the FHLBs depends entirely upon the occurrence of a future event,
potential future payments to the FHLBs are not determinable.

81 

Capital Management 

We have an active program for managing stockholders  equity and regulatory capital and
we maintain a comprehensive process for assessing the Company s overall capital adequacy. We
generate capital internally primarily through the retention of earnings net of dividends. Our
objective is to maintain capital levels at the Company and its bank subsidiaries above the
regulatory  well-capitalized  thresholds by an amount commensurate with our risk profile. Our
potential sources of stockholders  equity include retained earnings and issuances of common and
preferred stock. Retained earnings increased $10.4 billion from December 31, 2009, predominantly
from Wells Fargo net income of $12.4 billion, less common and preferred dividends of $1.8 billion.
During 2010, we issued approximately 87 million shares of common stock, with net proceeds of $1.4
billion, including 28 million shares during the period under various employee benefit (including
our employee stock option plan) and director plans, as well as under our dividend reinvestment and
direct stock purchase programs.

On April 29, 2010, following stockholder approval, the Company amended its certificate of
incorporation to provide for an increase in the number of shares of the Company s common stock
authorized for issuance from 6 billion to 9 billion.

From time to time the Board authorizes the Company to repurchase shares of our common stock.
Although we announce when the Board authorizes share repurchases, we typically do not give any
public notice before we repurchase our shares. Various factors determine the amount and timing of
our share repurchases, including our capital requirements, the number of shares we expect to issue
for acquisitions and employee benefit plans, market conditions (including the trading price of our
stock), and regulatory and legal considerations. The FRB published clarifying supervisory guidance
in first quarter 2009 and amended in December 2009,  SR 09-4 Applying Supervisory Guidance and
Regulations on the Payment of Dividends, Stock Redemptions, and Stock Repurchases at Bank Holding
Companies,  pertaining to the FRB s criteria, assessment and approval process for reductions in
capital. As with all 19 participants in the FRB s Supervisory Capital Assessment Program (SCAP),
under this supervisory letter, before repurchasing our common shares, we must consult with the FRB
staff and demonstrate that the proposed actions are consistent with the existing supervisory
guidance, including demonstrating that our internal capital assessment process is consistent with
the complexity of our activities and risk profile. In 2008, the Board authorized the repurchase of
up to 25 million additional shares of our outstanding common stock. During 2010, we repurchased 3
million shares of our common stock, all from our employee benefit plans. At December 31, 2010, the
total remaining common stock repurchase authority from the 2008 authorization was approximately 3
million shares.

Historically, our policy has been to repurchase shares under the  safe harbor  conditions of
Rule 10b-18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 including a limitation on the daily volume of
repurchases. Rule 10b-18 imposes an additional daily volume

limitation on share repurchases during
a pending merger or acquisition in which shares of our stock will constitute some or all of the
consideration. Our management may determine that during a pending stock merger or acquisition when
the safe harbor would otherwise be available, it is in our best interest to repurchase shares in
excess of this additional daily volume limitation. In such cases, we intend to repurchase shares in
compliance with the other conditions of the safe harbor, including the standing daily volume
limitation that applies whether or not there is a pending stock merger or acquisition.

In connection with our participation in the TARP Capital Purchase Program (CPP), we issued to
the U.S. Treasury Department warrants to purchase 110,261,688 shares of our common stock with an
exercise price of $34.01 per share expiring on October 28, 2018. On May 26, 2010, in an auction by
the U.S. Treasury, we purchased 70,165,963 of the warrants at a price of $7.70 per warrant. In
addition, we purchased 651,244 warrants from the open market throughout the year. At December 31,
2010, 39,444,481 warrants were outstanding and exercisable. In June 2010, the Board authorized the
purchase of up to $1 billion of the warrants, including the warrants purchased in the auction. As
of December 31, 2010, $455 million of that authority remained. Depending on market conditions, we
may purchase from time to time additional warrants and/or our outstanding debt securities in
privately negotiated or open market transactions, by tender offer or otherwise.

The Company and each of our subsidiary banks are subject to various regulatory capital
adequacy requirements administered by the FRB and the OCC. Risk-based capital (RBC) guidelines
establish a risk-adjusted ratio relating capital to different categories of assets and off-balance
sheet exposures. At December 31, 2010, the Company and each of our subsidiary banks were  well
capitalized  under applicable regulatory capital adequacy guidelines. See Note 25 (Regulatory and
Agency Capital Requirements) to Financial Statements in this Report for additional information.

Current regulatory RBC rules are based primarily on broad credit-risk considerations and
limited market-related risks, but do not take into account other types of risk a financial company
may be exposed to. Our capital adequacy assessment process contemplates a wide range of risks that
the Company is exposed
to and also takes into consideration our performance under a variety of economic conditions, as
well as regulatory expectations and guidance, rating agency viewpoints and the view of capital
market participants.

Wells
Fargo was a participant in the FRB s Capital Plan Review in
December 2010. We submitted a Capital Plan Review including proposed future dividends and share
repurchase programs to the FRB on January 7,
2011. We cannot guarantee whether or when the FRB will approve our
Capital Plan Review or what
other conditions the FRB may impose on us in order to increase our common stock dividend or
repurchase shares.

In July 2009, the Basel Committee on Bank Supervision published an additional set of
international guidelines for review known as Basel III and finalized these guidelines in December
2010. The additional guidelines were developed in response to the financial crisis of 2009 and 2010
and address many of the  weaknesses identified in the banking sector as contributing to 

82 

the crisis
including excessive leverage, inadequate and low quality capital and insufficient liquidity
buffers. The U.S. regulatory bodies are reviewing the final international standards and final U.S.
rulemaking is expected to be completed in 2011. Although uncertainty exists regarding the final
rules, we are evaluating the impact of Basel III on our capital ratios based on our interpretation
of the proposed capital requirements and expect to be above a 7% Tier 1 common equity ratio under
Basel III within the next few quarters.

We are well underway toward Basel II and Basel III implementation and are currently on
schedule to enter the

parallel run phase of Basel II in 2012 with regulatory approval. Our delayed
entry into the parallel run phase was approved by the FRB in 2010 as a result of the acquisition of
Wachovia.

At December 31, 2010, stockholders  equity and Tier 1 common equity levels were higher than
the quarter ending prior to the Wachovia acquisition. During 2009, as regulators and the market
focused on the composition of regulatory capital, the Tier 1 common equity ratio gained significant
prominence as a metric of capital strength. There is no mandated minimum or  well capitalized 
standard for Tier 1 common equity; instead the RBC rules state voting common stockholders  equity
should be the dominant element within Tier 1 common equity. Tier 1 common equity was $81.3 billion
at December 31, 2010, or 8.30% of risk-weighted assets, an increase of $15.8 billion from December
31, 2009. Table 38 provides the details of the Tier 1 common equity calculation.

Table 38:  Tier 1 Common Equity (1) 

(1) 
       
     Tier 1 common equity is a non-generally accepted accounting principle (GAAP) financial measure that is
used by investors, analysts and bank regulatory agencies to assess the capital position of financial
services companies. Tier 1 common equity includes total Wells Fargo stockholders  equity, less
preferred equity, goodwill and intangible assets (excluding MSRs), net of related deferred taxes,
adjusted for specified Tier 1 regulatory capital limitations covering deferred taxes, MSRs, and
cumulative other comprehensive income. Management reviews Tier 1 common equity along with other
measures of capital as part of its financial analyses and has included this non-GAAP financial
information, and the corresponding reconciliation to total equity, because of current interest in such
information on the part of market participants. 

(2) 
       
     Under the regulatory guidelines for risk-based capital, on-balance sheet assets and credit equivalent
amounts of derivatives and off-balance sheet items are assigned to one of several broad risk categories
according to the obligor or, if relevant, the guarantor or the nature of any collateral. The aggregate
dollar amount in each risk category is then multiplied by the risk weight associated with that
category. The resulting weighted values from each of the risk categories are aggregated for determining
total risk-weighted assets. 

83 

Critical Accounting Policies 

Our significant accounting policies (see Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting
Policies) to Financial Statements in this Report) are fundamental to understanding our results of
operations and financial condition because they require that we use estimates and assumptions that
may affect the value of our assets or liabilities and financial results. Six of these policies are
critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about
matters that are inherently uncertain and because it is likely that materially different amounts
would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. These policies govern:

the allowance for credit losses; 

purchased credit-impaired (PCI) loans; 

the valuation of residential mortgage servicing rights (MSRs); 

liability for mortgage loan repurchase losses; 

the fair valuation of financial instruments; and 

income taxes. 

Management has reviewed and approved these critical accounting policies and has discussed
these policies with the Board s Audit and Examination Committee.

Allowance for Credit Losses 

The allowance for credit losses, which consists of the allowance for loan losses and the
allowance for unfunded credit commitments, is management s estimate of credit losses inherent in
the loan portfolio at the balance sheet date, excluding loans carried at fair value. We develop and
document our allowance methodology at the portfolio segment level. Our loan portfolio consists of a
commercial loan portfolio segment and a consumer loan portfolio segment.

We employ a disciplined process and methodology to establish our allowance for credit losses.
The total allowance for credit losses considers both impaired and unimpaired loans. While our
methodology attributes portions of the allowance to specific portfolio segments, the entire
allowance for credit losses is available to absorb credit losses inherent in the total loan
portfolio. No single statistic or measurement determines the adequacy of the allowance for credit
losses.

COMMERCIAL PORTFOLIO SEGMENT   The allowance for credit losses for unimpaired commercial
loans is estimated through the application of loss factors to loans based on credit risk rating for
each loan. In addition, the allowance for credit losses for unfunded commitments, including letters
of credit, is estimated by applying these loss factors to loan equivalent exposures. The loss
factors reflect the estimated default probability and quality of the underlying collateral. The
loss factors used are statistically derived through the observation of historical losses incurred
for loans within each credit risk rating over a relevant specified period of time. As appropriate,
we adjust or supplement these loss factors and estimates to reflect other risks that may be
identified from current conditions and developments in selected portfolios.

The allowance also includes an amount for estimated credit losses on impaired loans such as
nonaccrual loans and loans that have been modified in a TDR, whether on accrual or nonaccrual
status.

CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SEGMENT   Loans are pooled generally by product type with similar risk
characteristics. Losses are estimated using forecasted losses to represent our best estimate of
inherent loss based on historical experience, quantitative and other mathematical techniques over
the loss emergence period. Each business group exercises significant judgment in the determination
of the credit loss estimation model that fits the credit risk characteristics of its portfolio. We
use both internally developed and vendor supplied models in this process. We often use roll rate or
net flow models for near-term loss projections, and vintage-based models, behavior score models,
and time series or statistical trend models for longer-term projections. Management must use
judgment in establishing additional input metrics for the modeling processes, considering further
stratification into sub-product, origination channel, vintage, loss type, geographic location and
other predictive characteristics. In addition, we establish an allowance for consumer loans
modified in a TDR, whether on accrual or nonaccrual status.

The models used to determine the allowance are validated by an independent internal model
validation group operating in accordance with Company policies.

OTHER ACL MATTERS   An allowance for impaired consumer and commercial loans that have been
modified in a TDR is measured based on an estimate of cash flows, both principal and interest,
expected to be collected or an assessment of the fair value of collateral underlying the impaired
loan, if applicable. Management exercises significant judgment to develop these estimates.

Commercial and consumer PCI loans may require an allowance subsequent to their acquisition.
This allowance requirement is due to probable decreases in expected principal and interest cash
flows (other than due to decreases in interest rate indices and changes in prepayment assumptions).

The allowance for credit losses for both portfolio segments includes an amount for imprecision
or uncertainty that may change from period to period. This amount represents management s judgment
of risks inherent in the processes and assumptions used in establishing the allowance. This
imprecision considers economic environmental factors, modeling assumptions and performance, process
risk, and other subjective factors, including industry trends.

SENSITIVITY TO CHANGES   Changes in the allowance for credit losses and, therefore, in the
related provision expense can materially affect net income. The establishment of the allowance for
credit losses relies on a consistent quarterly process that requires significant management review
and judgment. Management considers changes in economic conditions, customer behavior, and collateral value, among other influences. From time to time, economic
factors or business decisions, such

84 

as the addition or liquidation of a loan product or business
unit, may affect the loan portfolio, causing management to provide or release amounts from the
allowance for credit losses.

The allowance for credit losses for commercial loans, including unfunded credit commitments
(individually risk weighted) is sensitive to credit risk ratings assigned to each credit exposure.
Commercial loan risk ratings are evaluated based on each situation by experienced senior credit
officers and are subject to periodic review by an independent internal team of credit specialists.

The allowance for credit losses for consumer loans (statistically modeled) is sensitive to
economic assumptions and delinquency trends. Forecasted losses are modeled using a range of
economic scenarios.

Assuming a one risk rating downgrade throughout our commercial portfolio segment, a stressed
economic scenario for modeled losses on our consumer portfolio segment and incremental
deterioration in our PCI portfolio could imply an additional allowance requirement of approximately
$10.7 billion.

Assuming a one risk rating upgrade throughout our commercial portfolio segment and a strong
recovery economic scenario for modeled losses on our consumer portfolio segment could imply a
reduced allowance requirement of approximately $4.5 billion.

The sensitivity analyses provided are hypothetical scenarios and are not considered probable.
They do not represent management s view of inherent losses in the portfolio as of the balance sheet
date. Because significant judgment is used, it is possible that others performing similar analyses
could reach different conclusions.

See the  Risk Management   Credit Risk Management  section and Note 6 (Loans and Allowance
for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report for further discussion of our allowance.

Purchased Credit-Impaired (PCI) Loans 

Loans purchased with evidence of credit deterioration since origination and for which it is
probable that all contractually required payments will not be collected are considered to be credit
impaired. Our PCI loans represent loans acquired in the Wachovia merger that were deemed to be
credit-impaired. PCI loans are initially measured at fair value, which includes estimated future
credit losses expected to be incurred over the life of the loan. Accordingly, the historical
allowance for credit losses related to these loans was not carried over.

Management evaluated whether there was evidence of credit quality deterioration as of the
purchase date using indicators such as past due and nonaccrual status, commercial risk ratings,
recent borrower credit scores and recent loan-to-value percentages.

The fair value at acquisition was based on an estimate of cash flows, both principal and
interest, expected to be collected, discounted at the prevailing market rate of interest. We
estimated the cash flows expected to be collected at acquisition using our internal credit risk,
interest rate risk and prepayment

risk models, which incorporate our best estimate of current key assumptions, such as property
values, default rates, loss severity and prepayment speeds.

Substantially all commercial and industrial, CRE and foreign PCI loans are accounted for as
individual loans. Conversely, Pick-a-Pay and other consumer PCI loans have been aggregated into
several pools based on common risk characteristics. Each pool is accounted for as a single asset
with a single composite interest rate and an aggregate expectation of cash flows.

The excess of cash flows expected to be collected over the carrying value (estimated fair
value at acquisition date) is referred to as the accretable yield and is recognized in interest
income using an effective yield method over the remaining life of the loan, or pool of loans, in
situations where there is a reasonable expectation about the timing and amount of cash flows
expected to be collected. The difference between the contractually required payments and the cash
flows expected to be collected at acquisition, considering the impact of prepayments, is referred
to as the nonaccretable difference.

Subsequent to acquisition, we regularly evaluate our estimates of cash flows expected to be
collected. These evaluations, performed quarterly, require the continued usage of key assumptions
and estimates, similar to our initial estimate of fair value. We must apply judgment to develop our
estimates of cash flows for PCI loans given the impact of home price and property value changes,
changing loss severities, modification activity, and prepayment speeds.

If we have probable decreases in cash flows expected to be collected (other than due to
decreases in interest rate indices and changes in prepayment assumptions), we charge the provision
for credit losses, resulting in an increase to the allowance for loan losses. If we have probable
and significant increases in cash flows expected to be collected, we first reverse any previously
established allowance for loan losses and then increase interest income as a prospective yield
adjustment over the remaining life of the loan, or pool of loans. Estimates of cash flows are
impacted
by changes in interest rate indices for variable rate loans and prepayment assumptions, both
of which are treated as prospective yield adjustments included in interest income.

Resolutions of loans may include sales of loans to third parties, receipt of payments in
settlement with the borrower, or foreclosure of the collateral. Our policy is to remove an
individual loan from a pool based on comparing the amount received from its resolution with its
contractual amount. Any difference between these amounts is absorbed by the nonaccretable
difference for the entire pool. This removal method assumes that the amount received from
resolution approximates pool performance expectations. The remaining accretable yield balance is
unaffected and any material change in remaining effective yield caused by this removal method is
addressed by our quarterly cash flow evaluation process for each pool. For loans that are resolved
by payment in full, there is no release of the nonaccretable difference for the pool because there
is no difference between the amount received at resolution and the contractual amount of the loan.
Modified PCI loans are not removed from a pool even if those loans would otherwise be deemed TDRs.
Modified PCI loans that are accounted for individually are considered TDRs, and removed from PCI
accounting if there has been a concession granted in excess of the original nonaccretable
difference.

85 

Critical Accounting Policies    (continued)  

The amount of cash flows expected to be collected and, accordingly, the adequacy of the
allowance for loan loss due to certain decreases in cash flows expected to be collected, is
particularly sensitive to changes in loan credit quality. The sensitivity of the overall allowance
for credit losses, including PCI loans, is presented in the preceding section,  Critical Accounting
Policies   Allowance for Credit Losses. 

PCI loans that were classified as nonperforming loans by Wachovia are no longer classified as
nonperforming because, at acquisition, we believe we will fully collect the new carrying value of
these loans and due to the existence of the accretable yield. It is important to note that judgment
is required to classify PCI loans as performing and is dependent on having a reasonable expectation
about the timing and amount of cash flows expected to be collected, even if the loan is
contractually past due.

See the  Risk Management   Credit Risk Management  section and Note 6 (Loans and Allowance
for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report for further discussion of PCI loans.

Valuation of Residential Mortgage Servicing Rights 

Mortgage servicing rights (MSRs) are assets that represent the rights to service mortgage loans
for others. We recognize MSRs when we purchase servicing rights from third parties, or retain
servicing rights in connection with the sale or securitization of loans we originate (asset
transfers). We also have MSRs acquired in the past under co-issuer agreements that provide for us
to service loans that were originated and securitized by third-party correspondents. We initially
measure and carry substantially all of our MSRs related to residential mortgage loans at fair
value.

At the end of each quarter, we determine the fair value of MSRs using a valuation model that
calculates the present value of estimated future net servicing income. The model incorporates
assumptions that market participants use in estimating future net servicing income, including
estimates of prepayment speeds (including housing price volatility), discount rate, default rates,
cost to service (including delinquency and foreclosure costs), escrow account earnings, contractual
servicing fee income, ancillary income and late fees.

To reduce the sensitivity of earnings to interest rate and market value fluctuations, we may
use securities available for sale and free-standing derivatives (economic hedges) to hedge the risk
of changes in the fair value of MSRs, with the resulting gains or losses reflected in income.
Changes in the fair value of the MSRs from changing mortgage interest rates are generally offset by
gains or losses in the fair value of the derivatives and the particular instruments used to hedge
the MSRs. In addition, we also consider origination volume in our risk management strategy as it
tends to act as a  natural hedge.  For example, as interest rates decline, servicing values
generally decrease and fees from origination volume tend to increase. Conversely, as interest rates
increase, the fair value of the MSRs generally increases, while fees from origination volume tend
to decline. See the  Risk Management   Mortgage Banking Interest Rate and

Market Risk  section in this Report for discussion of the timing of the effect of changes in mortgage interest rates.

Net servicing income, a component of mortgage banking noninterest income, includes the changes
from period to period in fair value of both our residential MSRs and the free-standing derivatives
(economic hedges) used to hedge our residential MSRs. Changes in the fair value of residential MSRs
from period to period result from (1) changes in the valuation model inputs or assumptions
(principally reflecting changes in discount rates and prepayment speed assumptions, mostly due to
changes in interest rates and costs to service, including delinquency and foreclosure costs), and
(2) other changes, representing changes due to collection/realization of expected cash flows.

We use a dynamic and sophisticated model to estimate the value of our MSRs. The model is
validated by an independent internal model validation group operating in accordance with Company
policies. Senior management reviews all significant assumptions quarterly. Mortgage loan prepayment
speed   a key assumption in the model   is the annual rate at which borrowers are forecasted to
repay their mortgage loan principal. The discount rate used to determine the present value of
estimated future net servicing income   another key assumption in the model   is the required
rate of return investors in the market would expect for an asset with similar risk. To determine
the discount rate, we consider the risk premium for uncertainties from servicing operations (e.g.,
possible changes in future servicing costs, ancillary income and earnings on escrow
accounts). Both assumptions can, and generally will, change quarterly as market conditions and
interest rates change. For example, an increase in either the prepayment speed or discount rate
assumption results in a decrease in the fair value of the MSRs, while a decrease in either
assumption would result in an increase in the fair value of the MSRs. In recent years, there have
been significant market-driven fluctuations in loan prepayment speeds and the discount rate. These
fluctuations can be rapid and may be significant in the future. Therefore, estimating prepayment
speeds within a range that market participants would use in determining the fair value of MSRs
requires significant management judgment.

The valuation and sensitivity of MSRs is discussed further in Note 1 (Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies), Note 8 (Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities), Note 9 (Mortgage
Banking Activities) and Note 16 (Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities) to Financial Statements in
this Report.

Liability for Mortgage Loan Repurchase Losses 

We sell residential mortgage loans to various parties, including (1) Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae
(GSEs), which include the mortgage loans in GSE-guaranteed mortgage securitizations, (2) special
purpose entities that issue private label MBS, and (3) other financial institutions that purchase
mortgage loans for investment or private label securitization. In addition, we pool FHA-insured and
VA-guaranteed mortgage loans, which back securities guaranteed by GNMA. The agreements under which
we sell mortgage loans and the insurance or guaranty agreements with FHA and VA contain provisions
that include various representations and warranties regarding the
origination and characteristics of the mortgage loans. Although the specific representations and warranties vary among different
sales, insurance or guarantee agreements, they typically cover ownership of the loan, compliance
with loan criteria set forth in the applicable agreement, validity of the lien securing the loan,

86 

absence of delinquent taxes or liens against the property securing the loan, compliance with
applicable origination laws, and other matters. For more information about these loan sales and the
related risks that may result in liability see the  Risk Management   Credit Risk Management  
Liability for Mortgage Loan Repurchase Losses  section in this Report.

We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans, indemnify the securitization trust, investor
or insurer, or reimburse the securitization trust, investor or insurer for credit losses incurred
on loans (collectively  repurchase ) in the event of a breach of contractual representations or
warranties that is not remedied within a period (usually 90 days or less) after we receive notice
of the breach. Typically, we would only be required to repurchase securitized loans if any such
breach is deemed to have material and adverse effect on the value of the mortgage loan or to the
interests of the security holders in the mortgage loan. The time periods specified in our mortgage
loan sales contracts to respond to repurchase requests vary, but are generally 90 days or less.
While many contracts do not include specific remedies if the applicable time period for a response
is not met, contracts for mortgage loan sales to the GSEs include various types of specific
remedies and penalties that could be applied to inadequate responses to repurchase requests.
Similarly, the agreements under which we sell mortgage loans require us to deliver various
documents to the securitization trust or investor, and we may be obligated to repurchase any
mortgage loan for which the required documents are not delivered or are defective. Upon receipt of
a repurchase request, we work with securitization trusts, investors or insurers to arrive at a
mutually agreeable resolution. Repurchase demands are typically reviewed on an individual loan by
loan basis to validate the claims made by the securitization trust, investor or insurer, and to
determine whether a contractually required repurchase event occurred. Occasionally, in lieu of
conducting the loan level evaluation, we may negotiate global settlements in order to resolve a
pipeline of demands in lieu of repurchasing the loans. We manage the risk associated with potential
repurchases or other forms of settlement through our underwriting and quality assurance practices
and by servicing mortgage loans to meet investor and secondary market standards.

We establish mortgage repurchase liabilities related to various representations and warranties
that reflect management s estimate of losses for loans for which we could have repurchase
obligation, whether or not we currently service those loans, based on a combination of factors.
Such factors incorporate estimated levels of defects based on internal quality assurance sampling,
default expectations, historical investor repurchase demand and appeals success rates (where the
investor rescinds the demand based on a cure of the defect or acknowledges that the loan satisfies
the investor s applicable representations and warranties), reimbursement by correspondent and other
third party originators, and projected

loss severity. We establish a liability at the time loans
are sold and continually update our liability estimate during their life. Although investors may
demand repurchase at any time, the majority of repurchase demands occur in the first 24 to 36
months following origination of the mortgage loan and can vary by investor. Most repurchases under
our representation and warranty provisions are attributable to borrower misrepresentations and
appraisals obtained at origination that investors believe do not fully comply with applicable
industry standards.

Although, to date, repurchase demands with respect to private label mortgage-backed securities
have been more limited than with respect to GSE-guaranteed securities, it is possible that requests
to repurchase mortgage loans in private label securitizations may increase in frequency as
investors explore every possible avenue to recover losses on their securities. In addition, the
Federal Housing Finance Agency, as conservator of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, recently used its
subpoena power to request loan applications, property appraisals and other documents from large
mortgage securitization industry participants, including us, relating to private label MBS in order
to determine whether breaches of representations and warranties exist in those securities owned by
the GSEs. We believe the risk of repurchase in our private label securitizations is substantially
reduced, relative to other private label securitizations, because approximately half of the private
label securitizations that include our mortgage loans do not contain representations and warranties
regarding borrower or other third party misrepresentations related to the mortgage loan, general
compliance with underwriting guidelines, or property valuation, which are commonly asserted bases
for repurchase. We evaluate the validity and materiality of any claim of breach of representations
and warranties in private label MBS that is brought to our attention and work with securitization
trustees to resolve any repurchase requests. Nevertheless, we may be subject to legal and other
expenses if private label securitization trustees or investors choose to commence legal proceedings
in the event of disagreements.

The mortgage loan repurchase liability at December 31, 2010, represents our best
estimate of the probable loss that we may incur for various representations and warranties in the
contractual provisions of our sales of mortgage loans. Because the level of mortgage loan
repurchase losses are dependent on economic factors, investor demand strategies and other external
conditions that may change over the life of the underlying loans, the level of the liability for
mortgage loan repurchase losses is difficult to estimate and requires considerable management
judgment. We maintain regular contact with the GSEs and other significant investors to monitor and
address their repurchase demand practices and concerns. For additional information on our
repurchase liability, including an adverse impact analysis, see the  Risk Management   Credit Risk
Management   Liability for Mortgage Loan Repurchase Losses  section in this Report.

Fair Valuation of Financial Instruments 

We use fair value measurements to record fair value adjustments to certain financial
instruments and to determine fair value disclosures. Trading assets, securities available for sale,
derivatives, prime residential MHFS, certain commercial LHFS, principal investments and securities
sold but not yet purchased (short sale liabilities) are recorded at fair value on a recurring
basis. Additionally, from time to time, we may be required to record at fair value other assets on
a nonrecurring basis, such as certain MHFS and LHFS, loans held for investment and certain

87 

Critical Accounting Policies    (continued)  

other
assets. These nonrecurring fair value adjustments typically involve application of
lower-of-cost-or-market accounting or write-downs of individual assets. Additionally, for financial
instruments not recorded at fair value we disclose the estimate of their fair value.

Fair value represents the price that would be received to sell the financial asset or paid to
transfer the financial liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the
measurement date.

The accounting provisions for fair value measurements include a three-level hierarchy for
disclosure of assets and liabilities recorded at fair value. The classification of assets and
liabilities within the hierarchy is based on whether the inputs to the valuation methodology used
for measurement are observable or unobservable. Observable inputs reflect market-derived or
market-based information obtained from independent sources, while unobservable inputs reflect our
estimates about market data.

Level 1   Valuation is based upon quoted prices for identical instruments traded in active
markets. Level 1 instruments include securities traded on active exchange markets, such as the
New York Stock Exchange, as well as U.S. Treasury and other U.S. government securities that
are traded by dealers or brokers in active OTC markets. 

Level 2   Valuation is based upon quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets,
quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active, and
model-based valuation techniques, such as matrix pricing, for which all significant
assumptions are observable in the market. Level 2 instruments include securities traded in
functioning dealer or broker markets, plain-vanilla interest rate derivatives and MHFS that
are valued based on prices for other mortgage whole loans with similar characteristics. 

Level 3   Valuation is generated primarily from model-based techniques that use
significant assumptions not observable in the market. These unobservable assumptions reflect
our own estimates of assumptions market participants would use in pricing the asset or
liability. Valuation techniques include use of option pricing models, discounted cash flow
models and similar techniques. 

When developing fair value measurements, we maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize
the use of unobservable inputs. When available, we use quoted prices in active markets to measure
fair value. If quoted prices in active markets are not available, fair value measurement is based
upon models that use primarily market-based or independently sourced market parameters, including
interest rate yield curves, prepayment speeds, option volatilities and currency rates. However, in
certain cases, when market observable inputs for model-based

valuation techniques are not readily
available, we are required to
make judgments about assumptions market participants would use to estimate the fair value.

The degree of management judgment involved in determining the fair value of a financial
instrument is dependent upon the availability of quoted prices in active markets or observable
market parameters. For financial instruments with quoted market prices or observable market
parameters in active markets, there is minimal subjectivity involved in measuring fair value. When
quoted prices and observable data in active markets are not fully available, management judgment is
necessary to estimate fair value. Changes in the market conditions, such as reduced liquidity in
the capital markets or changes in secondary market activities, may reduce the availability and
reliability of quoted prices or observable data used to determine fair value. When significant
adjustments are required to price quotes or inputs, it may be appropriate to utilize an estimate
based primarily on unobservable inputs. When an active market for a financial instrument does not
exist, the use of management estimates that incorporate current market participant expectations of
future cash flows, adjusted for an appropriate risk premium, is acceptable.

When markets for our financial assets and liabilities become inactive because the level and
volume of activity has declined significantly relative to normal conditions, it may be appropriate
to adjust quoted prices. The methodology we use to adjust the quoted prices generally involves
weighting the quoted prices and results of internal pricing techniques, such as the net present
value of future expected cash flows (with observable inputs, where available) discounted at a rate
of return market participants require to arrive at the fair value. The more active and orderly
markets for particular security classes are determined to be, the more weighting we assign to
quoted prices. The less active and orderly markets are determined to be, the less weighting we
assign to quoted prices.

We may use independent pricing services and brokers to obtain fair values based on quoted
prices. We determine the most appropriate and relevant pricing service for each security class and
generally obtain one quoted price for each security. For certain securities, we may use internal
traders to obtain quoted prices. Quoted prices are subject to our internal price verification
procedures. We validate prices received using a variety of methods, including, but not limited to,
comparison to pricing services, corroboration of pricing by reference to other independent market
data such as secondary broker quotes and relevant benchmark indices, and review of pricing by
Company personnel familiar with market liquidity and other market-related conditions.

Significant judgment is also required to determine whether certain assets measured at fair
value are included in Level 2 or Level 3. When making this judgment, we consider all available
information, including observable market data, indications of market liquidity and orderliness, and
our understanding of the valuation techniques and significant inputs used. For securities in
inactive markets, we use a predetermined percentage to evaluate the impact of fair value
adjustments derived from weighting both external and internal
indications of value to determine if
the instrument is classified as Level 2 or Level 3. Otherwise, the classification of Level 2 or
Level 3 is based upon the specific facts and circumstances of each instrument or instrument
category and judgments are made regarding the significance of the Level 3 inputs to the
instruments  fair value measurement in its entirety. If Level 3 inputs are considered significant,
the instrument is classified as Level 3.

Our financial assets valued using Level 3 measurements consisted of certain asset-backed
securities, including those

88 

collateralized by auto leases or loans and cash reserves, private
collateralized mortgage obligations (CMOs), collateralized debt obligations (CDOs), collateralized
loan obligations (CLOs), auction-rate securities, certain derivative contracts such as credit
default swaps related to CMO, CDO and CLO exposures and certain MHFS and MSRs.

Table 39 presents the summary of the fair value of financial instruments recorded at fair
value on a recurring basis, and the amounts measured using significant Level 3 inputs (before
derivative netting adjustments). The fair value of the remaining assets and liabilities were
measured using valuation methodologies involving market-based or market-derived information,
collectively Level 1 and 2 measurements.

Table 39:  Fair Value Level 3 Summary 

(1) 
       
     Before derivative netting adjustments. 

See Note 16 (Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities) to Financial Statements in this Report
for a complete discussion on our use of fair valuation of financial instruments, our related
measurement techniques and its impact to our financial statements.

Income Taxes 

We are subject to the income tax laws of the U.S., its states and municipalities and those of
the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate. Our income tax expense consists of two components:
current and deferred. Current income tax expense approximates taxes to be paid or refunded for the
current period and includes income tax expense related to our uncertain tax positions. We determine
deferred income taxes using the balance sheet method. Under this method, the net deferred tax asset
or liability is based on the tax effects of the differences between the book and tax bases of
assets and liabilities, and recognized enacted changes in tax rates and laws in the period in which
they occur. Deferred income tax expense results from changes in

deferred tax assets and liabilities
between periods. Deferred tax assets are recognized subject to management s judgment that
realization is  more likely than not.  Uncertain tax positions that meet the more likely than not
recognition threshold are measured to determine the amount of benefit to recognize. An uncertain
tax position is measured at the largest amount of benefit that management believes has a greater
than 50% likelihood of realization upon settlement. Foreign taxes paid are generally applied as
credits to reduce federal income taxes payable. We account for interest and penalties as a
component of income tax expense.

The income tax laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate are complex and subject to
different interpretations by the taxpayer and the relevant government taxing authorities. In
establishing a provision for income tax expense, we must make judgments and interpretations about
the application of these inherently complex tax laws. We must also make estimates about when in the
future certain items will affect taxable income in the various tax jurisdictions by the government
taxing authorities, both domestic and foreign. Our interpretations may be subjected to review
during examination by taxing authorities and disputes may arise over the respective tax positions.
We attempt to resolve these disputes during the tax examination and audit process and ultimately
through the court systems when applicable.

We monitor relevant tax authorities and revise our estimate of accrued income taxes due to
changes in income tax laws and their interpretation by the courts and regulatory authorities on a
quarterly basis. Revisions of our estimate of accrued income taxes also may result from our own
income tax planning and from the resolution of income tax controversies. Such revisions in our
estimates may be material to our operating results for any given quarter.

See Note 20 (Income Taxes) to Financial Statements in this Report for a further description of
our provision for income taxes and related income tax assets and liabilities.

89 

Current Accounting Developments 

The following accounting pronouncement has been issued by the Financial Accounting
Standards Board (FASB):

Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2011-01,  Deferral of the Effective Date of Disclosures
about Troubled Debt Restructurings in Update No. 2010-20 . 

ASU 2011-01  defers the effective date for disclosures on TDRs. The deferral is intended to provide
the FASB with additional

time to complete a separate TDRs project, with new disclosures expected to
be effective for second quarter 2011. For more information on the disclosure requirements for TDRs,
see the discussion on ASU 2010-20,  Disclosures about the Credit Quality of Financing Receivables
and the Allowance for Credit Losses , in Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies) to
Financial Statements in this Report.

Forward-Looking Statements 

This Report contains  forward-looking statements  within the meaning of the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements can be identified by words
such as  anticipates,   intends,   plans,   seeks,   believes,   estimates,   expects,   projects, 
 outlook,   forecast,   will,   may,   could,   should,   can  and similar references to future
periods. Examples of forward-looking statements in this Report include, but are not limited to,
statements we make about: (i) future results of the Company; (ii) future credit quality and
expectations regarding future loan losses in our loan portfolios and life-of-loan estimates,
including our belief that quarterly total credit losses have peaked and that our credit cycle is
turning; the level and loss content of NPAs and nonaccrual loans as well as the level of inflows
and outflows into NPAs; the adequacy of the allowance for credit losses, including our current
expectation of future reductions in the allowance for credit losses; and the reduction or
mitigation of risk in our loan portfolios and the effects of loan modification programs; (iii) the
merger integration of the Company and Wachovia, including expense savings, merger costs and revenue
synergies; (iv) our mortgage repurchase exposure and exposure relating to our foreclosure
practices; (v) future capital levels and our expectations that we will be above a 7% Tier 1 common
equity ratio under proposed Basel III capital standards within the next few quarters; (vi) the
expected outcome and impact of legal, regulatory and legislative developments; and (vii) the
Company s plans, objectives and strategies.

Forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and assumptions regarding our
business, the economy and other future conditions. Because forward-looking statements relate to the
future, they are subject to inherent uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are
difficult to predict. Our actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by the
forward-looking statements. We caution you, therefore, against relying on any of these
forward-looking statements. They are neither statements of historical fact nor guarantees or
assurances of future performance. While there is no assurance that any list of risks and
uncertainties or risk factors is complete, important factors that could cause actual results to
differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include the following, without
limitation:

current and future economic and market conditions, including the effects of further
declines in housing prices and high unemployment rates; 

our capital and liquidity requirements (including under regulatory capital standards, such
as the proposed Basel III capital standards, as determined and interpreted by applicable
regulatory authorities) and our ability to generate capital internally or raise capital on
favorable terms; 

financial services reform and other current, pending or future legislation or regulation
that could have a negative effect on our revenue and businesses, including the Dodd-Frank Act
and legislation and regulation relating to overdraft fees (and changes to our overdraft
practices as a result thereof), debit card interchange fees, credit cards, and other bank
services; 

legislative proposals to allow mortgage cram-downs in bankruptcy or require other loan
modifications; 

the extent of our success in our loan modification efforts, as well as the effects of
regulatory requirements or guidance regarding loan modifications or changes in such
requirements or guidance; 

the amount of mortgage loan repurchase demands that we receive and our ability to satisfy
any such demands without having to repurchase loans related thereto or otherwise indemnify or
reimburse third parties, and the credit quality of or losses on such repurchased mortgage
loans; 

negative effects relating to mortgage foreclosures, including changes in our procedures or
practices and/or industry standards or practices, regulatory or judicial requirements,
penalties or fines, increased costs, or delays or moratoriums on foreclosures; 

our ability to successfully integrate the Wachovia merger and realize the expected cost
savings and other benefits and the effects of any delays or disruptions in systems conversions
relating to the Wachovia integration; 

our ability to realize the efficiency initiatives to lower expenses when and in the amount
expected; 

recognition of OTTI on securities held in our available-for-sale portfolio; 

the effect of changes in interest rates on our net interest margin and our mortgage
originations, MSRs and MHFS; 

hedging gains or losses; 

90 

disruptions in the capital markets and reduced investor demand for mortgage loans; 

our ability to sell more products to our customers; 

the effect of the economic recession on the demand for our products and services; 

the effect of the fall in stock market prices on our investment banking business and our
fee income from our brokerage, asset and wealth management businesses; 

our election to provide support to our mutual funds for structured credit products they may
hold; 

changes in the value of our venture capital investments; 

changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards or in how accounting
standards are to be applied or interpreted; 

mergers, acquisitions and divestitures; 

changes in the Company s credit ratings and changes in the credit quality of the Company s
customers or counterparties; 

reputational damage from negative publicity, fines, penalties and other negative
consequences from regulatory violations and legal actions; 

the loss of checking and savings account deposits to other investments such as the stock
market, and the resulting increase in our funding costs and impact on our net interest margin; 

fiscal and monetary policies of the FRB; and 

the other risk factors and uncertainties described under  Risk Factors  in this Report. 

In addition to the above factors, we also caution that there is no assurance that our
allowance for credit losses will be adequate to cover future credit losses, especially if credit
markets, housing prices and unemployment do not continue to stabilize or improve. Increases in loan
charge-offs or in the allowance for credit losses and related provision expense could materially
adversely affect our financial results and condition.

Any forward-looking statement made by us in this Report speaks only as of the date on which it
is made. Factors or events that could cause our actual results to differ may emerge from time to
time, and it is not possible for us to predict all of them. We undertake no obligation to publicly
update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments
or otherwise, except as may be required by law.

91 

Risk Factors 

An investment in the Company involves risk, including the possibility that the value of
the investment could fall substantially and that dividends or other distributions on the investment
could be reduced or eliminated. We discuss below and elsewhere in this Report, as well as in other
documents we file with the SEC, risk factors that could adversely affect our financial results and
condition and the value of, and return on, an investment in the Company. We refer you to the
Financial Review and  Forward-Looking Statements  sections and Financial Statements (and related
Notes) in this Report for more information about credit, interest rate, market, litigation and
other risks and to the  Regulation and Supervision  section of our 2010 Form 10-K for more
information about legislative and regulatory risks. Any factor described below or elsewhere in this
Report or in our 2010 Form 10-K could by itself, or together with other factors, adversely affect
our financial results and condition. Refer to our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC
in 2011 for material changes to the discussion of risk factors. There are factors not discussed
below or elsewhere in this Report that could adversely affect our financial results and condition.

RISKS RELATING TO CURRENT ECONOMIC AND MARKET CONDITIONS 

Our financial results and condition may be adversely affected by difficult business and
economic conditions, particularly if home prices continue to fall or unemployment does not improve
or continues to increase.  Our financial performance is affected by general business and economic
conditions in the U.S. and abroad, and a worsening of current business and economic conditions
could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. For example,
significant declines in home prices over the last several years and continued high unemployment
have resulted in elevated credit costs and have adversely affected our credit performance,
financial results, and capital levels. If home prices continue to fall or unemployment does not
improve or rises we would expect to incur higher than normal charge-offs and provision expense from
increases in our allowance for credit losses. These conditions may adversely affect not only
consumer loan performance but also commercial and CRE loans, especially those business borrowers
that rely on the health of industries or properties that may experience deteriorating economic
conditions. A deterioration in business and economic conditions, which may erode consumer and
investor confidence levels, also could adversely affect financial results for our fee-based
businesses, including our mortgage, investment advisory, securities brokerage, wealth management,
and investment banking businesses.

Financial and credit markets may experience a disruption or become volatile, making it more
difficult to access capital markets on favorable terms.  Financial and credit markets have
experienced unprecedented disruption

and volatility during the past several years. While market
conditions have stabilized and, in many cases, improved, a disruption in, or worsening of,
financial and credit market conditions, or increased volatility in financial and credit markets,
may adversely affect our ability to access capital markets on favorable terms and could negatively
affect our liquidity. We may raise additional capital through the issuance of common stock, which
could dilute existing stockholders, or further reduce or even eliminate our common stock dividend
to preserve capital or in order to raise additional capital.

Enacted legislation and regulation, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer
Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act), as well as future legislation and/or regulation, could require us
to change certain of our business practices, reduce our revenue, impose additional costs on us or
otherwise adversely affect our business operations and/or competitive position.  Economic,
financial, market and political conditions during the past few years have led to new legislation
and regulation in the United States and in other jurisdictions outside of the United States where
we conduct business. These laws and regulations may affect the manner in which we do business and
the products and services that we provide, affect or restrict our ability to compete in our current
businesses or our ability to enter into or acquire new businesses, reduce or limit our revenue in
businesses or impose additional fees, assessments or taxes on us, intensify the regulatory
supervision of us and the financial services industry, and adversely affect our business operations
or have other negative consequences.

For example, in 2009 several legislative and regulatory initiatives were adopted that will
have an impact on our businesses and financial results, including FRB amendments to Regulation E,
which, among other things, affect the way we may charge overdraft fees beginning on July 1, 2010,
and the enactment of the Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 (the
Card Act), which, among other things, affects our ability to change interest rates and assess
certain fees on card accounts. The impact of the Regulation E amendments and the Card Act could
vary materially due to a variety of factors, including changes in customer behavior, economic
conditions and other potential offsetting factors.

On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act became law. The Dodd-Frank Act, among other things, (i)
establishes a new
Financial Stability Oversight Council to monitor systemic risk posed by financial firms and imposes
additional and enhanced FRB regulations on certain large, interconnected bank holding companies and
systemically significant nonbanking firms intended to promote financial stability; (ii) creates a
liquidation framework for the resolution of covered financial companies, the costs of which would
be paid through assessments on surviving covered financial companies; (iii) makes significant
changes to the structure of bank and bank holding company regulation and activities in a variety of
areas, including prohibiting proprietary trading and private fund investment activities, subject to
certain exceptions; (iv) creates a new framework for the regulation of over-the-counter derivatives
and new regulations for the securitization market and strengthens the regulatory oversight of

92 

securities and capital markets by the SEC; (v) establishes the Bureau of Consumer Financial
Protection within the FRB, which will have sweeping powers to administer and enforce a new federal
regulatory framework of consumer financial regulation; (vi) may limit the existing pre-emption of
state laws with respect to the application of such laws to national banks, makes federal
pre-emption no longer applicable to operating subsidiaries of national banks, and gives state
authorities, under certain circumstances, the ability to enforce state laws and federal consumer
regulations against national banks; (vii) provides for increased regulation of residential mortgage
activities; (viii) revises the FDIC s assessment base for deposit insurance by changing from an
assessment base defined by deposit liabilities to a risk-based system based on total assets; (ix)
authorizes the FRB to issue regulations regarding the amount of any interchange transaction fee
that an issuer may receive to ensure that it is reasonable and proportional to the cost incurred;
and (x) includes several corporate governance and executive compensation provisions and
requirements, including mandating an advisory stockholder vote on executive compensation.

Although the Dodd-Frank Act became generally effective in July 2010, many of its provisions
have extended implementation periods and delayed effective dates and will require extensive
rulemaking by regulatory authorities as well as require more than 60 studies to be conducted over
the next one to two years. Accordingly, in many respects the ultimate impact of the Dodd-Frank Act
and its effects on the U.S. financial system and the Company will not be known for an extended
period of time. Nevertheless, the Dodd-Frank Act, including future rules implementing its
provisions and the interpretation of those rules, could result in a loss of revenue, require us to
change certain of our business practices, limit our ability to pursue certain business
opportunities, increase our capital requirements and impose additional assessments and costs on us,
and otherwise adversely affect our business operations and have other negative consequences,
including to our credit ratings to the extent the legislation reduces the probability of future
Federal financial assistance or support currently assumed by the rating agencies in their credit
ratings. A reduction in one or more of our credit ratings could adversely affect our ability to
borrow funds and raise the costs of our borrowings substantially and could cause creditors and
business counterparties to raise collateral requirements or take other actions, which could
adversely affect our ability to raise capital.

Recently, the Obama Administration delivered a report to Congress regarding proposals to
reform the housing finance market in the United States. The report, among other things, outlined
various potential proposals to wind down the GSEs and reduce or eliminate over time the role of the
GSEs in guaranteeing mortgages and providing funding for mortgage loans, as well as proposals to
implement reforms relating to borrowers, lenders, and investors in the mortgage market,

including
reducing the maximum size of a loan that the GSEs can guarantee, phasing in a minimum down payment
requirement for borrowers, improving underwriting standards, and increasing accountability and
transparency in the securitization process. The extent and timing of any regulatory reform
regarding the GSEs and the home mortgage market, as well as any effect on the Company s business
and financial results, are uncertain.

Any other future legislation and/or regulation, if adopted, also could have a material adverse
effect on our business operations, income, and/or competitive position and may have other negative
consequences.

For more information, refer to the  Regulation and Supervision  section in our 2010 Form 10-K.

Bank regulators and other regulations, including proposed Basel capital standards and FRB
guidelines, may require higher capital levels, limiting our ability to pay common stock dividends
or repurchase our common stock.  Federal banking regulators continually monitor the capital
position of banks and bank holding companies. In July 2009, the Basel Committee on Bank Supervision
published a set of international guidelines for determining regulatory capital known as Basel III.
These guidelines, which were finalized in December 2010, followed earlier guidelines by the Basel
Committee and are designed to address many of the weaknesses identified in the banking sector as
contributing to the financial crisis of 2008   2010 by, among other things, increasing minimum
capital requirements, increasing the quality of capital, increasing the risk coverage of the
capital framework, and increasing standards for the supervisory review process and public
disclosure.

In 2010, the FRB issued guidelines for evaluating proposals by large bank holding companies,
including the Company, to undertake capital actions in 2011, such as increasing dividend payments
or repurchasing or redeeming stock. Pursuant to those FRB guidelines, the Company submitted a
proposed Capital Plan
Review to the FRB. The FRB is expected to undertake these capital plan reviews on a regular
basis in the future. There can be no assurance that the FRB will respond favorably to the Company s
current Capital Plan Review, or future capital plan reviews, and the FRB, the Basel standards or other regulatory
capital requirements may limit or otherwise restrict how we utilize our capital, including common
stock dividends and stock repurchases. Although not currently anticipated, our regulators may
require us to raise additional capital in the future. Issuing additional common stock may dilute
existing stockholders.

Bankruptcy laws may be changed to allow mortgage  cram-downs,  or court-ordered modifications to
our mortgage loans including the reduction of principal balances.  Under current bankruptcy laws,
courts cannot force a modification of mortgage and home equity loans secured by primary residences.
In response to the current financial crisis, legislation has been proposed to allow mortgage loan
 cram-downs,  which would empower courts to modify the terms of mortgage and home equity loans
including a reduction in the principal amount to reflect lower underlying property values.

This
could result in writing down the balance of our mortgage and home equity loans to reflect their
lower loan values.
There is also risk that home equity loans in a second lien position (i.e.,
behind a mortgage) could experience significantly higher losses to the extent they become unsecured
as a result of a cram-down. The availability of principal reductions or other modifications to

93 

Risk Factors    (continued)  

mortgage loan terms could make bankruptcy a more attractive option for troubled borrowers, leading
to increased bankruptcy filings and accelerated defaults.

RISKS RELATING TO THE WACHOVIA MERGER 

Our financial results and condition could be adversely affected if we fail to realize all of
the expected benefits of the Wachovia merger or it takes longer than expected to realize those
benefits.  The merger with Wachovia requires the integration of the businesses of Wachovia and
Wells Fargo. The integration process may result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of
ongoing businesses and the loss of customers and their business and deposits. It may also divert
management attention and resources from other operations and limit the Company s ability to pursue
other acquisitions. There is no assurance that we will realize all of the cost savings and other
financial benefits of the merger when and in the amounts expected.

We may incur losses on loans, securities and other acquired assets of Wachovia that are materially
greater than reflected in our preliminary fair value adjustments.  We accounted for the Wachovia
merger under the purchase method of accounting, recording the acquired assets and liabilities of
Wachovia at fair value based on preliminary purchase accounting adjustments. Under purchase
accounting, we had until one year after the merger date to finalize the fair value adjustments,
meaning we could adjust the preliminary fair value estimates of Wachovia s assets and liabilities
based on new or updated information that provided a better estimate of the fair value at merger
date.

We recorded at fair value all PCI loans acquired in the merger based on the present value of
their expected cash flows. We estimated cash flows using internal credit, interest rate and
prepayment risk models using assumptions about matters that are inherently uncertain. We may not
realize the estimated cash flows or fair value of these loans. In addition, although the difference
between the pre-merger carrying value of the credit-impaired loans and their expected cash flows  
the  nonaccretable difference    is available to absorb future charge-offs, we may be required to
increase our allowance for credit losses and related provision expense because of subsequent
additional credit deterioration in these loans.

For more information, refer to the  Overview  and  Critical Accounting Policies   Purchased
Credit-Impaired Loans  sections in this Report.

GENERAL RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS 

Higher charge-offs and worsening credit conditions could require us to increase our allowance
for credit losses through a charge to earnings.  When we loan money or commit to loan money we
incur credit risk, or the risk of losses if our borrowers do not repay their loans. We reserve for
credit losses by establishing an allowance through a charge to earnings. The amount of this
allowance is based on our assessment of credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio (including
unfunded credit commitments). The process for determining the amount of the allowance is critical
to our financial results and condition. It requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments
about the future, including forecasts of economic or market conditions that might impair the
ability of our borrowers to repay their loans.

We might underestimate the credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio and have credit losses
in excess of the amount reserved. We might increase the allowance because of changing economic
conditions, including falling home prices and higher unemployment, or other factors such as changes
in borrower behavior. As an example, borrowers may be less likely to continue making payments on
their real estate-secured loans if the value of the real estate is less than what they owe, even if
they are still financially able to make the payments.

While we believe that our allowance for credit losses was adequate at December 31, 2010, there
is no assurance that it will be sufficient to cover future credit losses, especially if housing and
employment conditions worsen. We may be required to build reserves in 2011, thus reducing earnings.

For more information, refer to the  Risk Management   Credit Risk Management  and  Critical
Accounting Policies   Allowance for Credit Losses  sections in this Report.

We may have more credit risk and higher credit losses to the extent our loans are concentrated by
loan type, industry segment, borrower type, or location of the borrower or collateral.  Our credit
risk and credit losses can increase if our loans are concentrated to borrowers engaged in the same
or similar activities or to borrowers who as a group may be uniquely or disproportionately affected
by economic or market conditions. We experienced the effect of concentration risk in 2009 and 2010
when we incurred greater than expected losses in our Home Equity loan portfolio due to a housing
slowdown and greater than expected deterioration in residential real estate values in many markets,
including the Central Valley California market and several Southern California metropolitan
statistical areas. As California is our largest banking state in terms of loans and deposits,
continued deterioration in real estate values and underlying economic conditions in those markets
or elsewhere in California could result in materially higher credit losses. As a result of the
Wachovia merger, we have increased our exposure to California, as well as to Arizona and Florida,
two states that have also suffered significant declines in home values. Continued deterioration in
housing conditions and real estate values in these states and generally across the country could
result in materially higher credit losses.

94 

For more information, refer to the  Risk Management   Credit Risk Management  section and
Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report.

Loss of customer deposits and market illiquidity could increase our funding costs.  We rely on bank
deposits to be a low cost and stable source of funding for the loans we make. We compete with banks
and other financial services companies for deposits. If our competitors raise the rates they pay on
deposits our funding costs may increase, either because we raise our rates to avoid losing deposits
or because we lose deposits and must rely on more expensive sources of funding. Higher funding
costs reduce our net interest margin and net interest income. As discussed above, the integration
of Wells Fargo and Wachovia may result in the loss of customer deposits.

We sell most of the mortgage loans we originate in order to reduce our credit risk and provide
funding for additional loans. We rely on GSEs to purchase loans that meet their conforming loan
requirements and on other capital markets investors to purchase loans that do not meet those
requirements   referred to as  nonconforming  loans. Since 2007, investor demand for nonconforming
loans has fallen sharply, increasing credit spreads and reducing the liquidity for those loans. In
response to the reduced liquidity in the capital markets, we may retain more nonconforming loans.
When we retain a loan not only do we keep the credit risk of the loan but we also do not receive
any sale proceeds that could be used to generate new loans. Continued lack of liquidity could limit
our ability to fund   and thus originate   new mortgage loans, reducing the fees we earn from
originating and servicing loans. In addition, we cannot assure that GSEs will not materially limit
their purchases of conforming loans due to capital constraints or change their criteria for
conforming loans (e.g., maximum loan amount or borrower eligibility). As previously noted, the
Obama Administration recently outlined proposals to reform the housing finance market in the United
States, including the role of the GSEs in the housing finance market. The extent and timing of any
such regulatory reform regarding the housing finance market and the GSEs, as well as any effect on
the Company s business and financial results, are uncertain.

Changes in interest rates could reduce our net interest income and earnings.  Our net interest
income is the interest we earn on loans, debt securities and other assets we hold less the interest
we pay on our deposits, long-term and short-term debt, and other liabilities. Net interest income
is a measure of both our net interest margin   the difference between the yield we earn on our
assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and our other sources of funding   and the amount
of earning assets we hold. Changes in either our net interest margin or the amount of earning
assets we hold could affect our net interest income and our earnings. Changes in interest rates can
affect our net interest margin. Although the yield we earn on our assets and our funding costs tend
to move in the same direction in response to changes in interest rates, one can rise or fall faster
than the other, causing our net interest margin to expand or contract. Our

liabilities tend to be
shorter in duration than our assets, so they may adjust faster in response to changes in interest
rates. When interest rates rise, our funding costs may rise faster than the yield we earn on our
assets, causing our net interest margin to contract until the yield catches up.

The amount and type of earning assets we hold can affect our yield and net interest margin. We
hold earning assets in the form of loans and investment securities, among other assets. If current
economic conditions persist, we may continue to see lower demand for loans by credit worthy
customers, reducing our yield. In addition, we may invest in lower yielding investment securities
for a variety of reasons, including in anticipation that interest rates are likely to increase.

Changes in the slope of the  yield curve    or the spread between short-term and long-term
interest rates   could also reduce our net interest margin. Normally, the yield curve is upward
sloping, meaning short-term rates are lower than long-term rates. Because our liabilities tend to
be shorter in duration than our assets, when the yield curve flattens or even inverts, our net
interest margin could decrease as our cost of funds increases relative to the yield we can earn on
our assets.

The interest we earn on our loans may be tied to U.S.-denominated interest rates such as the
federal funds rate while the interest we pay on our debt may be based on international rates such
as LIBOR. If the federal funds rate were to fall without a corresponding decrease in LIBOR, we
might earn less on our loans without any offsetting decrease in our funding costs. This could lower
our net interest margin and our net interest income.

We assess our interest rate risk by estimating the effect on our earnings under various
scenarios that differ based on assumptions about the direction, magnitude and speed of interest
rate changes and the slope of the yield curve. We hedge some of that interest rate risk with
interest rate derivatives. We also rely on the  natural hedge  that our mortgage loan originations
and servicing rights can provide.

We do not hedge all of our interest rate risk. There is always the risk that changes in
interest rates could reduce our net interest income and our earnings in material amounts,
especially if actual conditions turn out to be materially different than what we assumed. For
example, if interest rates rise or fall faster than we assumed or the slope of the yield curve
changes, we may incur significant losses on debt securities we hold as investments. To reduce our
interest rate risk, we may rebalance our investment and loan portfolios, refinance our debt and
take other strategic actions. We may incur losses when we take such actions.

For more information, refer to the  Risk Management   Asset/Liability Management   Interest
Rate Risk  section in this Report.

Changes in interest rates could also reduce the value of our MSRs and MHFS, reducing our earnings. 
We have a sizeable portfolio of MSRs. An MSR is the right to service a mortgage loan   collect
principal, interest and escrow amounts   for a fee. We acquire MSRs when we keep the servicing
rights after we sell or securitize the loans we have originated or when we purchase the servicing
rights to mortgage loans originated by other lenders. We initially measure all and carry
substantially all our residential MSRs using the fair value measurement method. Fair value is the
present value of estimated future net servicing

95 

Risk Factors    (continued)  

income, calculated based on a number of variables,
including assumptions about the likelihood of prepayment by borrowers.

Changes in interest rates can affect prepayment assumptions and thus fair value. When interest
rates fall, borrowers are usually more likely to prepay their mortgage loans by refinancing them at
a lower rate. As the likelihood of prepayment increases, the fair value of our MSRs can decrease.
Each quarter we evaluate the fair value of our MSRs, and any decrease in fair value reduces
earnings in the period in which the decrease occurs.

We measure at fair value prime MHFS for which an active secondary market and readily available
market prices exist. We also measure at fair value certain other interests we hold related to
residential loan sales and securitizations. Similar to other interest-bearing securities, the value
of these MHFS and other interests may be negatively affected by changes in interest rates. For
example, if market interest rates increase relative to the yield on these MHFS and other interests,
their fair value may fall. We may not hedge this risk, and even if we do hedge the risk with
derivatives and other instruments we may still incur significant losses from changes in the value
of these MHFS and other interests or from changes in the value of the hedging instruments.

For more information, refer to the  Risk Management   Asset/Liability Management   Mortgage
Banking Interest Rate and Market Risk  and  Critical Accounting Policies  sections in this Report.

Our mortgage banking revenue can be volatile from quarter to quarter.  We earn revenue from fees we
receive for originating mortgage loans and for servicing mortgage loans. When rates rise, the
demand for mortgage loans usually tends to fall, reducing the revenue we receive from loan
originations. Under the same conditions, revenue from our MSRs can increase through increases in
fair value. When rates fall, mortgage originations usually tend to increase and the value of our
MSRs usually tends to decline, also with some offsetting revenue effect. Even though they can act
as a  natural hedge,  the hedge is not perfect, either in amount or timing. For example, the
negative effect on revenue from a decrease in the fair value of residential MSRs is generally
immediate, but any offsetting revenue benefit from more originations and the MSRs relating to the
new loans would generally accrue over time. It is also possible that, because of economic
conditions and/or a deteriorating housing market, even if interest rates were to fall, mortgage
originations may also fall or any increase in mortgage originations may not be enough to offset the
decrease in the MSRs value caused by the lower rates.

We typically use derivatives and other instruments to hedge our mortgage banking interest rate
risk. We generally do not hedge all of our risk, and we may not be successful in hedging any of the
risk. Hedging is a complex process, requiring sophisticated models and constant monitoring, and is
not a perfect science. We may use hedging instruments tied to U.S. Treasury rates, LIBOR or
Eurodollars that may not perfectly

correlate with the value or income being hedged. We could incur
significant losses from our hedging activities. There may be periods where we elect not to use
derivatives and other instruments to hedge mortgage banking interest rate risk.

For more information, refer to the  Risk Management   Asset/Liability Management   Mortgage
Banking Interest Rate and Market Risk  section in this Report.

We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or reimburse investors and others as a result of
breaches in contractual representations and warranties.  We sell residential mortgage loans to
various parties, including GSEs, SPEs that issue private label MBS, and other financial
institutions that purchase mortgage loans for investment or private label securitization. We may
also pool FHA-insured and VA-guaranteed mortgage loans which back securities guaranteed by GNMA.
The agreements under which we sell mortgage loans and the insurance or guaranty agreements with the
FHA and VA contain various representations and warranties regarding the origination and
characteristics of the mortgage loans, including ownership of the loan, compliance with loan
criteria set forth in the applicable agreement, validity of the lien securing the loan, absence of
delinquent taxes or liens against the property securing the loan, and compliance with applicable
origination laws. We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans, indemnify the securitization
trust, investor or insurer, or reimburse the securitization trust, investor or insurer for credit
losses incurred on loans in the event of a breach of contractual representations or warranties that
is not remedied within a period (usually 90 days or less) after we receive notice of the breach.
Contracts for mortgage loan sales to the GSEs include various types of specific remedies and
penalties that could be applied to inadequate responses to repurchase requests. Similarly, the
agreements under which we sell mortgage loans require us to deliver various documents to the
securitization trust or investor, and we may be obligated to repurchase any mortgage loan as to
which the required documents are not delivered or are defective. We may negotiate global
settlements in order to resolve a pipeline of demands in lieu of repurchasing the loans. If
economic conditions and the housing market do not recover or future investor repurchase demand and
our success at appealing repurchase requests differ from past experience, we could continue to have
increased repurchase obligations and increased loss severity on repurchases, requiring material
additions to the repurchase reserve.

For more information,
refer to the  Risk Management   Liability for Mortgage Loan Repurchase
Losses  section in this Report.

We may be terminated as a servicer or master servicer, be required to repurchase a mortgage loan or
reimburse investors for credit losses on a mortgage loan, or incur costs and other liabilities if
we fail to satisfy our servicing obligations, including our obligations with respect to mortgage
loan foreclosure actions.  We act as servicer and/or master servicer for mortgage loans included in
securitizations and for unsecuritized mortgage loans owned by investors. As a servicer or master
servicer for those loans we have certain contractual obligations to the securitization trusts,
investors or other third parties, including,

96 

in our capacity as a servicer, foreclosing on
defaulted mortgage loans or, to the extent consistent with the applicable securitization or other
investor agreement, considering alternatives to foreclosure such as loan modifications or short
sales and, in our capacity as a master servicer, overseeing the servicing of mortgage loans by the
servicer. If we commit a material breach of our obligations as servicer or master servicer, we may
be subject to termination if the breach is not cured within a specified period of time following
notice, which can generally be given by the securitization trustee or a specified percentage of
security holders, causing us to lose servicing income. In addition, we may be required to indemnify
the securitization trustee against losses from any failure by us, as a servicer or master servicer,
to perform our servicing obligations
or any act or omission on our part that involves willful misfeasance, bad faith or gross
negligence. For certain investors and/or certain transactions, we may be contractually obligated to
repurchase a mortgage loan or reimburse the investor for credit losses incurred on the loan as a
remedy for servicing errors with respect to the loan. If we have increased repurchase obligations
because of claims that we did not satisfy our obligations as a servicer or master servicer, or
increased loss severity on such repurchases, we may have to materially increase our repurchase
reserve.

We may incur costs if we are required to, or if we elect to re-execute or re-file documents or
take other action in our capacity as a servicer in connection with pending or completed
foreclosures. We may incur litigation costs if the validity of a foreclosure action is challenged
by a borrower. If a court were to overturn a foreclosure because of errors or deficiencies in the
foreclosure process, we may have liability to the borrower and/or to any title insurer of the
property sold in foreclosure if the required process was not followed. These costs and liabilities
may not be legally or otherwise reimbursable to us, particularly to the extent they relate to
securitized mortgage loans. In addition, if certain documents required for a foreclosure action are
missing or defective, we could be obligated to cure the defect or repurchase the loan. We may incur
liability to securitization investors relating to delays or deficiencies in our processing of
mortgage assignments or other documents necessary to comply with state law governing foreclosures.
The fair value of our MSRs may be negatively affected to the extent our servicing costs increase
because of higher foreclosure costs. We may be subject to fines and other sanctions, including a
foreclosure moratorium or suspension, imposed by Federal or state regulators as a result of actual
or perceived deficiencies in our foreclosure practices or in the foreclosure practices of other
mortgage loan servicers. Any of these actions may harm our reputation or negatively affect our
residential mortgage origination or servicing business.

For more information, refer to the  Earnings Performance   Noninterest Income,   Risk
Management   Liability for Mortgage Loan Repurchase Losses  and    Risks Relating to Servicing
Activities,  and  Critical Accounting Policies  

Valuation of Residential Mortgage Servicing
Rights  sections in this Report.

We could recognize OTTI on securities held in our available-for-sale portfolio if economic and
market conditions do not improve.  Our securities available-for-sale portfolio had gross unrealized
losses of $2.7 billion at December 31, 2010. We analyze securities held in our available-for-sale
portfolio for OTTI on a quarterly basis. The process for determining whether impairment is other
than temporary usually requires difficult, subjective judgments about the future financial
performance of the issuer and any collateral underlying the security in order to assess the
probability of receiving contractual principal and interest payments on the security. Because of
changing economic and market conditions affecting issuers and the performance of the underlying
collateral, we may be required to recognize OTTI in future periods, thus reducing earnings.

For more information, refer to the  Balance Sheet Analysis   Securities Available for Sale 
and  Current Accounting Developments  sections and Note 5 (Securities Available for Sale) to
Financial Statements in this Report.

We rely on our systems and certain counterparties, and certain failures could materially adversely
affect our operations.  Our businesses are dependent on our ability to process, record and monitor
a large number of complex transactions. If any of our financial, accounting, or other data
processing systems fail or have other significant shortcomings, we could be materially adversely
affected. Third parties with which we do business could also be sources of operational risk to us,
including relating to breakdowns or failures of such parties  own systems. Any of these occurrences
could diminish our ability to operate one or more of our businesses, or result in potential
liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, any of which could
materially adversely affect us.

If personal, confidential or proprietary information of customers or clients in our possession
were to be mishandled or misused, we could suffer significant regulatory consequences, reputational
damage and financial loss. Such mishandling or misuse could include, for example, if such
information were erroneously provided to parties who are not permitted to have the information,
either by fault of our systems, employees, or counterparties, or where such information is
intercepted or otherwise inappropriately taken by third parties.

We may be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly
or partially beyond our control, which may include, for example, computer viruses or electrical or
telecommunications outages, natural disasters, disease pandemics or other damage to property or
physical assets, or events arising from local or larger scale politics, including terrorist acts.
Such disruptions may give rise to losses in service to customers and loss or liability to us.

97 

Risk Factors    (continued)  

Our framework for managing risks may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss to us.  Our risk
management framework seeks to mitigate risk and loss to us. We have established processes and
procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, report and analyze the types of risk to which we
are subject, including liquidity risk, credit risk, market risk, interest rate risk, operational
risk, legal and compliance risk, and reputational risk, among others. However, as with any risk
management framework, there are inherent limitations to our risk management strategies as there may
exist, or develop in the future, risks that we have not appropriately anticipated or identified. If
our risk management framework proves ineffective, we could suffer unexpected losses and could be
materially adversely affected.

Financial difficulties or credit downgrades of mortgage and bond insurers may negatively affect our
servicing and investment portfolios.  Our servicing portfolio includes certain mortgage loans that
carry some level of insurance from one or more mortgage insurance companies. To the extent that any
of these companies experience financial difficulties or credit downgrades, we may be required, as
servicer of the insured loan on behalf of the investor, to obtain replacement coverage with another
provider, possibly at a higher cost than the coverage we would replace. We may be responsible for
some or all of the incremental cost of the new coverage for certain loans depending on the terms of
our servicing agreement with the investor and other circumstances. Similarly, some of the mortgage
loans we hold for investment or for sale carry mortgage insurance. If a mortgage insurer is unable
to meet its credit obligations with respect to an insured loan, we might incur higher credit losses
if replacement coverage is not obtained. We also have investments in municipal bonds that are
guaranteed against loss by bond insurers. The value of these bonds and the payment of principal and
interest on them may be negatively affected by financial difficulties or credit downgrades
experienced by the bond insurers.

For more information, refer to the  Earnings Performance   Balance Sheet Analysis  
Securities Available for Sale  and  Risk Management   Credit Risk Management  sections in this
Report.

Our ability to grow revenue and earnings will suffer if we are unable to sell more products to
customers.  Selling more products to our customers    cross-selling    is very important to our
business model and key to our ability to grow revenue and earnings. Many of our competitors also
focus on cross-selling, especially in retail banking and mortgage lending. This can limit our
ability to sell more products to our customers or influence us to sell our products at lower
prices, reducing our net interest income and revenue from our fee-based products. It could also
affect our ability to keep existing customers. New technologies could require us to spend more to
modify or adapt our products to attract and retain customers. Increasing our cross-sell ratio   or
the average number of products sold to existing customers   may become more challenging and we
might not attain our goal of selling an average of eight products to each customer.

A worsening of economic conditions could reduce demand for our products and services and lead to
lower revenue and lower earnings.  We earn revenue from the interest and fees we charge on the
loans and other products and services we sell. If the economy worsens and consumer and business
spending decreases and unemployment rises, the demand for those products and services may fall,
reducing our interest and fee income and our earnings. These same conditions may also hurt the
ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, causing us to incur higher credit losses.

Changes in stock market prices could reduce fee income from our brokerage and asset management
businesses.  We earn fee income from managing assets for others and providing brokerage services.
Because investment management fees are often based on the value of assets under management, a fall
in the market prices of those assets could reduce our fee income. Changes in stock market prices
could affect the trading activity of investors, reducing commissions and other fees we earn from
our brokerage business. As a result of the Wachovia merger, a greater percentage of our revenue
depends on our brokerage services business.

For more information, refer to the  Risk Management   Asset/Liability Management   Market
Risk   Equity Markets  section in this Report.

We may elect to provide capital support to our mutual funds relating to investments in structured
credit products.  The money market mutual funds we advise are allowed to hold investments in
structured investment vehicles (SIVs) in accordance with approved investment parameters for the
respective funds and, therefore, we may have indirect exposure to CDOs. Although we generally are
not responsible for investment losses incurred by our mutual funds, we may from time to time elect
to provide support to a fund even though we are not contractually obligated to do so. For example,
in February 2008, to maintain an investment rating of AAA for certain money market mutual funds, we
elected to enter into a capital support agreement for up to $130 million related to one SIV held by
those funds. If we provide capital support to a mutual fund we advise, and the fund s investment
losses require
the capital to be utilized, we may incur losses, thus reducing earnings.

For more information, refer to Note 8 (Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities) to
Financial Statements in this Report.

Our bank customers could take their money out of the bank and put it in alternative investments,
causing us to lose a lower cost source of funding.  Checking and savings account balances and other
forms of customer deposits may decrease when customers perceive alternative investments, such as
the stock market, as providing a better risk/return tradeoff. When customers move money out of bank
deposits and into other investments, we may lose a relatively low cost source of funds, increasing
our funding costs and reducing our net interest income.

98 

Our venture capital business can also be volatile from quarter to quarter.  Certain of our venture
capital businesses are carried under the cost or equity method, and others (e.g., principal
investments) are carried at fair value with unrealized gains and losses reflected in earnings. Our
venture capital investments tend to be in technology and other volatile industries so the value of
our public and private equity portfolios may fluctuate widely. Earnings from our venture capital
investments may be volatile and hard to predict and may have a significant effect on our earnings
from period to period. When, and if, we recognize gains may depend on a number of factors,
including general economic conditions, the prospects of the companies in which we invest, when
these companies go public, the size of our position relative to the public float, and whether we
are subject to any resale restrictions.

Our venture capital investments could result in significant losses, either OTTI losses for
those investments carried under the cost or equity method or mark-to-market losses for principal
investments. Our assessment for OTTI is based on a number of factors, including the then current
market value of each investment compared with its carrying value. If we determine there is OTTI for
an investment, we write-down the carrying value of the investment, resulting in a charge to
earnings. The amount of this charge could be significant. Further, our principal investing
portfolio could incur significant mark-to-market losses especially if these investments have been
written up because of higher market prices.

For more information, refer to the  Risk Management   Asset/Liability Management   Market
Risk   Equity Markets  section in this Report.

We rely on dividends from our subsidiaries for revenue, and federal and state law can limit those
dividends.  Wells Fargo   Company, the parent holding company, is a separate and distinct legal
entity from its subsidiaries. It receives a significant portion of its revenue from dividends from
its subsidiaries. We generally use these dividends, among other things, to pay dividends on our
common and preferred stock and interest and principal on our debt. Federal and state laws limit the
amount of dividends that our bank and some of our nonbank subsidiaries may pay to us. Also, our
right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary s liquidation or reorganization
is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary s creditors.

For more information, refer to the  Regulation and Supervision   Dividend Restrictions  and
  Holding Company Structure  sections in our 2010 Form 10-K and to Note 3 (Cash, Loan and Dividend
Restrictions) and Note 25 (Regulatory and Agency Capital Requirements) to Financial Statements in
this Report.

Changes in accounting policies or accounting standards, and changes in how accounting standards are
interpreted or applied, could materially affect how we report our financial results and condition. 
Our accounting policies are fundamental to determining and understanding our financial results and
condition. Some of these

policies require use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the
value of our assets or liabilities and financial results. Several of our accounting policies are
critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about
matters that are inherently uncertain and because it is likely that materially different amounts
would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. For a description of
these policies, refer to the  Critical Accounting Policies  section in this Report.

From time to time the FASB and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards
that govern the preparation of our external financial statements. In addition, accounting standard
setters and those who interpret the accounting standards (such as the FASB, SEC, banking regulators
and our outside auditors) may change or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions on
how these standards should be applied. Changes in financial accounting and reporting standards and
changes in current interpretations may be beyond our control, can be hard to predict and could
materially affect how we report our financial results and condition. We may be required to apply a
new or revised standard retroactively or apply an existing standard differently, also
retroactively, in each case resulting in our potentially restating prior period financial
statements in material amounts.

Our financial statements are based in part on assumptions and estimates which, if wrong, could
cause unexpected losses in the future.  Pursuant to U.S. GAAP, we
are required to use certain assumptions and estimates in preparing our financial statements,
including in determining credit loss reserves, reserves related to litigation and the fair value of
certain assets and liabilities, among other items. If assumptions or estimates underlying our
financial statements are incorrect, we may experience material losses.

Certain of our financial instruments, including trading assets and liabilities,
available-for-sale securities, certain loans, MSRs, private equity investments, structured notes
and certain repurchase and resale agreements, among other items, require a determination of their
fair value in order to prepare our financial statements. Where quoted market prices are not
available, we may make fair value determinations based on internally developed models or other
means which ultimately rely to some degree on management judgment. Some of these and other assets
and liabilities may have no direct observable price levels, making their valuation particularly
subjective, being based on significant estimation and judgment. In addition, sudden illiquidity in
markets or declines in prices of certain loans and securities may make it more difficult to value
certain balance sheet items, which may lead to the possibility that such valuations will be subject
to further change or adjustment and could lead to declines in our earnings.

Acquisitions could reduce our stock price upon announcement and reduce our earnings if we overpay
or have difficulty integrating them.  We regularly explore opportunities to acquire companies in
the financial services industry. We cannot predict the frequency,
size or timing of our acquisitions, and we typically do not comment publicly on a possible acquisition until we have
signed a definitive agreement.

99 

Risk Factors    (continued)  

When we do announce an acquisition, our stock price may fall
depending on the size of the acquisition, the purchase price and the potential dilution to existing
stockholders. It is also possible that an acquisition could dilute earnings per share.

We generally must receive federal regulatory approvals before we can acquire a bank or bank
holding company. In deciding whether to approve a proposed acquisition, federal bank regulators
will consider, among other factors, the effect of the acquisition on competition, financial
condition, and future prospects including current and projected capital ratios and levels, the
competence, experience, and integrity of management and record of compliance with laws and
regulations, the convenience and needs of the communities to be served, including our record of
compliance under the Community Reinvestment Act, and our effectiveness in combating money
laundering. Also, we cannot be certain when or if, or on what terms and conditions, any required
regulatory approvals will be granted. We might be required to sell banks, branches and/or business
units as a condition to receiving regulatory approval.

Difficulty in integrating an acquired company may cause us not to realize expected revenue
increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and other projected benefits
from the acquisition. The integration could result in higher than expected deposit attrition
(run-off), loss of key employees, disruption of our business or the business of the acquired
company, or otherwise harm our ability to retain customers and employees or achieve the anticipated
benefits of the acquisition. Time and resources spent on integration may also impair our ability to
grow our existing businesses. Also, the negative effect of any divestitures required by regulatory
authorities in acquisitions or business combinations may be greater than expected.

Federal and state regulations can restrict our business, and non-compliance could result in
penalties, litigation and damage to our reputation.  Our parent company, our subsidiary banks and
many of our nonbank subsidiaries are heavily regulated at the federal and/or state levels. This
regulation is to protect depositors, federal deposit insurance funds, consumers and the banking
system as a whole, not necessarily our stockholders. Federal and state regulations can
significantly restrict our businesses, and we could be fined or otherwise penalized if we are found
to be out of compliance.

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Sarbanes-Oxley) limits the types of non-audit services our
outside auditors may provide to us in order to preserve their independence from us. If our auditors
were found not to be  independent  of us under SEC rules, we could be required to engage new
auditors and file new financial statements and audit reports with the SEC. We could be out of
compliance with SEC rules until new financial statements and audit reports were filed, limiting our
ability to raise capital and resulting in other adverse consequences.

Sarbanes-Oxley also requires our management to evaluate the Company s disclosure controls and
procedures and its internal control over financial reporting and requires our auditors to

issue a
report on our internal control over financial reporting. We are required to disclose, in our annual
report on Form 10-K, the existence of any  material weaknesses  in our internal control. We cannot
assure that we will not find one or more material weaknesses as of the end of any given year, nor
can we predict the effect on our stock price of disclosure of a material weakness.

From time to time Congress considers legislation that could significantly change our
regulatory environment, potentially increasing our cost of doing business, limiting the activities
we may pursue or affecting the competitive balance among banks, savings associations, credit
unions, and other financial institutions.

For more information, refer to the  Regulation and Supervision  section in our 2010 Form 10-K
and to  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  in this Report.

We may incur fines, penalties and other negative consequences from regulatory violations, possibly
even inadvertent or unintentional violations.  We maintain systems and procedures designed to
ensure that we comply with applicable laws and regulations. However, some legal/regulatory
frameworks provide for the imposition of fines or penalties for noncompliance even though the
noncompliance was inadvertent or unintentional and even though there was in place at the time
systems and procedures designed to ensure compliance. For example, we are subject to regulations
issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) that prohibit financial institutions from
participating in the transfer of property belonging to the governments of certain foreign countries
and designated nationals of those countries. OFAC may impose penalties for inadvertent or
unintentional violations even if reasonable processes are in place to prevent the violations. There
may be other negative consequences resulting from a finding of noncompliance, including
restrictions on certain activities. Such a finding may also damage our reputation (see below) and
could restrict the ability of institutional investment managers to invest in our securities.

Negative publicity could damage our reputation.  Reputation risk, or the risk to our earnings and
capital from negative public opinion, is inherent in our business. Negative public opinion could
adversely affect our ability to keep and attract customers and expose us to adverse legal and
regulatory consequences. Negative public opinion could result from our actual or alleged conduct in
any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance, regulatory compliance,
mergers and acquisitions, and disclosure, sharing or inadequate protection of customer information,
and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to that
conduct. Because we conduct most of our businesses under the  Wells Fargo  brand, negative public
opinion about one business could affect our other businesses.

100 

Federal Reserve Board policies can significantly affect business and economic conditions and our
financial results and condition.  The FRB regulates the supply of money and credit in the United
States. Its policies determine in large part our cost of funds for lending and investing and the
return we earn on those loans and investments, both of which affect our net interest margin. They
also can materially affect the value of financial instruments we hold, such as debt securities and
MSRs. Its policies also can affect our borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may
fail to repay their loans. Changes in FRB policies are beyond our control and can be hard to
predict.

Risks Relating to Legal Proceedings  Wells Fargo and some of its subsidiaries are involved in
judicial, regulatory and arbitration proceedings concerning matters arising from our business
activities. Although we believe we have a meritorious defense in all material significant
litigation pending against us, there can be no assurance as to the ultimate outcome. We establish
reserves for legal claims when payments associated with the claims become probable and the costs
can be reasonably estimated. We may still incur legal costs for a matter even if we have not
established a reserve. In addition, the actual cost of resolving a legal claim may be substantially
higher than any amounts reserved for that matter. The ultimate resolution of a pending legal
proceeding, depending on the remedy sought and granted, could materially adversely affect our
results of operations and financial condition.

For more information, refer to Note 14 (Guarantees and Legal Actions) to Financial Statements
in this Report.

Risks Affecting Our Stock Price  Our stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of
factors, in addition to those described above, including:

general business and economic conditions; 

recommendations by securities analysts; 

new technology used, or services offered, by our competitors; 

operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to
us; 

news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services
industry; 

changes in government regulations; 

natural disasters; and 

geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts. 

101 

Controls and Procedures 

Disclosure Controls and Procedures 

As required by SEC rules, the Company s management evaluated the effectiveness, as of December
31, 2010, of the Company s disclosure controls and procedures. The Company s chief executive
officer and chief financial officer participated in the evaluation. Based on this evaluation, the
Company s chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that the Company s
disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2010.

Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 

Internal control over financial reporting is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) promulgated under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the
Company s principal executive and principal financial officers and effected by the Company s Board,
management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and includes those policies and
procedures that:

pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of assets of the Company; 

provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP, and that receipts and
expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
management and directors of the Company; and 

provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use or disposition of the Company s assets that could have a material effect on
the financial statements. 

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent
or detect misstatements. Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. No change occurred during
any quarter in 2010 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
Company s internal control over financial reporting. Management s report on internal control over
financial reporting is set forth below, and should be read with these limitations in mind.

Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting 

The Company s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal
control over financial reporting for the Company. Management assessed the effectiveness of the
Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, using the criteria set
forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in  Internal
Control   Integrated Framework . Based on this assessment, management concluded that as of December
31, 2010, the Company s internal control over financial reporting was effective.

KPMG LLP, the independent registered public accounting firm that audited the
Company s financial statements included in this Annual Report, issued an audit report on the
Company s internal control over financial reporting. KPMG s audit report appears on the following
page.

102 

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

The Board of Directors and Stockholders 
Wells Fargo   Company:

We have audited Wells Fargo   Company and Subsidiaries  (the Company) internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, based on criteria established in  Internal Control  
Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
(COSO). The Company s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over
financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting, included in the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial
Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company s internal control over
financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal
control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing
and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed
risk. Our audit also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1)
pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company;
and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, based on criteria established in  Internal Control  
Integrated Framework  issued by COSO.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheet of the Company as of December 31, 2010 and
2009, and the related consolidated statements of income, changes in equity and comprehensive
income, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2010, and
our report dated February 25, 2011, expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated
financial statements.

San Francisco, California 
February 25, 2011

103 

Financial Statements  

Wells
Fargo   Company and Subsidiaries 

Consolidated Statement of Income  

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements. 

104  

Wells Fargo   Company and Subsidiaries 
 
  Consolidated Balance Sheet   

(1) 
       
     Our consolidated assets at December 31, 2010, include the following assets of certain variable
interest entities (VIEs) that can only be used to settle the liabilities of those VIEs: Cash and
due from banks, $200 million; Trading assets, $143 million; Securities available for sale, $2.2
billion; Net loans, $16.7 billion; Other assets, $2.0 billion, and Total assets, $21.2 billion. 

(2) 
       
     Our consolidated liabilities at December 31, 2010, include the following VIE liabilities for
which the VIE creditors do not have recourse to Wells Fargo: Short-term borrowings, $7 million;
Accrued expenses and other liabilities, $71 million; Long-term debt, $8.3 billion; and Total
liabilities, $8.4 billion. 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements. 

105  

Wells Fargo   Company and Subsidiaries 
 
  Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and Comprehensive Income   

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements. 

(continued on following pages)  

106  

Wells Fargo   Company and Subsidiaries 
 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and Comprehensive Income  

107  

(continued from previous pages)  

Wells Fargo   Company and Subsidiaries 
 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and Comprehensive Income  

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements. 

108  

Wells Fargo   Company and Subsidiaries 
 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and Comprehensive Income  

109 

Wells Fargo   Company and Subsidiaries 
 
  Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows   

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements. See Note 1 for noncash activities. 

110  

See the Glossary of Acronyms at the end of this Report for terms used throughout the Financial
Statements and related Notes of this Form 10-K. 

Note 1: Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  

Wells Fargo   Company is a nation-wide diversified, community-based financial services company. We
provide banking, insurance, investments, mortgage banking, investment banking, retail banking,
brokerage, and consumer finance through banking stores, the internet and other distribution
channels to consumers, businesses and institutions in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, and
in other countries. When we refer to  Wells Fargo, 
 the Company,   we,   our  or
 us  in this Form 10-K, we mean Wells Fargo   Company and Subsidiaries (consolidated). Wells Fargo   Company (the
Parent) is a financial holding company and a bank holding company. We also hold a majority interest
in a real estate investment trust, which has publicly traded preferred stock outstanding.

Our accounting and reporting policies conform with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles (GAAP) and practices in the financial services industry. To prepare the financial
statements in conformity with GAAP, management must make estimates based on assumptions about
future economic and market conditions (for example, unemployment, market liquidity, real estate
prices, etc.) that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the
financial statements and income and expenses during the reporting period and the related
disclosures. Although our estimates contemplate current conditions and how we expect them to change
in the future, it is reasonably possible that actual conditions could be worse than anticipated in
those estimates, which could materially affect our results of operations and financial condition.
Management has made significant estimates in several areas, including other-than-temporary
impairment (OTTI) on investment securities (Note 5), allowance for credit losses and purchased
credit-impaired (PCI) loans (Note 6), valuations of residential mortgage servicing rights (MSRs)
(Notes 8 and 9) and financial instruments (Note 16), liability for mortgage loan repurchase losses
(Note 9) and income taxes (Note 20). Actual results could differ from those estimates.

On December 31, 2008, Wells Fargo acquired Wachovia Corporation (Wachovia). Because the
acquisition was completed at the end of 2008, Wachovia s results of operations are included in the
income statement and average balances beginning in 2009. Wachovia s assets and liabilities are
included in the consolidated balance sheet beginning on December 31, 2008. The accounting policies
of Wachovia have been conformed to those of Wells Fargo as described herein.

      On January 1, 2009, the Company adopted new accounting guidance on noncontrolling interests on
a retrospective basis. Accordingly, prior period information reflects the adoption. The guidance
requires that noncontrolling interests be reported as a component of total equity. In addition, the
consolidated income statement must disclose amounts attributable to both Wells Fargo interests and
the noncontrolling interests.

Accounting Standards Adopted in 2010 

In first quarter 2010, we adopted the following accounting updates to the Financial Accounting
Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC or Codification):

Accounting Standards Update (ASU or Update) 2010-6,  Improving Disclosures about Fair Value
Measurements ; 

ASU 2009-16,  Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets  (Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards (FAS) 166,  Accounting for Transfers of Financial
Assets   an amendment of FASB Statement
No. 140 ); 

ASU 2009-17,  Improvements to Financial Reporting by Enterprises Involved with Variable Interest
Entities  (FAS 167,  Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R) ); and 

ASU 2010-10,  Amendments for Certain Investment Funds . 

In third quarter 2010, we adopted the following new accounting guidance:

ASU 2010-18,  Effect of a Loan Modification When the Loan is Part of a Pool That is Accounted for
as a Single Asset;  and 

ASU 2010-11,  Scope Exception Related to Embedded Credit Derivatives.  

In fourth quarter 2010, we adopted the following new accounting guidance:

ASU 2010-20,  Disclosures about the Credit Quality of Financing Receivables and the Allowance for
Credit Losses   .   

Information
about these accounting updates is further described in more detail
below.

ASU 2010-6  amends the disclosure requirements for fair value measurements. Companies are now
required to disclose significant transfers in and out of Levels 1 and 2 of the fair value
hierarchy, whereas the previous rules only required the disclosure of
transfers in and out of Level 3. Additionally, in the rollforward of Level 3 activity, companies must present information on
purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements on a gross basis rather than on a net basis. The
Update also clarifies that fair value measurement disclosures should be presented for each class of
assets and liabilities. A class is typically a subset of a line item in the statement of financial
position. Companies should also provide information about the valuation techniques and inputs used
to measure fair value for both recurring and nonrecurring instruments classified as either Level 2
or Level 3. We adopted this guidance in first quarter 2010 with prospective application, except for
the new requirement related to the Level 3 rollforward. Gross presentation in the Level 3 rollforward is effective for us in first quarter 2011 with prospective application. Our adoption of the
Update did not affect our consolidated financial statement results since it amends only the
disclosure requirements for fair value measurements.

111 

Note 1: Summary of Significant Accounting Policies    (continued)  

ASU 2009-16 (FAS 166)  modifies certain guidance contained in ASC 860,  Transfers and Servicing.  This
pronouncement eliminates the concept of qualifying special purpose entities (QSPEs) and provides
additional criteria transferors must use to evaluate transfers of financial assets. The Update also
requires that any assets or liabilities retained from a transfer accounted for as a sale must be
initially recognized at fair value. We adopted this guidance in first quarter 2010 with prospective
application for transfers that occurred on and after January 1, 2010.

ASU 2009-17 (FAS 167)  amends several key consolidation provisions related to variable interest
entities (VIEs), which are included in ASC 810,  Consolidation.  The scope of the new guidance
includes entities that were previously designated as QSPEs. The Update also changes the approach
companies must use to identify VIEs for which they are deemed to be the primary beneficiary and are
required to consolidate. Under the new guidance, a VIE s primary beneficiary is the entity that has
the power to direct the VIE s significant activities, and has an obligation to absorb losses or the
right to receive benefits that could be potentially significant to the VIE. The Update also
requires companies to continually reassess whether they are the primary beneficiary of a VIE,
whereas the previous rules only required reconsideration upon the occurrence of certain triggering
events. We adopted this guidance in first quarter 2010, which resulted in the consolidation of
$18.6 billion of incremental assets onto our consolidated balance sheet and a $183 million increase
to beginning retained earnings as a cumulative effect adjustment.

We also elected the fair value option for those newly consolidated VIEs for which our
interests, prior to January 1, 2010, were predominantly carried at fair value with changes in fair
value recorded to earnings. Accordingly, the fair value option was elected to effectively continue
fair value accounting through earnings for those interests. Conversely, we did not elect the fair
value option for those newly consolidated VIEs that did not share these characteristics. At January
1, 2010, the fair value of loans and long-term debt for which we elected the fair value option was
$1.0 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively. The incremental impact of electing the fair value
option (compared to not electing) on the cumulative effect adjustment to retained earnings was an
increase of $15 million. See Notes 8 and 16 for additional information.

ASU 2010-10  amends consolidation accounting guidance to defer indefinitely the application of ASU
2009-17 to certain investment funds. The amendment was effective for us in first quarter 2010. As a
result, we did not consolidate any investment funds upon adoption of ASU 2009-17.

ASU 2010-18  provides guidance for modified PCI loans that are accounted for within a pool. Under
the new guidance, modified PCI loans should not be removed from a pool even if those loans would
otherwise be deemed troubled debt restructurings (TDRs). The Update also clarifies that entities
should consider the impact of modifications on a pool of PCI loans when evaluating that pool for
impairment. These accounting changes

were effective for us in third quarter 2010. Our adoption of
the Update did not affect our consolidated financial statement results, as the new guidance is
consistent with our previous accounting practice.

ASU 2010-11  provides guidance clarifying when entities should evaluate embedded credit derivative
features in financial instruments issued from structures such as collateralized debt obligations
(CDOs) and synthetic CDOs. The Update clarifies that bifurcation and separate accounting is not
required for embedded credit derivative features that are only related to the transfer of credit
risk that occurs when one financial instrument is subordinate to another. Embedded derivatives
related to other types of credit risk must be analyzed to determine the appropriate accounting
treatment. The guidance also allows companies to elect fair value option upon adoption for any
investment in a beneficial interest in securitized financial assets. By making this election,
companies would not be required to evaluate whether embedded credit derivative features exist for
those interests. This guidance was effective for us in third quarter 2010. In conjunction with our
adoption of this standard, we recorded a $28 million decrease to beginning retained earnings as a
cumulative effect adjustment.

ASU 2010-20  requires enhanced disclosures for the allowance for credit losses and financing
receivables, which include certain loans and long-term accounts receivable. Companies are required
to disaggregate credit quality information, including receivables on nonaccrual status and aging of
past due receivables by class of financing receivable, and roll forward the allowance for credit
losses by portfolio segment. Portfolio segment is the level at which an entity develops and
documents a systematic method to determine its allowance for credit losses. Class of financing
receivable is generally a disaggregation of portfolio segment. This guidance was effective for us
in fourth quarter 2010 with prospective application. Companies must also provide supplemental
information on the nature and extent of TDRs and their effect on the allowance for credit losses.
Under ASU 2011-01,  Deferral of the Effective Date of Disclosures about Troubled Debt Restructurings
in Update No. 2010-20 , these TDR disclosures have been deferred to coincide with a separate FASB
TDR project, with an expected effective date in second quarter 2011. Our adoption did not affect
our consolidated financial statement results since it amends only the disclosure requirements for
financing receivables and the allowance for credit losses.

Consolidation 

Our consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Parent and our majority-owned
subsidiaries and VIEs (defined below) in which we are the primary beneficiary. Significant
intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated in consolidation. If we own at least 20% of
an entity, we generally account for the investment using the equity method. If we own less than 20%
of an entity, we generally carry the investment at cost, except marketable equity securities, which
we carry at fair value with changes in fair value included

112 

in other comprehensive income (OCI). Investments accounted for under the equity or cost method are
included in other assets.

We are a variable interest holder in certain special-purpose entities (SPEs) in which equity
investors do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest or where the entity
does not have enough equity at risk to finance its activities without additional subordinated
financial support from other parties (referred to as VIEs). Our variable interest arises from
contractual, ownership or other monetary interests in the entity, which change with fluctuations in
the fair value of the entity s assets. We consolidate a VIE if we are the primary beneficiary,
defined as the party that has both the power to direct the activities that most significantly
impact the VIE and a variable interest that could potentially be significant to the VIE. A variable
interest is a contractual, ownership or other interest that changes with changes in the fair value
of the VIE s net assets. To determine whether or not a variable interest we hold could potentially
be significant to the VIE, we consider both qualitative and quantitative factors regarding the
nature, size and form of our involvement with the VIE. We assess whether or not we are the primary
beneficiary of a VIE on an on-going basis.

Trading Assets 

Trading assets are primarily securities, including corporate debt, U.S. government agency
obligations and other securities that we acquire for short-term appreciation or other trading
purposes, and the fair value of derivatives held for customer accommodation purposes or risk
mitigation and hedging. Interest-only strips and other retained interests in securitizations that
can be contractually prepaid or otherwise settled in a way that the holder would not recover
substantially all of its recorded investment are classified as trading assets. Trading assets are
carried at fair value, with realized and unrealized gains and losses recorded in noninterest
income.

Securities 

SECURITIES AVAILABLE FOR SALE  Debt securities that we might not hold until maturity and marketable
equity securities are classified as securities available for sale and reported at fair value.
Unrealized gains and losses, after applicable taxes, are reported in cumulative OCI. Fair value
measurement is based upon quoted prices in active markets, if available. If quoted prices in active
markets are not available, fair values are measured using independent pricing models or other
model-based valuation techniques such as the present value of future cash flows, adjusted for the
security s credit rating, prepayment assumptions and other factors such as credit loss assumptions
and market liquidity. See Note 16 for more information on fair value measurement of our securities.

      We conduct OTTI analysis on a quarterly basis or more often if a potential loss-triggering
event occurs. The initial indicator of OTTI for both debt and equity securities is a decline in
market value below the amount recorded for an investment and the severity and duration of the
decline.

      For a debt security for which there has been a decline in the fair value below amortized cost
basis, we recognize OTTI if we (1) have the intent to sell the security, (2) it is more likely than
not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery of

its amortized cost basis, or
(3) we do not expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the security.

Estimating recovery of the amortized cost basis of a debt security is based upon an assessment
of the cash flows expected to be collected. If the cash flows expected to be collected are less
than amortized cost, OTTI is considered to have occurred. In performing an assessment of the cash
flows expected to be collected, we consider all relevant information including:

the length of time and the extent to which the fair value has been less than the amortized cost
basis; 

the historical and implied volatility of the fair value of the security; 

the cause of the price decline, such as the general level of interest rates or adverse conditions
specifically related to the security, an industry or a geographic area; 

the issuer s financial condition, near-term prospects and ability to service the debt; 

the payment structure of the debt security and the likelihood of the issuer being able to make
payments that increase in the future; 

for asset-backed securities, the credit performance of the underlying collateral, including
delinquency rates, level of non-performing assets, cumulative losses to date, collateral value and
the remaining credit enhancement compared with expected credit losses; 

any change in rating agencies  credit ratings at evaluation date from acquisition date and any
likely imminent action; 

independent analyst reports and forecasts, sector credit ratings and other independent market
data; and 

recoveries or additional declines in fair value subsequent to the balance sheet date. 

If we intend to sell the security, or if it is more likely than not we will be required to
sell the security before recovery, an OTTI write-down is recognized in earnings equal to the entire
difference between the amortized cost basis and fair value of the security. For debt securities
that are considered other-than-temporarily impaired that we do not intend to sell or it is more
likely than not that we will not be required to sell before recovery, the OTTI write-down is
separated into an amount representing the credit loss, which is recognized in earnings, and the
amount related to all other factors, which is recognized in OCI. The measurement of the credit loss
component is equal to the difference between the debt security s cost basis and the present value
of its expected future cash flows discounted at the security s effective yield. The remaining
difference between the security s fair value and the present value of future expected cash flows is
due to factors that are not credit-related and, therefore, are recognized in OCI. We believe that
we will fully collect the carrying value of securities on which we have recorded a
non-credit-related impairment in OCI.

      We hold investments in perpetual preferred securities (PPS) that are structured in equity
form, but have many of the characteristics of debt instruments, including periodic cash flows in
the form of dividends, call features, ratings that are similar to debt securities and pricing like
long-term callable bonds.

      Because of the hybrid nature of these securities, we evaluate PPS for OTTI using a model
similar to the model we use for debt

113 

Note 1: Summary of Significant Accounting Policies    (continued)  

securities as described above. Among the factors we consider
in our evaluation of PPS are whether there is any evidence of deterioration in the credit of the
issuer as indicated by a decline in cash flows or a rating agency downgrade to below investment
grade and the estimated recovery period. Additionally, in determining if there was evidence of
credit deterioration, we evaluate: (1) the severity of decline in market value below cost, (2) the
period of time for which the decline in fair value has existed, and (3) the financial condition and
near-term prospects of the issuer, including any specific events which may influence the operations
of the issuer. We consider PPS to be other-than-temporarily impaired if cash flows expected to be
collected are insufficient to recover our investment or if we no longer believe the security will
recover within the estimated recovery period. None of our investments in PPS that have not been
impaired have been downgraded below investment grade subsequent to purchase, and we believe that
there are no factors to suggest that we will not fully realize our investment in these instruments
over a reasonable recovery period. OTTI write-downs of PPS are recognized in earnings equal to the
difference between the cost basis and fair value of the security.

For marketable equity securities other than PPS, OTTI evaluations focus on whether evidence
exists that supports recovery of the unrealized loss within a timeframe consistent with temporary
impairment. This evaluation considers the severity of and length of time fair value is below cost,
our intent and ability to hold the security until forecasted recovery of the fair value of the
security, and the investee s financial condition, capital strength, and near-term prospects.

      The securities portfolio is an integral part of our asset/liability management process. We
manage these investments to provide liquidity, manage interest rate risk and maximize portfolio
yield within capital risk limits approved by management and the Board of Directors and monitored by
the Corporate Asset/Liability Management Committee (Corporate ALCO). We recognize realized gains
and losses on the sale of these securities in noninterest income using the specific identification
method.

      Unamortized premiums and discounts are recognized in interest income over the contractual life
of the security using the interest method. As principal repayments are received on securities
(i.e., primarily mortgage-backed securities (MBS)) a proportionate amount of the related premium or
discount is recognized in income so that the effective interest rate on the remaining portion of
the security continues unchanged.

NONMARKETABLE EQUITY SECURITIES  Nonmarketable equity securities include venture capital equity
securities that are not publicly traded and securities acquired for various purposes, such as to
meet regulatory requirements (for example, Federal Reserve Bank and Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB)
stock). These securities are accounted for under the cost or equity method and are included in
other assets. We review those assets accounted for under the cost or equity method at least
quarterly for possible OTTI. Our review typically includes an analysis of the facts and
circumstances of each investment, the expectations for the investment s cash flows and capital
needs, the viability of its business model and our exit strategy. We reduce the asset value when we
consider declines in value to be other than

temporary. We recognize the estimated loss as a loss
from equity investments in noninterest income.

Nonmarketable equity securities also include principal investments, which include certain
public equity and non-public securities and certain investments in private equity funds. Principal
investments are recorded at fair value with realized and unrealized gains and losses included in
gains and losses from equity investments in noninterest income and are included in other assets on
the balance sheet. In situations where a portion of an investment in a non-public security or fund
is sold, we recognize a realized gain or loss on the portion sold and an unrealized gain or loss on
the portion retained.

Securities Purchased and Sold Agreements 

Securities purchased under resale agreements and securities sold under repurchase agreements are
accounted for as collateralized financing transactions and are recorded at the acquisition or sale
price plus accrued interest. It is our policy to take possession of securities purchased under
resale agreements, which are primarily U.S. Government and Government agency securities. We monitor
the market value of securities purchased and sold, and obtain collateral from or return it to
counterparties when appropriate. These financing transactions do not create material credit risk
given the collateral provided and the related monitoring process.

Mortgages Held for Sale 

Mortgages held for sale (MHFS) include commercial and residential mortgages originated for sale and
securitization in the secondary market, which is our principal market, or for sale as whole loans.
We elect the fair value option for substantially all residential MHFS (see Note 16). The remaining
residential MHFS are held at the lower of cost or market value (LOCOM), and are valued on an
aggregate portfolio basis. Commercial MHFS are held at LOCOM and are valued on an individual loan
basis.

      Gains and losses on MHFS are recorded in mortgage banking noninterest income. Direct loan
origination costs and fees for MHFS under fair value option are recognized in mortgage banking
noninterest income at origination. For MHFS recorded at LOCOM, loan costs and fees are deferred at
origination and are recognized in mortgage banking noninterest income at time of sale. Interest
income on MHFS for which the fair value option is elected is calculated based upon the note rate of
the loan and is recorded to interest income.

      Our lines of business are authorized to originate held-for-investment loans that meet or
exceed established loan product profitability criteria, including minimum positive net interest
margin spreads in excess of funding costs. When a determination is made at the time of commitment
to originate loans as held for investment, it is our intent to hold these loans to maturity or for
the  foreseeable future,  subject to periodic review under our corporate asset/liability management
process. In determining the  foreseeable future  for these loans, management considers (1) the
current economic environment and market conditions, (2) our business strategy and current business
plans, (3) the nature and type of the loan receivable,

114 

including its expected life, and (4) our
current financial condition and liquidity demands. Consistent with our core banking business of managing the spread
between the yield on our assets and the cost of our funds, loans are periodically reevaluated to
determine if our minimum net interest margin spreads continue to meet our profitability objectives.
If subsequent changes in interest rates significantly impact the ongoing profitability of certain
loan products, we may subsequently change our intent to hold these loans, and we would take actions
to sell such loans in response to the Corporate ALCO directives to reposition our balance sheet
because of the changes in interest rates. These directives identify both the type of loans to be
sold and the weighted average coupon rate of such loans no longer meeting our ongoing investment
criteria. Upon the issuance of such directives, we immediately transfer these loans to the MHFS
portfolio at LOCOM.

Loans Held for Sale 

Loans held for sale (LHFS) are carried at LOCOM or at fair value for certain portfolios that we
intend to hold for trading purposes. Generally, consumer loans are valued on an aggregate portfolio
basis, and commercial loans are valued on an individual loan basis. Gains and losses on LHFS are
recorded in other noninterest income. For LHFS recorded at LOCOM, direct loan origination costs and
fees are deferred at origination and are recognized in other noninterest income at time of sale.
For loans recorded at fair value, direct loan origination costs and fees are recorded in other
noninterest income at origination. The fair value of LHFS is based on what secondary markets are
currently offering for portfolios with similar characteristics, and related gains and losses are
recorded in noninterest income.

Loans 

Loans are reported at their outstanding principal balances net of any unearned income, cumulative
charge-offs, unamortized deferred fees and costs on originated loans and unamortized premiums or
discounts on purchased loans. PCI loans are reported net of any remaining purchase accounting
adjustments. See the  Purchased Credit-Impaired Loans  section in this Note for our accounting
policy for PCI loans.

      Unearned income, deferred fees and costs, and discounts and premiums are amortized to interest
income over the contractual life of the loan using the interest method. Loan commitment fees are
generally deferred and amortized into noninterest income on a straight-line basis over the
commitment period.

      Loans also include direct financing leases that are recorded at the aggregate of minimum lease
payments receivable plus the estimated residual value of the leased property, less unearned income.
Leveraged leases, which are a form of direct financing leases, are recorded net of related
nonrecourse debt. Leasing income is recognized as a constant percentage of outstanding lease
financing balances over the lease terms in interest income.

  NONACCRUAL AND PAST DUE LOANS  We generally place loans on nonaccrual status when:

the full and timely collection of interest or principal becomes uncertain; 

they are 90 days (120 days with respect to real estate 1-4 family first and junior lien
mortgages) past due for interest or principal, unless both well-secured and in the process of
collection; or 

part of the principal balance has been charged off and no restructuring has occurred. 

PCI loans are written down at acquisition to fair value using an estimate of cash flows deemed
to be collectible. Accordingly, such loans are no longer classified as nonaccrual even though they
may be contractually past due because we expect to fully collect the new carrying values of such
loans (that is, the new cost basis arising out of purchase accounting).

When we place a loan on nonaccrual status, we reverse the accrued unpaid interest receivable
against interest income and amortization of any net deferred fees is suspended. A loan will remain
in accruing status provided it is both well-secured and in the process of collection. If the
ultimate collectability of a loan is in doubt and the loan is on nonaccrual, the cost recovery
method is used and cash collected is applied to first reduce the principal outstanding. Generally,
we return a loan to accrual status when all delinquent interest and principal become current under
the terms of the loan agreement and collectability of remaining principal and interest is no longer
doubtful.

      For modified loans, we underwrite at the time of a restructuring to determine if there is
sufficient evidence of sustained repayment capacity based on the borrower s financial strength,
including documented income, debt to income ratios and other factors. If the borrower has
demonstrated performance under the previous terms and the underwriting process shows the capacity
to continue to perform under the restructured terms, the loan will remain in accruing status. When
a loan classified as a TDR performs in accordance with its modified terms, the loan either
continues to accrue interest (for performing loans) or will return to accrual status after the
borrower demonstrates a sustained period of performance (generally six consecutive months of
payments, or equivalent, inclusive of consecutive payments made prior to the modification). Loans
will be placed on nonaccrual status and a corresponding charge-off is recorded if we believe it is
probable that principal and interest contractually due under the modified terms of the agreement
will not be collectible.

      Generally, consumer loans not secured by real estate or autos are placed on nonaccrual status
only when part of the principal has been charged off. Loans are fully charged off or charged down
to net realizable value (fair value of collateral less estimated costs to sell) when deemed
uncollectible due to bankruptcy or other factors, or when they reach a defined number of days past
due based on loan product, industry practice, country, terms and other factors.

      Our loans are considered past due when contractually required principal or interest payments
have not been made on the due dates.

  LOAN CHARGE-OFF POLICIES  For commercial loans, we generally fully charge off or charge down to net
realizable value for loans secured by collateral when:

management judges the loan to be uncollectible; 

115 

Note 1: Summary of Significant Accounting Policies    (continued)  

repayment is deemed to be protracted beyond reasonable time frames; 

the loan has been classified as a loss by either our internal loan review process or our banking
regulatory agencies; 

the customer has filed bankruptcy and the loss becomes evident owing to a lack of assets; or 

the loan is 180 days past due unless both well-secured and in the process of collection. 

For consumer loans, our charge-off policies are as follows:

1-4 family first and junior lien mortgages   We generally charge down to net realizable value
when the loan is 180 days past due. 

Auto loans   We generally fully charge off when the loan is 120 days past due. 

Credit card loans   We generally fully charge off when the loan is 180 days past due. 

Unsecured loans (closed end)   We generally charge off when the loan is 120 days past due. 

Unsecured loans (open end)   We generally charge off when the loan is 180 days past due. 

Other secured loans   We generally fully or partially charge down to net realizable value when
the loan is 120 days past due. 

IMPAIRED LOANS  We consider a loan to be impaired when, based on current information and events, we
determine that we will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the loan contract,
including scheduled interest payments. Our impaired loans include commercial and industrial,
commercial real estate (CRE), and foreign loans on nonaccrual status for which we determine that we
will not be able to collect all amounts due and consumer, commercial and industrial, CRE, and
foreign loans modified in a TDR, on both accrual and nonaccrual status.

When we identify a loan as impaired, we measure the impairment based on the present value of
expected future cash flows, discounted at the loan s effective interest rate. When collateral is
the sole source of repayment for the loan, we may measure impairment based on the fair value of the
collateral. If foreclosure is probable, we use the current fair value of the collateral less
selling costs, instead of discounted cash flows.

      If we determine that the value of an impaired loan is less than the recorded investment in the
loan (net of previous charge-offs, deferred loan fees or costs and unamortized premium or
discount), we recognize impairment. When the value of an impaired loan is calculated by discounting
expected cash flows, interest income is recognized using the loan s effective interest rate over
the remaining life of the loan.

  TROUBLED DEBT RESTRUCTURINGS (TDRs)  In situations where, for economic or legal reasons related to
a borrower s financial difficulties, we grant a concession for other than an insignificant period
of time to the borrower that we would not otherwise consider, the related loan is classified as a
TDR. We strive to identify borrowers in financial difficulty early and work with them to modify
their loan to more affordable terms before it reaches nonaccrual status. These modified terms may
include rate reductions, principal forgiveness, term extensions, payment forbearance and other
actions intended to minimize our

economic loss and to avoid foreclosure or repossession of the
collateral. For modifications where we forgive principal, the entire amount of such principal
forgiveness is immediately charged off. Loans classified as TDRs are considered impaired loans.

PURCHASED CREDIT-IMPAIRED (PCI) LOANS  Loans acquired in a transfer, including business
combinations, where there is evidence of credit deterioration since origination and it is probable
at the date of acquisition that we will not collect all contractually required principal and
interest payments are accounted for as PCI loans. PCI loans are initially recorded at fair value,
which includes estimated future credit losses expected to be incurred over the life of the loan.
Accordingly, the historical allowance for credit losses related to these loans is not carried over.
Some loans that otherwise meet the definition as credit-impaired are specifically excluded from the
PCI loan portfolios, such as revolving loans where the borrower still has revolving privileges.

Evidence of credit quality deterioration as of the purchase date may include statistics such
as past due and nonaccrual status, commercial risk ratings, recent borrower credit scores and
recent loan-to-value percentages. Generally, acquired loans that meet our definition for nonaccrual
status are considered to be credit-impaired.

      Substantially all commercial and industrial, CRE and foreign PCI loans are accounted for as
individual loans. Conversely, Pick-a-Pay and other consumer PCI loans have been aggregated into
several pools based on common risk characteristics. Each pool is accounted for as a single asset
with a single composite interest rate and an aggregate expectation of cash flows.

      Accounting for PCI loans involves estimating fair value, at acquisition, using the principal
and interest cash flows expected to be collected discounted at the prevailing market rate of
interest. The excess of cash flows expected to be collected over the carrying value (estimated fair
value at acquisition date) is referred to as the accretable yield and is recognized in interest
income using an effective yield method over the remaining life of the loan, or pool of loans, in
situations where there is a reasonable expectation about the timing and amount of cash flows to be
collected. The difference between contractually required payments and the cash flows expected to be
collected at acquisition, considering the impact of prepayments, is referred to as the
nonaccretable difference.

      Subsequent to acquisition, we regularly evaluate our estimates of cash flows expected to be
collected. If we have probable decreases in cash flows expected to be collected (other than due to
decreases in interest rate indices and changes in prepayment assumptions), we charge the provision
for credit losses, resulting in an increase to the allowance for loan losses. If we have probable
and significant increases in cash flows expected to be collected, we first reverse any previously
established allowance for loan losses and then increase interest income as a prospective yield
adjustment over the remaining life of the loan, or pool of loans. Estimates of cash flows are
impacted by changes in interest rate indices for variable rate

116 

loans and prepayment assumptions,
both of which are treated as prospective yield adjustments included
in interest income.

Resolutions of loans may include sales of loans to third parties, receipt of payments in
settlement with the borrower, or foreclosure of the collateral. For individual PCI loans, gains or
losses on sales to third parties are included in noninterest income and gains or losses as a result of a
settlement with the borrower are included in interest income. Our policy is to remove an individual loan
from a pool based on comparing the amount received from its resolution with its contractual amount.
Any difference between these amounts is absorbed by the nonaccretable difference for the entire
pool. This removal method assumes that the amount received from resolution approximates pool
performance expectations. The remaining accretable yield balance is unaffected and any material
change in remaining effective yield caused by this removal method is addressed by our quarterly
cash flow evaluation process for each pool. For loans that are resolved by payment in full, there
is no release of the nonaccretable difference for the pool because there is no difference between
the amount received at resolution and the contractual amount of the loan. Modified PCI loans are
not removed from a pool even if those loans would otherwise be deemed TDRs. Modified PCI loans that
are accounted for individually are considered TDRs, and removed from PCI accounting if there has
been a concession granted in excess of the original nonaccretable difference.

FORECLOSED ASSETS  Foreclosed assets obtained through our lending activities primarily include real
estate. These assets are recorded at net realizable value with a charge to the allowance for credit
losses at foreclosure. We allow up to 90 days after foreclosure  to finalize
determination of net realizable value. Thereafter, changes in net realizable value are recorded to noninterest expense. The
net realizable value of these assets is reviewed and updated periodically depending on the type of
property.

ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES  The allowance for credit losses, which consists of the allowance for
loan losses and the allowance for unfunded credit commitments, is management s estimate of credit
losses inherent in the loan portfolio at the balance sheet date.

Securitizations and Beneficial Interests 

In certain asset securitization transactions that meet the applicable criteria to be accounted for
as a sale, assets are sold to an entity referred to as an SPE, which then issues beneficial
interests in the form of senior and subordinated interests collateralized by the assets. In some
cases, we may retain up to 90% of the beneficial interests issued by the entity. Additionally, from
time to time, we may also re-securitize certain assets in a new securitization transaction.

      The assets and liabilities transferred to an SPE are excluded from our consolidated balance
sheet if the transfer qualifies as a sale and we are not required to consolidate the SPE.

      For transfers of financial assets recorded as sales, we recognize and initially measure at
fair value all assets obtained (including beneficial interests) and liabilities incurred. We record
a gain or loss in other fee income for the difference between the carrying amount and the fair
value of the assets

sold. Fair values are based on quoted market prices, quoted market prices for
similar assets, or if market prices are not available, then the fair value is estimated using
discounted cash flow analyses with assumptions for credit losses, prepayments and discount rates
that are corroborated by and independently verified against market observable data, where possible.
Retained interests from securitizations with off-balance sheet entities, including SPEs and VIEs
where we are not the primary beneficiary, are classified as available for sale securities, trading
account assets or loans, and are accounted for as described herein.

Mortgage Servicing Rights (MSRs) 

We recognize the rights to service mortgage loans for others, or MSRs, as assets whether we
purchase the MSRs or the MSRs result from a sale or securitization of loans we originate (asset
transfers). We initially record all of our MSRs at fair value. Subsequently, residential loan MSRs
are carried at either fair value or LOCOM based on our strategy for managing interest rate risk.
Currently, substantially all of our residential loan MSRs are carried at fair value. All of our
MSRs related to our commercial mortgage loans are subsequently measured at LOCOM.

      We base the fair value of MSRs on the present value of estimated future net servicing income cash
flows. We estimate future net servicing income cash flows with assumptions that market participants
would use to estimate fair value, including estimates of prepayment speeds (including housing
price volatility), discount rate, default rates, cost to service (including delinquency and
foreclosure costs), escrow account earnings, contractual servicing fee income, ancillary income and
late fees. Our valuation approach is independently validated by our internal valuation model
validation group.

      Changes in the fair value of MSRs occur primarily due to the collection/realization of
expected cash flows, as well as changes in valuation inputs and assumptions. For MSRs carried at
fair value, changes in fair value are reported in noninterest income in the period in which the
change occurs. MSRs subsequently measured at LOCOM are amortized in proportion to, and over the
period of, estimated net servicing income. The amortization of MSRs is reported in noninterest
income analyzed monthly and adjusted to reflect changes in prepayment speeds, as well as other
factors.

      MSRs accounted for at LOCOM are periodically evaluated for impairment based on the fair value
of those assets. For purposes of impairment evaluation and measurement, we stratify MSRs based on
the predominant risk characteristics of the underlying loans, including investor and product type.
If, by individual stratum, the carrying amount of these MSRs exceeds fair value, a valuation
reserve is established. The valuation reserve is adjusted as the fair value changes.

Premises and Equipment 

Premises and equipment are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Capital
leases, where we are the

117 

Note 1: Summary of Significant Accounting Policies    (continued)  

lessee, are included in premises and equipment at the capitalized amount
less accumulated amortization.

      We primarily use the straight-line method of depreciation and amortization. Estimated useful
lives range up to 40 years for buildings, up to 10 years for furniture and equipment, and the shorter of the estimated useful life
or lease term for leasehold improvements. We amortize capitalized leased assets on a straight-line
basis over the lives of the respective leases.

Goodwill and Identifiable Intangible Assets 

Goodwill is recorded in business combinations under the purchase method of accounting when the
purchase price is higher than the fair value of net assets, including identifiable intangible
assets.

      We assess goodwill for impairment annually, and more frequently in certain circumstances. We
have determined that our reporting units are one level below the operating segments. We assess
goodwill for impairment on a reporting unit level and apply various valuation methodologies as
appropriate to compare the estimated fair value to the carrying value of each reporting unit.
Valuation methodologies include discounted cash flow and earnings multiple approaches. If the fair
value is less than the carrying amount, a second test is required to measure the amount of
impairment. We recognize impairment losses as a charge to noninterest expense (unless related to
discontinued operations) and an adjustment to the carrying value of the goodwill asset. Subsequent
reversals of goodwill impairment are prohibited.

      We amortize core deposit and other customer relationship intangibles on an accelerated basis
over useful lives not exceeding 10 years. We review such intangibles for impairment whenever events
or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Impairment
is indicated if the sum of undiscounted estimated future net cash flows is less than the carrying
value of the asset. Impairment is permanently recognized by writing down the asset to the extent
that the carrying value exceeds the estimated fair value.

Operating Lease Assets 

Operating lease rental income for leased assets is recognized in other income on a straight-line
basis over the lease term. Related depreciation expense is recorded on a straight-line basis over
the life of the lease, taking into account the estimated residual value of the leased asset. On a
periodic basis, leased assets are reviewed for impairment. Impairment loss is recognized if the
carrying amount of leased assets exceeds fair value and is not recoverable. The carrying amount of
leased assets is not recoverable if it exceeds the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to
result from the lease payments and the estimated residual value upon the eventual disposition of
the equipment.

Liability for Mortgage Loan Repurchase Losses 

We sell residential mortgage loans to various parties, including (1) Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae
(government-sponsored entities (GSEs)), which include the mortgage loans in GSE-guaranteed mortgage
securitizations, (2) special purpose entities that issue private label MBS, and (3) other financial
institutions that purchase mortgage loans for investment or private label securitization. In
addition, we pool Federal Housing Administration (FHA)-insured and Department of Veterans Affairs
(VA)-guaranteed mortgage loans, which back securities

guaranteed by the Government National
Mortgage Association (GNMA).

We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans, indemnify the securitization trust, investor
or insurer, or reimburse the securitization trust, investor or insurer for credit losses incurred
on loans (collectively  repurchase ) in the event of a breach of specified contractual
representations or warranties that are not remedied within a period (usually 90 days or less) after
we receive notice of the breach. Typically, we would only be required to repurchase securitized
loans if a breach is deemed to have material and adverse effect on the value of the mortgage loan
or to the interests of the security holders in the mortgage loan.

      We establish mortgage repurchase liabilities related to various representations and warranties
that reflect management s estimate of losses for loans for which we could have repurchase
obligation, whether or not we currently service those loans, based on a combination of factors.
Such factors incorporate estimated levels of defects based on internal quality assurance sampling,
default expectations, historical investor repurchase demand and appeals success rates (where the
investor rescinds the demand based on a cure of the defect or acknowledges that the loan satisfies
the investor s applicable representations and warranties), reimbursement by correspondent and other
third party originators, and projected loss severity. We establish a liability at the time loans
are sold and continually update our liability estimate during their life. Although investors may
demand repurchase at any time, the majority of repurchase demands occur in the first 24 to 36
months following origination of the mortgage loan and can vary by investor.

      The liability for mortgage loan repurchase losses is included in other liabilities. For
additional information on our repurchase liability, see Note 9.

Pension Accounting 

We account for our defined benefit pension plans using an actuarial model as more fully discussed
in Note 19. In 2008, we changed our measurement date for our plan assets and benefit obligations
from November 30 to December 31, which did not change the amount of net periodic benefit expense
recognized in our income statement.

Income Taxes 

We file consolidated and separate company federal income tax returns, foreign tax returns and
various combined and separate company state tax returns.

      We evaluate two components of income tax expense: current and deferred. Current income tax
expense approximates taxes to be paid or refunded for the current period and includes income tax
expense related to our uncertain tax positions. We determine deferred income taxes using the
balance sheet method. Under this method, the net deferred tax asset or liability is based on the
tax effects of the differences between the book and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and
recognizes enacted changes in tax rates

118 

and laws in the period in which they occur. Deferred income
tax expense results from changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities between periods. Deferred
tax assets are recognized subject to management s judgment that
realization is more likely than not. A tax position that meets the  more likely than not  recognition threshold is measured to
determine the amount of benefit to recognize. The tax position is measured at the largest amount of
benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon settlement. Foreign taxes paid are
generally applied as credits to reduce federal income taxes payable. Interest and penalties are
recognized as a component of income tax expense.

Stock-Based Compensation 

We have stock-based employee compensation plans as more fully discussed in Note 18. Our
compensation expense includes the associated costs for all share-based awards.

Earnings Per Common Share 

We compute earnings per common share by dividing net income (after deducting dividends and related
accretion on preferred stock) by the average number of common shares outstanding during the year.
We compute diluted earnings per common share by dividing net income (after deducting dividends and
related accretion on preferred stock) by the average number of common shares outstanding during the
year, plus the effect of common stock equivalents (for example, stock options, restricted share
rights, convertible debentures and warrants) that are dilutive.

Derivatives and Hedging Activities 

We recognize all derivatives in the balance sheet at fair value. On the date we enter into a
derivative contract, we designate the derivative as (1) a hedge of the fair value of a recognized
asset or liability, including hedges of foreign currency exposure ( fair value  hedge), (2) a hedge
of a forecasted transaction or of the variability of cash flows to be received or paid related to a
recognized asset or liability ( cash flow  hedge), or (3) held for trading, customer accommodation
or asset/liability risk management purposes, including economic hedges not qualifying for hedge
accounting. For a fair value hedge, we record changes in the fair value of the derivative and, to
the extent that it is effective, changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability
attributable to the hedged risk, in current period earnings in the same financial statement
category as the hedged item. For a cash flow hedge, we record changes in the fair value of the
derivative to the extent that it is effective in OCI, with any ineffectiveness recorded in current
period earnings. We subsequently reclassify these changes in fair value to net income in the same
period(s) that the hedged transaction affects net income in the same financial statement category
as the hedged item. For free-standing derivatives, we report changes in the fair values in current
period noninterest income.

      For fair value and cash flow hedges qualifying for hedge accounting, we formally document at
inception the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, our risk management
objective, strategy and our evaluation of effectiveness for our hedge transactions. This includes
linking all derivatives designated as fair value or cash flow hedges to specific assets and
liabilities in the balance sheet or to specific forecasted transactions. Periodically, as required,
we also formally assess whether the derivative we designated in each

hedging relationship is
expected to be and has been highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of
the hedged item using the regression analysis method or, in limited cases, the dollar offset
method.

We discontinue hedge accounting prospectively when (1) a derivative is no longer highly
effective in offsetting changes in the fair value or cash flows of a hedged item, (2) a derivative
expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, (3) a derivative is de-designated as a hedge, because
it is unlikely that a forecasted transaction will occur, or (4) we determine that designation of a
derivative as a hedge is no longer appropriate.

      When we discontinue hedge accounting because a derivative no longer qualifies as an effective
fair value hedge, we continue to carry the derivative in the balance sheet at its fair value with
changes in fair value included in earnings, and no longer adjust the previously hedged asset or
liability for changes in fair value. Previous adjustments to the hedged item are accounted for in
the same manner as other components of the carrying amount of the asset or liability.

      When we discontinue cash flow hedge accounting because the hedging instrument is sold,
terminated or no longer designated (de-designated), the amount reported in OCI up to the date of
sale, termination or de-designation continues to be reported in OCI until the forecasted
transaction affects earnings.

      When we discontinue cash flow hedge accounting because it is probable that a forecasted
transaction will not occur, we continue to carry the derivative in the balance sheet at its fair
value with changes in fair value included in earnings, and immediately recognize gains and losses
that were accumulated in OCI in earnings.

      In all other situations in which we discontinue hedge accounting, the derivative will be
carried at its fair value in the balance sheet, with changes in its fair value recognized in
current period earnings.

      We occasionally purchase or originate financial instruments that contain an embedded
derivative. At inception of the financial instrument, we assess (1) if the economic characteristics
of the embedded derivative are not clearly and closely related to the economic characteristics of
the financial instrument (host contract), (2) if the financial instrument that embodies both the
embedded derivative and the host contract is not measured at fair value with changes in fair value
reported in earnings, and (3) if a separate instrument with the same terms as the embedded
instrument would meet the definition of a derivative. If the embedded derivative meets all of these
conditions, we separate it from the host contract by recording the bifurcated derivative at fair
value and the remaining host contract at the difference between the basis of the hybrid instrument
and the fair value of the bifurcated derivative. The bifurcated derivative is carried as a
free-standing derivative at fair value with changes recorded in current period earnings.

119 

Note 1: Summary of Significant Accounting Policies    (continued)  

SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION  Noncash activities are presented below, including information on
transfers affecting MHFS, LHFS, and MSRs.

SUBSEQUENT EVENTS  We have evaluated the effects of subsequent events that have occurred subsequent
to period end December 31, 2010, and there have been no material events that would require
recognition in our 2010 consolidated financial statements or disclosure in the Notes to the
financial statements.

120 

Note 2: Business Combinations  

We regularly explore opportunities to acquire financial services companies and businesses.
Generally, we do not make a public announcement about an acquisition opportunity until a definitive
agreement has been signed. For information on additional consideration related to acquisitions,
which is considered to be a guarantee, see Note 14.

In addition to the 2008 Wachovia acquisition, business combinations completed in 2010, 2009
and 2008 are presented below. At December 31, 2010, we had no pending business combinations.

(1) 
       
     Consists of five acquisitions of insurance brokerage businesses. 

(2) 
       
     Consists of eight acquisitions of insurance brokerage businesses. 

(3) 
       
     Consists of five affiliated banks of United Bancorporation of Wyoming, Inc., located in Wyoming
and Idaho, and certain assets and liabilities of United Bancorporation of Wyoming, Inc. 

(4) 
       
     Represents a step acquisition resulting from the increase in Wells Fargo s ownership from a
47.5% interest to a 60% interest in the Wells Fargo Merchant Services, LLC joint venture. 

(5) 
       
     Consists of 12 acquisitions of insurance brokerage businesses. 

On December 31, 2008, Wells Fargo acquired Wachovia. The purchase accounting for the Wachovia
acquisition was finalized as of December 31, 2009, which included costs associated with involuntary
employee termination, contract terminations and closing duplicate facilities. These exit costs were
estimates and subject to changes as the exit plans were executed. The final

exit costs
as of December 31, 2010, were less than
originally estimated, resulting in the reversal of exit cost accruals, with the offset reducing the amount of
goodwill recorded with the Wachovia acquisition by $123 million.

The
following table summarizes the usage of the exit cost accruals and changes in estimates.

(1) 
       
     Certain purchase accounting adjustments have been refined during 2009 as additional information
became available. 

121 

Note 3: Cash, Loan and Dividend Restrictions  

Federal Reserve Board (FRB) regulations require that each of our subsidiary banks maintain reserve
balances on deposit with the Federal Reserve Banks. The average required reserve balance was $6.0
billion in 2010 and $2.4 billion in 2009.

Federal law restricts the amount and the terms of both credit and non-credit transactions
between a bank and its nonbank affiliates. These transaction amounts may not exceed 10% of the
bank s capital and surplus, which for this purpose represents total capital, as calculated under
the risk-based capital (RBC) guidelines, plus the balance of the allowance for credit losses in
excess of the amount included in total capital with any single nonbank affiliate and 20% of the
bank s capital and surplus with all its nonbank affiliates. Transactions that are extensions of
credit may require collateral to be held to provide added security to the bank. For further
discussion of RBC, see Note 25.

      Dividends paid by our subsidiary banks are subject to various federal and state regulatory
limitations. Dividends that may be paid by a national bank without the express approval of the
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) are limited to that bank s retained net profits for
the preceding two calendar years plus retained net profits up to the date of any dividend
declaration in the current calendar year. Retained net profits, as defined by the OCC, consist of
net income less dividends declared during the period.

We also have state-chartered subsidiary banks that are subject to state regulations that limit
dividends. Under those provisions, our national and state-chartered subsidiary banks could have
declared additional dividends of $1.6 billion at December 31, 2010, without obtaining prior
regulatory approval. Our nonbank subsidiaries are also limited by certain federal and state
statutory provisions and regulations covering the amount of dividends that may be paid in any given
year. Based on retained earnings at December 31, 2010, our nonbank subsidiaries could have declared
additional dividends of $4.7 billion at December 31, 2010, without obtaining prior approval.

The FRB published clarifying supervisory guidance in 2009,  SR 09-4 Applying Supervisory
Guidance and Regulations on the Payment of Dividends, Stock Redemptions, and Stock Repurchases at
Bank Holding Companies,  pertaining to FRB s criteria, assessment and approval process for
reductions in capital including the redemption of Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) and the
payment of dividends. The effect of this guidance is to require the approval of the FRB for the
Company to repurchase or redeem common or perpetual preferred stock as well as to increase the per
share dividend from its current level of $0.05 per share. In November 2010, the FRB updated the SR
09-4 guidance to require the original 19 Supervisory Capital Assessment Program (SCAP) banks to
submit a Capital Plan Review to the FRB no later than January 7,
2011. The Capital Plan Review outlines proposed capital actions by the Company including per share dividend increases and
share repurchases from the Company s benefit plans and the market. The Company has submitted a
Capital Plan Review to the FRB.

Note 4: Federal Funds Sold, Securities Purchased under Resale Agreements and Other Short-Term Investments  

The following table provides the detail of federal funds sold, securities purchased under resale
agreements, other short-term investments and collateral we have received from other entities under
resale agreements and securities borrowing arrangements.

(1) 
       
     Prior period has been revised to correct previously reported amounts. 

122 

Note 5: Securities Available for Sale  

The following table provides the cost and fair value for the major categories of securities
available for sale carried at fair value. The net unrealized gains (losses) are reported on an
after-tax basis as

a component of cumulative OCI. There were no securities classified as held to
maturity as of the periods presented.

(1) 
       
     Included in the  Other  category are asset-backed securities collateralized by auto leases or
loans and cash reserves with a cost basis and fair value of $6.2 billion and $6.4 billion,
respectively, at December 31, 2010, and $8.2 billion and $8.5 billion, respectively, at December
31, 2009. Also included in the  Other  category are asset-backed securities collateralized by home
equity loans with a cost basis and fair value of $927 million and $1.1 billion, respectively, at
December 31, 2010, and $2.3 billion and $2.5 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2009. The
remaining balances primarily include asset-backed securities collateralized by credit cards and
student loans. 

(2) 
       
     At December 31, 2010 and 2009, we held no securities of any single issuer (excluding the U.S.
Treasury and federal agencies) with a book value that exceeded 10% of stockholders  equity. 

123 

Note 5: Securities Available for Sale    (continued)  

As part of our liquidity management strategy, we pledge securities to secure borrowings from the
FHLB and the Federal Reserve Bank. We also pledge securities to secure trust and public deposits
and for other purposes as required or permitted by law. Securities pledged where the secured party
does not have the right to sell or repledge totaled $94.2 billion and $98.9 billion at December 31,
2010 and 2009, respectively. We did not pledge any securities where the secured party has the right
to sell or repledge the collateral as of the same periods, respectively.

Gross Unrealized Losses and Fair Value  
The following table shows the gross unrealized losses and fair value of securities in the
securities available-for-sale portfolio by length of time that individual securities in each
category had been in a continuous loss position. Debt securities on which we have taken only
credit-related OTTI write-downs are categorized as being  less than 12 months  or  12 months or
more  in a continuous loss position based on the point in time that the fair value declined to
below the cost basis and not the period of time since the credit-related OTTI write-down.

124 

We recognized $252 million of OTTI in 2010 on $14.5 billion of agency mortgage-backed securities we
intended to sell as of December 31, 2010. These securities have been disposed of in first quarter
2011 and are not included in the preceding table, as any related unrealized losses were recognized
in earnings. We do not intend to sell any other securities in an unrealized loss position. For debt
securities included in the table, we have concluded it is more likely than not that we will not be
required to sell prior to recovery of the amortized cost basis. We have assessed each security for
credit impairment. For debt securities, we evaluate, where necessary, whether credit impairment
exists by comparing the present value of the expected cash flows to the securities amortized cost
basis. For equity securities, we consider numerous factors in determining whether impairment
exists, including our intent and ability to hold the securities for a period of time sufficient to
recover the cost basis of the securities.

See
Note 1    Securities  for the factors that we consider in our analysis of OTTI for debt
and equity securities available for sale.

  SECURITIES OF U.S. TREASURY AND FEDERAL AGENCIES AND FEDERAL AGENCY MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES
(MBS)  The unrealized losses associated with U.S. Treasury and federal agency securities and
federal agency MBS are primarily driven by changes in interest rates and not due to credit losses
given the explicit or implicit guarantees provided by the U.S. government.

SECURITIES OF U.S. STATES AND POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS  The unrealized losses associated with
securities of U.S. states and political subdivisions are primarily driven by changes in interest
rates and not due to the credit quality of the securities. Substantially all of these investments
are investment grade. The securities were generally underwritten in accordance with our own
investment standards prior to the decision to purchase, without relying on a bond insurer s
guarantee in making the investment decision. These investments will continue to be monitored as
part of our ongoing impairment analysis, but are expected to perform, even if the rating agencies
reduce the credit rating of the bond insurers. As a result, we expect to recover the entire
amortized cost basis of these securities.

RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MBS)  The unrealized losses associated with
private residential MBS and commercial MBS are primarily driven by changes in projected collateral
losses, credit spreads and interest rates. We assess for credit impairment using a cash flow model.
The key assumptions include default rates, severities and prepayment rates. We estimate losses to a
security by forecasting the underlying mortgage loans in each transaction. We use forecasted loan
performance to project cash flows to the various tranches in the structure. We also consider cash
flow forecasts and, as applicable, independent industry analyst reports and forecasts, sector
credit ratings, and other independent market data. Based upon our assessment of the expected credit
losses of the security given the performance of the underlying collateral compared with our credit
enhancement, we expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of these securities.

CORPORATE DEBT SECURITIES  The unrealized losses associated with corporate debt securities are
primarily related to securities backed by commercial loans and individual issuer companies. For
securities with commercial loans as the underlying collateral, we have evaluated the expected
credit losses in the security and concluded that we have sufficient credit enhancement when
compared with our estimate of credit losses for the individual security. For individual issuers, we
evaluate the financial performance of the issuer on a quarterly basis to determine that the issuer
can make all contractual principal and interest payments. Based upon this assessment, we expect to
recover the entire cost basis of these securities.

COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (CDOS)  The unrealized losses associated with CDOs relate to
securities primarily backed by commercial, residential or other consumer collateral. The losses are
primarily driven by changes in projected collateral losses, credit spreads and interest rates. We
assess for credit impairment using a cash flow model. The key assumptions include default rates,
severities and prepayment rates. We also consider cash flow forecasts and, as applicable,
independent industry analyst reports and forecasts, sector credit ratings, and other independent
market data. Based upon our assessment of the expected credit losses of the security given the
performance of the underlying collateral compared with our credit enhancement, we expect to recover
the entire amortized cost basis of these securities.

OTHER DEBT SECURITIES  The unrealized losses associated with other debt securities primarily relate
to other asset-backed securities, which are primarily backed by auto, home equity and student
loans. The losses are primarily driven by changes in projected collateral losses, credit spreads
and interest rates. We assess for credit impairment using a cash flow model. The key assumptions
include default rates, severities and prepayment rates. Based upon our assessment of the expected
credit losses of the security given the performance of the underlying collateral compared with our
credit enhancement, we expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of these securities.

MARKETABLE EQUITY SECURITIES  Our marketable equity securities include investments in perpetual
preferred securities, which provide very attractive tax-equivalent yields. We evaluated these
hybrid financial instruments with investment-grade ratings for impairment using an evaluation
methodology similar to that used for debt securities. Perpetual preferred securities are not
considered to be other-than-temporarily impaired if there is no evidence of credit deterioration or
investment rating downgrades of any issuers to below investment grade, and we expect to continue to
receive full contractual payments. We will continue to evaluate the prospects for these securities
for recovery in their market value in accordance with our policy for estimating OTTI. We have
recorded impairment write-downs on perpetual preferred securities where there was evidence of
credit deterioration.

125 

Note 5: Securities Available for Sale    (continued)  

The fair values of our investment securities could decline in the future if the underlying
performance of the collateral for the residential and commercial MBS or other securities
deteriorate and our credit enhancement levels do not provide sufficient protection to our
contractual principal and interest. As a result, there is a risk that significant OTTI may occur in
the future.

The following table shows the gross unrealized losses and fair value of debt and perpetual
preferred securities available for sale by those rated investment grade and those rated less than
investment grade, according to their lowest credit rating by Standard   Poor s Rating Services
(S P) or Moody s Investors Service (Moody s). Credit ratings express opinions about the credit
quality of a security. Securities rated investment grade, that is those rated BBB- or higher by S P
or Baa3 or higher by Moody s, are generally considered by the rating agencies and

market
participants to be low credit risk. Conversely, securities rated below investment grade, labeled as
 speculative grade  by the rating agencies, are considered to be distinctively higher credit risk
than investment grade securities. We have also included securities not rated by S P or Moody s in
the table below based on the internal credit grade of the securities (used for credit risk
management purposes) equivalent to the credit rating assigned by major credit agencies. The
unrealized losses and fair value of unrated securities categorized as investment grade based on
internal credit grades were $83 million and $1.3 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2010. There
were no unrated securities included in investment grade in a loss position categorized as
investment grade based on internal credit grades as of December 31, 2009. If an internal credit
grade was not assigned, we categorized the security as non-investment grade.

126 

Contractual Maturities  
The following table shows the remaining contractual principal maturities and contractual yields of
debt securities available for sale. The remaining contractual principal maturities for MBS do not
consider prepayments. Remaining expected maturities will

differ from contractual maturities because
borrowers may have the right to prepay obligations before the underlying mortgages mature.

127 

Note 5: Securities Available for Sale    (continued)  

Realized Gains and Losses  
The following table shows the gross realized gains and losses on sales and OTTI write-downs related
to the securities available-for-sale portfolio, which includes marketable equity securities, as
well as net realized gains and losses on nonmarketable equity securities (see Note 7   Other Assets).

Other-Than-Temporary Impairment  
The following table shows the detail of total OTTI write-downs included in earnings for debt
securities and marketable and nonmarketable equity securities.

(1) 
       
     Represents OTTI recognized on federal agency MBS because we had the intent to sell, of which
$252 million relates to securities with a fair value of $14.5 billion that were sold subsequent to
December 31, 2010. 

128 

Other-Than-Temporarily Impaired Debt Securities  
The following table shows the detail of OTTI write-downs on debt securities available for sale
included in earnings and the related changes in OCI for the same securities.

(1) 
       
     Amount includes $252 million related to securities with a fair value of $14.5 billion that were
sold subsequent to December 31, 2010. 

(2) 
       
     Represents amounts recorded to OCI on debt securities in periods OTTI write-downs have
occurred. Changes in fair value in subsequent periods on such securities, to the extent additional
credit-related OTTI did not occur, are not reflected in this total. For the year ended December 31,
2010, the non-credit-related impairment recorded to OCI was a $172 million reduction in total OTTI
because the fair value of the security increased due to factors other than credit. 

The following table presents a rollforward of the credit loss component recognized in earnings for
debt securities we still own (referred to as  credit-impaired  debt securities). The credit loss
component of the amortized cost represents the difference between the present value of expected
future cash flows and the amortized cost basis of the security prior to considering credit losses.
OTTI recognized in earnings for credit-impaired debt securities is presented as additions in two
components based upon whether the current period is the first time the debt security was
credit-impaired (initial credit impairment) or is not the first time the debt security was credit

impaired (subsequent credit impairments). The credit loss component is reduced if we sell, intend
to sell or believe we will be required to sell previously credit-impaired debt securities.
Additionally, the credit loss component is reduced if we receive or expect to receive cash flows in
excess of what we previously expected to receive over the remaining life of the credit-impaired
debt security, the security matures or is fully written down.

Changes in the credit loss component of credit-impaired debt securities that we do not intend
to sell were:

(1) 
       
     Recoveries of previous credit impairments result from increases in expected cash flows
subsequent to credit loss recognition. Such recoveries are reflected prospectively as interest
yield adjustments using the effective interest method. 

129 

Note 5: Securities Available for Sale    (continued)  

For asset-backed securities (e.g., residential MBS), we estimated expected future cash flows of the
security by estimating the expected future cash flows of the underlying collateral and applying
those collateral cash flows, together with any credit enhancements such as subordinated interests
owned by third parties, to the security. The expected future cash flows of the underlying
collateral are determined using the remaining contractual cash flows adjusted for future expected
credit losses (which consider current delinquencies and nonperforming assets

(NPAs), future
expected default rates and collateral value by vintage and geographic region) and prepayments. The
expected cash flows of the security are then discounted at the interest rate used to recognize
interest income on the security to arrive at a present value amount. Total credit impairment losses
on residential MBS that we do not intend to sell are shown in the table below. The table also
presents a summary of the significant inputs considered in determining the measurement of the
credit loss component recognized in earnings for residential MBS.

(1) 
       
     Represents future expected credit losses on underlying pool of loans expressed as a percentage
of total current outstanding loan balance. 

(2) 
       
     Represents the range of inputs/assumptions based upon the individual securities within each
category. 

(3) 
       
     Represents distribution of credit impairment losses recognized in earnings categorized based on
range of expected remaining life of loan losses. For example 52% of credit impairment losses
recognized in earnings for the year ended December 31, 2010, had expected remaining life of loan
loss assumptions of 0 to 10%. 

(4) 
       
     Calculated by weighting the relevant input/assumption for each individual security by current
outstanding amortized cost basis of the security. 

(5) 
       
     Represents current level of credit protection (subordination) for the securities, expressed as
a percentage of total current underlying loan balance. 

(6) 
       
     Constant prepayment rate. 

130 

Note 6: Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses  

The following table presents total loans outstanding by portfolio segment and class of financing
receivable. Outstanding balances are presented net of unearned income, net deferred loan fees, and
unamortized discounts and premiums totaling a net reduction of $11.3 billion and $14.6 billion at
December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Outstanding balances also include PCI loans net of any
remaining purchase accounting adjustments.

Information about PCI loans is presented separately in
the  Purchased Credit-Impaired Loans  section of this Note. Effective June 30, 2010, real estate
construction outstanding balances and all other related data include certain commercial real estate
secured loans acquired from Wachovia previously classified as real estate mortgage. Balances for
2009 and 2008 have been revised to conform with the current presentation.

(1) 
       
     Substantially all of our foreign loan portfolio is commercial loans. Loans are classified as
foreign if the borrower s primary address is outside of the United States. 

We pledge loans to secure borrowings from the FHLB and the Federal Reserve Bank as part of our
liquidity management strategy. Loans pledged where the secured party does not have the right to
sell or repledge totaled $312.6 billion for both December 31, 2010 and 2009. We did not have any
pledged loans where the secured party has the right to sell or repledge for the same respective
periods.

Loan concentrations may exist when there are amounts loaned to borrowers engaged in similar
activities or similar types of loans extended to a diverse group of borrowers that would cause them
to be similarly impacted by economic or other conditions. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, we did not
have concentrations representing 10% or more of our total loan portfolio in domestic commercial and
industrial loans and lease financing by industry or CRE loans (real estate mortgage and real estate
construction) by state or property type. Our real estate 1-4 family mortgage loans to borrowers in
the state of California represented approximately 14% of total loans at both December 31, 2010 and
2009. Of this amount, 3% of total loans were PCI loans at December 31, 2010. These loans are
generally diversified among the larger metropolitan areas in California, with no single area
consisting of more than 3% of total loans. Changes in real estate values and underlying economic or
market conditions for these areas are monitored continuously within our credit risk management
process.

      Some of our real estate 1-4 family mortgage loans, including first mortgage and home equity
products, include an interest-only feature as part of the loan terms. At December 31, 2010, these
loans were approximately 25% of total loans, compared with 26% at December 31, 2009. Substantially
all of these loans

are considered to be prime or near prime. We do not offer option adjustable-rate mortgage (ARM)
products, nor do we offer variable-rate mortgage products with fixed payment amounts, commonly
referred to within the financial services industry as negative amortizing mortgage loans.

      The following table summarizes the proceeds paid or received for purchases and sales of loans,
respectively. It also includes transfers from (to) mortgages/loans held for sale at lower of cost
or market. The table excludes PCI loans and loans recorded at fair value, including loans
originated for sale. This activity primarily includes purchases or sales of commercial loan
participation interests, whereby we receive or transfer a portion of a loan after origination.

131 

Note 6: Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses    (continued)  

Commitments to Lend 

A commitment to extend credit is a legally binding agreement to lend funds to a customer, usually
at a stated interest rate and for a specified purpose. These commitments have fixed expiration
dates and generally require a fee. When we make such a commitment, we have credit risk. The
liquidity requirements or credit risk will be lower than the contractual amount of commitments to
extend credit because a significant portion of these commitments are expected to expire without
being used. Certain commitments are subject to loan agreements with covenants regarding the
financial performance of the customer or borrowing base formulas that must be met before we are
required to fund the commitment. Also, in some cases we participate a portion of our commitment to
others in an arrangement that reduces our contractual commitment amount. We use the same credit
policies in extending credit for unfunded commitments and letters of credit that we use in making
loans. See Note 14 for information on standby letters of credit.

      In addition, we manage the potential risk in credit commitments by limiting the total amount
of arrangements, both by individual customer and in total, by monitoring the size and maturity
structure of these portfolios and by applying the same credit standards for all of our credit
activities.

For certain extensions of credit, we may require collateral, based on our assessment of a
customer s credit risk. We hold various types of collateral, including accounts receivable,
inventory, land, buildings, equipment, autos, financial instruments, income-producing commercial
properties and residential real estate. Collateral requirements for each customer may vary
according to the specific credit underwriting, terms and structure of loans funded immediately or
under a commitment to fund at a later date.

The contractual amount of our unfunded credit commitments, net of participations and net of
all standby and commercial letters of credit issued under the terms of these commitments, is
summarized by portfolio segment and class of financing receivable in the following table:

132 

Allowance for Credit Losses (ACL) 

The ACL is management s estimate of credit losses inherent in the loan portfolio, including
unfunded credit commitments, at the balance sheet date. We have an established process to determine
the adequacy of the allowance for credit losses that assesses the losses inherent in our portfolio
and related unfunded credit commitments. While we attribute portions of the allowance to specific
portfolio segments, the entire allowance is available to absorb credit losses inherent in the total
loan portfolio and unfunded credit commitments.

      Our process involves procedures to appropriately consider the unique risk characteristics of
our commercial and consumer loan portfolio segments. For each portfolio segment, impairment is
measured collectively for groups of smaller loans with similar characteristics, individually for
larger impaired loans or, for PCI loans, based on the changes in cash flows expected to be
collected.

      Our allowance levels are influenced by loan volumes, loan grade migration or delinquency
status, historic loss experience influencing loss factors, and other conditions influencing loss
expectations, such as economic conditions. We have had limited changes in our allowance methodology
primarily associated with integration alignment of loss estimation processes between Wells Fargo
and Wachovia. Those changes did not significantly impact the allowance for credit losses.

  COMMERCIAL PORTFOLIO SEGMENT ACL METHODOLOGY  Generally, commercial loans are assessed for estimated
losses by grading each loan using various risk factors as identified through periodic reviews. We
apply historic grade-specific loss factors to the aggregation of each funded grade pool. These
historic loss factors are also used to estimate losses for unfunded credit commitments. In the
development of our statistically derived loan grade loss factors, we observe historical losses over
a relevant period for each loan grade. These loss estimates are adjusted as appropriate based on
additional analysis of long-term average loss experience compared to previously forecasted losses,
external loss data or other risks identified from current economic conditions and credit quality
trends.

The allowance also includes an amount for the estimated impairment on nonaccrual commercial
loans and commercial loans modified in a TDR, whether on accrual or nonaccrual status.

CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SEGMENT ACL METHODOLOGY  For consumer loans, not identified as a TDR, we
determine the allowance on a collective basis utilizing forecasted losses to represent our best
estimate of inherent loss. We pool loans, generally by product types with similar risk
characteristics, such as residential real estate mortgages and credit cards. As appropriate, to
achieve greater accuracy, we may further stratify selected portfolios by sub-product, origination
channel, vintage, loss type, geographic location and other predictive characteristics. Models
designed for each pool are utilized to develop the loss estimates. We use assumptions for these
pools in our forecast models, such as historic delinquency and default, loss severity, home price
trends, unemployment trends, and other key economic variables that may influence the frequency and
severity of losses in the pool.

In addition, we establish an allowance for consumer loans that have been modified in a TDR,
whether on accrual or nonaccrual status.

  OTHER ACL MATTERS  Commercial and consumer PCI loans may require an allowance subsequent to their
acquisition. This allowance requirement is due to probable decreases in expected principal and
interest cash flows (other than due to decreases in interest rate indices and changes in prepayment
assumptions).

The allowance for credit losses for both portfolio segments includes an amount for imprecision
or uncertainty that may change from period to period. This amount represents management s judgment
of risks inherent in the processes and assumptions used in establishing the allowance. This
imprecision considers economic environmental factors, modeling assumptions and performance, process
risk, and other subjective factors, including industry trends.

133 

Note 6: Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses    (continued)  

The allowance for credit losses consists of the allowance for loan losses and the allowance
for unfunded credit commitments. Changes in the allowance for credit losses were:

(1) 
       
     Effective 2010, certain impaired loans with an allowance calculated by discounting expected
cash flows using the loan s effective interest rate over the remaining life of the loan recognize
reductions in allowance as interest income. 

(2) 
       
     For PCI loans, charge-offs are only recorded to the extent that losses exceed the purchase
accounting estimates. 

(3) 
       
     Includes $693 million related to the adoption of consolidation accounting guidance on January
1, 2010. 

(4) 
       
     The allowance for credit losses includes $298 million and $333 million at December 31, 2010 and
2009, respectively, related to PCI loans acquired from Wachovia. Loans acquired from Wachovia are
included in total loans net of related purchase accounting net write-downs. 

134 

The following table summarizes the activity in the allowance for credit losses by our commercial
and consumer portfolio segments.

The following table disaggregates our allowance for credit losses and recorded investment in loans
by impairment methodology.

(1) 
       
     Represents loans collectively evaluated for impairment in accordance with ASC 450-20,  Loss
Contingencies  (formerly FAS 5), and pursuant to amendments by ASU 2010-20 regarding allowance for
unimpaired loans. 

(2) 
       
     Represents loans individually evaluated for impairment in accordance with ASC 310-10,
 Receivables  (formerly FAS 114), and pursuant to amendments by ASU 2010-20 regarding allowance for
impaired loans. 

(3) 
       
     Represents the allowance and related loan carrying value determined in accordance with ASC
310-30 , Receivables   Loans and Debt Securities Acquired with Deteriorated Credit Quality 
(formerly SOP 03-3) and pursuant to amendments by ASU 2010-20 regarding allowance for PCI loans. 

135 

Note 6: Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses    (continued)  

Credit Quality 

We monitor credit quality as indicated by evaluating various attributes and utilize such
information in our evaluation of the adequacy of the allowance for credit losses. The following
sections provide the credit quality indicators we most closely monitor. The majority of credit
quality indicators are based on December 31, 2010, information, with the exception of updated FICO
and updated  loan-to-value (LTV)/combined LTV (CLTV), which are obtained at least quarterly. Generally, these indicators are
updated in the second month of each quarter, with updates no older than September 30, 2010.

  COMMERCIAL CREDIT QUALITY INDICATORS  In addition to monitoring commercial loan concentration risk,
we manage a consistent process for assessing commercial loan credit quality. Commercial loans are
subject to individual risk assessment using

our internal borrower and collateral quality ratings.
Our ratings are aligned to Pass and Criticized categories. The Criticized category includes Special
Mention, Substandard, and Doubtful categories which are defined by banking regulatory agencies.

The table below provides a breakdown of outstanding commercial loans (excluding PCI loans) by
risk category. Both the CRE mortgage and construction criticized totals are
relatively high as a result of the current conditions in the real estate market. Of the $37.1
billion in criticized CRE loans, $7.9 billion has been placed on nonaccrual status and written down
to net realizable value. Loans in both populations have a high level of surveillance and monitoring
in place to manage these assets and mitigate any loss exposure. See the  Purchased Credit-Impaired
Loans  section of this Note for credit quality information on our commercial PCI portfolio.

In addition, while we monitor past due status, we do not consider it a key driver of our credit
risk management practices for commercial loans. The following table provides past due information
for commercial loans, excluding PCI loans.

CONSUMER CREDIT QUALITY INDICATORS  We have various classes of consumer loans that present
respective unique risks. Loan delinquency, FICO credit scores and LTV for loan
types are common credit quality indicators that we monitor and utilize in our evaluation of the
adequacy of the allowance for credit losses for the consumer portfolio segment.

The majority of our loss estimation techniques used for the allowance for credit losses rely
on delinquency matrix models or delinquency roll rate models. Therefore, delinquency is an
important indicator of credit quality and the establishment of our allowance for credit losses.

136 

The following table provides the outstanding balances of our consumer portfolio by delinquency
status, excluding PCI loans.

Of the $27.9 billion of loans 90 days or more past due in the previous table, $14.1 billion, which
excludes MHFS, represents insured/guaranteed loans whose repayments are insured by the FHA or
guaranteed by the VA. Of the remaining $13.7 billion of loans that are 90 days or more past due,
$3.1 billion was accruing. Consumer loans are placed on nonaccrual status and written down to net
realizable value depending on the loan type and the extent of delinquency (see Note 1).

Of the $14.1 billion in delinquent insured/guaranteed loans, $8.0 billion are more than 180
days past due. Excluding these insured/guaranteed loans, real estate 1-4 family first mortgage
loans 180 days or more past due totaled $6.6 billion, or 3.4% of total first mortgages. The aging
of the delinquent real estate

1-4 family first mortgage loans is a result of the prolonged foreclosure process and our effort to
help customers stay in their homes through various loan modification programs.

The following table provides a breakdown of our consumer portfolio by updated FICO. We obtain
FICO scores at loan origination and the scores are updated at least quarterly. FICO is not
available for certain loan types and may not be obtained if we deem it unnecessary due to strong
collateral and other borrower attributes, primarily for government guaranteed student loans of
$17.5 billion and securities-based margin loans of $4.1 billion. The majority of our portfolio is
underwritten with a FICO score of 680 and above. The table excludes PCI loans, which are included
in the  Purchased Credit-Impaired Loans  section of this Note.

137 

Note 6: Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses    (continued)  

LTV refers to the ratio comparing the loan s unpaid principal balance to the
property s collateral value. CLTV refers to the combination of first mortgage and
junior lien mortgage ratios. LTVs and CLTVs are updated quarterly using a cascade approach which
first uses values provided by automated valuation models (AVMs) for the property. If an AVM is not
available, then the value is estimated using the original appraised value adjusted by the change in
Home Price Index (HPI) for the property location. If an HPI is not available, the original
appraised value is used. The HPI value is normally the only method considered for high value
properties as the AVM values have proven less accurate for these properties.

The following table shows the most updated LTV and CLTV distribution of the real estate 1-4
family first and junior lien mortgage loan portfolios excluding PCI loans. In recent years, the
residential real estate markets have experienced significant declines in property values and
several markets, particularly California and Florida have experienced declines that turned out to
be more significant than the national decline. These trends are considered in the way that we
monitor credit risk and establish our allowance for credit losses.
LTV does not necessarily reflect the likelihood of performance of a
given loan, but does provide an indication of collateral value. In
the event of a default, any loss should be limited to the portion of
the loan amount in excess of the net realizable value of the
underlying real estate collateral value. Certain loans do not have an LTV
or CLTV primarily due to industry data availability and portfolios acquired from or serviced by
other institutions.

(1) 
       
     Reflects total loan balances with LTV/CLTV amounts in excess
of 100%. In the event of default, the loss content would generally be
limited to only the amount in excess of 100% LTV/CLTV. 

NONACCRUAL LOANS  The following table provides loans on nonaccrual status. PCI loans are excluded
from this table due to the existence of the accretable yield.

138 

LOANS 90 DAYS OR MORE PAST DUE AND STILL ACCRUING  Certain loans 90 days or more past due as to
interest or principal are still accruing, because they are (1) well-secured and in the process of
collection or (2) real estate 1-4 family mortgage loans or consumer loans exempt under regulatory
rules from being classified as nonaccrual until later delinquency, usually 120 days past due. PCI
loans of $11.6 billion at December 31, 2010, and $16.1 billion at December 31, 2009, are excluded
from this disclosure even though they are 90 days or more contractually past due. These PCI loans
are considered to be accruing due to the existence of the accretable yield and not based on
consideration given to contractual interest payments.

Non-PCI loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing were $18.5 billion at December 31,
2010, and $22.2 billion at December 31, 2009. Those balances which include mortgage loans held for
sale, have $14.7 billion and $15.3 billion, respectively, of insured/guaranteed loans whose
repayments are insured by the FHA or guaranteed by the VA. The following table shows non-PCI loans
90 days or more past due and still accruing, but excludes insured/guaranteed loans.

(1) 
       
     Includes mortgage loans held for sale 90 days or more past due and still accruing. 

139 

Note 6: Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses    (continued)  

IMPAIRED LOANS   The table below summarizes key information for impaired loans. Our impaired loans include loans on
nonaccrual status in the commercial portfolio segment and loans modified in a TDR, whether on
accrual or nonaccrual status. These impaired loans 

may have estimated impairment which is included
in the allowance for credit losses. Impaired loans exclude PCI loans. See the  Loans  section in
Note 1 for our policies on impaired loans and PCI loans.

The following table summarizes key information for impaired loans as of December 31, 2009.

(1) 
       
     Balances have been revised to conform to our current classification of certain small commercial
loans as impaired. 

140 

Commitments to lend additional funds on loans whose terms have been modified in
a TDR amounted to $1.2 billion and $452 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009,
respectively. These commitments primarily relate to CRE loans, which, at the time of modification,
had an amount of availability to the borrower that continues under the modified terms of the TDR
and totaled $861 million and $134 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

The following table provides the average recorded investment in impaired loans and the amount
of interest income recognized on impaired loans after impairment by portfolio segment and class.

The following table presents the average recorded investment in impaired loans and interest income
recognized on impaired loans after impairment.

(1) 
       
     Includes interest recognized on accruing TDRs,  interest recognized related to the passage of
time, and amortization of purchase
accounting adjustments related to certain impaired loans. See footnote 1 to the table of changes in the allowance for credit
losses. 

141 

Note 6: Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses    (continued)  

Purchased Credit-Impaired Loans 

Certain loans acquired in the Wachovia acquisition are accounted for as PCI loans. The following
table presents PCI loans net of any remaining purchase accounting adjustments.

ACCRETABLE YIELD  The excess of cash flows expected to be collected over the carrying value of PCI
loans is referred to as the accretable yield and is recognized in interest income using an
effective yield method over the remaining life of the loan, or pools of loans. The accretable yield
is affected by:

Changes in interest rate indices for variable rate PCI loans
  Expected future cash flows are
based on the variable rates in effect at the time of the regular evaluations of cash flows expected
to be collected; 

Changes in prepayment assumptions   Prepayments affect the estimated life of PCI loans which may
change the amount of interest income, and possibly principal, expected to be collected; and 

Changes in the expected principal and interest payments over
the estimated life   Updates to
expected cash flows are driven by the credit outlook and actions taken with borrowers. Changes in
expected future cash flows from loan modifications are included in the regular evaluations of cash
flows expected to be collected. 

The change in the accretable yield related to PCI loans is presented in the following table.

(1) 
       
     Represents changes in cash flows expected to be collected, changes in interest rates on
variable rate PCI loans, and the impact of modifications on expected cash flows. 

142 

PCI ALLOWANCE  When it is estimated that the cash flows expected to be collected have decreased
subsequent to acquisition for a PCI loan or pool of loans, an allowance is

established and a
provision for additional loss is recorded as a charge to income. The following table summarizes the
changes in allowance for PCI loan losses.

COMMERCIAL PCI CREDIT QUALITY INDICATORS  The following table provides a breakdown of commercial
PCI loans by risk category.

CONSUMER PCI CREDIT QUALITY INDICATORS  Our consumer PCI loans were aggregated into several pools
of loans at acquisition. Below, we have provided credit quality indicators based on the individual
loans included in the pool, but we have

not allocated the remaining purchase accounting
adjustments, which were established at a pool level. The following table provides the delinquency
status of consumer PCI loans.

143 

Note 6: Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses    (continued)  

The following table provides FICO scores for consumer PCI loans.

The following table shows the distribution of consumer PCI loans by LTV for real estate 1-4 family
first mortgages and by CLTV for real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgages.

144 

Note 7: Premises, Equipment, Lease Commitments and Other Assets  

Depreciation and amortization expense for premises and equipment was $1.5 billion, $1.3 billion and
$861 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

Dispositions of premises and equipment, included in noninterest expense, resulted in net
losses of $115 million in 2010, net losses of $22 million in 2009 and net gains of $3 million in
2008.

      We have obligations under a number of noncancelable operating leases for premises and
equipment. The terms of these leases are predominantly up to 15 years, with the longest up to 95
years, and many provide for periodic adjustment of rentals based on changes in various economic
indicators. Some leases also include a renewal option. The following table provides the future
minimum payments under capital leases and noncancelable operating leases, net of sublease rentals,
with terms greater than one year as of December 31, 2010.

Operating lease rental expense (predominantly for premises), net of rental income, was $1.3
billion, $1.4 billion and $709 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

The components of other assets were:

(1) 
       
     Principal investments are recorded at fair value with realized and unrealized gains (losses)
included in net gains (losses) from equity investments in the income statement. 

(2) 
       
     These are foreclosed real estate securing FHA insured and VA guaranteed loans. Both principal
and interest for these loans secured by the foreclosed real estate are collectible because they are
insured/guaranteed. 

Income related to nonmarketable equity investments was:

145 

Note 8: Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities  

Involvement with SPEs  
In the normal course of business, we enter into various types of on- and off-balance sheet
transactions with special purpose entities (SPEs), which are corporations, trusts or partnerships
that are established for a limited purpose. Historically, the majority of SPEs were formed in
connection with securitization transactions. In a securitization transaction, assets from our
balance sheet are transferred to an SPE, which then issues to investors various forms of interests
in those assets and may also enter into derivative transactions. In a securitization transaction,
we typically receive cash and/or other interests in an SPE as proceeds for the assets we transfer.
Also, in certain transactions, we may retain the right to service the transferred receivables and
to repurchase those receivables from the SPE if the outstanding balance of the receivables falls to
a level where the cost exceeds the benefits of servicing such receivables. In addition, we may
purchase the right to service loans in an SPE that were transferred to the SPE by a third party.

      In connection with our securitization activities, we have various forms of ongoing involvement
with SPEs, which may include:

underwriting securities issued by SPEs and subsequently making markets in those securities; 

providing liquidity facilities to support short-term obligations of SPEs issued to third party
investors; 

providing credit enhancement on securities issued by SPEs or market value guarantees of assets
held by SPEs through the use of letters of credit, financial guarantees, credit default swaps and
total return swaps; 

entering into other derivative contracts with SPEs; 

holding senior or subordinated interests in SPEs; 

acting as servicer or investment manager for SPEs; and 

providing administrative or trustee services to SPEs. 

SPEs are generally considered variable interest entities (VIEs). A VIE is an entity that has either
a total equity investment that is insufficient to finance its activities without additional
subordinated financial support or whose equity investors lack the ability to control the entity s
activities. A VIE is consolidated by its primary beneficiary, the party that has both the power to
direct the activities that most significantly impact the VIE and a variable interest that could
potentially be significant to the VIE. A variable interest is a contractual, ownership or other
interest that changes with changes in the fair value of the VIE s net assets. To determine whether
or not a variable interest we hold could potentially be significant to the VIE, we consider both
qualitative and quantitative factors regarding the nature, size and form of our involvement with
the VIE. We assess whether or not we are the primary beneficiary of a VIE on an on-going basis.

We have segregated our involvement with VIEs between those VIEs which we consolidate, those
which we do not consolidate and transfers of financial assets that are accounted for as secured
borrowings. Secured borrowings are transactions involving transfers of our financial assets to
third parties that are accounted for as financings with the assets pledged as collateral.
Accordingly, the transferred assets remain recognized on our balance sheet. Subsequent tables
within this Note further segregate these transactions by structure type.

146 

The classifications of assets and liabilities in our balance sheet associated with our transactions
with VIEs follow:

(1) 
       
     Excludes certain debt securities related to loans serviced for the Federal National Mortgage
Association (FNMA), Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (FHLMC) and GNMA. 

(2) 
       
     Includes the following VIE liabilities at December 31, 2010, with recourse to the general
credit of Wells Fargo: Short-term borrowings, $3.6 billion; Accrued expenses and other liabilities,
$645 million; and Long-term debt, $53 million. 

(3) 
       
      VIEs that we consolidate  has been revised to correct previously reported amount. 

Transactions with Unconsolidated VIEs  
Our transactions with VIEs include securitizations of consumer loans, CRE loans, student loans,
auto loans and municipal bonds; investment and financing activities involving CDOs backed by
asset-backed and CRE securities, collateralized loan obligations (CLOs) backed by corporate loans
or bonds, and other types of structured financing. We have various forms of involvement with VIEs,
including holding senior or subordinated interests, entering into liquidity arrangements, credit
default swaps and other derivative contracts. These involvements with unconsolidated VIEs are
recorded on our balance sheet primarily in trading assets, securities available for sale, loans,
MSRs, other assets and other liabilities, as appropriate.

The following tables provide a summary of unconsolidated VIEs with which we have significant
continuing involvement, but are not the primary beneficiary. The balances presented for December
31, 2010, represent our unconsolidated VIEs for which we consider our involvement to be
significant. The

balances presented for December 31, 2009, include unconsolidated VIEs with which
we have continuing involvement that we no longer consider significant. Accordingly, we have
excluded these transactions from the balances presented for December 31, 2010. We have refined our
definition of significant continuing involvement in accordance with consolidation accounting
guidance to exclude unconsolidated VIEs when our continuing involvement relates to third-party
sponsored VIEs for which we were not the transferor, and unconsolidated VIEs for which we were the
sponsor but do not have any other significant continuing involvement.

      Significant continuing involvement includes transactions where we were the sponsor or
transferor and have other significant forms of involvement. Sponsorship includes transactions with
unconsolidated VIEs where we solely or materially participated in the initial design or structuring
of the entity or marketing of the transaction to investors. When we

147 

Note 8: Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities    (continued)  

transfer assets to a VIE and
account for the transfer as a sale, we are considered the transferor.
We consider investments in securities held outside of trading, loans, guarantees, liquidity agreements, written options and
servicing of collateral to be other forms of involvement that may be significant. We have excluded
certain transactions with unconsolidated VIEs from the December 31, 2010, balances presented in the
table below where

we have determined that our continuing involvement is not significant due to the
temporary nature and size of our variable interests, because we were not the transferor or because
we were not involved in the design or operations of the unconsolidated VIEs.

(continued on following page) 

148 

(continued from previous page) 

(1) 
       
     Excludes certain debt securities held related to loans serviced for FNMA, FHLMC and GNMA. 

(2) 
       
     Represents senior loans to trusts that are collateralized by asset-backed securities. The
trusts invest primarily in senior tranches from a diversified pool of primarily U.S. asset
securitizations, of which all are current, and over 91% were rated as investment grade by the
primary rating agencies at December 31, 2010. These senior loans were acquired in the Wachovia
business combination and are accounted for at amortized cost as initially determined under purchase
accounting and are subject to the Company s allowance and credit charge-off policies. 

(3) 
       
     Includes student loan securitizations, auto loan securitizations and credit-linked note
structures. Also contains investments in auction rate securities (ARS) issued by VIEs that we do
not sponsor and, accordingly, are unable to obtain the total assets of the entity. 

(4) 
       
     Total VIE assets at December 31, 2009, includes $20.9 billion of nonconforming residential
mortgage securitizations that were consolidated in first quarter 2010. 

(5) 
       
     The multi-seller commercial paper conduit was consolidated in first quarter 2010. 

(6) 
       
      Other commitments and guarantees  has been revised to correct previously reported amount. 

149 

Note 8: Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities    (continued)  

In the two preceding tables,  Total VIE assets  represents the remaining principal balance of
assets held by unconsolidated VIEs using the most current information available. For VIEs that
obtain exposure to assets synthetically through derivative instruments, the remaining notional
amount of the derivative is included in the asset balance.  Carrying value  is the amount in our
consolidated balance sheet related to our involvement with the unconsolidated VIEs.  Maximum
exposure to loss  from our involvement with off-balance sheet entities, which is a required
disclosure under GAAP, is determined as the carrying value of our involvement with off-balance
sheet (unconsolidated) VIEs plus the remaining undrawn liquidity and lending commitments, the
notional amount of net written derivative contracts, and generally the notional amount of, or
stressed loss estimate for, other commitments and guarantees. It represents estimated loss that
would be incurred under severe, hypothetical circumstances, for which we believe the possibility is
extremely remote, such as where the value of our interests and any associated collateral declines
to zero, without any consideration of recovery or offset from any economic hedges. Accordingly,
this required disclosure is not an indication of expected loss.

RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE LOANS  Residential mortgage loan securitizations are financed through the
issuance of fixed- or floating-rate-asset-backed-securities, which are collateralized by the loans
transferred to a VIE. We typically transfer loans we originated to these VIEs, account for the
transfers as sales, retain the right to service the loans and may hold other beneficial interests
issued by the VIEs. We also may be exposed to limited liability related to recourse agreements and
repurchase agreements we make to our issuers and purchasers, which are included in other
commitments and guarantees. In certain instances, we may service residential mortgage loan
securitizations structured by third parties whose loans we did not originate or transfer. Our
residential mortgage loan securitizations consist of conforming and nonconforming securitizations.

Conforming residential mortgage loan securitizations are those that are guaranteed by GSEs,
including GNMA. We do not consolidate our conforming residential mortgage loan securitizations
because we do not have power over the VIEs.

      The loans sold to the VIEs in nonconforming residential mortgage loan securitizations are
those that do not qualify for a GSE guarantee. We do not consolidate the nonconforming residential
mortgage loan securitizations included in the table because we do not have a variable interest that
could potentially be significant or we do not have power to direct the activities that most
significantly impact the performance of the VIE.

      Other commitments and guarantees include amounts related to loans sold that we may be required
to repurchase, or otherwise indemnify or reimburse the investor or insurer for losses incurred, due
to material breach of contractual representations and warranties. The maximum exposure to loss for
material breach of contractual representations and warranties represents a stressed case estimate
we utilize for determining stressed case regulatory capital needs.

COMMERCIAL MORTGAGE LOAN SECURITIZATIONS  Commercial mortgage loan securitizations are financed
through the issuance of fixed- or floating-rate-asset-backed-securities, which are collateralized
by the loans transferred to the VIE. In a typical securitization, we may transfer loans we
originate to these VIEs, account for the transfers as sales, retain the right to service the loans
and may hold other beneficial interests issued by the VIEs. In certain instances, we may service
commercial mortgage loan securitizations structured by third parties whose loans we did not
originate or transfer. We typically serve as primary or master servicer of these VIEs. The primary
or master servicer in a commercial mortgage loan securitization typically cannot make the most
significant decisions impacting the performance of the VIE and therefore does not have power over
the VIE. We do not consolidate the commercial mortgage loan securitizations included in the
disclosure because we either do not have power or do not have a variable interest that could
potentially be significant to the VIE.

COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (CDOs)  A CDO is a securitization where an SPE purchases a pool of
assets consisting of asset-backed securities and issues multiple tranches of equity or notes to
investors. In some transactions, a portion of the assets are obtained synthetically through the use
of derivatives such as credit default swaps or total return swaps.

Prior to 2008, we engaged in the structuring of CDOs on behalf of third party asset managers
who would select and manage the assets for the CDO. Typically, the asset manager has some
discretion to manage the sale of assets of, or derivatives used by the CDO, which generally gives
the asset manager the power over the CDO. We have not structured these types of transactions since
the credit market disruption began in late 2007.

      In addition to our role as arranger we may have other forms of involvement with these
transactions, including transactions established prior to 2008. Such involvement may include acting
as liquidity provider, derivative counterparty, secondary market maker or investor. For certain
transactions, we may also act as the collateral manager or servicer. We receive fees in connection
with our role as collateral manager or servicer.

      We assess whether we are the primary beneficiary of CDOs based on our role in the transaction
in combination with the variable interests we hold. Subsequently, we monitor our ongoing
involvement in these transactions to determine if the nature of our involvement has changed. We are
not the primary beneficiary of these transactions in most cases because we do not act as the
collateral manager or servicer, which generally denotes power. In cases where we are the collateral
manager or servicer, we are not the primary beneficiary because we do not hold interests that could
potentially be significant to the VIE.

150 

COLLATERALIZED LOAN OBLIGATIONS (CLOs)  A CLO is a securitization where an SPE purchases a pool of
assets consisting of loans and issues multiple tranches of equity or notes to investors. Generally,
CLOs are structured on behalf of a third party asset manager that typically selects and manages the
assets for the term of the CLO. Typically, the asset manager has the power over the significant
decisions of the VIE through its discretion to manage the assets of the CLO. We assess whether we
are the primary beneficiary of CLOs based on our role in the transaction and the variable interests
we hold. In most cases, we are not the primary beneficiary of these transactions because we do not
have the power to manage the collateral in the VIE.

In addition to our role as arranger, we may have other forms of involvement with these
transactions. Such involvement may include acting as underwriter, derivative counterparty,
secondary market maker or investor. For certain transactions, we may also act as the servicer, for
which we receive fees in connection with that role. We also earn fees for arranging these
transactions and distributing the securities.

  ASSET-BASED FINANCE STRUCTURES  We engage in various forms of structured finance arrangements with
VIEs that are collateralized by various asset classes including energy contracts, auto and other
transportation leases, intellectual property, equipment and general corporate credit. We typically
provide senior financing, and may act as an interest rate swap or commodity derivative counterparty
when necessary. In most cases, we are not the primary beneficiary of these structures because we do
not have power over the significant activities of the VIEs involved in these transactions.

For example, we have investments in asset-backed securities that are collateralized by auto
leases or loans and cash reserves. These fixed-rate and variable-rate securities have been
structured as single-tranche, fully amortizing, unrated bonds that are equivalent to
investment-grade securities due to their significant overcollateralization. The securities are
issued by VIEs that have been formed by third party auto financing institutions primarily because
they require a source of liquidity to fund ongoing vehicle sales operations. The third party auto
financing institutions manage the collateral in the VIEs, which is indicative of power in these
transactions and we therefore do not consolidate these VIEs.

  TAX CREDIT STRUCTURES  We co-sponsor and make investments in affordable housing and sustainable
energy projects that are designed to generate a return primarily through the realization of federal
tax credits. In some instances, our investments in these structures may require that we fund future
capital commitments at the discretion of the project sponsors. While the size of our investment in
a single entity may at times exceed 50% of the outstanding equity interests, we do not consolidate
these structures due to the project sponsor s ability to manage the projects, which is indicative
of power in these transactions.

INVESTMENT FUNDS  At December 31, 2010, we had investments of $1.4 billion and lending arrangements
of $14 million with certain funds managed by one of our majority owned subsidiaries compared with
investments of $1.3 billion and lending arrangements of $20 million at December 31, 2009. In
addition, we also provide a default protection agreement to a third party lender to one of these
funds. Our involvement in these funds is either senior or of equal priority to third party
investors. We do not consolidate the investment funds because we do not absorb the majority of the
expected future variability associated with the funds  assets, including variability associated
with credit, interest rate and liquidity risks.

OTHER TRANSACTIONS WITH VIEs  In August 2008, Wachovia reached an agreement to purchase at par
auction rate securities (ARS) that were sold to third-party investors by certain of its
subsidiaries. ARS are debt instruments with long-term maturities, but which re-price more
frequently, and preferred equities with no maturity. All remaining ARS issued by VIEs subject to
the agreement were redeemed. At December 31, 2010, we held in our securities available-for-sale
portfolio $1.6 billion of ARS issued by VIEs redeemed pursuant to this agreement, compared with
$3.2 billion at December 31, 2009.

On November 18, 2009, we reached agreements to purchase additional ARS from eligible investors
who bought ARS through one of our broker-dealer subsidiaries. All remaining ARS issued by VIEs
subject to the agreement were redeemed. As of December 31, 2010, we held in our securities
available-for-sale portfolio $892 million of ARS issued by VIEs redeemed pursuant to this
agreement. No securities had been redeemed related to this agreement at December 31, 2009.

      We do not consolidate the VIEs that issued the ARS because we do not have power over the
activities of the VIEs.

  TRUST PREFERRED SECURITIES  In addition to the involvements disclosed in the preceding table, we had
$19.3 billion and $19.1 billion of junior subordinated debt financing through the issuance of trust
preferred securities at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In these transactions, VIEs that
we wholly own issue preferred equity or debt securities to third party investors. All of the
proceeds of the issuance are invested in debt securities that we issue to the VIEs. The VIEs 
operations and cash flows relate only to the issuance, administration and repayment of the
securities held by third parties. We do not consolidate these VIEs because the sole assets of the
VIEs are receivables from us. This is the case even though we own all of the voting equity shares
of the VIEs, have fully guaranteed the obligations of the VIEs and may have the right to redeem the
third party securities under certain circumstances. We report the debt securities that we issue to
the VIEs as long-term debt in our consolidated balance sheet. See Note 13 and Note 17 for
additional information related to our trust preferred security issuances.

151 

Note 8: Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities    (continued)  

Securitization Activity Related to Unconsolidated VIEs  
We use VIEs to securitize consumer and CRE loans and other types of financial assets, including
student loans, auto loans and municipal bonds. We typically retain the servicing rights from these
sales and may continue to hold other beneficial interests in the VIEs. We may also provide
liquidity to investors in the beneficial interests and credit enhancements in the form of standby
letters of credit. Through these securitizations we may

be exposed to liability under limited
amounts of recourse as well as standard representations and warranties we make to purchasers and
issuers.

We recognized net gains of $27 million from transfers accounted for as sales of financial
assets in securitizations in 2010, and net gains of $1 million in 2009. Additionally, we had the
following cash flows with our securitization trusts that were involved in transfers accounted for
as sales.

(1) 
       
     Represents cash flow data for all loans securitized in the period presented. 

(2) 
       
      Other financial assets  for 2009 has been revised to correct previously reported amount. 

Sales with continuing involvement during 2010 predominantly related to conforming residential
mortgage securitizations. During 2010 we transferred $379.0 billion in fair value of conforming
residential mortgages to unconsolidated VIEs and recorded the transfers as sales. These transfers
did not result in a gain or loss because the loans are already carried at

fair value. In connection
with these transfers, in 2010 we recorded a $4.5 billion servicing asset and a $144 million
liability for repurchase reserves, which are both initially measured at fair value.

We used the following key assumptions to measure mortgage servicing assets at the date of
securitization:

(1) 
       
     Constant prepayment rate. 

152 

Key economic assumptions and the sensitivity of the current fair value to immediate adverse
changes in those assumptions at December 31, 2010, for residential and commercial mortgage
servicing rights, and other interests held related primarily to residential mortgage loan
securitizations are presented in the following table. In the following table  Other interests held 
exclude securities retained in securitizations issued through GSEs such as FNMA, FHLMC and GNMA
because we do not

believe the value of these securities would be materially affected by the adverse
changes in assumptions noted in the table. Subordinated interests include only those bonds whose
credit rating was below AAA by a major rating agency at issuance. Senior interests include only
those bonds whose credit rating was AAA by a major rating agency at issuance. The information
presented excludes trading positions held in inventory.

The sensitivities in the preceding table are hypothetical and caution should be exercised when
relying on this data. Changes in value based on variations in assumptions generally cannot be
extrapolated because the relationship of the change in the assumption to the change in value may
not be linear. Also, the effect of a variation in a particular assumption on the value of the other
interests held is calculated independently without changing any other assumptions. In reality,
changes in one factor may result in changes in others (for example, changes in prepayment speed
estimates could result in changes in the credit losses), which might magnify or counteract the
sensitivities.

The following table presents information about the principal balances of off-balance sheet
securitized loans, including residential mortgages sold to FNMA, FHLMC and GNMA and securitizations
where servicing is our only form of continuing involvement. Delinquent loans include loans 90 days
or more past due and still accruing interest as well as nonaccrual loans. Delinquent loans and net
charge-offs exclude loans sold to FNMA, FHLMC and GNMA. We continue to service those loans and
would only experience a loss if required to repurchase a delinquent loan due to a breach in
original representations and warranties associated with their required underwriting standards.

153 

Note 8: Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities    (continued)  

Transactions with Consolidated VIEs and Secured Borrowings  
The following table presents a summary of transfers of financial assets accounted for as secured
borrowings and involvements with consolidated VIEs.  Consolidated assets  are presented using GAAP
measurement methods, which may include fair

value, credit impairment or other adjustments, and
therefore in some instances will differ from  Total VIE assets.  On the consolidated balance sheet,
we separately disclose the consolidated assets of certain VIEs that can only be used to settle the
liabilities of those VIEs.

(1) 
       
      Total VIE assets  has been revised to correct previously reported amount. 

(2) 
       
      Third party liabilities  has been revised to correct previously reported amounts. 

In addition to the transactions included in the table above, at December 31, 2010, we had issued
approximately $6.0 billion of private placement debt financing through a consolidated VIE. The
issuance is classified as long-term debt in our consolidated financial statements. At December 31,
2010, we had pledged approximately $6.0 billion in loans, $478 million in securities available for
sale and $180 million in cash and cash equivalents to collateralize the VIE s borrowings. Such
assets were not transferred to the VIE and accordingly we have excluded the VIE from the previous
table.

      We have raised financing through the securitization of certain financial assets in
transactions with VIEs accounted for as secured borrowings. We also consolidate VIEs where we are
the

primary beneficiary. In certain transactions other than the multi-seller commercial paper
conduit, we provide contractual support in the form of limited recourse and liquidity to facilitate
the remarketing of short-term securities issued to third party investors. Other than this limited
contractual support, the assets of the VIEs are the sole source of repayment of the securities held
by third parties. The liquidity support we provide to the multi-seller commercial paper conduit
ensures timely repayment of commercial paper issued by the conduit and is described further below.

154 

NONCONFORMING RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE LOAN SECURITIZATIONS  We have consolidated certain of our
nonconforming residential mortgage loan securitizations in accordance with consolidation accounting
guidance. We have determined we are the primary beneficiary of these securitizations because we
have the power to direct the most significant activities of the entity through our role as primary
servicer and also hold variable interests that we have determined to be significant. The nature of
our variable interests in these entities may include beneficial interests issued by the VIE,
mortgage servicing rights and recourse or repurchase reserve liabilities.

MULTI-SELLER COMMERCIAL PAPER CONDUIT  We administer a multi-seller asset-based commercial paper
conduit that finances certain client transactions. This conduit is a bankruptcy remote entity that
makes loans to, or purchases certificated interests, generally from SPEs, established by our
clients (sellers) and which are secured by pools of financial assets. The conduit funds itself
through the issuance of highly rated commercial paper to third party investors. The primary source
of repayment of the commercial paper is the cash flows from the conduit s assets or the re-issuance
of commercial paper upon maturity. The conduit s assets are structured with deal-specific credit
enhancements generally in the form of overcollateralization provided by the seller, but may also
include subordinated interests, cash reserve accounts, third party credit support facilities and
excess spread capture. The timely repayment of the commercial paper is further supported by
asset-specific liquidity facilities in the form of liquidity asset purchase agreements that we
provide. Each facility is equal to 102% of the conduit s funding commitment to a client. The
aggregate amount of liquidity must be equal to or greater than all the commercial paper issued by
the conduit. At the discretion of the administrator, we may be required to purchase assets from the
conduit at par value plus accrued interest or discount on the related commercial paper, including
situations where the conduit is unable to issue commercial paper. Par value may be different from
fair value.

We receive fees in connection with our role as administrator and liquidity provider. We may also
receive fees related to the structuring of the conduit s transactions. In 2010, the conduit
terminated its subordinated note to a third party investor and repaid all amounts due under the
terms of the note agreement. We incurred a loss on the termination of the subordinated note of $16
million. We are the primary beneficiary of the conduit because we have power over the significant
activities of the conduit and have a significant variable interest due to our liquidity
arrangement.

155 

Note 9: Mortgage Banking Activities   

Mortgage banking activities, included in the Community Banking and Wholesale Banking operating
segments, consist of residential and commercial mortgage originations and servicing.

We apply the amortization method to all commercial and some residential MSRs and apply the
fair value method to only residential MSRs. The changes in MSRs measured using the fair value
method were:

(1) 
       
     The 2009 amount reflects refinements to initial December 31, 2008, Wachovia purchase accounting
adjustments. 

(2) 
       
     Principally reflects changes in discount rates and prepayment speed assumptions, mostly due to
changes in interest rates, and costs to service, including delinquency and foreclosure costs. 

(3) 
       
     Represents changes due to collection/realization of expected cash flows over time. 

The changes in amortized MSRs were:

(1) 
       
     The 2009 amount reflects refinements to initial December 31, 2008, Wachovia purchase accounting
adjustments. 

(2) 
       
     Includes $400 million in residential amortized MSRs at December 31, 2010. The 2009 and 2008
balances are commercial amortized MSRs. For the year ended December 31, 2010, servicing from
securitizations or asset transfers on the residential MSR portfolio was $405 million and the
residential MSR amortization was $(5) million. 

(3) 
       
     Commercial amortized MSRs are evaluated for impairment purposes by the following risk strata:
agency (GSEs) and non-agency. There was no valuation allowance recorded for the periods presented
on the commercial amortized MSRs. Residential amortized MSRs are evaluated for impairment purposes
by the following risk strata: Mortgages sold to GSEs (FHLMC and FNMA) and mortgages sold to GNMA,
each by interest rate stratifications. A valuation allowance of $3 million was recorded on the
residential amortized MSRs for the year ended December 31, 2010. 

(4) 
       
     Includes fair value of $441 million in residential amortized MSRs and $1,371 million in
commercial amortized MSRs at December 31, 2010. 

156 

We present the components of our managed servicing portfolio in the following table at unpaid
principal balance for

loans serviced and subserviced for others and at book value for owned loans
serviced.

The components of mortgage banking noninterest income were:

(1) 
       
     Amounts are presented net of certain unreimbursed direct servicing obligations primarily
associated with workout activities. 

(2) 
       
     2009 and 2008 amounts have been revised to conform with current period presentation. 

(3) 
       
     Principally reflects changes in discount rates and prepayment speed assumptions, mostly due to
changes in interest rates and costs to service, including delinquency and foreclosure costs. 

(4) 
       
     Represents changes due to collection/realization of expected cash flows over time. 

(5) 
       
     Represents results from free-standing derivatives (economic hedges) used to hedge the risk of
changes in fair value of MSRs. See Note 15   Free-Standing Derivatives for additional discussion
and detail. 

157 

Note 9: Mortgage Banking Activities    (continued)  

In addition, servicing fees in the previous table included:

The table below summarizes the changes in our liability for mortgage loan repurchase losses.
This liability is in  Accrued expenses and other liabilities  in our consolidated financial
statements and the provision for repurchase losses reduces net gains on mortgage loan
origination/sales activities.

158 

Note 10: Intangible Assets  

The gross carrying value of intangible assets and accumulated amortization was:

(1) 
       
     See Note 9 for additional information on MSRs. 

We based our projections of amortization expense shown below on existing asset balances at December
31, 2010. Future amortization expense may vary from these projections.

The following table provides the current year and estimated future amortization expense for
amortized intangible assets.

159 

For our goodwill impairment analysis, we allocate all of the goodwill to the individual
operating segments. We identify reporting units that are one level below an operating segment
(referred to as a component), and distinguish these reporting units based on how the segments and
components are managed, taking into consideration the economic characteristics, nature of the
products and customers of the components. We allocate goodwill to reporting units based on relative
fair value, using certain performance metrics. See Note 23 for further information on management
reporting.

The following table shows the allocation of goodwill to our operating segments for purposes of
goodwill impairment testing. In fourth quarter 2010, we realigned certain lending businesses into
Wholesale Banking from Community Banking to reflect our previously announced restructuring of Wells
Fargo Financial. Prior periods have been revised to reflect these changes. The reduction in 2010
was predominately due to reversals of excess exit reserves as discussed in Note 2.

160 

Note 11: Deposits  

Time certificates of deposit (CDs) and other time deposits issued by domestic offices totaled $90.6
billion and $117.0 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Substantially all of these
deposits were interest bearing. The contractual maturities of these deposits follow.

Of these deposits, the amount of time deposits with a denomination of $100,000 or more was $33.9
billion and $43.7 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The contractual maturities
of these deposits follow.

Time CDs and other time deposits issued by foreign offices with a denomination of $100,000 or
more were $16.7 billion and $20.4 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

Demand deposit overdrafts of $557.0 million and $667.0 million were included as loan balances
at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

161 

Note 12: Short-Term Borrowings  

The table below shows selected information for short-term borrowings, which generally mature in
less than 30 days.

We pledge certain financial instruments that we own to collateralize repurchase agreements and
other securities financings. The types of collateral we pledge include securities issued by federal
agencies, GSEs, and domestic and foreign companies. We pledged $27.3 billion and $14.8 billion at
December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, under agreements that permit the secured parties to sell
or repledge the collateral. Pledged collateral where the secured party cannot sell or repledge was
$5.9 billion  and $434 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

162 

Note 13: Long-Term Debt  

As a part of our overall interest rate risk management strategy, we often use derivatives to manage
interest rate risk. As a result, much of the long-term debt presented below is hedged in a fair
value or cash flow hedge relationship. See Note 15 for further information on qualifying hedge
contracts.

Following is a summary of our long-term debt based on original maturity (reflecting unamortized
debt discounts and premiums, and purchase accounting adjustments for debt assumed in the Wachovia
acquisition, where applicable):

(continued on following page) 

163 

(continued from previous page) 

(1) 
       
     Balances have been revised to conform with current period presentation. 

(2) 
       
     On December 10, 2008, Wells Fargo issued $3 billion of 3% fixed senior unsecured notes and $3
billion of floating senior unsecured notes both maturing on December 9, 2011. On March 30, 2009,
Wells Fargo issued $1.75 billion of 2.125% fixed senior unsecured notes and $1.75 billion of
floating senior unsecured notes both maturing on June 15, 2012. These notes are guaranteed under
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation s (FDIC) Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (TLGP) and
are backed by the full faith and credit of the United States. 

(3) 
       
     Consists of long-term notes where the performance of the note is linked to an embedded equity,
commodity, or currency index, or basket of indices accounted for separately from the note as a
free-standing derivative. For information on embedded derivatives,
see Note 15   Free-standing
derivatives. 

(4) 
       
     We expect to issue preferred stock to the unconsolidated wholly-owned trusts that hold the
income trust securities. The preferred stock issuance is contingent on the ability to raise
sufficient proceeds through the sale of the income trust securities to third party investors. See
Note 8 for our additional information on our trust preferred security structures and Note 17 for
the preferred stock we expect to issue. 

(5) 
       
     Represents junior subordinated debentures held by unconsolidated wholly owned trusts formed for
the sole purpose of issuing trust preferred securities. See Note 8 for additional information on
our trust preferred security structures. 

164 

Note 13: Long-Term Debt    (continued)  

We participated in the FDIC s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (TLGP). The TLGP had two
components: the Debt Guarantee Program, which provided a temporary guarantee of newly issued senior
unsecured debt issued by eligible entities; and the Transaction Account Guarantee Program, which
provided a temporary unlimited guarantee of funds in noninterest-bearing transaction accounts at
FDIC-insured institutions. We opted out of the TLGP effective January 1, 2010.

The aggregate annual maturities of long-term debt obligations (based on final maturity dates)
as of December 31, 2010, follow.

The interest rates on floating-rate notes are determined periodically by formulas based on certain
money market rates, subject, on certain notes, to minimum or maximum interest rates.

As part of our long-term and short-term borrowing arrangements, we are subject to various
financial and operational covenants. Some of the agreements under which debt has been issued have
provisions that may limit the merger or sale of certain subsidiary banks and the issuance of
capital stock or convertible securities by certain subsidiary banks. At December 31, 2010, we were
in compliance with all the covenants.

165 

Note 14: Guarantees and Legal Actions  

Guarantees are contracts that contingently require us to make payments to a guaranteed party based
on an event or a change in an underlying asset, liability, rate or index. Guarantees are generally
in the form of standby letters of credit, securities lending and other indemnifications, liquidity
agreements,

written put options, recourse obligations, residual value guarantees, and contingent
consideration. The following table shows carrying value, maximum exposure to loss on our guarantees
and the amount with a higher risk of performance.

(1) 
       
     Certain of these agreements included in this table are related to off-balance sheet entities
and, accordingly, are also disclosed in Note 8. 

(2) 
       
     Written put options, which are in the form of derivatives, are also included in the derivative
disclosures in Note 15. 

Maximum exposure to loss  and  Non-investment grade  are required disclosures under GAAP.
Non-investment grade represents those guarantees on which we have a higher risk of being required
to perform under the terms of the guarantee. If the underlying assets under the guarantee are
non-investment grade (that is, an external rating that is below investment grade or an internal
credit default grade that is equivalent to a below investment grade external rating), we consider
the risk of performance to be high. Internal credit default grades are determined based upon the
same credit policies that we use to evaluate the risk of payment or performance when making loans
and other extensions of credit. These credit policies are more fully described in Note 6.

Maximum exposure to loss represents the estimated loss that would be incurred under an assumed
hypothetical circumstance, despite what we believe is its extremely remote possibility, where the
value of our interests and any associated collateral declines to zero, without any consideration of
recovery or offset from any economic hedges. Accordingly, this required disclosure is not an
indication of expected loss. We believe the carrying value, which is either fair value or cost
adjusted for incurred credit losses, is more representative of our exposure to loss than maximum
exposure to loss.

  STANDBY LETTERS OF CREDIT  We issue standby letters of credit, which include performance and
financial guarantees, for customers in connection with contracts between our customers and third
parties. Standby letters of credit are agreements where we are obligated to make payment to a third
party on behalf of a customer in the event the customer fails to meet their contractual
obligations. We consider the credit risk in standby letters of credit and commercial and similar
letters of credit in determining the allowance for credit losses.

SECURITIES LENDING AND OTHER INDEMNIFICATIONS  As a securities lending agent, we lend securities
from participating institutional clients  portfolios to third-party borrowers. We indemnify our
clients against default by the borrower in returning these lent securities. This indemnity is
supported by collateral received from the borrowers. Collateral is generally in the form of cash or
highly liquid securities that are marked to market daily. There was $14.0 billion at December 31,
2010, and $20.7 billion at December 31, 2009, in collateral supporting loaned securities with
values of $13.6 billion and $20.0 billion, respectively.

We enter into other types of indemnification agreements in the ordinary course of business
under which we agree to indemnify third parties against any damages, losses and expenses incurred
in connection with legal and other proceedings arising from relationships or transactions with us.
These relationships or transactions include those arising from service as a director or officer of
the Company, underwriting agreements relating to our securities, acquisition agreements and various
other business transactions or arrangements. Because the extent of our obligations under these
agreements depends entirely upon the occurrence of future events, our potential future liability
under these agreements we are unable to determine. We do, however, record a liability for
residential mortgage loans that we may have to repurchase pursuant to various representations and
warranties. See Note 1 and Note 8 for additional information on the liability for mortgage loan
repurchase losses.

166 

Note 14: Guarantees and Legal Actions    (continued)  

LIQUIDITY AGREEMENTS  We provide liquidity facilities on all commercial paper issued by the conduit
we administer. We also provide liquidity to certain off-balance sheet entities that hold
securitized fixed-rate municipal bonds and consumer or commercial assets that are partially funded
with the issuance of money market and other short-term notes. The decrease in maximum exposure to
loss from December 31, 2009, is due to the amounts related to the liquidity facility on the
commercial paper conduit being removed from the disclosed amounts due to the consolidation of the
commercial paper conduit upon adoption of consolidation accounting guidance. See Note 8 for
additional information on these arrangements.

WRITTEN PUT OPTIONS  Written put options are contracts that give the counterparty the right to sell
to us an underlying instrument held by the counterparty at a specified price, and include options,
floors, caps and credit default swaps. These written put option contracts generally permit net
settlement. While these derivative transactions expose us to risk in the event the option is
exercised, we manage this risk by entering into offsetting trades or by taking short positions in
the underlying instrument. We offset substantially all put options written to customers with
purchased options. Additionally, for certain of these contracts, we require the counterparty to
pledge the underlying instrument as collateral for the transaction. Our ultimate obligation under
written put options is based on future market conditions and is only quantifiable at settlement.
See Note 8 for additional information regarding transactions with VIEs and Note 15 for additional
information regarding written derivative contracts.

LOANS AND MHFS SOLD WITH RECOURSE  In certain loan sales or securitizations, we provide recourse to
the buyer whereby we are required to repurchase loans at par value plus accrued interest on the
occurrence of certain credit-related events within a certain period of time. The maximum exposure
to loss represents the outstanding principal balance of the loans sold or securitized that are
subject to recourse provisions or the maximum losses per the contractual agreements, but the
likelihood of the repurchase of the entire balance is remote and amounts paid can be recovered in
whole or in part from the sale of collateral. In 2010, we did not repurchase a significant amount
of loans associated with these agreements. We do not consider loans sold with representation and
warranty requirements, for which we have established a repurchase liability, to be loans sold with
recourse.

RESIDUAL VALUE GUARANTEES  We have provided residual value guarantees as part of certain leasing
transactions of corporate assets. At December 31, 2010, the only remaining residual value guarantee
is related to a leasing transaction on certain corporate buildings. The lessors in these leases are
generally large financial institutions or their leasing subsidiaries. These guarantees protect the
lessor from loss on sale of the related asset at the end of the lease term. To the extent that a
sale of the leased assets results in proceeds less than a stated percent (generally 80% to 89%) of
the asset s cost, we would be required to reimburse the lessor under our guarantee.

CONTINGENT CONSIDERATION  In connection with certain brokerage, asset management, insurance agency
and other acquisitions we have made, the terms of the acquisition agreements provide for deferred
payments or additional consideration, based on certain performance targets.

We have entered into various contingent performance guarantees through credit risk
participation arrangements. Under these agreements, if a customer defaults on its obligation to
perform under certain credit agreements with third parties, we will be required to make payments to
the third parties.

  Legal Actions  
Wells Fargo and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in a number of judicial, regulatory and
arbitration proceedings concerning matters arising from the conduct of our business activities.
These proceedings include actions brought against Wells Fargo and/or our subsidiaries with respect
to corporate related matters and transactions in which Wells Fargo and/or our subsidiaries were
involved. In addition, Wells Fargo and our subsidiaries may be requested to provide information or
otherwise cooperate with government authorities in the conduct of investigations of other persons
or industry groups.

Although there can be no assurance as to the ultimate outcome, Wells Fargo and/or our
subsidiaries have generally denied, or believe we have a meritorious defense and will deny,
liability in all significant litigation pending against us, including the matters described below,
and we intend to defend vigorously each case, other than matters we describe as having settled.
Reserves are established for legal claims when payments associated with the claims become probable
and the costs can be reasonably estimated. The actual costs of resolving legal claims may be
substantially higher or lower than the amounts reserved for those claims.

  ADELPHIA LITIGATION  Wachovia Bank, N.A. and Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC, along with numerous
other financial institutions were defendants in a case pending in the United States District Court
for the Southern District of New York related to the bankruptcy of Adelphia Communications
Corporation (Adelphia). The plaintiff was the Adelphia Recovery Trust. The complaint asserted
claims against the defendants under state law, bankruptcy law and the Bank Holding Company Act and
sought equitable relief and an unspecified amount of compensatory and punitive damages. On
September 21, 2010, an agreement was reached between the Adelphia Resolution Trust and all of the
defendant banks to settle the claims against the banks for the total amount of $175 million.
Wachovia s share was a fraction of that amount and was not material to Wells Fargo. The settlement
has been approved by the Court and the case is concluded.

167 

ELAVON LITIGATION  On January 16, 2009, Elavon, Inc., a provider of merchant processing services,
filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia against Wachovia
Corporation, Wachovia Bank, N.A., Wells Fargo   Company, and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. The complaint
seeks equitable relief, including specific performance, and damages for Wachovia Bank s allegedly
wrongful termination of its merchant referral contract with Elavon. Discovery has been completed
and both parties have moved for summary judgment on various claims or defenses.

ERISA LITIGATION  A purported class action, captioned  In re Wachovia Corporation ERISA Litigation ,
was pending against Wachovia Corporation, its board of directors and certain senior officers, in
the U.S. District Court for the Western District of North Carolina. The case was filed on behalf of
employees of Wachovia Corporation and its affiliates who held shares of Wachovia Corporation common
stock in their Wachovia Savings Plan accounts. On August 6, 2010, an order was entered by the Court
dismissing, with prejudice, the plaintiffs  complaint. The dismissal was appealed. On December 8,
2010, an agreement in principle was reached to settle the case for $12.35 million. The settlement
is subject to Court approval. A hearing on approval of the settlement has not yet been scheduled.

On April 6, 2010, the U.S. District Court for the District of Minnesota certified a class of
participants in Wells Fargo s 401(k) Plan in a case captioned  Figas v. Wells Fargo   Company, et
al.  Figas purports to bring claims on behalf of participants who had assets in certain Wells Fargo
affiliated funds from November 2, 2001, to September 22, 2009, alleging breach of fiduciary duty in
connection with the offer of Wells Fargo affiliated funds as investment choices in the Plan. On
October 18, 2010, an agreement in principle was reached to settle the  Figas v. Wells Fargo  
Company, et al.  case. The agreement is subject to approval by the Court and an independent
fiduciary.

  ILLINOIS ATTORNEY GENERAL LITIGATION  On July 31, 2009, the Attorney General for the State of
Illinois filed a civil lawsuit against Wells Fargo   Company, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. and Wells
Fargo Financial Illinois, Inc. in the Circuit Court for Cook County, Illinois. The Illinois
Attorney General alleges that the Wells Fargo defendants engaged in illegal discrimination by
 reverse redlining  and by steering African-American and Latino customers into high cost, subprime
mortgage loans while other borrowers with similar incomes received lower cost mortgages. Illinois
also alleges that Wells Fargo Financial Illinois, Inc. misled Illinois customers about the terms of
mortgage loans. Illinois  complaint against all Wells Fargo defendants is based on alleged
violation of the Illinois Human Rights Act and the Illinois Fairness in Lending Act. The complaint
also alleges that Wells Fargo Financial Illinois, Inc. violated the Illinois Consumer Fraud and
Deceptive Business Practices Act and the Illinois Uniform Deceptive Trade Practices Act. Illinois 
complaint seeks an injunction against the defendants  alleged violation of these Illinois statutes,
restitution to consumers and civil money penalties. On October 9, 2009, the Company filed a

motion
to dismiss Illinois  complaint, and is awaiting the Court s ruling.

IN RE WELLS FARGO MORTGAGE-BACKED CERTIFICATES LITIGATION  This lawsuit is comprised of several
securities law based putative class actions, consolidated in the U.S. District Court for the
Northern District of California on July 16, 2009. The case is brought against several Wells Fargo
mortgage-backed securities trusts, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. and other affiliated entities, individual
employee defendants, along with various underwriters and rating agencies. The plaintiffs allege
that the offering documents contain untrue statements of material fact, or omit to state material
facts necessary to make the registration statements and accompanying prospectuses not misleading.
The allegations are regarding the underwriting standards used in connection with the origination of
the underlying mortgages, the maximum loan-to-value ratios used to qualify borrowers, and the
appraisals of the properties underlying the mortgages. Motions to dismiss, filed on behalf of all
defendants, were granted in part and denied in part by a court order entered on April 22, 2010. The
plaintiffs were granted leave to amend some of their claims. On May 28, 2010, plaintiffs filed an
amended consolidated complaint. On June 25, 2010, Wells Fargo moved to dismiss the amended
complaint. On October 5, 2010, Wells Fargo s motion to dismiss the amended complaint was granted in
part and denied in part.

On June 29, 2010 and on July 15, 2010, two complaints, the first captioned  The Charles Schwab
Corporation vs. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith, Inc., et al.,  and the second captioned  The
Charles Schwab Corporation v. BNP Paribas Securities Corp., et al.,  were filed in the Superior
Court for the State of California, San Francisco County against a number of defendants, including
Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. and Wells Fargo Asset Securities Corporation. As against the Wells Fargo
entities, the new cases assert opt out claims relating to the claims alleged in the Mortgage-Backed
Certificates Litigation.

      On October 15, 2010, three actions, captioned  Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago v. Banc of
America Funding Corporation, et al.  (filed in the Cook County Circuit Court, State of Illinois);
 Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago v. Banc of America Securities LLC, et al.  (filed in the Superior
Court of the State of California for the County of Los Angeles); and  Federal Home Loan Bank of
Indianapolis v. Banc of America Mortgage America Securities, Inc., et al.  (filed in the Superior
Court of the State of Indiana for the County of Marion), named multiple defendants, described as
issuers/depositors, and underwriters/dealers of private label mortgage-backed securities, in an
action asserting claims that defendants used false and misleading statements in offering documents
for the sale of such securities. The Bank of Chicago asserts that it purchased approximately $4.2
billion and the Bank of Indianapolis asserts that it purchased nearly $3 billion of such securities
from the defendants. Plaintiffs seek rescission of the sales and damages under state securities and
other laws and Section 11 of the Securities Act of 1933. Wells Fargo Asset Securities Corporation,
Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. and Wells Fargo   Company were named among the defendants.

168 

Note 14: Guarantees and Legal Actions    (continued)  

INTERCHANGE LITIGATION  Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., Wells Fargo   Company, Wachovia Bank, N.A. and
Wachovia Corporation are named as defendants, separately or in combination, in putative class
actions filed on behalf of a plaintiff class of merchants and in individual actions brought by
individual merchants with regard to the interchange fees associated with Visa and MasterCard
payment card transactions. These actions have been consolidated in the United States District Court
for the Eastern District of New York. Visa, MasterCard and several banks and bank holding companies
are named as defendants in various of these actions. The amended and consolidated complaint asserts
claims against defendants based on alleged violations of federal and state antitrust laws and seeks
damages, as well as injunctive relief. Plaintiff merchants allege that Visa, MasterCard and payment
card issuing banks unlawfully colluded to set interchange rates. Plaintiffs also allege that
enforcement of certain Visa and MasterCard rules and alleged tying and bundling of services offered
to merchants are anticompetitive. Wells Fargo and Wachovia, along with other defendants and
entities, are parties to Loss and Judgment Sharing Agreements, which provide that they, along with
other entities, will share, based on a formula, in any losses from the Interchange Litigation.

LE-NATURE S, INC.  Wachovia Bank, N.A. was the administrative agent on a $285 million credit
facility extended to Le-Nature s, Inc. in September 2006, of which approximately $270 million was
syndicated to other lenders by Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC. Le-Nature s was the subject of a
Chapter 7 bankruptcy petition, which was converted to a Chapter 11 bankruptcy petition in November
2006 in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania. The filing was
precipitated by an apparent fraud relating to Le-Nature s financial condition. Wachovia Capital
Markets, LLC and/or Wachovia Bank, N.A. are named as defendants in a number of lawsuits including
the following: (1) a case filed in the New York State Supreme Court for the County of Manhattan by
hedge fund purchasers of the bank debt seeking to recover from Wachovia on various theories of
liability (On May 10, 2010, the Court granted Wachovia s motion to dismiss two counts of the
complaint and denied the motion to dismiss two other counts); (2) a case filed on April 28, 2008,
by holders of a Le-Nature s Senior Subordinated Notes offering underwritten by Wachovia Capital
Markets in June 2003, alleging various fraud claims, pending in the Superior Court of the State of
California for the County of Los Angeles; and (3) an action filed on October 30, 2008, on behalf of
the liquidation trust created in Le-Nature s bankruptcy against a number of individuals and
entities, including Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC and Wachovia Bank, N.A., in the U.S. District
Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania, asserting a variety of claims on behalf of the
bankruptcy estate. On September 16, 2009, the Court dismissed a cause of action for breach of
fiduciary duty but denied the remainder of Wachovia s motion to dismiss. Discovery is underway in
these matters.

MERGER RELATED LITIGATION  On October 4, 2008, Citigroup, Inc. purported to commence an action in
the Supreme Court of the State of New York for the County of Manhattan, captioned  Citigroup, Inc.
v. Wachovia Corp., et al. , naming as defendants Wachovia Corporation, Wells Fargo   Company, and
the directors of both companies. The complaint alleged that Wachovia breached an exclusivity
agreement with Citigroup, which by its terms was to expire on October 6, 2008, by entering into
negotiations and an eventual acquisition agreement with Wells Fargo, and that Wells Fargo and the
individual defendants had tortiously interfered with the same contract. On October 4, 2008,
Wachovia filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York,
captioned  Wachovia Corp. v. Citigroup, Inc.  The complaint sought declaratory and injunctive relief,
stating that the Wells Fargo merger agreement is valid, proper, and not prohibited by the
exclusivity agreement. On March 20, 2009, the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New
York remanded the  Citigroup, Inc. v. Wachovia Corp., et al.  case to the Supreme Court of the State
of New York for the County of Manhattan, but retained jurisdiction over the  Wachovia v. Citigroup 
case. These cases were settled by Wells Fargo s payment of $100 million to Citigroup in November,
2010. On November 23, 2010, both cases were dismissed at the request of the parties.

MORTGAGE FORECLOSURE DOCUMENT LITIGATION  Seven purported class actions and several individual
borrower actions related to foreclosure document practices were filed in late 2010 and in early
2011 against Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. in its status as mortgage servicer. The cases have been brought
in state and federal courts. Of the individual borrower cases, the majority are filed in state
courts in California and Ohio. Two other class actions were filed against Wells Fargo Bank, but
Wells Fargo is named as a defendant as corporate trustee of the mortgage trust and not as a
mortgage servicer. The actions generally claim that Wells Fargo submitted  fraudulent  or
 untruthful  affidavits or other foreclosure documents to courts to support foreclosures filed in
the state. Specifically, plaintiffs allege that Wells Fargo signers did not have personal knowledge
of the facts alleged in the documents and did not verify the information in the documents
ultimately filed with courts to foreclose. Plaintiffs attempt to state legal claims ranging from
wrongful foreclosure to deceptive practices to fraud and seek relief ranging from cancellation of
notes and mortgages to money damages.

On December 20, 2010, the New Jersey Supreme Court, the New Jersey Administrative Office of
the Courts, and the Superior Court of New Jersey for Mercer County jointly began an action against
Wells Fargo and other large mortgage servicing companies in state court in New Jersey. This action
seeks to enjoin pending foreclosures and sales and to require servicers to certify and prove
compliance with new foreclosure procedures in New Jersey, or be held in contempt of court. Wells
Fargo has filed its initial response to the New Jersey action.

169 

MORTGAGE RELATED REGULATORY INVESTIGATIONS  Several government agencies are conducting
investigations or examinations of various mortgage related practices of Wells Fargo Bank. The
investigations relate to two main topics, (1) whether Wells Fargo may have violated fair lending
or other laws and regulations relating to mortgage origination
practices; and (2) whether Wells Fargo s practices and
procedures relating to mortgage foreclosure affidavits and documents relating to the chain of title
to notes and mortgage documents are adequate.
With regard to the investigations into foreclosure practices, it is likely that one or more of the government agencies will initiate some type
of enforcement action against Wells Fargo, which may include civil money penalties. Wells Fargo continues to provide information requested by the various agencies.

MUNICIPAL DERIVATIVES BID PRACTICES INVESTIGATION  The Department of Justice (DOJ) and the SEC,
beginning in November 2006, have been requesting information from a number of financial
institutions, including Wachovia Bank, N.A. s municipal derivatives group, generally with regard to
competitive bid practices in the municipal derivative markets. In connection with these inquiries,
Wachovia Bank has received subpoenas from both the DOJ and SEC as well as requests from other
regulatory agencies and several states seeking documents and information. The DOJ and the SEC have
advised Wachovia Bank that they believe certain of its employees engaged in improper conduct in
conjunction with certain competitively bid transactions and, in November 2007, the DOJ notified two
Wachovia Bank employees, both of whom have since been terminated, that they are regarded as targets
of the DOJ s investigation. Wachovia Bank has been cooperating fully with the government
investigations.

Wachovia Bank, along with a number of other banks and financial services companies, has also
been named as a defendant in a number of substantially identical purported class actions filed in
various state and federal courts by various municipalities alleging they have been damaged by the
activity which is the subject of the government investigations. These cases are now consolidated
under the caption  In re Municipal Derivatives Antitrust Litigation  in the U.S. District Court for
the Southern District of New York. On April 30, 2009, the Court granted a motion filed by Wachovia
and certain other defendants to dismiss the Consolidated Class Action Complaint and dismissed all
claims against Wachovia, with leave to replead. A Second Consolidated Amended Complaint was filed
on June 18, 2009, and a motion to dismiss that complaint was denied. A number of putative class and
individual actions have also been brought in various courts, including complaints which were
amended with new allegations and the addition of Wells Fargo   Co. as a defendant. These cases all
have allegations substantially similar to those in the consolidated class complaint. All of the
cases are being coordinated in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York.

ORDER OF POSTING LITIGATION  A series of putative class actions have been filed against Wachovia
Bank, N.A. and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as well as many other banks, challenging the high to low
order in which the Banks post debit card transactions to consumer deposit accounts. There are
currently 12 such cases pending against Wells Fargo Bank (including the Wachovia Bank cases to
which Wells Fargo succeeded), all but three of which have been consolidated in multi-district
litigation proceedings in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida. On August
10, 2010, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California issued an order in
 Gutierrez v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. , one of the three cases that were not consolidated in the
multi-district proceedings, enjoining the Bank s use of the high to low posting method for debit
card transactions with respect to the plaintiff class of California depositors, directing that the
Bank establish a different posting methodology and ordering remediation in the approximate amount
of $203 million. On October 26, 2010, a final judgment was entered in Gutierrez. On October 28,
2010, Wells Fargo appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.

WACHOVIA EQUITY SECURITIES AND BONDS/NOTES LITIGATION  A purported securities class action,  Lipetz
v. Wachovia Corporation, et al. , was filed on July 7, 2008, in the U.S. District Court for the
Southern District of New York alleging violations of Sections 10 and 20 of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934. An amended complaint was filed on December 15, 2008. Among other allegations,
plaintiffs allege Wachovia s common stock price was artificially inflated as a result of allegedly
misleading disclosures relating to the Golden West Financial Corp. mortgage portfolio, Wachovia s
exposure to other mortgage related products such as CDOs, control issues and auction rate
securities. On March 19, 2009, the defendants filed a motion to dismiss the amended class action
complaint in the Lipetz case, which has now been re-captioned as  In re Wachovia Equity Securities
Litigation . There are four additional cases (not class actions) containing allegations similar to
the allegations in the  In re Wachovia Equity Securities Litigation  captioned  Stichting
Pensioenfonds ABP v. Wachovia Corp. et al., FC Holdings AB, et al. v. Wachovia Corp., et al., Deka
Investment GmbH v. Wachovia Corp. et al. and Forsta AP-Fonden v. Wachovia Corp., et al. ,
respectively, which were filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York,
and there are a number of other similar actions filed in state courts in North Carolina and South
Carolina by individual shareholders. Two of the individual shareholder actions in South Carolina
have been dismissed and the shareholders have appealed.

After a number of procedural motions, three purported class action cases alleging violations
of Sections 11, 12, and 15 of the Securities Act of 1933 as a result of allegedly misleading
disclosures relating to the Golden West mortgage portfolio in connection with Wachovia s issuance
of various preferred securities and bonds were transferred to the U.S. District Court for the
Southern District of New York. A consolidated class action complaint was filed on September 4,
2009, and the matter is now captioned  In Re Wachovia Preferred Securities and Bond/Notes
Litigation . On September 29, 2009, a non-class action case containing allegations similar to the
allegations in

170 

Note 14: Guarantees and Legal Actions    (continued)  

the  In re Wachovia Preferred Securities and Bond/Notes  litigation, and captioned  City of Livonia
Employees  Retirement System v. Wachovia Corp et al. , was filed in the Southern District of New
York. On May 3, 2010, the judge in the Southern District of New York issued an order granting
Plaintiffs leave to amend the class action and other complaints pending in that court, and
directing the parties to submit a schedule for the filing of the amended complaints and new motions
to dismiss. This order terminates the motions to dismiss the prior complaints which had been
pending. Amended complaints were filed in all the actions in May 2010 and renewed motions to
dismiss have been filed in each case.

OUTLOOK  When establishing a liability for contingent litigation losses, the Company determines a
range of potential losses for each matter that is both probable and estimable, and records the
amount it considers to be the best estimate within the range. The high end of the range of
potential litigation losses in excess of the Company s best estimates within the range of potential
losses used in establishing the total litigation liability was $1.2 billion as of December 31,
2010. For these matters and others where an unfavorable outcome is reasonably possible but not
probable, there may be a range of possible losses in excess of the established liability that
cannot be estimated. Based on information currently available, advice of counsel, available
insurance coverage and established reserves, Wells Fargo believes that the eventual outcome of the
actions against Wells Fargo and/or its subsidiaries, including the matters described above, will
not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on Wells Fargo s consolidated
financial position. However, in the event of unexpected future developments, it is possible that
the ultimate resolution of those matters, if unfavorable, may be material to Wells Fargo s results
of operations for any particular period.

171 

Note 15: Derivatives  

We use derivatives to manage exposure to market risk, interest rate risk, credit risk and foreign
currency risk, to generate profits from proprietary trading and to assist customers with their risk
management objectives. Derivative transactions are measured in terms of the notional amount, but
this amount is not recorded on the balance sheet and is not, when viewed in isolation, a meaningful
measure of the risk profile of the instruments. The notional amount is generally not exchanged, but
is used only as the basis on which interest and other payments are determined.

Our asset/liability management approach to interest rate, foreign currency and certain other
risks includes the use of derivatives. Such derivatives are typically designated as fair value or
cash flow hedges, or economic hedge derivatives for those that do not qualify for hedge accounting.
This helps minimize significant, unplanned fluctuations in earnings, fair values of assets and
liabilities, and cash flows caused by interest rate, foreign currency and other market value
volatility. This approach involves modifying the repricing characteristics of certain assets and
liabilities so that changes in interest rates, foreign currency and other exposures do not have a
significant adverse effect on the net interest margin, cash flows and earnings. As a result of
fluctuations in these exposures, hedged assets and liabilities will gain or lose market value. In a
fair value or economic hedge, the effect of this unrealized gain or loss will generally be offset
by the gain or loss on the derivatives linked to the hedged assets and liabilities. In a cash flow
hedge, where we manage the variability of cash payments due to interest rate fluctuations by the
effective use of derivatives linked to hedged assets and liabilities, the unrealized gain or loss
on the derivatives or the hedged asset or liability is generally not reflected in earnings.

We also offer various derivatives, including interest rate, commodity, equity, credit and foreign
exchange contracts, to our customers but usually offset our exposure from such contracts by
purchasing other financial contracts. The customer accommodations and any offsetting financial
contracts are treated as free-standing derivatives. Free-standing derivatives also include
derivatives we enter into for risk management that do not otherwise qualify for hedge accounting,
including economic hedge derivatives. To a lesser extent, we take positions based on market
expectations or to benefit from price differentials between financial instruments and markets.
Additionally, free-standing derivatives include embedded derivatives that are required to be
separately accounted for from their host contracts.

The following table presents the total notional or contractual amounts and fair values for
derivatives, the fair values of derivatives designated as qualifying hedge contracts, which are
used as asset/liability management hedges, and free-standing derivatives (economic hedges) not
designated as hedging instruments are recorded on the balance sheet in other assets or other
liabilities. Customer accommodation, trading and other free-standing derivatives are recorded on
the balance sheet at fair value in trading assets or other liabilities.

172 

Note 15: Derivatives    (continued)  

(1) 
       
     Notional amounts presented exclude $20.9 billion at both December 31, 2010 and 2009, of basis
swaps that are combined with receive fixed-rate/pay floating-rate swaps and designated as one
hedging instrument. 

(2) 
       
     Includes free-standing derivatives (economic hedges) used to hedge the risk of changes in the
fair value of residential MSRs, MHFS, interest rate lock commitments and other interests held. 

(3) 
       
     Balances at December 31, 2009 have been revised to conform with the current presentation. 

(4) 
       
     Represents netting of derivative asset and liability balances, and related cash collateral,
with the same counterparty subject to master netting arrangements. The amount of cash collateral
netted against derivative assets and liabilities was $5.5 billion and $12.1 billion, respectively,
at December 31, 2010, and $5.3 billion and $14.1 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2009. 

173 

Fair Value Hedges  
We use interest rate swaps to convert certain of our fixed-rate long-term debt and CDs to floating
rates to hedge our exposure to interest rate risk. We also enter into cross-currency swaps,
cross-currency interest rate swaps and forward contracts to hedge our exposure to foreign currency
risk and interest rate risk associated with the issuance of non-U.S. dollar denominated long-term
debt and repurchase agreements. In addition, we use interest rate swaps and forward contracts to
hedge against changes in fair value of certain investments in available-for-sale debt securities
 due to changes in interest rates, foreign
currency rates, or both. The entire derivative gain or loss is included in the assessment of hedge
effectiveness, for all fair value hedge relationships, except for those involving foreign-currency
denominated securities available for sale, short-term borrowings and long-term debt hedged with
foreign currency forward derivatives for which the

component of the derivative gain or loss related
to the changes in the difference between the spot and forward price is excluded from the assessment
of hedge effectiveness.

We use statistical regression analysis to assess hedge effectiveness, both at inception of the
hedging relationship and on an ongoing basis. The regression analysis involves regressing the
periodic change in fair value of the hedging instrument against the periodic changes in fair value
of the asset or liability being hedged due to changes in the hedged risk(s). The assessment
includes an evaluation of the quantitative measures of the regression results used to validate the
conclusion of high effectiveness.

      The following table shows the net gains (losses) recognized in the income statement related to
derivatives in fair value hedging relationships.

(1) 
       
     Included $3 million and $(10) million, respectively, for year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009,
of gains (losses) on forward derivatives hedging foreign currency securities available for sale,
short-term borrowings and long-term debt, representing the portion of derivatives gains (losses)
excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness (time value). 

174 

Note 15: Derivatives    (continued)  

Cash Flow Hedges  
We hedge floating-rate debt against future interest rate increases by using interest rate swaps,
caps, floors and futures to limit variability of cash flows due to changes in the benchmark
interest rate. We also use interest rate swaps and floors to hedge the variability in interest
payments received on certain floating-rate commercial loans, due to changes in the benchmark
interest rate. Gains and losses on derivatives that are reclassified from cumulative OCI to current
period earnings are included in the line item in which the hedged item s effect on earnings is
recorded. All parts of gain or loss on these derivatives are included in the assessment of hedge
effectiveness. We assess hedge effectiveness using regression analysis, both at inception of the
hedging relationship and on an ongoing basis. The regression analysis involves regressing the
periodic changes in cash flows of the hedging instrument against the periodic

changes in cash flows
of the forecasted transaction being hedged due to changes in the hedged risk(s). The assessment
includes an evaluation of the quantitative measures of the regression results used to validate the
conclusion of high effectiveness.

Based upon current interest rates, we estimate that $367 million of deferred net gains on
derivatives in OCI at December 31, 2010, will be reclassified as earnings during the next twelve
months, compared with $284 million at December 31, 2009. Future changes to interest rates may
significantly change actual amounts reclassified to earnings. We are hedging our exposure to the
variability of future cash flows for all forecasted transactions for a maximum of 8 years for both
hedges of floating-rate debt and floating-rate commercial loans.

      The following table shows the net gains (losses) recognized related to derivatives in cash
flow hedging relationships.

(1) 
       
     Represents ineffectiveness recognized on cash flow hedge derivatives. 

Free-Standing Derivatives  
We use free-standing derivatives (economic hedges), in addition to debt securities available for
sale, to hedge the risk of changes in the fair value of residential MSRs measured at fair value,
certain residential MHFS, derivative loan commitments and other interests held. The resulting gain
or loss on these economic hedges is reflected in other income.

The derivatives used to hedge these MSRs measured at fair value, which include swaps,
swaptions, forwards, Eurodollar and Treasury futures and options contracts, resulted in net
derivative gains of $4.5 billion in 2010 and $6.8 billion in 2009, which are included in mortgage
banking noninterest income. The aggregate fair value of these derivatives was a net liability of
$943 million and $961 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Changes in fair value of
debt securities available for sale (unrealized gains and losses) are not included in servicing
income, but are reported in cumulative OCI (net of tax) or, upon sale, are reported in net gains
(losses) on debt securities available for sale.

      Interest rate lock commitments for residential mortgage loans that we intend to sell are
considered free-standing derivatives. Our interest rate exposure on these derivative loan
commitments, as well as substantially all residential MHFS, is hedged with free-standing
derivatives (economic hedges) such as forwards and options, Eurodollar futures and options, and
Treasury futures, forwards and options contracts. The commitments, free-standing derivatives and
residential MHFS are carried at fair value with changes in fair value included in mortgage banking
noninterest income. For the fair value measurement of interest rate lock commitments we include, at
inception and during the life of the loan commitment, the expected net future cash flows related to
the associated servicing

of the loan. Fair value changes subsequent to inception are based on
changes in fair value of the underlying loan resulting from the exercise of the commitment and
changes in the probability that the loan will not fund within the terms of the commitment (referred
to as a fall-out factor). The value of the underlying loan is affected primarily by changes in
interest rates and the passage of time. However, changes in investor demand can also cause changes
in the value of the underlying loan value that cannot be hedged. The aggregate fair value of
derivative loan commitments in the balance sheet was a net liability of $271 million and $312
million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and is included in the caption  Interest rate
contracts  under  Customer accommodation, trading and other free-standing derivatives  in the first
table in this Note.

We also enter into various derivatives primarily to provide derivative products to customers.
To a lesser extent, we take positions based on market expectations or to benefit from price
differentials between financial instruments and markets. These derivatives are not linked to
specific assets and liabilities in the balance sheet or to forecasted transactions in an accounting
hedge relationship and, therefore, do not qualify for hedge accounting. We also enter into
free-standing derivatives for risk management that do not otherwise qualify for hedge accounting.
They are carried at fair value with changes in fair value recorded as part of other noninterest
income.

      Free-standing derivatives also include embedded derivatives that are required to be accounted
for separate from their host contract. We periodically issue hybrid long-term notes and CDs where
the performance of the hybrid instrument notes is linked to an equity, commodity or currency index,
or basket of such indices. These notes contain explicit terms that affect some or all of the cash
flows or the value of the note in a manner similar to a

175 

derivative instrument and therefore are considered to contain an  embedded  derivative instrument.
The indices on which the performance of the hybrid instrument is calculated are not clearly and
closely related to the host debt instrument. The  embedded  derivative is separated from the host
contract and accounted for as a free-standing derivative. Additionally, we may invest in hybrid
instruments that contain embedded derivatives, such as credit derivatives, that are not clearly and
closely related

to the host contract. In such instances, we either elect fair value option for the
hybrid instrument or separate the embedded derivative from the host contract and account for the
host contract and derivative separately.

The following table shows the net gains recognized in the income statement related to
derivatives not designated as hedging instruments.

(1) 
       
     Predominantly mortgage banking noninterest income including gains (losses) on the derivatives
used as economic hedges of MSRs measured at fair value, interest rate lock commitments and
mortgages held for sale. 

(2) 
       
     Predominantly mortgage banking noninterest income including gains (losses) on interest rate
lock commitments. 

Credit Derivatives  
We use credit derivatives to manage exposure to credit risk related to lending and investing
activity and to assist customers with their risk management objectives. This may include protection
sold to offset purchased protection in structured product transactions, as well as liquidity
agreements written to special purpose vehicles. The maximum exposure of sold credit derivatives is
managed through posted collateral, purchased credit derivatives and similar products in order to
achieve our desired credit risk profile. This credit risk management provides an ability to recover
a significant portion of any amounts that would be paid under the sold credit derivatives. We would
be required to perform under the noted credit derivatives in the event of default by the referenced
obligors. Events of default include events such as bankruptcy, capital restructuring or lack of
principal and/or interest payment. In certain cases, other triggers may exist, such as the credit
downgrade of the referenced obligors or the inability of the special purpose vehicle for which we
have provided liquidity to obtain funding.

176 

Note 15: Derivatives    (continued)  

The following table provides details of sold and purchased credit derivatives.

(1) 
       
     Balances at December 31, 2009, have been revised to conform with the current presentation. 

Protection sold represents the estimated maximum exposure to loss that would be incurred under
an assumed hypothetical circumstance, where the value of our interests and any associated
collateral declines to zero, without any consideration of recovery or offset from any economic
hedges. We believe this hypothetical circumstance to be an extremely remote possibility and
accordingly, this required disclosure is not an indication of expected loss. The amounts under
non-investment grade represent the notional amounts of those credit derivatives on which we have a
higher risk of being required to perform under the terms of the credit derivative and are a
function of the underlying assets.

We consider the risk of performance to be high if the underlying assets under the credit derivative
have an external rating that is below investment grade or an internal credit default grade that is
equivalent thereto. We believe the net protection sold, which is representative of the net notional
amount of protection sold and purchased with identical underlyings, in combination with other
protection purchased, is more representative of our exposure to loss than either non-investment
grade or protection sold. Other protection purchased represents additional protection, which may
offset the exposure to loss for protection sold, that was not purchased with an identical
underlying of the protection sold.

177 

Credit-Risk Contingent Features  
Certain of our derivative contracts contain provisions whereby if the credit rating of our debt,
based on certain major credit rating agencies indicated in the relevant contracts, were to fall
below investment grade, the counterparty could demand additional collateral or require termination
or replacement of derivative instruments in a net liability position. The aggregate fair value of
all derivative instruments with such credit-risk-related contingent features that are in a net
liability position was $12.6 billion and $7.5 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively,
for which we had posted $12.0 billion and $7.1 billion, respectively, in collateral in the normal
course of business. If the credit-risk-related contingent features underlying these agreements had
been triggered on December 31, 2010 or 2009, we would have been required to post additional
collateral of $1.0 billion, or potentially settle the contract in an amount equal to its fair
value.

Counterparty Credit Risk  
By using derivatives, we are exposed to counterparty credit risk if counterparties to the
derivative contracts do not perform as expected. If a counterparty fails to perform, our
counterparty credit risk is equal to the amount reported as a derivative asset on our balance
sheet. The amounts reported as a derivative asset are derivative contracts in a gain position, and
to the extent subject to master netting arrangements, net of derivatives in a loss position with
the same counterparty and cash collateral received. We minimize counterparty credit risk through
credit approvals, limits, monitoring procedures, executing master netting arrangements and
obtaining collateral, where appropriate. To the extent the master netting arrangements and other
criteria meet the applicable requirements, derivatives balances and related cash collateral amounts
are shown net in the balance sheet. Counterparty credit risk related to derivatives is considered
in determining fair value and our assessment of hedge effectiveness.

178 

Note 16: Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities  

We use fair value measurements to record fair value adjustments to certain assets and liabilities
and to determine fair value disclosures. Trading assets, securities available for sale,
derivatives, substantially all prime residential MHFS, certain commercial LHFS, fair value MSRs,
principal investments and securities sold but not yet purchased (short sale liabilities) are
recorded at fair value on a recurring basis. Additionally, from time to time, we may be required to
record at fair value other assets on a nonrecurring basis, such as certain residential and
commercial MHFS, certain LHFS, loans held for investment and certain other assets. These
nonrecurring fair value adjustments typically involve application of lower-of-cost-or-market
accounting or write-downs of individual assets.

We adopted new guidance on fair value measurements effective January 1, 2009, which addresses
measuring fair value in situations where markets are inactive and transactions are not orderly.
This guidance states transaction or quoted prices for assets or liabilities in inactive markets may
require adjustment due to the uncertainty of whether the underlying transactions are orderly. Prior
to our adoption of the new provisions for measuring fair value, we primarily used unadjusted
independent vendor or broker quoted prices to measure fair value for substantially all securities
available for sale.

      In connection with the change in guidance for fair value measurement, we developed policies
and procedures to determine when the level and volume of activity for our assets and liabilities
requiring fair value measurements has significantly declined relative to normal conditions. For
such items that use price quotes, such as certain security classes within securities available for
sale, the degree of market inactivity and distressed transactions was analyzed to determine the
appropriate adjustment to the price quotes.

      The security classes where we considered the market to be less orderly upon initial adoption
of the new guidance included non-agency residential MBS, commercial MBS, CDOs, home equity
asset-backed securities, auto asset-backed securities and credit card-backed securities. The
methodology used to adjust the quotes involved weighting the price quotes and results of internal
pricing techniques such as the net present value of future expected cash flows (with observable
inputs, where available) discounted at a rate of return market participants require. The
significant inputs utilized in the internal pricing techniques, which were estimated by type of
underlying collateral, included credit loss assumptions, estimated prepayment speeds and
appropriate discount rates.

      The more active and orderly markets for particular security classes were determined to be, the
more weighting assigned to price quotes. The less active and orderly markets were determined to be,
the less weighting assigned to price quotes. We continually assess the level and volume of market
activity in our investment security classes in determining adjustments, if any, to price quotes.
Given market conditions can change over time, determination of which securities markets are
considered active or inactive, and if inactive, the degree to which price quotes require
adjustment, can also change.

Fair Value Hierarchy 

We group our assets and liabilities measured at fair value in three levels, based on the markets in
which the assets and liabilities are traded and the reliability of the assumptions used to
determine fair value. These levels are:

Level 1   Valuation is based upon quoted prices for identical instruments traded in active
markets. 

Level 2   Valuation is based upon quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets,
quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active, and model-based
valuation techniques for which all significant assumptions are observable in the market. 

Level 3   Valuation is generated from model-based techniques that use significant assumptions
not observable in the market. These unobservable assumptions reflect estimates of assumptions that
market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. Valuation techniques include use
of option pricing models, discounted cash flow models and similar techniques. 

In the determination of the classification of financial instruments in Level 2 or Level 3 of
the fair value hierarchy, we consider all available information, including observable market data,
indications of market liquidity and orderliness, and our understanding of the valuation techniques
and significant inputs used. For securities in inactive markets, we use a predetermined percentage
to evaluate the impact of fair value adjustments derived from weighting both external and internal
indications of value to determine if the instrument is classified as Level 2 or Level 3. Based upon
the specific facts and circumstances of each instrument or instrument category, judgments are made
regarding the significance of the Level 3 inputs to the instruments  fair value measurement in its
entirety. If Level 3 inputs are considered significant, the instrument is classified as Level 3.

Determination of Fair Value 

We base our fair values on the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a
liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. We
maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when developing
fair value measurements.

      In instances where there is limited or no observable market data, fair value measurements for
assets and liabilities are based primarily upon our own estimates or combination of our own
estimates and independent vendor or broker pricing, and the measurements are often calculated based
on current pricing for products we offer or issue, the economic and competitive environment, the
characteristics of the asset or liability and other such factors. As with any valuation technique
used to estimate fair value, changes in underlying assumptions used, including discount rates and
estimates of future cash flows, could significantly affect the results of current or future values.
Accordingly, these fair value estimates may not be realized in an actual sale or immediately
settlement of the asset or liability.

179 

We incorporate lack of liquidity into our fair value measurement based on the type of asset or
liability measured and the valuation methodology used. For example, for certain residential MHFS
and certain securities where the significant inputs have become unobservable due to illiquid
markets and vendor or broker pricing is not used, we use a discounted cash flow technique to
measure fair value. This technique incorporates forecasting of expected cash flows (adjusted for
credit loss assumptions and estimated prepayment speeds) discounted at an appropriate market
discount rate to reflect the lack of liquidity in the market that a market participant would
consider. For other securities where vendor or broker pricing is used, we use either unadjusted
broker quotes or vendor prices or vendor or broker prices adjusted by weighting them with internal
discounted cash flow techniques to measure fair value. These unadjusted vendor or broker prices
inherently reflect any lack of liquidity in the market as the fair value measurement represents an
exit price from a market participant viewpoint.

Following are descriptions of the valuation methodologies used for assets and liabilities
recorded at fair value on a recurring or nonrecurring basis and for estimating fair value for
financial instruments not recorded at fair value.

Assets 

SHORT-TERM FINANCIAL ASSETS  Short-term financial assets include cash and due from banks, federal
funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements and due from customers on acceptances.
These assets are carried at historical cost. The carrying amount is a reasonable estimate of fair
value because of the relatively short time between the origination of the instrument and its
expected realization.

  TRADING ASSETS (EXCLUDING DERIVATIVES) AND SECURITIES AVAILABLE FOR SALE  Trading assets and
securities available for sale are recorded at fair value on a recurring basis. Fair value
measurement is based upon quoted prices in active markets, if available. Such instruments are
classified within Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy. Examples include exchange-traded equity
securities and some highly liquid government securities such as U.S. Treasuries. When instruments
are traded in secondary markets and quoted market prices do not exist for such securities, we
generally rely on internal valuation techniques or on prices obtained from independent pricing
services or brokers (collectively, vendors) or combination thereof.

Trading securities are mostly valued using trader prices that are subject to independent price
verification procedures. The majority of fair values derived using internal valuation techniques
are verified against multiple pricing sources, including prices obtained from independent vendors.
Vendors compile prices from various sources and often apply matrix pricing for similar securities
when no price is observable. We review pricing methodologies provided by the vendors in order to
determine if observable market information is being used, versus unobservable inputs. When
evaluating the appropriateness of an internal trader price compared with vendor prices,
considerations include the range and quality of vendor prices. Vendor prices are used to ensure the

reasonableness of a trader price; however valuing financial instruments involves judgments acquired
from knowledge of a particular market and is not perfunctory. If a trader asserts that a vendor
price is not reflective of market value, justification for using the trader price, including recent
sales activity where possible, must be provided to and approved by the appropriate levels of
management.

Similarly, while securities available for sale traded in secondary markets are typically
valued using unadjusted vendor prices or vendor prices adjusted by weighting them with internal
discounted cash flow techniques, these prices are reviewed and, if deemed inappropriate by a trader
who has the most knowledge of a particular market, can be adjusted. Securities measured with these
internal valuation techniques are generally classified as Level 2 of the hierarchy and often
involve using quoted market prices for similar securities, pricing models, discounted cash flow
analyses using significant inputs observable in the market where available or combination of
multiple valuation techniques. Examples include certain residential and commercial MBS, municipal
bonds, U.S. government and agency MBS, and corporate debt securities.

      Security fair value measurements using significant inputs that are unobservable in the market
due to limited activity or a less liquid market are classified as Level 3 in the fair value
hierarchy. Such measurements include securities valued using internal models or combination of
multiple valuation techniques such as weighting of internal models and vendor or broker pricing,
where the unobservable inputs are significant to the overall fair value measurement. Securities
classified as Level 3 include certain residential and commercial MBS, asset-backed securities
collateralized by auto leases or loans and cash reserves, CDOs and CLOs, and certain residual and
retained interests in residential mortgage loan securitizations. CDOs are valued using the prices
of similar instruments, the pricing of completed or pending third party transactions or the pricing
of the underlying collateral within the CDO. Where vendor or broker prices are not readily
available, management s best estimate is used.

  MORTGAGES HELD FOR SALE (MHFS)  We carry substantially all of our residential MHFS portfolio at
fair value. Fair value is based on independent quoted market prices, where available, or the prices
for other mortgage whole loans with similar characteristics. As necessary, these prices are
adjusted for typical securitization activities, including servicing value, portfolio composition,
market conditions and liquidity. Most of our MHFS are classified as Level 2. For the portion where
market pricing data is not available, we use a discounted cash flow model to estimate fair value
and, accordingly, classify as Level 3.

LOANS HELD FOR SALE (LHFS)  LHFS are carried at the lower of cost or market value, or at fair value
for certain portfolios that we intend to hold for trading purposes. The fair value of LHFS is based
on what secondary markets are currently offering for portfolios with similar characteristics. As
such, we classify those loans subjected to nonrecurring fair value adjustments as Level 2.

180 

Note 16:  Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities     (continued)  

LOANS  For the carrying value of loans, including PCI loans, see Note 1 (Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies   Loans). We generally do not record loans at fair value on a recurring basis.
However, from time to time, we record nonrecurring fair value adjustments to loans to reflect
partial write-downs that are based on the observable market price of the loan or current appraised
value of the collateral.

We provide fair value estimates in this disclosure for loans that are not recorded at fair
value on a recurring or nonrecurring basis. Those estimates differentiate loans based on their
financial characteristics, such as product classification, loan category, pricing features and
remaining maturity. Prepayment and credit loss estimates are evaluated by product and loan rate.

      The fair value of commercial loans is calculated by discounting contractual cash flows,
adjusted for credit loss estimates, using discount rates that reflect our current pricing for loans
with similar characteristics and remaining maturity.

      For real estate 1-4 family first and junior lien mortgages, fair value is calculated by
discounting contractual cash flows, adjusted for prepayment and credit loss estimates, using
discount rates based on current industry pricing (where readily available) or our own estimate of
an appropriate risk-adjusted discount rate for loans of similar size, type, remaining maturity and
repricing characteristics.

      For credit card loans, the portfolio s yield is equal to our current pricing and, therefore,
the fair value is equal to book value adjusted for estimates of credit losses inherent in the
portfolio at the balance sheet date.

      For all other consumer loans, the fair value is generally calculated by discounting the
contractual cash flows, adjusted for prepayment and credit loss estimates, based on the current
rates we offer for loans with similar characteristics.

      Loan commitments, standby letters of credit and commercial and similar letters of credit
generate ongoing fees at our current pricing levels, which are recognized over the term of the
commitment period. In situations where the credit quality of the counterparty to a commitment has
declined, we record an allowance. A reasonable estimate of the fair value of these instruments is
the carrying value of deferred fees plus the related allowance. Certain letters of credit that are
hedged with derivative instruments are carried at fair value in trading assets or liabilities. For
those letters of credit fair value is calculated based on readily quotable credit default spreads,
using a market risk credit default swap model.

  DERIVATIVES  Quoted market prices are available and used for our exchange-traded derivatives, such
as certain interest rate futures and option contracts, which we classify as Level 1. However,
substantially all of our derivatives are traded in over-the-counter (OTC) markets where quoted
market prices are not always readily available. Therefore we value most OTC derivatives using
internal valuation techniques. Valuation techniques and inputs to internally-developed models
depend on the type of derivative and nature of the underlying rate, price or index upon which the
derivative s value is based. Key inputs can include yield curves, credit curves, foreign-exchange
rates, prepayment rates, volatility measurements and correlation of such inputs. Where model inputs
can be observed in a liquid

market and the model does not require significant judgment, such
derivatives are typically classified as Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. Examples of
derivatives classified as Level 2 include generic interest rate swaps, foreign currency swaps,
commodity swaps, and certain option and forward contracts. When instruments are traded in less
liquid markets and significant inputs are unobservable, such derivatives are classified as Level 3.
Examples of derivatives classified as Level 3 include complex and highly structured derivatives,
certain credit default swaps, interest rate lock commitments written for our residential mortgage
loans that we intend to sell and long dated equity options where volatility is not observable.
Additionally, significant judgments are required when classifying financial instruments within the
fair value hierarchy, particularly between Level 2 and 3, as is the case for certain derivatives.

MORTGAGE SERVICING RIGHTS (MSRs) AND CERTAIN OTHER INTERESTS HELD IN SECURITIZATIONS  MSRs and
certain other interests held in securitizations (e.g., interest-only strips) do not trade in an
active market with readily observable prices. Accordingly, we determine the fair value of MSRs
using a valuation model that calculates the present value of estimated future net servicing income
cash flows. The model incorporates assumptions that market participants use in estimating future
net servicing income cash flows, including estimates of prepayment speeds (including housing price
volatility), discount rate, default rates, cost to service (including delinquency and foreclosure
costs), escrow account earnings, contractual servicing fee income, ancillary income and late fees.
Commercial MSRs and certain residential MSRs are carried at lower of cost or market value, and
therefore can be subject to fair value measurements on a nonrecurring basis. Changes in the fair
value of MSRs occur primarily due to the collection/realization of expected cash flows, as well as
changes in valuation inputs and assumptions. For other interests held in securitizations (such as
interest-only strips) we use a valuation model that calculates the present value of estimated
future cash flows. The model incorporates our own estimates of assumptions market participants use
in determining the fair value, including estimates of prepayment speeds, discount rates, defaults
and contractual fee income. Interest-only strips are recorded as trading assets. Our valuation
approach is validated by our internal valuation model validation group. Fair value measurements of
our MSRs and interest-only strips use significant unobservable inputs and, accordingly, we classify
as Level 3.

FORECLOSED ASSETS  Foreclosed assets are carried at net realizable value, which represents fair
value less costs to sell. Fair value is generally based upon independent market prices or appraised
values of the collateral and, accordingly, we classify foreclosed assets as Level 2.

181 

NONMARKETABLE EQUITY INVESTMENTS  Nonmarketable equity investments are recorded under the cost or
equity method of accounting. There are generally restrictions on the sale and/or liquidation of
these investments, including federal bank stock. Federal bank stock carrying value approximates
fair value. We use facts and circumstances available to estimate the fair value of our nonmarketable equity
investments. We typically consider our access to and need for capital (including recent or
projected financing activity), qualitative assessments of the viability of the investee, evaluation
of the financial statements of the investee and prospects for its future. Public equity investments
are valued using quoted market prices and discounts are only applied when there are trading
restrictions that are an attribute of the investment. Investments in non-public securities are
recorded at our estimate of fair value using metrics such as security prices of comparable public
companies, acquisition prices for similar companies and original investment purchase price
multiples, while also incorporating a portfolio company s financial performance and specific
factors. For investments in private equity funds, we use the NAV provided by the fund sponsor as an
appropriate measure of fair value. In some cases, such NAVs require adjustments based on certain
unobservable inputs.

Liabilities 

DEPOSIT LIABILITIES  Deposit liabilities are carried at historical cost. The fair value of deposits
with no stated maturity, such as noninterest-bearing demand deposits, interest-bearing checking,
and market rate and other savings, is equal to the amount payable on demand at the measurement
date. The fair value of other time deposits is calculated based on the discounted value of
contractual cash flows. The discount rate is estimated using the rates currently offered for like
wholesale deposits with similar remaining maturities.

SHORT-TERM FINANCIAL LIABILITIES  Short-term financial liabilities are carried at historical cost
and include federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements, commercial
paper and other short-term borrowings. The carrying amount is a reasonable estimate of fair value
because of the relatively short time between the origination of the instrument and its expected
realization.

OTHER LIABILITIES  Other liabilities recorded at fair value on a recurring basis, excluding
derivative liabilities (see the   Derivatives   section for derivative liabilities), includes
primarily short sale liabilities. Short sale liabilities are classified as either Level 1 or Level
2, generally dependent upon whether the underlying securities have readily obtained quoted prices
in active exchange markets.

LONG-TERM DEBT  Long-term debt is generally carried at amortized cost. For disclosure, we are
required to estimate the fair value of long-term debt. Generally, the discounted cash flow method
is used to estimate the fair value of our long-term debt. Contractual cash flows are discounted
using rates currently offered for new notes with similar remaining maturities and, as such, these
discount rates include our current spread levels.

182 

Note
16: Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities    (continued)  

Fair Value Measurements from Independent Brokers or Independent Third Party Pricing Services 

For certain assets and liabilities, we obtain fair value measurements from independent brokers or
independent third party pricing services and record the unadjusted fair value in our

financial
statements. The detail by level is shown in the table below. Fair value measurements obtained from
independent brokers or independent third party pricing services that we have adjusted to determine
the fair value recorded in our financial statements are not included in the following table.

183 

Assets and Liabilities Recorded at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis 

The tables below present the balances of assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a
recurring basis.

(1) 
       
     Perpetual preferred securities are primarily ARS. See Note 8 for additional information. 

(2) 
       
     Derivatives are reported net of cash collateral received and paid and, to the extent that the
criteria of the accounting guidance covering the offsetting of amounts related to certain contracts
are met, positions with the same counterparty are netted as part of a legally enforceable master
netting agreement. 

(3) 
       
     Derivative assets include contracts qualifying for hedge accounting, economic hedges, and
derivatives included in trading assets. 

(4) 
       
     Derivative liabilities include contracts qualifying for hedge accounting, economic hedges, and
derivatives included in trading liabilities. 

(continued on following page) 

184 

Note 16: Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities    (continued)  

(continued from previous page) 

(1) 
       
     Includes trading securities of $24.0 billion. 

(2) 
       
     Derivatives are reported net of cash collateral received and paid and, to the extent that the
criteria of the accounting guidance covering the offsetting of amounts related to certain contracts
are met, positions with the same counterparty are netted as part of a legally enforceable master
netting agreement. 

(3) 
       
     Derivative assets other than trading and principal investments are included in this category.
Balances have been revised to conform with current period presentation. 

(4) 
       
     Derivative liabilities are included in this category. Balances have been revised to conform
with current period presentation. 

185 

The changes in Level 3 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis are
summarized as follows.

(1) 
       
     Represents only net gains (losses) that are due to changes in economic conditions and
management s estimates of fair value and excludes changes due to the collection/realization of cash
flows over time. 

(2) 
       
     Included in other noninterest income in the income statement. 

(3) 
       
     Included in debt securities available for sale in the income statement. 

(4) 
       
     Included in equity investments in the income statement. 

(5) 
       
     Included in mortgage banking in the income statement. 

(6) 
       
     Included in mortgage banking, trading activities and other noninterest income in the income
statement. 

(continued on following page) 

186 

Note 16: Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities    (continued)  

(continued from previous page) 

(1) 
       
     Represents only net gains (losses) that are due to changes in economic conditions and
management s estimates of fair value and excludes changes due to the collection/realization of cash
flows over time. 

(2) 
       
     Included in other noninterest income in the income statement. 

(3) 
       
     Included in debt securities available for sale in the income statement. 

(4) 
       
     Included in equity investments in the income statement. 

(5) 
       
     Included in mortgage banking in the income statement. 

(6) 
       
     Included in mortgage banking, trading activities and other noninterest income in the income
statement. 

(7) 
       
     Balances have been revised to conform with current period presentation. 

187 

Changes in Fair Value Levels 

We monitor the availability of observable market data to assess the appropriate classification of
financial instruments within the fair value hierarchy. Changes in economic conditions or
model-based valuation techniques may require the transfer of financial instruments from one fair
value level to another. The amounts reported as transfers represent the fair value as of the
beginning of the quarter in which the transfer occurred.

      We evaluate the significance of transfers between levels based upon the nature of the
financial instrument and size of the transfer relative to total assets, total liabilities or total
earnings. For the year ended December 31, 2010, there were no significant transfers in or out of
Level 1.

      Significant changes to Level 3 assets for the year ended December 31, 2010 are described as
follows:

Our adoption of new consolidation accounting guidance on January 1, 2010, impacted Level 3
balances for certain financial instruments. Reductions in Level 3 balances, which represent
derecognition of existing investments in newly consolidated VIEs, are reflected as transfers out
for the following categories: trading assets, $276 million; securities available for sale, $1.9
billion; and mortgage servicing rights, $118 million. Increases in Level 3 balances, which
represent newly consolidated VIE assets, are reflected as transfers in for the following
categories: securities 

available for sale, $829 million; loans, $366 million; and long-term debt,
$359 million. 

We transferred $4.9 billion of securities available for sale from Level 3 to Level 2 due to an
increase in the volume of trading activity for certain mortgage-backed and other asset-backed
securities, which resulted in increased occurrences of observable market prices. We also
transferred $1.7 billion of debt securities available for sale from Level 2 to Level 3, primarily
due to a decrease in liquidity for certain asset-backed securities. 

For the year ended December 31, 2009, we transferred $4.0 billion of debt securities available
for sale from Level 3 to Level 2 due to increased trading activity.

Assets and Liabilities Recorded at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis 

We may be required, from time to time, to measure certain assets at fair value on a nonrecurring
basis in accordance with GAAP. These adjustments to fair value usually result from application of
LOCOM accounting or write-downs of individual assets. For assets measured at fair value on a
nonrecurring basis in 2010 and 2009 that were still held in the balance sheet at each respective
year end, the following table provides the fair value hierarchy and the carrying value of the
related individual assets or portfolios at year end.

(1) 
       
     Predominantly real estate 1-4 family first mortgage loans measured at LOCOM. 

(2) 
       
     Represents carrying value of loans for which adjustments are based on the appraised value of
the collateral. 

(3) 
       
     Includes the fair value of foreclosed real estate and other collateral owned that were measured
at fair value subsequent to their initial classification as foreclosed assets. 

188 

Note 16: Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities    (continued)  

The following table presents the increase (decrease) in value of certain assets that are measured
at fair value on a nonrecurring basis for which a fair value adjustment has been included in the
income statement.

(1) 
       
     Represents write-downs of loans based on the appraised value of the collateral. Prior year
amount has been revised to conform with current period presentation. 

(2) 
       
     Includes the losses on foreclosed real estate and other collateral owned that were measured at
fair value subsequent to their initial classification as foreclosed assets. 

189 

Alternative
Investments 

The following table summarizes our investments in various types of funds, which are included in
trading assets, securities available for sale and other assets. We use the funds  net asset

values
(NAVs) per share as a practical expedient to measure fair value on recurring and nonrecurring
bases. The fair values presented in the table are based upon the funds  NAVs or an equivalent
measure.

N/A   Not applicable 

(1) 
       
     "Fair value" has been revised to correct previously reported amount. 

Offshore funds primarily invest in investment grade European fixed-income securities. Redemption
restrictions are in place for investments with a fair value of $74 million and $76 million at
December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, due to lock-up provisions that will remain in effect
until November 2012.

Private equity funds invest in equity and debt securities issued by private and publicly-held
companies in connection with leveraged buyouts, recapitalizations and expansion opportunities.
Substantially all of these investments do not allow redemptions. Alternatively, we receive
distributions as the underlying assets of the funds liquidate, which we expect to occur over the
next 10 years.

Venture capital funds invest in domestic and foreign companies in a variety of industries,
including information technology, financial services and healthcare. These investments can never be
redeemed with the funds. Instead, we receive distributions as the underlying assets of the fund
liquidate, which we expect to occur over the next seven years.

190 

Note 16: Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities   (continued)  

Fair Value Option 

We measure MHFS at fair value for prime MHFS originations for which an active secondary market and
readily available market prices exist to reliably support fair value pricing models used for these
loans. Loan origination fees on these loans are recorded when earned, and related direct loan
origination costs are recognized when incurred. We also measure at fair value certain of our other
interests held related to residential loan sales and securitizations. We believe fair value
measurement for prime MHFS and other interests held, which we hedge with free-standing derivatives
(economic hedges) along with our MSRs, measured at fair value reduces certain timing differences
and better matches changes in the value of these assets with changes in the value of derivatives
used as economic hedges for these assets.

Upon the acquisition of Wachovia, we elected to measure at fair value certain portfolios of
LHFS that we intend to hold for trading purposes and that may be economically hedged with

derivative instruments. In addition, we elected to measure at fair value certain letters of credit
that are hedged with derivative instruments to better reflect the economics of the transactions.
These letters of credit are included in trading account assets or liabilities.

Upon the adoption of new consolidation guidance on January 1, 2010, we elected to measure at
fair value the eligible assets (loans) and liabilities (long-term debt) of certain nonconforming
mortgage loan securitization VIEs. We elected the fair value option for such newly consolidated
VIEs to continue fair value accounting as our interests prior to consolidation were predominantly
carried at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in earnings.

The following table reflects the differences between fair value carrying amount of certain
assets and liabilities for which we have elected the fair value option and the contractual
aggregate unpaid principal amount at maturity.

(1) 
       
     The difference between fair value carrying amount and aggregate unpaid principal includes
changes in fair value recorded at and subsequent to funding, gains and losses on the related loan
commitment prior to funding, and premiums on acquired loans. 

191 

The assets accounted for under the fair value option are initially measured at fair value. Gains
and losses from initial measurement and subsequent changes in fair value are recognized in
earnings. The changes in fair value related to

initial measurement and subsequent changes in fair
value included in earnings for these assets measured at fair value are shown, by income statement
line item, below.

2010  

2009 

Mortgage banking  

Mortgage banking 

noninterest income  

noninterest income 

Net gains on mortgage  

Other  

Net gains on mortgage 

Other 

loan origination/sales  

noninterest  

loan origination/sales 

noninterest 

(in millions) 
       
      activities  

income  

activities 

income 

Year ended December 31, 

Mortgages held for sale

$  
      6,512  

4,891 

Loans held for sale

24  

99 

Loans

55  

Long-term debt

(48  
      )  

Other interests held

(13  
      )  

117 

The following table shows the estimated gains and losses from earnings attributable to
instrument-specific credit risk related to assets accounted for under the fair value option.

For performing loans, instrument-specific credit risk gains or losses were derived principally
by determining the change in fair value of the loans due to changes in the observable or implied
credit spread. Credit spread is the market yield on the loans less the relevant risk-free benchmark
interest rate. Since the second half of 2007, spreads have been
significantly affected by the lack
of liquidity in the secondary market for mortgage loans. For nonperforming loans, we attribute all
changes in fair value to instrument-specific credit risk.

192 

Note 16: Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities   (continued)  

Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments 

The table below is a summary of fair value estimates for financial instruments, excluding
short-term financial assets and liabilities because carrying amounts approximate fair value, and
excluding financial instruments recorded at fair value on a recurring basis. The carrying amounts
in the following table are recorded in the balance sheet under the indicated captions.

We have not included assets and liabilities that are not financial instruments in our disclosure,
such as the value of the long-term relationships with our deposit, credit card and trust customers,
amortized MSRs, premises and equipment, goodwill and other intangibles, deferred taxes and other
liabilities. The total of the fair value calculations presented does not represent, and should not
be construed to represent, the underlying value of the Company.

(1) 
       
     Balance excludes MHFS for which the fair value option was elected. 

(2) 
       
     Balance excludes LHFS for which the fair value option was elected. 

(3) 
       
     At December 31, 2010, loans and long-term debt exclude balances for which the fair value option
was elected. Loans exclude lease financing with a carrying amount of $13.1 billion and $14.2
billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 

(4) 
       
     The carrying amount and fair value exclude obligations under capital leases of $26 million and
$77 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 

Loan commitments, standby letters of credit and commercial and similar letters of credit are
not included in the table above. A reasonable estimate of the fair value of these instruments is
the carrying value of deferred fees plus the related allowance. This amounted to $673 million and
$725 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

193 

Note 17: Preferred Stock  

We are authorized to issue 20 million shares of preferred stock and 4 million shares of preference
stock, both without par value. Preferred shares outstanding rank senior to common shares both as to
dividends and liquidation preference but have no general voting rights. We have not issued any
preference shares under this authorization. If issued, preference shares would be limited to one
vote per share. Our total issued and outstanding

preferred stock includes Dividend Equalization
Preference (DEP) shares and Series J, K and L, which are presented in the table below, and Employee
Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP) Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, which is presented in the table
on the following page.

(1) 
       
     Preferred shares qualify as Tier 1 capital. 

In addition to the preferred stock issued and outstanding described in the table above, at
December 31, 2010, we have the following preferred stock authorized with no shares issued and
outstanding:

We
may issue preferred stock for Series A ($2.5 billion in March 2013), Series B ($1.8
billion in September 2013), and Series I ($2.5 billion in March 2011) to unconsolidated
wholly-owned trusts. The issuance of the preferred stock is contingent upon the sale of our income
trust securities held by these trusts to third party investors. See Note 8 for additional
information on our trust preferred security structures and Note 13 for information about our income
trust notes. We have no commitment to issue Series G or H preferred stock.

In December 2009, we redeemed the Series D Preferred Stock, which had been issued in October
2008 to the United States Department of the Treasury. We paid $25.0 billion, which was equal to the
liquidation preference of the stock. In connection with the redemption, we fully accreted the
remaining discount at the time of redemption of $1.9 billion.

194 

ESOP CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK  All shares of our ESOP Cumulative Convertible
Preferred Stock (ESOP Preferred Stock) were issued to a trustee acting on behalf of the Wells Fargo
  Company 401(k) Plan (the 401(k) Plan). Dividends on the ESOP Preferred Stock are cumulative from
the date of initial issuance and are payable quarterly at annual rates based upon the year of
issuance. Each share of ESOP Preferred Stock released from the unallocated reserve of the 401(k)
Plan is converted into shares of our common stock based on the stated

value of the ESOP Preferred
Stock and the then current market price of our common stock. The ESOP Preferred Stock is also
convertible at the option of the holder at any time, unless previously redeemed. We have the option
to redeem the ESOP Preferred Stock at any time, in whole or in part, at a redemption price per
share equal to the higher of (a) $1,000 per share plus accrued and unpaid dividends or (b) the fair
market value, as defined in the Certificates of Designation for the ESOP Preferred Stock.

(1) 
       
     At December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, additional paid-in capital included $45 million and
$28 million, respectively, related to preferred stock. 

(2) 
       
     We recorded a corresponding charge to unearned ESOP shares in connection with the issuance of
the ESOP Preferred Stock. The unearned ESOP shares are reduced as shares of the ESOP Preferred
Stock are committed to be released. 

195 

Note 18: Common Stock and Stock Plans  

Common Stock  
The following table presents our reserved, issued and authorized shares of common stock at December
31, 2010.

(1) 
       
     Includes employee options, restricted shares and restricted share rights, 401(k), profit
sharing and compensation deferral plans. 

At December 31, 2010, we have warrants outstanding and exercisable to purchase 39,444,481
shares of our common stock with an exercise price of $34.01 per share, expiring on October 28,
2018. These warrants were issued in connection with our participation in the TARP CPP.

Dividend Reinvestment and Common Stock Purchase Plans   
Participants in our dividend reinvestment and common stock direct purchase plans may purchase
shares of our common stock at fair market value by reinvesting dividends and/or making optional
cash payments, under the plan s terms.

Employee Stock Plans   
We offer the stock based employee compensation plans described below. We measure the cost of
employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments, such as stock options,
restricted share rights (RSRs) or performance shares, based on the fair value of the award on the
grant date. The cost is normally recognized in our income statement over the vesting period of the
award; awards with graded vesting are expensed on a straight line method. Awards that continue to
vest after retirement are expensed over the shorter of the period of time between the grant date
and the final vesting period or between the grant date and when a team member becomes retirement
eligible; awards to team members who are retirement eligible at the grant date are subject to
immediate expensing upon grant.

LONG-TERM INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLANS  Our Long Term Incentive Compensation Plan (LTICP) provides
for awards of incentive and nonqualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted
shares, RSRs, performance share awards and stock awards without restrictions.

During 2010 we granted RSRs and performance shares as our primary long-term incentive awards
instead of stock options. Holders of RSRs are entitled to the related shares of common stock at no
cost generally over three to five years after the RSRs were granted. Holders of RSRs may be
entitled to receive

additional RSRs (dividend equivalents) or cash payments equal to the cash
dividends that would have been paid had the RSRs been issued and outstanding shares of common
stock. RSRs granted as dividend equivalents are subject to the same vesting schedule and conditions
as the underlying RSRs. RSRs generally continue to vest after retirement according to the original
vesting schedule. Except in limited circumstances, RSRs are cancelled when employment ends.

A target number of 1,602,336 and 949,000 performance shares were granted in 2010 and 2009,
respectively, with a fair value of $27.46 per share and $27.09 per share, respectively. The final
number of performance shares that will vest is subject to the achievement of specified performance
criteria over a three-year period ending June 30, 2013 and December 31, 2012, for the 2010 and 2009
awards, respectively, and has a cap of 150% of the target number of performance shares. Holders of
each vested performance share are entitled to the related shares of common stock at no cost.
Performance shares continue to vest after retirement according to the original vesting schedule
subject to satisfying the performance criteria and other vesting conditions. As of December 31,
2010, no performance shares were forfeited or vested and unrecognized compensation cost for
unvested performance shares was $18 million and is expected to be recognized over a
weighted-average period of 2.2 years.

      Stock options must have an exercise price at or above fair market value (as defined in the
plan) of the stock at the date of grant (except for substitute or replacement options granted in
connection with mergers or other acquisitions) and a term of no more than 10 years. Except for
options granted in 2004 and 2005, which generally vested in full upon grant, options generally
become exercisable over three years beginning on the first anniversary of the date of grant. Except
as otherwise permitted under the plan, if employment is ended for reasons other than retirement,
permanent disability or death, the option exercise period is reduced or the options are cancelled.

      Options granted prior to 2004 may include the right to acquire a  reload  stock option. If an
option contains the reload feature and if a participant pays all or part of the exercise price of
the option with shares of stock purchased in the market or held by the participant for at least six
months and, in either case, not used in a similar transaction in the last six months, upon exercise
of the option, the participant is granted a new option to purchase at the fair market value of the
stock as of the date of the reload, the number of shares of stock equal to the sum of the number of
shares used in payment of the exercise price and a number of shares with respect to related
statutory minimum withholding taxes. Reload grants are fully vested upon grant and are expensed
immediately.

      Compensation expense for RSRs and performance shares is based on the quoted market price of
the related stock at the grant date. Stock option expense is based on the fair value of the awards
at the date of grant. The following table summarizes the major components of stock incentive
compensation expense and the related recognized tax benefit.

196 

Note 18: Common Stock and Stock Plans    (continued)  

A portion of annual bonus awards recognized during 2009 that are normally paid in cash was
paid in our common stock as part of our agreement with the U.S. Treasury to repay our participation
in the TARP CPP. The fair value of the stock that was issued was $94 million and there were no
vesting conditions or other restrictions on the stock. No annual bonus awards recognized during
2010 were paid in common stock.

During 2009 the Board of Directors approved salary increases for certain executive officers
that were paid, after taxes and other withholdings, in our common stock. In 2010 and 2009,
respectively, 62,630 shares and 244,689 shares were issued for salary increases at an average fair
value of $27.44 and $27.77, respectively. There are no restrictions on these shares because we
repaid the TARP CPP investment in Wells Fargo in December 2009. No salary increases were paid in
common stock after February 2010.

      For various acquisitions and mergers, we converted employee and director stock options of
acquired or merged companies into stock options to purchase our common stock based on the terms of
the original stock option plan and the agreed-upon exchange ratio. In addition, we converted
restricted stock awards into awards that entitle holders to our stock after the vesting conditions
are met. Holders receive cash dividends on outstanding awards if provided in the original award.

      The total number of shares of common stock available for grant under the plans at December 31,
2010, was 255 million.

   PARTNERSHARES    PLAN  In 1996, we adopted the  PartnerShares         Stock Option Plan, a
broad-based employee stock option plan. It covers full- and part-time employees who generally were
not included in the LTICP described above. No options have been granted under the plan since 2002,
and as a result of action taken by the Board of Directors on January 22, 2008, no future awards
will be granted under the plan. All of our  PartnerShares  Plan grants were fully vested as of
December 31, 2007.

Director Plan   
We grant common stock and options to purchase common stock to non-employee directors elected or
re-elected at the annual meeting of stockholders and prorated awards to directors who join the
Board at any other time. The stock award vests immediately. Options granted in 2008 or earlier can
be exercised after six months through the tenth anniversary of the grant date. Options granted
prior to 2005 may include the right to acquire a  reload  stock option. Prior to 2009, stock awards
and option grants were made to non-employee directors under

the Directors Stock Compensation and
Deferral Plan. As a result of action taken by the Board of Directors on September 30, 2008, stock
awards and options granted in 2010 and 2009 were made under our LTICP; options granted to directors
under the LTICP can be exercised after 12 months through the tenth anniversary of the grant date.

Restricted Share Rights   
A summary of the status of our RSRs and restricted share awards at December 31, 2010, and changes
during 2010 is in the following table:

The weighted-average grant date fair value of RSRs granted during 2009 and 2008 was $19.04 and
$29.68, respectively.

At December 31, 2010, there was $363 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related
to nonvested RSRs. The cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 4.0
years. The total fair value of RSRs that vested during 2010, 2009 and 2008 was $15 million, $2
million and $1 million, respectively.

   Stock Options   
The table below summarizes stock option activity and related information for the employee stock
plans and the director plan. Options assumed in mergers are included in the activity and related
information for Incentive Compensation Plans if originally issued under an employee plan, and in
the activity and related information for Director Plans if originally issued under a director plan.

197 

(1) 
       
     Adjusted for estimated forfeitures. 

198 

Note 18: Common Stock and Stock Plans    (continued)  

As of December 31, 2010, there was $71 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to
stock options. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.1 years.
The total intrinsic value of options exercised during 2010, 2009 and 2008 was $298 million, $50
million and $348 million, respectively.

Cash received from the exercise of stock options for 2010, 2009 and 2008 was $687 million,
$153 million and $747 million, respectively.

      We do not have a specific policy on repurchasing shares to satisfy share option exercises.
Rather, we have a general policy on repurchasing shares to meet common stock issuance requirements
for our benefit plans (including share option exercises), conversion of our convertible securities,
acquisitions and other corporate purposes. Various factors determine the amount and timing of our
share repurchases, including our capital requirements, the number of shares we expect to issue for
acquisitions and employee benefit plans, market conditions (including the trading price of our
stock), and regulatory and legal considerations. These factors can change at any time, and there
can be no assurance as to the number of shares we will repurchase or when we will repurchase them.

      The fair value of each option award granted on or after January 1, 2006, is estimated using a
Black-Scholes valuation model. The expected term of non-reload options granted is generally based
on the historical exercise behaviour of full-term options. Our expected volatilities are based on a
combination of the historical volatility of our common stock and implied volatilities for traded
options on our common stock. The risk-free rate is based on the U.S. Treasury zero-coupon yield
curve in effect at the time of grant. Both expected volatility and the risk-free rates are based on
a period commensurate with our expected term. For 2010 and 2009, the expected dividend is based on
a fixed dividend amount. For 2008 the expected dividend was based on the current dividend,
consideration of our

historical pattern of dividend increases and the market price of our stock. We changed our method
of estimating the expected dividend assumption from a yield approach to a fixed amount due to our
participation in the TARP CPP during 2009, which restricted us from increasing our dividend without
approval from the U.S. Treasury; although we repaid TARP in 2009, federal approval continues to be
required under FRB Supervisory Letter 09-4, before we can increase our dividend. A dividend yield
approach models a constant dividend yield, which was considered inappropriate given the restriction
on our ability to increase dividends. See Note 3.

The following table presents the weighted-average per share fair value of options granted and
the assumptions used, based on a Black-Scholes option valuation model. Substantially all of the
options granted in 2010 resulted from the reload feature.

199 

Employee Stock Ownership Plan   
The Wells Fargo   Company 401(k) Plan (401(k) Plan) is a defined contribution plan with an Employee
Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP) feature. Effective December 31, 2009, the Wachovia Savings Plan, which
also had an ESOP feature, merged into the 401(k) Plan, and all of its shares of our common stock
were transferred to the 401(k) Plan. The ESOP feature enables the 401(k) Plan to borrow money to
purchase our preferred or common stock. From 1994 through 2008, and in 2010, we loaned money to the
401(k) Plan to purchase shares of our ESOP Preferred Stock. As our employer contributions are made
to the 401(k) Plan and are used by the Plan to make ESOP loan payments, the ESOP Preferred Stock in
the 401(k) Plan is released and converted into our common shares. Dividends on the common shares
allocated as a result of the release and conversion of the ESOP Preferred Stock reduce retained

earnings and the shares are considered outstanding for computing earnings per share. Dividends on
the unallocated ESOP Preferred Stock do not reduce retained earnings, and the shares are not
considered to be common stock equivalents for computing earnings per share. Loan principal and
interest payments are made from our employer contributions to the 401(k) Plan, along with dividends
paid on the ESOP Preferred Stock. With each principal and interest payment, a portion of the ESOP
Preferred Stock is released and converted to common shares, which are allocated to the 401(k) Plan
participants and invested in the 401(k) Plan s ESOP Fund.

The balance of common stock held in the ESOP fund, the dividends on allocated shares of common
stock and unreleased ESOP Preferred Stock paid to the 401(k) Plan and the fair value of unreleased
ESOP Preferred Stock were:

Deferred Compensation Plan for Independent Sales Agents   
WF Deferred Compensation Holdings, Inc. is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Parent formed solely to
sponsor a deferred compensation plan for independent sales agents who provide investment, financial
and other qualifying services for or with respect to participating affiliates.

The Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan for Independent Contractors, which became effective
January 1, 2002, allows participants to defer all or part of their eligible compensation payable to
them by a participating affiliate. The Parent has fully and unconditionally guaranteed the deferred
compensation obligations of WF Deferred Compensation Holdings, Inc. under the plan.

200 

Note 19: Employee Benefits and Other Expenses  

Pension and Postretirement Plans   
We sponsor a noncontributory qualified defined benefit retirement plan, the Wells Fargo   Company
Cash Balance Plan (Cash Balance Plan), which covers eligible employees of Wells Fargo; the benefits
earned under the Cash Balance Plan were frozen effective July 1, 2009.

On April 28, 2009, the Board of Directors approved amendments to freeze the benefits earned
under the Wells Fargo qualified and supplemental Cash Balance Plans and the Wachovia Corporation
Pension Plan, a cash balance plan that covered eligible employees of the legacy Wachovia
Corporation, and to merge the Wachovia Pension Plan into the qualified Cash Balance Plan. These
actions became effective on July 1, 2009.

      Prior to July 1, 2009, eligible employees  cash balance plan accounts were allocated a
compensation credit based on a percentage of their qualifying compensation. The compensation credit
percentage was based on age and years of credited service. The freeze discontinues the allocation
of compensation credit for services after June 30, 2009. Investment credits continue to be
allocated to participants based on their accumulated balances. Employees become vested in their
Cash Balance Plan accounts after completing three years of vesting service.

      Freezing and merging the above plans effective July 1, 2009, resulted in a re-measurement of
the pension obligations and plan assets as of April 30, 2009. Freezing and re-measuring decreased
the pension obligations by approximately $945 million and decreased a cumulative loss in OCI by
approximately $725 million pre tax ($456 million after tax) in second quarter 2009. The
re-measurement resulted in a decrease in the fair value of plan assets of approximately $150
million. We used a discount rate of 7.75% for the April 30, 2009, re-measurement based on our
consistent methodology of determining our discount rate based on an established yield curve
developed by our outside actuarial firm. This methodology incorporates a broad group of top
quartile Aa or higher rated bonds.

As a result of freezing our pension plans, we revised our amortization life for actuarial gains and
losses from 5 years to 13 years to reflect the estimated average remaining participation period.

These actions lowered pension cost by approximately $500 million for 2009, including $67
million of one-time curtailment gains.

      We did not make a contribution to our Cash Balance Plan in 2010. We do not expect that we will
be required to make a contribution to the Cash Balance Plan in 2011; however, this is dependent on
the finalization of the actuarial valuation. Our decision of whether to make a contribution in 2011
will be based on various factors including the actual investment performance of plan assets during
2011. Given these uncertainties, we cannot estimate at this time the amount, if any, that we will
contribute in 2011 to the Cash Balance Plan. For the nonqualified pension plans and postretirement
benefit plans, there is no minimum required contribution beyond the amount needed to fund benefit
payments; we may contribute more to our postretirement benefit plans dependent on various factors.

      We provide health care and life insurance benefits for certain retired employees and reserve
the right to terminate, modify or amend any of the benefits at any time.

      The information set forth in the following tables is based on current actuarial reports using
the measurement date of December 31 for our pension and postretirement benefit plans.

201 

The changes in the projected benefit obligation of pension benefits and the accumulated benefit
obligation of other benefits

and the fair value of plan assets, the funded status and the amounts
recognized in the balance sheet were:

(1) 
       
     On April 28, 2009, the Board of Directors approved amendments to freeze the benefits earned
under the Wells Fargo qualified and supplemental Cash Balance Plans and the Wachovia Corporation
Pension Plan, a cash balance plan that covered eligible employees of legacy Wachovia Corporation,
and to merge the Wachovia Pension Plan into the qualified Cash Balance Plan. 

The accumulated benefit obligation for the defined benefit pension plans was $11.0 billion and
$10.7 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

The following table provides information for pension plans with benefit obligations in excess of
plan assets.

202 

Note 19: Employee Benefits and Other Expenses    (continued)  

The components of net periodic benefit cost were:

203 

Amounts recognized in accumulated OCI (pre tax) consist of:

We generally amortize net actuarial gain or loss in excess of a 5% corridor from accumulated OCI
into net periodic pension cost over the next 13 years. The net actuarial loss for the defined
benefit pension plans that will be amortized from accumulated OCI into net periodic benefit cost in
2011 is $92 million. The net prior service credit for the other post retirement plans that will be
amortized from accumulated OCI into net periodic benefit cost in 2011 is $3 million.

Plan Assumptions   
The weighted-average discount rate used to determine the projected benefit obligation for pension
benefits (qualified and nonqualified) and other postretirement benefits was 5.25% and 5.75% for
year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We use a consistent methodology to determine
the discount rate that is based on an established yield curve methodology. This methodology
incorporates a broad group of top quartile Aa or higher rated bonds consisting of approximately
100-150 bonds. The discount rate is determined by matching this yield curve with the timing and
amounts of the expected benefit payments for our plans.

The weighted-average assumptions used to determine the net periodic benefit cost were:

(1) 
       
     Includes both qualified and nonqualified pension benefits. 

(2) 
       
     Due to the freeze of the Wells Fargo qualified and supplemental Cash Balance Plans and the
Wachovia Corporation Pension Plan, the discount rate for the 2009 pension benefits was the weighted
average of 6.75% from January through April and 7.75% from May through December. 

Our determination of the reasonableness of our expected long-term rate of return on plan
assets is highly quantitative by nature. We evaluate the current asset allocations and expected
returns under two sets of conditions: projected returns using several forward-looking capital
market assumptions, and historical returns for the main asset classes dating back to 1970, the
earliest period for which historical data was readily available as of a common time frame for the
asset classes included. Using data dating back to 1970 allows us to capture multiple economic
environments, which we believe is relevant when using historical returns. We place greater emphasis
on the forward-looking return and risk assumptions than on historical results. We use the resulting
projections to derive a base line expected rate of return and risk level for the Cash Balance
Plans  prescribed asset mix. We then adjust the baseline projected returns for items not already
captured, including the anticipated return differential from active over passive investment
management and the estimated impact of an asset allocation methodology that allows

for established deviations from the specified target allocations when a compelling opportunity
exists.

We evaluate the portfolio based on: (1) the established target asset allocations over short
term (one-year) and longer term (ten-year) investment horizons, and (2) the range of potential
outcomes over these horizons within specific standard deviations. We perform the above analyses to
assess the reasonableness of our expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. We consider the
expected rate of return to be a long-term average view of expected returns. The expected rate of
return would be assessed for significant long-term changes in economic conditions or in planned
portfolio composition.

      To account for postretirement health care plans we use health care cost trend rates to
recognize the effect of expected changes in future health care costs due to medical inflation,
utilization changes, new technology, regulatory requirements

204 

Note 19: Employee Benefits and Other Expenses    (continued)  

and Medicare cost shifting. In
determining the end of year benefit obligation we assume average
annual increases of approximately 8.0% for health care costs in 2011. This rate is assumed to trend down 0.25% per year
until the trend rate reaches an ultimate rate of 5.0% in 2023. The 2010 periodic benefit cost was
determined using initial annual trend rates of 8.5% (before age 65) and 8.0% (after age 65). These
rates were assumed to decrease 0.5% per year until they reached ultimate rates of 5% in 2017
(before age 65) and 2016 (after age 65). Increasing the assumed health care trend by one percentage
point in each year would increase the benefit obligation as of December 31, 2010, by $80 million
and the total of the interest cost and service cost components of the net periodic benefit cost for
2010 by $5 million. Decreasing the assumed health care trend by one percentage point in each year
would decrease the benefit obligation as of December 31, 2010, by $71 million and the total of the
interest cost and service cost components of the net periodic benefit cost for 2010 by $4 million.

Investment Strategy and Asset Allocation   
We seek to achieve the expected long-term rate of return with a prudent level of risk given the
benefit obligations of the pension plans and their funded status. Our overall investment strategy
is designed to provide our Cash Balance Plan with a balance of long-term growth opportunities and
short-term benefit strategies while ensuring that risk is mitigated through diversification across
numerous asset classes and various investment strategies. We target the asset allocation for our
Cash Balance Plan at a target mix range of 35-65% equities, 30-50% fixed income, and approximately
10-15% in real estate, venture capital, private equity and other investments. The target ranges
referenced above account for the employment of an asset allocation methodology designed to
overweight stocks or bonds when a compelling opportunity exists. The Employee Benefit Review
Committee (EBRC), which includes several members of senior management, formally reviews the
investment risk and performance of our Cash Balance Plan on a quarterly basis. Annual Plan
liability analysis and periodic asset/liability evaluations are also conducted.

The investment strategy for assets held in the Retiree Medical Plan Voluntary Employees 
Beneficiary Association (VEBA) trust is established separately from the strategy for the assets in
the Cash Balance Plan. The general target asset mix is 45-65% equities and 35-55% fixed income. In
addition, the strategy for the VEBA trust assets considers the effect of income taxes by utilizing
a combination of variable annuity and low turnover investment strategies. Members of the EBRC
formally review the investment risk and performance of these assets on a quarterly basis.

Projected Benefit Payments   
Future benefits that we expect to pay under the pension and other benefit plans are presented in
the following table. Other benefits payments are expected to be reduced by prescription drug
subsidies from the federal government provided by the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and
Modernization Act of 2003.

205 

Fair Value of Plan Assets   
The following table presents the balances of pension plan assets and other benefit plan assets
measured at fair value. Other benefit plan assets include assets held in a 401(h) trust, which

are
invested using the same asset allocation targets as the Cash Balance Plan, and assets held in a
VEBA trust. See Note 16 for fair value hierarchy level definitions.

(1) 
       
     This category includes assets that are primarily intermediate duration, investment grade bonds
held in investment strategies benchmarked to the Barclays Capital U.S. Aggregate Bond Index.
Includes U.S. Treasury securities, agency and non-agency asset-backed bonds and corporate bonds. 

(2) 
       
     This category covers a broad range of investment styles, both active and passive approaches, as
well as style characteristics of value, core and growth emphasized strategies. Assets in this
category are currently diversified across ten unique investment strategies. For December 31, 2010
and 2009, respectively, approximately 33% and 40% of the assets within this category are passively
managed to popular mainstream market indexes including the Standard   Poor s 500 Index; excluding
the allocation to the S P 500 Index strategy, no single investment manager represents more than
2.5% of total plan assets. 

(3) 
       
     This category consists of a highly diversified combination of six distinct investment
management strategies with no single strategy representing more than 2% of total plan assets.
Allocations in this category are primarily spread across actively managed approaches with distinct
value and growth emphasized approaches in fairly equal proportions. 

(4) 
       
     This category includes assets diversified across nine unique investment strategies providing
exposure to companies based primarily in developed market, non-U.S. countries with no single
strategy representing more than 2.5% of total plan assets. 

(5) 
       
     This category primarily includes investments in private and public real estate, as well as
timber specific limited partnerships; real estate holdings are diversified by geographic location
and sector (e.g., retail, office, apartments). 

(6) 
       
     This category consists of several investment strategies diversified over 30 hedge fund
managers. Single manager allocation exposure is limited to 0.15% (15 basis points) of total plan
assets. 

206 

Note 19: Employee Benefits and Other Expenses    (continued)  

The changes in Level 3 pension plan and other benefit plan assets measured at fair value are
summarized as follows:

(1) 
       
     All unrealized gains (losses) relate to instruments held at period end. 

VALUATION METHODOLOGIES  Following is a description of the valuation methodologies used for assets
measured at fair value.

Cash and Cash Equivalents   includes highly liquid government securities such as U.S. Treasuries.
Also includes investments in collective investment funds valued at fair value based upon the quoted
market values of the underlying net assets. The unit price is quoted on a private market that is
not active; however, the unit price is based on underlying investments traded on an active market.

Intermediate (Core), High-Yield, International and Specialty Fixed Income   includes investments
traded on the secondary markets; prices are measured by using quoted market prices for similar
securities, pricing models, discounted cash flow analyses using significant inputs observable in
the market where available

or combination of multiple valuation techniques. Also includes
investments in collective investment funds and government securities described above.

Domestic, International and Emerging Market Stocks   investments in exchange-traded equity
securities are valued at quoted market values. Investments in registered investment companies are
valued at the NAV of shares held at year end. Also includes investments in collective investment
funds described above.

Real Estate and Timber   the fair value of real estate and timber is estimated based primarily on
appraisals prepared by third-party appraisers. Market values are estimates and the actual market
price of the real estate can only be determined by negotiation between independent third parties in
a sales

207 

transaction. Also includes investments in exchange-traded equity securities described above.

Multi-Strategy Hedge Funds and Private Equity   the fair values of hedge funds are valued based on
the proportionate share of the underlying net assets of the investment funds that comprise the
fund, based on valuations supplied by the underlying investment funds. Investments in private
equity funds are valued at the NAV provided by the fund sponsor. Market values are estimates and
the actual market price of the investments can only be determined by negotiation between
independent third parties in a sales transaction.

Other   the fair values of miscellaneous investments are valued at the NAV provided by the fund
sponsor. Market values are estimates and the actual market price of the investments can only be
determined by negotiation between independent third parties in a sales transaction. Also includes
insurance contracts that are generally stated at cash surrender value.

The methods described above may produce a fair value calculation that may not be indicative of net
realizable value or reflective of future fair values. While we believe our valuation methods are
appropriate and consistent with other market participants, the use of different methodologies or
assumptions to determine the fair value of certain financial instruments could result in a
different fair value measurement at the reporting date.

  Defined Contribution Retirement Plans  
We sponsor a defined contribution retirement plan named the Wells Fargo   Company 401(k) Plan
(401(k) Plan). The Wachovia Savings Plan was merged with the 401(k) Plan effective December 31,
2009. We also have a frozen defined contribution plan resulting from a company acquired by
Wachovia; no contributions are permitted to this frozen plan which will merge with the 401(k) Plan
on June 30, 2011. Under the 401(k) Plan, after one month of service, eligible employees may
contribute up to 50% of their certified compensation, although there may be a lower limit for
certain highly compensated employees in order to maintain the qualified status of the 401(k) Plan.
Eligible employees who complete one year of service are eligible for company matching
contributions, which are generally a 100% match up to 6% of an employee s certified compensation.
Effective January 1, 2010, previous and future matching contributions are 100% vested for active
participants.

In 2009, the 401(k) Plan was amended to permit us to make discretionary profit sharing
contributions. Based on 2010 and 2009 earnings, we committed to make a contribution in shares of
common stock to eligible employees  401(k) Plan accounts equaling 2% and 1% of certified
compensation, respectively, which resulted in recognizing $316 million and $150 million of defined
contribution retirement plan expense recorded in 2010 and 2009, respectively. Total defined
contribution retirement plan expenses were $1,092 million, $862 million and $411 million in 2010,
2009 and 2008, respectively.

Other Expenses  
Expenses exceeding 1% of total interest income and noninterest income in any of the years presented
that are not otherwise shown separately in the financial statements or Notes to Financial
Statements were:

208 

Note 20: Income Taxes  

The components of income tax expense were:

Our net deferred tax asset (liability) and the tax effects of temporary differences that gave rise
to significant portions of these deferred tax assets and liabilities are presented in the following
table.

Deferred
taxes related to net unrealized gains (losses) on securities available for sale, net
unrealized gains (losses) on derivatives, foreign currency translation, and employee benefit plan
adjustments are recorded in cumulative OCI (see Note 22 OCI). These associated adjustments
decreased OCI by $1.3 billion.

We have determined that a valuation reserve is required for 2010 in the amount of $711 million
primarily attributable to deferred tax assets in various state and foreign jurisdictions where we
believe it is more likely than not that these deferred tax assets will not be realized. In these
jurisdictions, carry back limitations, lack of sources of taxable income, and tax planning strategy
limitations contributed to our conclusion that the deferred tax assets would not be realizable. We
have concluded that it is more likely than not that the remaining deferred tax assets will be
realized based on our history of earnings, sources of taxable income in carry back periods, and our
ability to implement tax planning strategies.

      At December 31, 2010, we had net operating loss and credit carry forwards with related
deferred tax assets of $1.4 billion and $128 million, respectively. If these carry forwards are not
utilized, they will expire in varying amounts through 2030.

      At December 31, 2010, we had undistributed foreign earnings of $1.6 billion related to foreign
subsidiaries. We intend to reinvest these earnings indefinitely outside the U.S. and accordingly
have not provided $508 million of income tax liability on these earnings.

      The following table reconciles the statutory federal income tax expense and rate to the
effective income tax expense and rate. Effective January 1, 2009, we adopted new accounting
guidance that changed the way noncontrolling interests are presented in the income statement such
that the consolidated income statement includes amounts from both Wells Fargo interests and the
noncontrolling interests. As a result, our effective tax rate is calculated by dividing income tax
expense by income before income tax expense less the net income from noncontrolling interests.

209 

Income tax expense for 2010 increased primarily due to the new health care legislation and to
fewer favorable settlements with tax authorities.

The change in unrecognized tax benefits follows:

(1) 
       
     Unrecognized tax benefits from the Wachovia acquisition. 

Of the $5.5 billion of unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2010, approximately $3.1
billion would, if recognized, affect the effective tax rate. The remaining $2.4 billion of
unrecognized tax benefits relates to income tax positions on temporary differences.

We recognize interest and penalties as a component of income tax expense. We accrued
approximately $870 million and $771 million for the payment of interest and penalties at December
31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. A net expense from interest expense and penalties expense of $45
million (after tax) for 2010 and a net benefit from interest income and penalties expense of $72
million (after tax) for 2009 was recognized as a component of income tax expense.

      During 2009, we and the IRS executed settlement agreements in accordance with the IRS s
settlement initiative related to certain leverage leases that the IRS considers sale-in, lease-out
(SILO) transactions. These settlement agreements resolved the SILO transactions originally entered
into by Wachovia and reduced our tax exposure on our overall SILO portfolio by approximately 90%.
As a result of this resolution, our unrecognized tax benefits decreased $2.7 billion in 2009.

We are subject to U.S. federal income tax as well as income tax in numerous state and foreign
jurisdictions. With few exceptions, Wells Fargo and its subsidiaries are not subject to federal
income tax examinations for taxable years prior to 2007, and state, local and foreign income tax
examinations for taxable years prior to 2006. Wachovia Corporation and its subsidiaries, with few
exceptions, are no longer subject to federal income tax examinations for taxable years prior to
2006, and state, local and foreign income tax examinations for taxable years prior to 2003.

We are routinely examined by tax authorities in various jurisdictions. The IRS is examining
the 2007 and 2008 consolidated federal income tax returns of Wells Fargo   Company and its
Subsidiaries. We are also litigating or appealing various issues related to our prior IRS
examinations for the periods 1997-2006. We have paid the IRS the contested income tax associated
with these issues and refund claims have been filed for the respective years. The IRS is also
examining the consolidated federal income tax returns of Wachovia and its Subsidiaries for tax
years 2006 through 2008. We are appealing various issues related to Wachovia s federal 2003 through
2005 tax years. In addition, we are currently subject to examination by various state, local and
foreign taxing authorities. While it is possible that one or more of these examinations may be
resolved within the next twelve months, we do not anticipate that there will be a significant
impact to our unrecognized tax benefits as a result of these examinations.

In September 2006, we filed a federal tax refund suit in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims
related to certain leveraged lease transactions, which the IRS considers SILO transactions that we
entered into between 1997 and 2002. On February 19, 2010, the Court of Federal Claims entered an
adverse judgment, and on April 15, 2010, we filed a Notice of Appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.
Oral argument was heard on December 7, 2010, and we expect a decision sometime during 2011. There
will be no adverse financial statement impact if the Court of Appeals affirms the judgment of the
Court of Federal Claims.

We estimate that our unrecognized tax benefits could decrease by between $100 million and $500
million during the next 12 months primarily related to statute expirations and settlements.

210 

Note 21: Earnings Per Common Share  

The table below shows earnings per common share and diluted earnings per common share and
reconciles the numerator and denominator of both earnings per common share calculations.

The following table presents the outstanding options and warrants to purchase shares of common
stock that were anti-dilutive (the exercise price was higher than the weighted-average market
price), and therefore not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per common share.

211 

Note 22: Other Comprehensive Income  

The components of other comprehensive income (OCI) and the related tax effects were:

Cumulative OCI balances were:

212 

Note 23: Operating Segments  

We have three operating segments for management reporting: Community Banking; Wholesale Banking;
and Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement. The results for these operating segments are based on our
management accounting process, for which there is no comprehensive, authoritative guidance
equivalent to GAAP for financial accounting. The management accounting process measures the
performance of the operating segments based on our management structure and is not necessarily
comparable with similar information for other financial services companies. We define our operating
segments by product type and customer segment. If the management structure and/or the allocation
process changes, allocations, transfers and assignments may change. In first quarter 2010, we
conformed certain funding and allocation methodologies of legacy Wachovia to those of Wells Fargo;
in addition, integration expense related to mergers other than the Wachovia merger is now included
in segment results. In fourth quarter 2010, we aligned certain lending businesses into Wholesale
Banking from Community Banking to reflect our previously announced restructuring of Wells Fargo
Financial. Prior periods have been revised to reflect these changes.

Community Banking  offers a complete line of diversified financial products and services to
consumers and small businesses with annual sales generally up to $20 million in which the owner
generally is the financial decision maker. Community Banking also offers investment management and
other services to retail customers and securities brokerage through affiliates. These products and
services include the  Wells Fargo Advantage Funds  SM , a family of mutual funds. Loan
products include lines of credit, auto floor plan lines, equity lines and loans, equipment and
transportation loans, education loans, origination and purchase of residential mortgage loans and
servicing of mortgage loans and credit cards. Other credit products and financial services
available to small businesses and their owners include equipment leases, real estate and other
commercial financing, Small Business Administration financing, venture capital financing, cash
management, payroll services, retirement plans, Health Savings Accounts, credit cards, and merchant
payment processing. Community Banking also purchases sales finance contracts from retail merchants
throughout the United States and directly from auto dealers in Puerto Rico. Consumer and business
deposit products include checking accounts, savings deposits, market rate accounts, Individual
Retirement Accounts, time deposits and debit cards.

Community Banking serves customers through a complete range of channels, including traditional
banking stores, in-store banking centers, business centers, ATMs, Online and Mobile Banking, and
 Wells Fargo Customer Connection,  a 24-hours a day, seven days a week telephone service.

  Wholesale Banking  provides financial solutions to businesses across the United States with annual
sales generally in excess of $20 million and to financial institutions globally. Wholesale Banking
provides a complete line of commercial, corporate, capital markets, cash management and real estate
banking

products and services. These include traditional commercial loans and lines of credit,
letters of credit, asset-based lending, equipment leasing, international trade facilities, trade
financing, collection services, foreign exchange services, treasury management, investment
management, institutional fixed-income sales, interest rate, commodity and equity risk management,
online/electronic products such as the  Commercial Electronic Office         ( CEO        )
portal, insurance, corporate trust fiduciary and agency services, and investment banking services.
Wholesale Banking manages customer investments through institutional separate accounts and mutual
funds, including the Wells Fargo Advantage Funds and Wells Capital Management. Wholesale Banking
also supports the CRE market with products and services such as construction loans for commercial
and residential development, land acquisition and development loans, secured and unsecured lines of
credit, interim financing arrangements for completed structures, rehabilitation loans, affordable
housing loans and letters of credit, permanent loans for securitization, CRE loan servicing and
real estate and mortgage brokerage services.

Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement  provides a full range of financial advisory services to clients
using a planning approach to meet each client s needs. Wealth Management provides affluent and high
net worth clients with a complete range of wealth management solutions, including financial
planning, private banking, credit, investment management and trust. Family Wealth meets the unique
needs of ultra high net worth customers. Brokerage serves customers  advisory, brokerage and
financial needs as part of one of the largest full-service brokerage firms in the United States.
Retirement is a national leader in providing institutional retirement and trust services (including
401(k) and pension plan record keeping) for businesses, retail retirement solutions for
individuals, and reinsurance services for the life insurance industry.

Other  includes corporate items (such as integration expenses related to the Wachovia merger) not
specific to a business segment and elimination of certain items that are included in more than one
business segment.

213 

(1) 
       
     Includes Wachovia integration expenses and the elimination of items that are included in both
Community Banking and Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement, largely representing services and products
for wealth management customers provided in Community Banking stores. 

(2) 
       
     Net interest income is the difference between interest earned on assets and the cost of
liabilities to fund those assets. Interest earned includes actual interest earned on segment assets
and, if the segment has excess liabilities, interest credits for providing funding to other
segments. The cost of liabilities includes interest expense on segment liabilities and, if the
segment does not have enough liabilities to fund its assets, a funding charge based on the cost of
excess liabilities from another segment. 

(3) 
       
     Represents segment net income (loss) for Community Banking; Wholesale Banking; and Wealth,
Brokerage and Retirement segments and Wells Fargo net income for the consolidated company. 

214 

Note 24: Condensed Consolidating Financial Statements  

Following are the condensed consolidating financial statements of the Parent and Wells Fargo
Financial, Inc. and its owned subsidiaries (WFFI). In 2002, the Parent issued a full and
unconditional guarantee of all outstanding term debt securities and commercial paper of WFFI. WFFI
ceased filing periodic reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and is no

longer a
separately rated company. The Parent also guaranteed all outstanding term debt securities of Wells
Fargo Financial Canada Corporation (WFFCC), WFFI s wholly owned Canadian subsidiary. WFFCC has
continued to issue term debt securities and commercial paper in Canada, unconditionally guaranteed
by the Parent.

Condensed Consolidating Statement of Income

215 

Condensed Consolidating Statements of Income

216 

Note 24: Condensed Consolidating Financial Statements  (continued)  

Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheets 

217 

Condensed Consolidating Statements of Cash Flows

218 

Note 24: Condensed Consolidating Financial Statements  (continued)  

Condensed Consolidating Statement of Cash Flows 

219 

Note 25: Regulatory and Agency Capital Requirements  

The Company and each of its subsidiary banks are subject to regulatory capital adequacy
requirements promulgated by federal regulatory agencies. The Federal Reserve establishes capital
requirements, including well capitalized standards, for the consolidated financial holding company,
and the OCC has similar requirements for the Company s national banks, including Wells Fargo Bank,
N.A. Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (FDICIA), federal
regulatory agencies were required to adopt regulations defining five capital tiers for banks: well
capitalized, adequately capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized and
critically undercapitalized. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can initiate certain
mandatory, and possibly additional discretionary, actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could
have a direct material effect on our financial statements.

Quantitative measures, established by the regulators to ensure capital adequacy, require that
the Company and each of its subsidiary banks maintain minimum ratios (set forth in the following
table) of capital to risk-weighted assets. Tier 1 capital is considered core capital and generally
includes common stockholders  equity, qualifying preferred stock, and trust preferred securities,
and noncontrolling interests in consolidated subsidiaries, reduced by goodwill, net of related
taxes, certain intangible and other assets in excess of prescribed limitations, and adjusted for
the aggregate impact of certain items included in other comprehensive income. Total capital
includes Tier 1 capital, subordinated debt and other components that do not qualify for Tier 1
capital, and the aggregate allowance for credit losses up to a specified percentage of
risk-weighted assets.

      Risk-weighted assets reflect the perceived risk, expressed as a percentage of the amount of
each asset included on the balance sheet, as well as certain off-balance sheet exposures, including
unfunded loan commitments, letters of credit and derivative

contracts. Additional information with
respect to off-balance sheet exposures is included in Notes 6 and 15.

We do not consolidate our wholly-owned trusts (the Trusts) formed solely to issue trust
preferred securities. Trust preferred securities and perpetual preferred purchase securities issued
by the Trusts includable in Tier 1 capital were $19.2 billion at December 31, 2010. The junior
subordinated debentures held by the Trusts were included in the Company s long-term debt. See Note
13 for additional information on trust preferred securities.

      Management believes that, as of December 31, 2010, the
Company and each of the covered subsidiary banks met all capital adequacy requirements to which
they are subject.
The most recent notification from the OCC categorized each of the covered subsidiary banks as well
capitalized, under the FDICIA prompt corrective action provisions applicable to banks. To be
categorized as well capitalized, the institution must maintain a total risk-based capital (RBC)
ratio as set forth in the table and not be subject to a capital directive order. There are no
conditions or events since that notification that management believes have changed the RBC category
of any of the covered subsidiary banks.

      Certain subsidiaries of the Company are approved seller/servicers, and are therefore required
to maintain minimum levels of shareholders  equity, as specified by various agencies, including the
United States Department of Housing and Urban Development, GNMA, FHLMC and FNMA. At December 31,
2010, each seller/servicer met these requirements.
Certain broker-dealer subsidiaries of the Company are subject to SEC Rule 15c3-1 (the Net Capital
Rule), which requires that we maintain minimum levels of net capital, as defined. At December 31,
2010, each of these subsidiaries met these requirements.

      The following table presents regulatory capital information for Wells Fargo   Company and
Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.

(1) 
       
     As defined by the regulations issued by the Federal Reserve, OCC and FDIC. 

(2) 
       
     The leverage ratio consists of Tier 1 capital divided by quarterly average total assets,
excluding goodwill and certain other items. The minimum leverage ratio guideline is 3% for banking
organizations that do not anticipate significant growth and that have well-diversified risk,
excellent asset quality, high liquidity, good earnings, effective management and monitoring of
market risk and, in general, are considered top-rated, strong banking organizations. 

220 

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

The Board of Directors and Stockholders 
Wells Fargo   Company:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of Wells Fargo   Company and
Subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the related consolidated
statements of income, changes in equity and comprehensive income, and cash flows for each of the
years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2010. These consolidated financial statements are
the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
these consolidated financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An
audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the
results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended
December 31, 2010, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.

As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted a new
accounting standard related to its involvement with variable interest entities effective January 1,
2010, and the Company changed its method of evaluating other than temporary impairment for debt
securities in 2009 and certain investment securities in 2008.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2010, based on criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report dated
February 25, 2011, expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal
control over financial reporting.

San Francisco, California 
February 25, 2011

221 

Quarterly Financial Data  

 Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income   Quarterly (Unaudited)

(1) 
       
     Based on daily prices reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transaction Reporting System. 

222 

Glossary of Acronyms  

ACL 

Allowance for credit losses 

ALCO 

Asset/Liability Management Committee 

ARS 

Auction rate security 

ASC 

Accounting Standards Codification 

ASU 

Accounting Standards Update 

ARM 

Adjustable-rate mortgage 

AVM 

Automated valuation model 

CD 

Certificate of deposit 

CDO 

Collateralized debt obligation 

CLO 

Collateralized loan obligation 

CLTV 

Combined loan-to-value 

CMO 

Collateralized mortgage obligation 

CPP 

Capital Purchase Program 

CPR 

Constant prepayment rate 

CRE 

Commercial real estate 

ESOP 

Employee Stock Ownership Plan 

FAS 

Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 

FASB 

Financial Accounting Standards Board 

FDIC 

Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 

FHA 

Federal Housing Administration 

FHLB 

Federal Home Loan Bank 

FHLMC 

Federal Home Loan Mortgage Company 

FICO 

Fair Isaac Corporation (credit rating) 

FNMA 

Federal National Mortgage Association 

FRB 

Federal Reserve Board 

GAAP 

Generally accepted accounting principles 

GNMA 

Government National Mortgage Association 

GSE 

Government-sponsored entity 

HAMP 

Home Affordability Modification Program 

HPI 

Home Price Index 

IRA 

Individual Retirement Account 

LHFS 

Loans held for sale 

LIBOR 

London Interbank Offered Rate 

LOCOM 

Lower of cost or market value 

LTV 

Loan-to-value 

MBS 

Mortgage-backed security 

MERS 

Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems, Inc. 

MHFS 

Mortgages held for sale 

MSR 

Mortgage servicing right 

NAV 

Net asset value 

NPA 

Nonperforming asset 

OCC 

Office of the Comptroller of the Currency 

OCI 

Other comprehensive income 

OTC 

Over-the-counter 

OTTI 

Other-than-temporary impairment 

PCI Loans 

Purchased credit-impaired loans 

PPS 

Perpetual preferred securities 

PTPP 

Pre-tax pre-provision profit 

QSPE 

Qualifying special purpose entity 

RBC 

Risk-based capital 

ROA 

Wells Fargo net income to average total assets 

ROE 

Wells Fargo net income applicable to common stock to average Wells Fargo common stockholders  equity 

RSR 

Restricted share right 

SCAP 

Supervisory Capital Assessment Program 

SEC 

Securities and Exchange Commission 

S P 

Standard   Poor s 

SIV 

Structured investment vehicle 

SPE 

Special purpose entity 

TARP 

Troubled Asset Relief Program 

TDR 

Troubled debt restructuring 

TLGP 

Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program 

VA 

Department of Veterans Affairs 

VaR 

Value-at-risk 

VIE 

Variable interest entity 

WFFCC 

Wells Fargo Financial Canada Corporation 

WFFI 

Wells Fargo Financial, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries 

223 

</EX-13>

<EX-21>
 7
 f56816exv21.htm
 EX-21

exv21 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2010:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

1005 Corp.

North Carolina 

110 Monastery Associates, Limited Partnership

Massachusetts 

1368 Euclid Street Tenant L.P.

Virginia 

150 Miami Associates Tenant, LLC

Florida 

1st Capital Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

2007 Vento II, LLC

Delaware 

360 Mortgage Solutions, LLC

Delaware 

425 South Tryon Street, LLC

North Carolina 

509 Vine Street Tenant, L.P.

Pennsylvania 

660 Master, LLC

Ohio 

A. G. Edwards Technology Group, Inc.

Missouri 

A. G. Edwards Technology Partners

Missouri 

A.G. Edwards   Sons, LLC

Delaware 

A.G. Edwards Capital, Inc.

Delaware 

A.G. Edwards Hedging Services, Inc.

Nevada 

ABCA, Inc

Florida 

ACAS/WCM, LLC

Delaware 

ACO Brokerage Holdings Corporation

Delaware 

Advance Mortgage

Virginia 

Advantage Mortgage Partners, LLC

Delaware 

AGE Capital Holding, Inc.

Delaware 

AGE International, Inc.

Delaware 

AHC Limited Partnership   10

Virginia 

AHC Limited Partnership   11

Virginia 

AHG Tax Credit Fund I, L.L.C.

Delaware 

AHG Tax Credit Fund II, L.L.C.

Delaware 

AHG Tax Credit Fund III, L.L.C.

Delaware 

AHG Tax Credit Fund IV, L.L.C.

Delaware 

AHG Tax Credit Fund IX, L.L.C.

Delaware 

AHG Tax Credit Fund V, L.L.C.

Delaware 

AHG Tax Credit Fund VI, L.L.C.

Delaware 

AHG Tax Credit Fund VII, L.L.C.

Delaware 

AHG Tax Credit Fund X, L.L.C.

Delaware 

AHG Tax Credit Fund XII L.L.C.

Delaware 

AHG Tax Credit Fund XIV, L.L.C.

Delaware 

AHG Tax Credit Fund XVI, L.P.

Delaware 

AHG Tax Credit Fund XVII, L.P.

Delaware 

AHG Tax Credit Fund XVIII, LLC

Delaware 

AILS, Inc.

Delaware 

AIReS Mortgage Solutions, LLC

Delaware 

Alano Funding, LLC

Delaware 

Alces Funding, LLC

Delaware 

Alliance Home Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

1 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2010:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

Alternative Strategies Brokerage Services, Inc.

Delaware 

Alternative Strategies Group, Inc.

North Carolina 

Alternative Strategies Managed Futures   Commodities Platform, LLC

Delaware 

Alternative Strategies Offshore Platform, SPC

UK-Cayman Islands 

Alternative Strategies Platform, LLC

Delaware 

Alternative Strategies Real Estate Platform, LLC

Delaware 

AM/F Managing Member, LLC

Delaware 

AM/F-2 Managing Member, LLC

Delaware 

AM/F-4A Managing Member, LLC

Delaware 

American Capital/Wachovia CDO Investor Fund, L.P.

Delaware 

American E   S Insurance Brokers California, Inc.

California 

American Mortgage Network, LLC

Delaware 

American Priority Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

American Securities Company

California 

American Securities Company of Missouri

Missouri 

American Securities Company of Nevada

Nevada 

American Securities Company of Utah

Utah 

American Southern Mortgage Services, LLC

Delaware 

American Tobacco SCP, LP

Virginia 

Amnet Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Ao Cheng Ltd

British Virgin Islands 

APM Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Ascent Financial Services, LLC

Delaware 

ASGI Agility Income Fund

Delaware 

ASGI Hedged Equities, Accredited, L.P.

Delaware 

ASGI Hedged Equities, Super Accredited, L.P.

Delaware 

ASGI Multi-Strategy Fund II, Super Accredited, L.P.

Delaware 

ASGI Multi-Strategy, Accredited, L.P.

Delaware 

ASGI Multi-Strategy, Super Accredited, L.P.

Delaware 

ASGI Private Equity Fund II, L.P.

Delaware 

ASGI Private Equity Fund, L.P.

Delaware 

ASGI Private Equity Partners 1999 L.P.

Delaware 

ASGI Private Equity Partners 2001 L.P.

Delaware 

ASGI Private Equity Partners QP 1999 L.P.

Delaware 

ASGI Private Equity Partners QP 2001 L.P.

Delaware 

Ashton Woods Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Aspen Delaware Funding, LLC

Delaware 

ATC Realty Fifteen, Inc.

California 

ATC Realty Nine, Inc.

California 

ATC Realty Sixteen, Inc.

California 

Atlas   OCI Enhanced Loan Income Fund LLC

Delaware 

Atlas Capital Funding, Ltd.

UK-Cayman Islands 

Atlas Loan Funding (CENT I), LLC

Delaware 

2 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2010:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

Atlas Loan Funding (Hartford), LLC

Delaware 

Atlas Loan Funding (Navigator), LLC

Delaware 

Atlas Loan Funding 2, LLC

Delaware 

Augusta Landings Raleigh, LLC

Delaware 

Augustus Ventures, L.L.C.

Nevada 

Aurora GP Holding, LLC

Delaware 

AZ-#3644 Jackson, LLC

Delaware 

Azalea Asset Management, Inc.

Delaware 

Bacon Housing, L.P.

Virginia 

BAFSC/WLC CX HUP I Trust

Delaware 

BAFSC/WLC CX HUP II Trust

Delaware 

BAFSC/WLC CX HUP, Ltd.

Bermuda 

Bankers Funding Company, LLC

Delaware 

Barrington Crestview GA, LLC

Delaware 

Bateman Eichler, Hill Richards Realty Co., Incorporated

California 

BEHR Housing Investors 1981-1, L.P.

California 

Belgravia Mortgage Group, LLC

Delaware 

Benefit Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Bergamasco Funding, LLC

Delaware 

Berks Mortgage Services, LLC

Delaware 

Besso Holdings Limited

United Kingdom-England 

Besso Limited

United Kingdom-England 

Besso Operational Support Services Limited

United Kingdom-England 

Besso Re Limited

United Kingdom-England 

Besso Risk Solutions Ltd

United Kingdom-England 

Besso Special Groups Limited

United Kingdom-England 

Besso Transportation Limited

United Kingdom-England 

BGMCO PA, Inc.

Pennsylvania 

BHS Home Loans, LLC

Delaware 

Biggs Building SCP, L.P.

Virginia 

Biscoe Finance, LLC

Delaware 

Bitterroot Asset Management, Inc.

Cayman Islands 

Blue Spirit Insurance Company

Vermont 

BluePoint Holdings Limited

Bermuda 

Bluffwalk Center Lessee, L.P.

Virginia 

Bluffwalk SCP, L.L.C.

Virginia 

Boettcher Properties, Ltd.

Colorado 

Bowler Housing L.P.

Virginia 

BPL Holdings, Inc.

Delaware 

B-R Penn Tenant, LLC

Pennsylvania 

Britt/Paulk Insurance Agency, Inc.

Georgia 

Brittlebush Financing, LLC

Nevada 

Bryan, Pendleton, Swats   McAllister, LLC

Tennessee 

3 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2010:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

Business Development Corporation of South Carolina

South Carolina 

CACC SCP, LP

Virginia 

CACC Tenant, LP

Virginia 

California Premiere Lending, LLC

Delaware 

Canal Walk Lofts II L.P.

Virginia 

Canal Walk Lofts II SCP L.P.

Virginia 

Canal Walk Lofts III SCP L.P.

Virginia 

Canal Walk Lofts III Tenant L.P.

Virginia 

Canal Walk Lofts Tenant L.P.

Virginia 

Capitol Finance Group, Inc.

North Carolina 

Capitol Places IV, LLC

South Carolina 

Capstone Home Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Cardinal Finance LLC

Delaware 

Cardinal Holdings, LLC

Delaware 

Cardinal International Leasing Holding Corp

Delaware 

Cardinal International Leasing, LLC

Delaware 

Carnation Asset Management, Inc.

Delaware 

Carolina Mortgage/CDJ, LLC

Delaware 

CAROLINA/CONSOLIDATED SCP, L.P.

Virginia 

CBC Affinity Groups Limited

United Kingdom-England 

CBC UK Limited

United Kingdom-England 

Centennial Home Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Central Federal Mortgage Company

Not Required 

Central Fidelity Capital Trust I

Delaware 

Central Fidelity Properties, Inc.

Virginia 

Centurion Agency Nevada, Inc.

Nevada 

Centurion Casualty Company

Iowa 

Centurion Funding, Inc.

California 

Centurion Funding, LLC

Delaware 

Centurion Life Insurance Company

Iowa 

Century Bancshares, Inc.

Texas 

Century Capital Trust

Delaware 

Century Mill Investors LLC

Delaware 

Cervus Funding, L.P.

Delaware 

CGT Insurance Company LTD.

Barbados 

Charter Holdings, Inc.

Nevada 

Chestnut Asset Management, Inc.

Delaware 

Choice Mortgage Servicing, LLC

Delaware 

City First Capital III, LLC

Delaware 

City First Capital V, LLC

Delaware 

City First Capital XI, LLC

Delaware 

City Market Lofts SCP, LLC

North Carolina 

City Market Lofts Tenant, LLC

North Carolina 

4 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2010:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

City Place Buckhead, LLC

Delaware 

CityLife Lending Group, LLC

Delaware 

CMLB 2001, LLC

Delaware 

CNB Investment Trust I

Maryland 

CNB Investment Trust II

Maryland 

Collin Equities, Inc.

Texas 

Colorado Capital Management Co, LLC

Delaware 

Colorado Mortgage Alliance, LLC

Delaware 

Colorado Professionals Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

CoLTS LLC 2005-1

Delaware 

CoLTS LLC 2005-2

Delaware 

CoLTS LLC 2007-1

Delaware 

Columbus RI Operator, LLC

Delaware 

Congress Financial Capital (US) Corporation

Delaware 

Congress Financial Capital Company

Canada-Nova Scotia 

Consortium America II, LLC

Delaware 

Conway Home Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Cookman Restoration L.L.C.

New Jersey 

CoreStates Capital I

Delaware 

CoreStates Capital II

Delaware 

CoreStates Capital III

Delaware 

CoreStates Holdings, Inc.

Delaware 

Crocker Properties, Inc.

California 

CTB Realty Ventures XXI, Inc.

Connecticut 

CWC MT, LLC

Virginia 

CWC SCP, LLC

Virginia 

Danube Holdings I C.V.

Netherlands 

Danube Holdings II C.V.

Netherlands 

Danube Holdings III C.V.

Netherlands 

DE Capital Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

DFG Holdings, LLC

Delaware 

Dial Finance Company, Inc.

Nevada 

Dial National Community Benefits, Inc.

Nevada 

Diversified Finance Investments, LLC

Delaware 

DNA Investments Holdings, LLC

Delaware 

Dooley Transport, LLC

Illinois 

Downtown Revival Limited Partnership

Pennsylvania 

Dulles Station Herndon, LLC

Delaware 

Eastdil Secured, L.L.C.

New York 

Eaton Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Eaton Village Associates, Ltd. Co.

New Mexico 

ECM Holdings Limited

United Kingdom-England 

Edgeworth SCP, LLC

Virginia 

5 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2010:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

Edward Jones Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Edwards Development Corporation

Missouri 

Electric Building Tenant LLC

Mississippi 

Elf Tenant, L.P.

Virginia 

Ellis Advertising, Inc.

Iowa 

EnerVest-Wachovia Co-Investment Partnership, L.P.

Delaware 

Entrust Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Epic Funding Corporation

California 

Equity Insurance Agency, Inc.

New Jersey 

Estates at Dunwoody Park GA, LLC

Delaware 

European Credit Management Limited

United Kingdom 

EVEREN Capital Corporation

Delaware 

Everen Leasing, LLC

Delaware 

Evergreen Alternative Capital, Inc.

Delaware 

Evergreen ECM Holdings B.V.

Netherlands 

Evergreen Financing Company, LLC

Delaware 

Evergreen Investment Management Company, LLC

Delaware 

Evergreen Investment Management Trust

Delaware 

Evergreen Private Investment Funds-Absolute Return Fund, Super Accredited, L.P.

Delaware 

Evergreen Private Investment Funds-Global MultiStrategy Fund, Accredited, L.P.

Delaware 

Evergreen Private Investment Funds-Hedged Opportunities Fund, Accredited, L. P.

Delaware 

Evergreen Service Company LLC

Delaware 

Evergreen Worldwide Distributors, Ltd.

Bermuda 

Evergreen Worldwide U.S. Dollar Fund, Ltd.

UK-Cayman Islands 

Express Financial   Mortgage Services, LLC

Delaware 

FA Recruiting Services, LLC

Texas 

Falcon Asset Management, Inc.

Delaware 

Fannin County Equestrian Community, LLC

Delaware 

Farmington, Incorporated

North Carolina 

FC Ashton Mill Master Lessee, LLC

Rhode Island 

FC CONSOLIDATED MASTER LESSEE, LLC

Ohio 

FC Edgeworth Lessor, LLC

Virginia 

FC Edgeworth Master Lessee, LLC

Virginia 

FC Lucky Strike Lessor, LLC

Virginia 

FC Lucky Strike Master Lessee, LLC

Virginia 

FCC-PR, Inc

Puerto Rico 

FFL Services Corporation

New Jersey 

Fidelcor Business Credit Corporation

New York 

Finvercon USA, Inc.

Nevada 

First Allied Home Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

First Associates Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

First Citizens SC Capital Trust II

Delaware 

First Clearing, LLC

Delaware 

6 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2010:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

First Commonwealth Home Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

First Community Capital Trust I

Delaware 

First Community Capital Trust II

Delaware 

First Community Capital Trust III

Delaware 

First Consumer Services, Inc.

New Jersey 

First Fidelity Urban Investment Corporation

New Jersey 

First International Advisors, LLC

Delaware 

First Mortgage Consultants, LLC

Delaware 

First National Properties, Inc.

South Carolina 

First Penco Realty, Inc.

Pennsylvania 

First Peninsula Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

First Security Capital I

Delaware 

First State Service Corporation

North Carolina 

First Union Capital I

Delaware 

First Union Capital II

Delaware 

First Union Commercial Leasing Group, L.L.C.

North Carolina 

First Union Community Development Corporation

Virginia 

First Union Financial Investments, LLC

Tennessee 

First Union Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund I, LLC

Delaware 

First Union Holdings, LLC

Tennessee 

First Union Institutional Capital I

Delaware 

First Union Institutional Capital II

Delaware 

First Union Insurance Group Trust I

Delaware 

First Union Rail Corporation

North Carolina 

First Union Title Corporation

Georgia 

Five Star Lending, LLC

Delaware 

Flagstone Apartment Property, LLC

Delaware 

Florida Home Finance Group, LLC

Delaware 

FNL Insurance Company

Vermont 

Foothill Capital Corporation

California 

Foothill Group, Inc., The

Delaware 

Forest Glen Ballroom, LLC

Wisconsin 

Forest Glen Main Master Tenant, LLC

Maryland 

Forum Capital Markets, LLC

Delaware 

FPFC Management LLC

New Mexico 

FSD Master Tenant, LLC

North Carolina 

Fullerton Towers Holdings, LLC

Delaware 

Fulton Homes Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

FUNC Holdings, Inc.

Florida 

G. C. Leasing, Inc.

Virginia 

G/WDC 541 N Fairbanks, LLC

Delaware 

Galliard Capital Management, Inc.

Minnesota 

Garden-Howe Urban Renewal Associates, L.P.

New Jersey 

7 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2010:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

GBB Capital II

Delaware 

GBB Capital III

Delaware 

GBB Capital IV

Delaware 

GBB Capital VI

Delaware 

GBB Capital VIII

Delaware 

GC Finance 2010 LLC

Delaware 

General Homes Corp.

Texas 

Genesis Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Gibraltar Mortgage Services, LLC

Delaware 

Gibraltar Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Global Flying Insurance Services Limited

United Kingdom-England 

Golden Capital Management, LLC

Delaware 

Golden Funding Company

Cayman Islands 

Golden Pacific Insurance Company

Vermont 

Golden West Savings Association Service Co.

California 

Goldenrod Asset Management, Inc.

Delaware 

Great East Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Great Plains Insurance Company

Vermont 

Greater Atlanta Financial Services, LLC

Delaware 

Greater Bay Bancorp

California 

Greenfield Funding, LLC

Minnesota 

GreenPath Funding, LLC

Delaware 

Greensboro-Richmond Properties, LLC

Delaware 

GS Bridgeport I CDE, LLC

Delaware 

GS Private Equity Partners IX ASW Fund, LLC

Delaware 

Guarantee Pacific Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Gunther HQ Federal LLC

Maryland 

H. Bernstein Insurance Brokers Limited

United Kingdom-England 

H.D. Vest Advisory Services, Inc.

Texas 

H.D. Vest Insurance Agency, L.L.C.

Texas 

H.D. Vest Insurance Agency, L.L.C.

Montana 

H.D. Vest Insurance Agency, L.L.C.

Massachusetts 

H.D. Vest Investment Securities, Inc.

Texas 

H.D. Vest, Inc.

Texas 

HADBO Investments C.V.

Netherlands 

Hallmark Mortgage Group, LLC

Delaware 

Hanover/FUDC Master Limited Partnership

Delaware 

Harrier Funding, LLC

Delaware 

Haskell Limited Partnership

Massachusetts 

Havanese Funding, LLC

Delaware 

Headhouse Retail Associates, L.P.

Pennsylvania 

Heritage Home Mortgage Group, LLC

Delaware 

Heritage Indemnity Company

California 

8 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2010:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

Heritage Mechanical Breakdown Corporation

Delaware 

HHC Mezzanine D, LLC

Delaware 

Highland Glen, LLC

Delaware 

Historic West Elementary, LLC

Wisconsin 

Hokkaido Apartments LLC

Delaware 

Home Loan Experts, Inc.

California 

Home Mortgage Specialists, LLC

Delaware 

Home Services Title Reinsurance Company

Vermont 

HomeSale Lending, LLC

Delaware 

Homeservices Lending, LLC

Delaware 

Horizon Management Services, Inc.

Florida 

Iapetus Funding, LLC

Delaware 

IBID, Inc.

Delaware 

Illustrated Properties Mortgage Company, LLC

Delaware 

IJL 2004, LLC

North Carolina 

Integrity Home Funding, LLC

Delaware 

InterWest Capital Trust I

Delaware 

IntraWest Asset Management, Inc.

Delaware 

Ironbrand Capital LLC

North Carolina 

Island Finance Credit Services, Inc.

New York 

Island Finance Holding Company, LLC

Cayman Islands 

Island Finance New York, Inc.

New York 

Island Finance Puerto Rico, Inc.

Delaware 

Island Finance Sales Finance Corporation

Cayman Islands 

Island Finance Sales Finance Trust

Puerto Rico 

IWIC Insurance Company

Vermont 

J. L. Kaplan Associates, LLC

Delaware 

JC-Warren MI, LLC

Delaware 

JERSEY CENTER/FIDOREO, INC.

New Jersey 

Johnston Mill Master Tenant, LP

Georgia 

Jordan Investments GP

UK-Cayman Islands 

Jordan Investments LP

UK-Cayman Islands 

JPSD, Inc.

Delaware 

Kardon/Atlantic Associates, L.P.

Pennsylvania 

Keller Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Kidron Partners IV, LP

Minnesota 

Killdeer Capital Company, LLC

Delaware 

Lake Spivey Senior Living/WDC, LLC

Delaware 

Lamont SCP, L.P.

Virginia 

Landfill Portfolio, LLC

Delaware 

Landmark Equity Partners XIV ASP Fund, LLC

Delaware 

Legacy Glenn Partnership, LLC

Georgia 

Legacy Mortgage

Delaware 

9 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2010:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

LG-354 Lewisville TX, LLC

Delaware 

Lincoln Building Corporation

Colorado 

Linear Financial, LP

Delaware 

Lordship, LLC

Delaware 

Lowry Hill Investment Advisors, Inc.

Minnesota 

MAA/NCF SUB-CDE, LLC

Delaware 

Mackerel Lane Carolina Beach, LLC

Delaware 

Macom Dekalb IL, LLC

Delaware 

Macro*World Research Corporation

North Carolina 

Macro*World Research Philippines Inc.

Philippines 

Marben Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Marigold International Limited

Cayman Islands 

Marina Towers Melbourne, LLC

Delaware 

Market Villas SCP, L.P.

Virginia 

Martha Turner Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Maryland Housing Equity Fund III Limited Partnership

Maryland 

Mastiff Funding, LP

Delaware 

Max Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

MC of America, LLC

Delaware 

McCart Landing Conyers, LLC

Delaware 

McClellan Greensboro, LLC

Delaware 

Meadowmont JV, LLC

Delaware 

Melbourne Atlantic Joint Venture

Florida 

Mercy Housing Georgia I, L.L.L.P.

Georgia 

Meridian Mortgage Corporation

Pennsylvania 

Meridian Venture Partners

Pennsylvania 

Metro Home Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Metropolitan West Capital Management, LLC

California 

Mid-City Community CDE-Operating Fund, LLC

Delaware 

Mid-Peninsula Capital, LLC

California 

Milford Highlands PA, LLC

Delaware 

Military Family Home Loans, LLC

Delaware 

Monument Peak, LLC

Delaware 

Monument Street Funding, Inc.

California 

Monument Street Funding, LLC

Delaware 

Monument Street Funding-II, LLC

Delaware 

Monument Street Holding LLC

Delaware 

Monument Street International Funding-I, LLC

Delaware 

Monument Street International Funding-II, LLC

Delaware 

Mortgage 100, LLC

Delaware 

Mortgage One

Not Required 

Mortgage Services Professionals, LLC

Delaware 

MSC Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

10 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2010:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

Mt. Vernon Middle Tier, LLC

Delaware 

Mulberry Asset Management, Inc.

Delaware 

Mulberry SCP, L.P.

Virginia 

MVP Distribution Partners

Pennsylvania 

MWI-2002, LLC

Delaware 

NB Crossroads XVIII ASP Fund, LLC

Delaware 

NCT Exchange, LLC

Delaware 

NEC IX, LLC

Delaware 

NEC VIII, LLC

Delaware 

Neckar Financial, LLC

Delaware 

Nelson Capital Management, LLC

Delaware 

Nero Limited, LLC

Delaware 

New Markets Investment XIII, LLC

Delaware 

NFPS, Inc.

Delaware 

Nolde Bakery SCP, L.P.

Virginia 

North Fontana CA, LLC

Delaware 

North Hart Run, Inc.

Virginia 

North Star Mortgage Guaranty Reinsurance Company

Vermont 

Northbrooke Woodstock, LLC

Delaware 

Northern Prairie Indemnity Limited

Cayman Islands 

Norwest Equity Capital, L.L.C.

Minnesota 

Norwest Equity Partners IX, LP

Delaware 

Norwest Equity Partners V, a Minnesota Limited Partnership

Minnesota 

Norwest Equity Partners VI, LP

Minnesota 

Norwest Equity Partners VII, LP

Minnesota 

Norwest Equity Partners VIII, LP

Delaware 

Norwest Financial Canada DE, Inc.

Delaware 

Norwest Financial Funding, Inc.

Nevada 

Norwest Financial Investment 1, Inc.

Nevada 

Norwest Financial Investment, Inc.

Nevada 

Norwest Financial Massachusetts

Massachusetts 

Norwest Limited LP, LLLP

Delaware 

Norwest Mezzanine Partners I, LP

Minnesota 

Norwest Mezzanine Partners II, LP

Delaware 

Norwest Mezzanine Partners III, LP

Delaware 

Norwest Properties Holding Company

Minnesota 

Norwest Ventrue Partners VII-A Mauritius

Mauritius 

Norwest Ventrue Partners VII-A Mauritius

Mauritius 

Norwest Venture Advisors Private Limited

Singapore 

Norwest Venture Capital Management, Inc.

Minnesota 

Norwest Venture Partners Advisory-Mauritius

Mauritius 

Norwest Venture Partners FII Singapore Private Limited

Singapore 

Norwest Venture Partners FVCI Singapore Private Limited

Singapore 

11 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2010:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

Norwest Venture Partners FVCI-Mauritius

Mauritius 

Norwest Venture Partners IX, LP

Delaware 

Norwest Venture Partners Singapore Private Limited

Singapore 

Norwest Venture Partners VI, LP

Minnesota 

Norwest Venture Partners VI-A, LP

Delaware 

Norwest Venture Partners VII, LP

Minnesota 

Norwest Venture Partners VII-A FII Mauritius

Mauritius 

Norwest Venture Partners VII-A FVCI Mauritius

Mauritius 

Norwest Venture Partners VII-A, LP

Delaware 

Norwest Venture Partners VIII, LP

Delaware 

Norwest Venture Partners X FII-Mauritius

Mauritius 

Norwest Venture Partners X -Mauritius

Mauritius 

Norwest Venture Partners X, LP

Delaware 

Norwest Venture Partners XI, LP

Delaware 

Norwest Venture Partners-Mauritius

Mauritius 

Nucompass Mortgage Services, LLC

Delaware 

NVP Associates, LLC

Delaware 

NVP Israel Ltd

Israel 

NVP Venture Capital India Private Limited

India 

Oak Haven Senior Living, LLC

Delaware 

Ocean View Holdco, LLC

Delaware 

Oilwell Supply, L.P.

Texas 

Old Swedish Bank Master Tenant, LLC

Minnesota 

OmniPlus Capital Corporation

Tennessee 

OmniServe of Alabama, L.L.C.

Alabama 

Oosterpark, LLC

Delaware 

OPC Hampton SCP, LP

Virginia 

OPC Hampton Tenant, L.P.

Virginia 

OPC Hampton, LLC

Virginia 

O Sullivan and Associates Limited

United Kingdom-England 

Overland Advisors, LLC

Delaware 

Overland GP LLC

Delaware 

Overland Relative Value Fund LLC

Delaware 

Overland Relative Value Fund Ltd.

Cayman Islands 

Overland Relative Value Master Fund LP

Cayman Islands 

Oxmoor Center, LLC

Delaware 

P Ranch Royalty Interest, LLC

Delaware 

P Ranch Working Interest, LLC

Delaware 

Pacific Northwest Statutory Trust I

Washington 

Palo Alto Partners, LLC

Delaware 

Pamlico Capital I, L.P.

Delaware 

Pamlico Capital II ASP Fund, LLC

Delaware 

Pamlico Capital II, L.P.

Delaware 

12 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2010:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

Parachute Factory SCP, LLC

Virginia 

Parachute Factory Tenant, LLC

Virginia 

Paramount Theater SCP L.P.

Virginia 

Paramount Theater Tenant L.P.

Virginia 

Parkland Senior Housing, LP

Missouri 

Partnership Investments S.a.r.l.

Luxembourg 

PASS Holding LLC

Delaware 

Pelican Asset Management, Inc.

Delaware 

Peony Asset Management, Inc.

Delaware 

Peregrine Capital Management, Inc.

Minnesota 

Personal Mortgage Group, LLC

Delaware 

Pheasant Asset Management, Inc.

Delaware 

PHH Funding, LLC

Delaware 

Philadelphia National Limitada

Brazil 

Philadelphia National Limited

United Kingdom-England 

PHL3, LLC

Delaware 

PHX Mortgage Advisors, LLC

Delaware 

Pinnacle Mortgage of Nevada, LLC

Delaware 

PINTA, LLC

Delaware 

Placer Sierra Bancshares

California 

Placer Statutory Trust III

Delaware 

Placer Statutory Trust IV

Delaware 

Platinum Residential Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

PNC Reverse Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Pohlig SCP, L.P.

Virginia 

Pooled Auto Securities Shelf, LLC

Delaware 

Preferred Funding S.a.r.l.

Luxembourg 

Preferred Investments S.a.r.l.

Luxembourg 

Premia Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Premium Timberland Sales, Inc.

North Carolina 

Prime Direct LLC

Delaware 

Prime Era Investments Limited

UK-Virgin Islands 

Primrose Asset Management, Inc.

Delaware 

Private Mortgage Advisors, LLC

Delaware 

PRN Holdings, Inc.

Delaware 

Professional Direct Agency, Inc.

Ohio 

Professional Financial Services of Arizona, LLC

Delaware 

Professional Mortgage Associates, LLC

Delaware 

Prometheus Investment, LLC

North Carolina 

PSH State Investor, LLC

Delaware 

PTO Holdings, LLC

Delaware 

Pumi Funding, LLC

Delaware 

Quail Asset Management, LLC

Delaware 

13 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2010:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

Questpoint L.P., Inc.

Delaware 

R.B.C. Corporation

North Carolina 

Railway Tenant, LLC

Maryland 

Rainier Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Real Estate Consultants of the South, Inc.

North Carolina 

Real Estate Lenders

Not Required 

Real Living Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Real Sincere Group Limited

UK-Virgin Islands 

Realty Home Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Alabama Commercial, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Alabama, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Arizona, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Arlington Ridge FL Land, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Arlington Ridge FL, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Atlanta Club Homes, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Atlanta Housing, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Atlanta Subdivisions, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Brookhaven Plaza, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS CA Properties, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS California, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Charlotte Housing, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Chesapeake Bay Resort MD, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Colorado, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Dallas TX, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS DE, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Delaware, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Ferguson, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS FL Properties, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Florida Commercial, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Florida Condos, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Florida Housing, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Florida Land, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Frederica Club, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Frederica, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Georgia Commercial, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Greensboro Subdivisions, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS HH, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Houston, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Idaho, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS IDS, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Illinois, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Indiana, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Kentucky, LLC

Delaware 

14 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2010:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

REDUS MA Commercial, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS MA Subdivisions, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Maryland Commercial, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS MD Land, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Michigan, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Mississippi Land, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Missouri, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Montgomery GSA, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Nashville Housing, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS NC Costal, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS NC Land, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS NC-ALL, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Nevada, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS New Jersey, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS New York, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Ocean Waters, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Ohio, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS OR Land, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Peninsula Millsboro, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Properties, Inc.

Delaware 

REDUS Raleigh Housing, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Salina Central Mall KS, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS SC Coastal, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS SC Housing, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Sheraton N. Dallas, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Somerly, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS South Carolina, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Sunset Cay, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Texas Land, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS TN-ALL, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS TRG, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS TX Homes, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS TX Properties, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS VA Housing, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Virginia Commercial, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Virginia Subdivisions, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Wayne Town, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS WLHP, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Woodland, LLC

Delaware 

Reliable Finance Holding Company

Puerto Rico 

Reliable Finance Holding Company, LLC

Nevada 

Reliable Financial Services, Inc.

Puerto Rico 

Reliable Insurance Services Corp.

Puerto Rico 

15 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2010:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

Renaissance Finance II, LLC

Delaware 

Residential Asset Funding Corporation

North Carolina 

Residential Home Division, LLC

Delaware 

Residential Home Mortgage Investment, L.L.C.

Delaware 

Residential Mortgage Services, LLC

Delaware 

Rhine Investment Holdings, LLC

Delaware 

Riggs Rental Exchange, LLC

Delaware 

Rigil Funding, LLC

Delaware 

RIJK, LLC

Delaware 

Riverside Home Loans, LLC

Delaware 

Roanoke TS SCP, LP

Virginia 

Roanoke TS Tenant, LP

Virginia 

Rocky River Project LLC

Delaware 

RORI Property Holdings, LLC

Delaware 

Royalton Apartments, Ltd.

Florida 

Ruby Asset Management Inc.

Maryland 

Rural Community Insurance Agency, Inc.

Minnesota 

Rural Community Insurance Company

Minnesota 

RWF Mortgage Company

California 

RWF Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Ryaccom, LLC

Delaware 

Ryder Exchange, LLC

Delaware 

Sagebrush Asset Management, Inc.

Delaware 

Saguaro Asset Management, Inc.

Delaware 

Salvo Finance GP

Delaware 

Santa Fe Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Savings Associations Financial Enterprises, Incorporated

District of Columbia 

SC Realty, LLC

Delaware 

SCG Funding, LLC

Delaware 

Select Home Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

SelectNet Plus, Inc.

West Virginia 

Seventeenth Street Lofts SCP L.P.

Virginia 

Seventeenth Street Lofts Tenant L.P.

Virginia 

SG Group Holdings LLC

Delaware 

SG New York LLC

Delaware 

SG Pennsylvania LLC

Delaware 

SG Tucson LLC

Delaware 

Shockoe-Cary Building Tenant, L.P.

Virginia 

Sierra Delaware Funding, LLC

Delaware 

Sierra Peaks Funding, LP

Delaware 

Signature Home Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Signet Student Loan Corporation

Virginia 

Siguler Guff BRIC Opportunities II ASW Fund, LLC

Delaware 

16 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2010:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

Siguler Guff Distressed Real Estate ASP Fund, LLC

Delaware 

Silver Asset Management, Inc.

Delaware 

Sirius Funding, LLC

Delaware 

Site 15 Affordable Associates, LLC

New York 

SoCo Community Development Company, LLC

Alabama 

Solution Delivery, LLC

Delaware 

Source One Liquidation, LLC

Delaware 

South Street Lofts SCP L.P.

Virginia 

South Street Lofts Tenant L.P.

Virginia 

Southeast Home Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Southeast Minnesota Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Southern Ohio Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

SouthSide Plaza 455 Ltd., L.L.P.

Texas 

SouthTrust Capital Funding Corporation

Delaware 

SouthTrust Community Reinvestment Company, LLC

Alabama 

SouthTrust Development Corporation

Georgia 

SouthTrust Mobile Services Funding Corporation

Alabama 

SouthTrust Mortgage Corporation

Delaware 

Southwest Community Statutory Trust I

Connecticut 

Southwest Partners, Inc.

California 

Sparta GP Holding REO Corp.

Delaware 

Sparta GP Holding, LLC

Delaware 

SPFE, Inc.

North Carolina 

Spring Cypress Water Supply Corporation

Texas 

SR 70 Land Bradenton, LLC

Delaware 

SS South Loop, LLC

Delaware 

St. Joseph s Affordable Housing Limited Partnership

Pennsylvania 

Stagecoach Insurance Services, LLC

Delaware 

Sterling Bradenton, LLC

Delaware 

Stirling Mortgage Services, LLC

Delaware 

STRATS, LLC

Delaware 

Structured Asset Investors, LLC

Delaware 

Structured Credit Partners, LLC

Delaware 

Structured Principal Strategies Holdings, LLC

Delaware 

Structured Principal Strategies, LLC

Delaware 

Suffolk Center for Cultural Arts SCP, L.P.

Virginia 

Summit National Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Summitt PELS Funding, LLC

Delaware 

Superior Guaranty Insurance Company

Vermont 

Superior Warehouse Apartment SCP, L.P.

Virginia 

SURREY DOWNS/FIDOREO, INC.

New Jersey 

Sweetroot Funding, LLC

Cayman Islands 

Symbolic Financial, LLC

Delaware 

17 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2010:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

Synthetic Fixed-Income Securities, Inc.

Delaware 

Tai Mo Shan Investments Partnership

Hong Kong 

TAI Title Trust

Delaware 

Tattersall Advisory Group, Inc.

Virginia 

Taylor County Land GA, LLC

Delaware 

TAYLORR LAKES/FIDOREO, INC.

New Jersey 

TCF A/GA-1, LLC

Delaware 

TCF A/NC-1, LLC

Delaware 

TCF A/V-1, LLC

Delaware 

TCF AEG/GA, LLC

Delaware 

TCF AM/F, LLC

Delaware 

TCF AM/F-2, LLC

Delaware 

TCF AM/F-4A, LLC

Delaware 

TCF AM/F-4B, LLC

Delaware 

TCF BA/F-G, LLC

Delaware 

TCF BO/F, LLC

Delaware 

TCF BOH/H-1, LLC

Delaware 

TCF BOH/H-2, LLC

Delaware 

TCF C/F, LLC

Delaware 

TCF C/F-2, LLC

Delaware 

TCF CN/VA-1, LLC

Delaware 

TCF CN/VA-2, LLC

Delaware 

TCF CN/VA-3, LLC

Delaware 

TCF CON/GA, LLC

Delaware 

TCF GW/F, LLC

Delaware 

TCF GW/GA, LLC

Delaware 

TCF GW-2, LLC

Delaware 

TCF HH/GA, LLC

Delaware 

TCF JH/GA, LLC

Delaware 

TCF JP/F, LLC

Delaware 

TCF JP/GA, LLC

Delaware 

TCF JPM/F, LLC

Delaware 

TCF JPM/F-2, LLC

Delaware 

TCF JPM/F-3, LLC

Delaware 

TCF M/F-1, LLC

Delaware 

TCF NA/VA-1, LLC

Delaware 

TCF NA/VA-2, LLC

Delaware 

TCF NA/VA-3, LLC

Delaware 

TCF P/GA-2, LLC

Delaware 

TCF P/MO-1, LLC

Delaware 

TCF P/VA, LLC

Delaware 

TCF S/GA, LLC

Delaware 

TCF U/GA-2, LLC

Delaware 

18 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2010:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

TCF U/GA-3, LLC

Delaware 

TCF U/MO, LLC

Delaware 

TCF U/VA, LLC

Delaware 

TCF U/VA-2, LLC

Delaware 

TCF U/VA-3, LLC

Delaware 

TCF UB-1, LLC

Delaware 

TCF USB/F, LLC

Delaware 

TCF WF-3, LLC

Delaware 

TCF WF-4, LLC

Delaware 

TCF WF-5, LLC

Delaware 

TCIG Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund I, LLC

Delaware 

TCIG Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund II, LLC

Delaware 

TCIG Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund III, LLC

Delaware 

TCIG Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund IV, LLC

Delaware 

TCIG Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund V, LLC

Delaware 

TCIG Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund VI, LLC

Delaware 

TCIG Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund VII, LLC

Delaware 

TCIG Historic Tax Credit Fund I, LLC

Delaware 

TCIG NC State Credit Fund, LLC

North Carolina 

TCIG Tax Credit Fund I, LLC

Delaware 

TCIG Tax Credit Fund II, LLC

Delaware 

The Ceres Investment Company

Missouri 

The Exchange Building Limited Partnership

Maine 

The Fairfax Corporation

North Carolina 

The Florida Community New Markets Fund II, LLC

Florida 

The Lofts San Marco Tenant, LLC

Florida 

The Preserve Sevierville, LLC

Delaware 

The Ridges at Mountain Harbour, LLC

Delaware 

The Thirty-Eight Hundred Fund, LLC

Delaware 

The Westlake Group, Limited

British West Indies 

Thirty-Eight Hundred Investments Limited

Cayman Islands 

THM Master TE, LLC

Delaware 

Thoroughbred Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Tiberius Ventures, L.L.C.

Nevada 

TMS Funding Limited

Cayman Islands 

TMS Special Holdings, Inc.

Delaware 

TMS Student Holdings, Inc.

Delaware 

Todd Tenant, L. P.

Virginia 

Topaz Asset Management Inc.

Maryland 

Town   Country Mortgage Group, LLC

Delaware 

TPG Funding, LLC

Delaware 

Trademark Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Transportation Equipment Advisors, Inc.

Illinois 

19 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2010:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

Triad Apartment Portfolio, LLC

Delaware 

TRSTE II, Inc.

Tennessee 

TRSTE, Inc.

Virginia 

Tryon Management, Inc.

North Carolina 

Two APM Plaza, Inc.

Pennsylvania 

Tyree Financing, S.a.r.l.

Luxembourg 

Tyro Funding, LLC

Delaware 

Union Commerce Title Company, LLC

Delaware 

Union Hamilton Reinsurance, Ltd.

Bermuda 

Union Station Holding Company LLC

Delaware 

United Bancorporation of Wyoming Capital Trust I

Delaware 

United Bancorporation of Wyoming Capital Trust II

Delaware 

United Bancorporation of Wyoming Capital Trust III

Delaware 

United Bancshares, Inc.

Pennsylvania 

United Bank of Philadelphia

Pennsylvania 

United California Bank Realty Corporation

California 

Universal Master Servicing, LLC

Delaware 

Valley Asset Management, Inc.

Delaware 

VCP-Carlington, LLC.

Florida 

Vensuco Ventures Limited

Cyprus 

Vento WF LLC

Delaware 

Veranda Park Orlando, LLC

Delaware 

Vermillion Huntersville, LLC

Delaware 

Vickery Village Cumming GA, LLC

Delaware 

Victoria Investments, LLC

Delaware 

Village Communities Financial, LLC

Delaware 

Villages at Warner Ranch PUD, LP

Delaware 

Violet Asset Management, Inc.

Delaware 

Virginia Street SCP, L.P.

Virginia 

Vista Lofts Denver, LLC

Delaware 

Vondelpark, LLC

Delaware 

W/A Tax Credit Fund 2003-I, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Administrative Services, Inc.

Florida 

Wachovia Advisors International Limited

Hong Kong 

Wachovia Affordable Housing Community Development Corporation

North Carolina 

Wachovia Affordable Housing Corp.

North Carolina 

Wachovia Asia Limited

Hong Kong 

Wachovia Asset Securitization Holding Corp.

Delaware 

Wachovia Asset Securitization Issuance II, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Asset Securitization Issuance, LLC

North Carolina 

20 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2010:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

Wachovia Auto Loan Owner Trust 2006-1

Delaware 

Wachovia Auto Loan Owner Trust 2006-2

Delaware 

Wachovia Auto Loan Owner Trust 2007-1

Delaware 

Wachovia Auto Loan Owner Trust 2008-1

Delaware 

Wachovia Auto Owner Trust 2006-A

Delaware 

Wachovia Auto Owner Trust 2007-A

Delaware 

Wachovia Auto Owner Trust 2008-A

Delaware 

Wachovia Capital Investments, Inc.

Georgia 

Wachovia Capital Investors, Inc.

North Carolina 

Wachovia Capital Partners 1999, LLC

North Carolina 

Wachovia Capital Partners 1999-II, LLC

North Carolina 

Wachovia Capital Partners 2000, LLC

North Carolina 

Wachovia Capital Partners 2001, LLC

North Carolina 

Wachovia Capital Partners 2002, LLC

North Carolina 

Wachovia Capital Partners 2003, LLC

North Carolina 

Wachovia Capital Partners 2004, LLC

North Carolina 

Wachovia Capital Partners 2005, LLC

North Carolina 

Wachovia Capital Partners Secondary Fund I, L.P.

Delaware 

Wachovia Capital Partners, Inc.

Virginia 

Wachovia Capital Trust I

Delaware 

Wachovia Capital Trust II

Delaware 

Wachovia Capital Trust III

Delaware 

Wachovia Capital Trust IV

Delaware 

Wachovia Capital Trust IX

Delaware 

Wachovia Capital Trust V

Delaware 

Wachovia Capital Trust X

Delaware 

Wachovia Caveness Member, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Century Mill Member, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Commercial Mortgage Loan Warehouse Corporation

North Carolina 

Wachovia Commodities Holdings, Inc.

Delaware 

Wachovia Community Development Corporation

North Carolina 

Wachovia Community Development Enterprises I, LLC

North Carolina 

Wachovia Community Development Enterprises II, LLC

North Carolina 

Wachovia Community Development Enterprises III, LLC

North Carolina 

Wachovia Community Development Enterprises V, LLC

North Carolina 

Wachovia Community Development Enterprises, LLC

North Carolina 

Wachovia CRE CDO 2006-1 Investor, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia CRE CDO 2006-1, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia CRE CDO 2006-1, Ltd.

UK-Cayman Islands 

Wachovia Defeasance 3409 PRIMM III LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance 601 Valley III, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance Alta Mira Shopping Center LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance BACM 2000-2 LLC

Delaware 

21 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2010:

22 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2010:

23 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2010:

24 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2010:

25 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2010:

26 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2010:

27 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2010:

28 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2010:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2005-C3 III LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2005-C5 III LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2005-C7 VR Bayou LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2006-C1 III LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2008-C1 III LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance Management II LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance Management III LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance Management LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance Management-KeyCorp III LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance Management-KeyCorp LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance Management-Midland III LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance Management-Midland LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance MCF 1998-MC3 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance MLMI 1998-C2 II LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance MLMI 1998-C2 III LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance MLMI 1998-C2 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance MLMI 1998-C3 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance MLMI 2002-MW1 III LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance MLMI 2002-MW1 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance MLMI 2005-CKI1 III LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance MLMI 2005-CKI1 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance MLMI 2005-MCP1 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance MLMI 2005-MCP1 PVA III LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance MLMI 2005-MKB2 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance MLMT 2004-MKB1 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 1998-CF1 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 1998-HF2 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 1998-WF2 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 1999-FNV1 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 1999-LIFE1 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 1999-RM1 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 1999-WF1 III LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 1999-WF1 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 2003-IQ4 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 2003-IQ5 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 2003-IQ6 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 2003-TOP11 III LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 2003-Top11 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 2004-HQ3 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 2004-IQ7 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 2004-Top13 III LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 2004-TOP15 III LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 2004-TOP15 LLC

Delaware 

29 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2010:

30 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2010:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2003-C7 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2003-C8 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2003-C9 III LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2003-C9 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2004-C10 III LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2004-C10 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance WACHOVIA 2004-C12 III LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2004-C12 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2004-C14 Amstar LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2004-C14 III LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2004-C14 Lenexa LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2004-C14 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2004-C15 III LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2004-C15 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2005-C16 III LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2005-C16 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2005-C17 450 Partners LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2005-C17 III LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2005-C17 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2005-C18 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2005-C20 III LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2005-C20 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2005-C21 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2005-C22 III LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2006-C23 III LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2006-C24 III LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2006-C25 III LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance WBCMT 2002-C1 III LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Development Corporation

North Carolina 

Wachovia Education Loan Funding LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Finance Ireland Limited

Ireland 

Wachovia Fixed Income Structured Trading Solutions, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia FSD SCP, LLC

North Carolina 

Wachovia Guaranteed Middle Tier III-A/NC, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Guaranteed Middle Tier IV-P/NC, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Guaranteed Middle Tier IV-U/NC, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund II, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund III-A/GA, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund III-A/NC, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund III-CN/GA, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund IV-P/GA, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund IV-P/NC, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund IV-U/GA, LLC

Delaware 

31 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2010:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

Wachovia Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund IV-U/NC, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund V-F/M, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund V-VA/M, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund-C/GA, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund-WF/CA, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund-WF/CA-2, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia High Yield Investments Corporation

Delaware 

Wachovia Holdings, Inc.

Delaware 

Wachovia International B.V.

Netherlands 

Wachovia International Capital Corporation

Georgia 

Wachovia International Servicos, LTDA

Brazil 

Wachovia Investors, Inc.

North Carolina 

Wachovia KW1, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia KW2, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Large Loan, Inc.

Delaware 

Wachovia Management Corporation

California 

Wachovia Mortgage Corporation

North Carolina 

Wachovia Mortgage Loan Trust, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Netherlands B.V.

Netherlands 

Wachovia Netherlands Holdings, Inc.

Delaware 

Wachovia Ocean View Member, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Operational Services, LLC

North Carolina 

Wachovia Preferred Funding Corp.

Delaware 

Wachovia Preferred Funding Holding Corp.

California 

Wachovia Preferred Realty, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Private Capital, Inc.

Pennsylvania 

Wachovia Proprietary Equity Trading, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia RE, Inc.

South Carolina 

Wachovia Real Estate Investment Corp.

Delaware 

Wachovia Real Estate Korea, Inc.

Korea 

Wachovia Regional Community Development Corporation, Inc.

Pennsylvania 

Wachovia Residual Interest Securitization, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Risk Services, Inc.

Virginia 

Wachovia Securities (Uruguay) S.A.

Uruguay 

Wachovia Securities Financial Holdings, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Securities Insurance Agency of Puerto Rico, Inc.

Puerto Rico 

Wachovia Securities Servicos e Participacoes (Brasil) LTDA

Brazil 

Wachovia Service Corporation

Delaware 

Wachovia Settlement Services of AL, LLC

Alabama 

Wachovia Settlement Services, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Shared Resources, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Student Loan Trust 2005-1

Delaware 

Wachovia Student Loan Trust 2006-1

Delaware 

32 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2010:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

Wachovia Technology Planning   Solutions Private Limited

India 

Wachovia Trade Finance Corporation

Delaware 

Wachovia Warranty Corporation

Delaware 

Wapiti Funding, LLC

Delaware 

Warder Mansion, L. P.

Virginia 

Water s Edge Clearwater, LLC

Delaware 

Waterside Villages, LLC

Delaware 

Wauregan Development LLC

Connecticut 

WBI Holdings I, LLC

Delaware 

WBI Holdings II, LLC

Delaware 

WBI Holdings III, LLC

Delaware 

WBI Holdings IV, LLC

Delaware 

WBI Holdings V, LLC

Delaware 

WBI Holdings VI, LLC

Delaware 

WCI OREO, LLC

Delaware 

WCP Compression Holdings, LLC

North Carolina 

WCP Compression, LLC

North Carolina 

WCP Holdings 2002, LLC

North Carolina 

WCP Holdings 2004, LLC

North Carolina 

WCP Secondary Fund I GP, LLC

Delaware 

WDC 541 N Fairbanks Member, LLC

Delaware 

WDC Lake Spivey Member, LLC

Delaware 

WDC Triad Member I, LLC

Delaware 

WDC Triad Parent, LLC

Delaware 

WDC Union Station, LLC

Delaware 

WDC Ventures Ltd.

Mauritius 

WDS Holdings, Inc.

Delaware 

WDS Receivables LLC

Nevada 

WDSI, LLC

Delaware 

WELF Holding LLC

Delaware 

Wells Capital Management Incorporated

California 

Wells Fargo Advisors (Argentina) LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Advisors (Chile) LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Advisors (Montevideo) Usuaria de Zona Franca S.A.

Uruguay 

Wells Fargo Advisors Financial Network, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Advisors Insurance Agency, LLC

Virgina 

Wells Fargo Advisors, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Alternative Asset Management, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Asia Limited

Hong Kong 

Wells Fargo Asset Management Corporation

Minnesota 

Wells Fargo Asset Securities Corporation

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Auto Finance, LLC.

California 

Wells Fargo Bank International

Ireland 

33 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2010:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

Wells Fargo Bank Northwest, National Association

United States 

Wells Fargo Bank South Central, National Association

United States 

Wells Fargo Bank, Ltd.

California 

Wells Fargo Bank, National Association

United States 

Wells Fargo Bill Presentment Venture Member, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Business Credit Canada ULC

Canada 

Wells Fargo Capital A

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Capital B

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Capital C

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Capital Finance Corporation Canada

Canada-Ontario 

Wells Fargo Capital Finance, Inc.

California 

Wells Fargo Capital Finance, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Capital Holdings, Inc.

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Capital I

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Capital II

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Capital IV

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Capital IX

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Capital VII

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Capital VIII

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Capital X

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Capital XI

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Capital XII

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Capital XIII

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Capital XIV

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Capital XV

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Cash Centers, Inc.

Nevada 

Wells Fargo Cedar Creek, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Central Bank

California 

Wells Fargo Central Pacific Holdings, Inc.

California 

Wells Fargo CM Funding, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Commercial Mortgage

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Commercial Mortgage Securities, Inc.

North Carolina 

Wells Fargo Commodities, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Community Development Corporation

Nevada 

Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprises, Inc.

Nevada 

Wells Fargo Community Investment Holdings, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Credit Card Funding LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Credit Card Master Note Trust

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Credit, Inc.

Minnesota 

Wells Fargo Dealer Services, Inc

California 

Wells Fargo Delaware Trust Company, National Association

United States 

Wells Fargo Distribution Finance, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Energy Capital, Inc.

Texas 

34 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2010:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

Wells Fargo Equipment Finance Company

Canada 

Wells Fargo Equipment Finance, Inc.

Minnesota 

Wells Fargo Equity Capital, Inc.

California 

Wells Fargo Escrow Company, LLC

Iowa 

Wells Fargo Exchange Services, Inc.

North Carolina 

Wells Fargo Exchange Services, LLC.

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Fairway Member, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Financial Acceptance America, Inc.

Pennsylvania 

Wells Fargo Financial Acceptance, LLC

Minnesota 

Wells Fargo Financial Agency, Co.

Iowa 

Wells Fargo Financial Alabama, Inc.

Alabama 

Wells Fargo Financial Alaska, Inc.

Alaska 

Wells Fargo Financial America, Inc.

Pennsylvania 

Wells Fargo Financial Arizona, Inc.

Arizona 

Wells Fargo Financial Arkansas, Inc.

Arkansas 

Wells Fargo Financial California, Inc.

Colorado 

Wells Fargo Financial Canada Corporation

Canada 

Wells Fargo Financial Colorado, Inc.

Colorado 

Wells Fargo Financial Connecticut, Inc.

Connecticut 

Wells Fargo Financial Corporation Canada

Canada 

Wells Fargo Financial Credit Services New York, Inc.

New York 

Wells Fargo Financial Delaware, Inc.

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Financial Florida, Inc.

Florida 

Wells Fargo Financial Funding B.V.

Netherlands 

Wells Fargo Financial Georgia, Inc.

Iowa 

Wells Fargo Financial Guam, Inc.

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Financial Hawaii, Inc.

Hawaii 

Wells Fargo Financial Holdings, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Financial Hong Kong Limited

Hong Kong 

Wells Fargo Financial Idaho, Inc.

Idaho 

Wells Fargo Financial Illinois, Inc.

Iowa 

Wells Fargo Financial Indiana, Inc.

Indiana 

Wells Fargo Financial Information Services, Inc.

Iowa 

Wells Fargo Financial Investment, Inc.

Nevada 

Wells Fargo Financial Iowa 1, Inc.

Iowa 

Wells Fargo Financial Iowa 3, Inc.

Iowa 

Wells Fargo Financial Kansas, Inc.

Kansas 

Wells Fargo Financial Kentucky 1, Inc.

Kentucky 

Wells Fargo Financial Kentucky, Inc.

Kentucky 

Wells Fargo Financial Leasing, Inc.

Iowa 

Wells Fargo Financial Louisiana, Inc.

Louisiana 

Wells Fargo Financial Maine, Inc.

Maine 

Wells Fargo Financial Maryland, Inc.

Maryland 

35 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2010:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

Wells Fargo Financial Massachusetts 1, Inc.

Massachusetts 

Wells Fargo Financial Massachusetts, Inc.

Massachusetts 

Wells Fargo Financial Michigan, Inc.

Michigan 

Wells Fargo Financial Minnesota, Inc.

Minnesota 

Wells Fargo Financial Mississippi 2, Inc.

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Financial Mississippi, Inc.

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Financial Missouri, Inc.

Missouri 

Wells Fargo Financial Montana, Inc.

Montana 

Wells Fargo Financial National Bank

United States 

Wells Fargo Financial Nebraska, Inc.

Nebraska 

Wells Fargo Financial Nevada 1, Inc.

Nevada 

Wells Fargo Financial Nevada 2, Inc.

Nevada 

Wells Fargo Financial Nevada, Inc.

Nevada 

Wells Fargo Financial New Hampshire 1, Inc.

New Hampshire 

Wells Fargo Financial New Hampshire, Inc.

New Hampshire 

Wells Fargo Financial New Jersey, Inc.

New Jersey 

Wells Fargo Financial New Mexico, Inc.

New Mexico 

Wells Fargo Financial New York, Inc.

New York 

Wells Fargo Financial North Carolina 1, Inc.

North Carolina 

Wells Fargo Financial North Carolina, Inc.

North Carolina 

Wells Fargo Financial North Dakota, Inc.

North Dakota 

Wells Fargo Financial Ohio 1, Inc.

New Hampshire 

Wells Fargo Financial Ohio, Inc.

Ohio 

Wells Fargo Financial Oklahoma, Inc.

Oklahoma 

Wells Fargo Financial Oregon, Inc.

Oregon 

Wells Fargo Financial Pennsylvania, Inc.

Pennsylvania 

Wells Fargo Financial Puerto Rico, Inc.

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Financial Resources, Inc.

Iowa 

Wells Fargo Financial Retail Credit, Inc.

Iowa 

Wells Fargo Financial Retail Services Company Canada

Canada 

Wells Fargo Financial Retail Services, Inc.

Iowa 

Wells Fargo Financial Rhode Island, Inc.

Rhode Island 

Wells Fargo Financial Saipan, Inc.

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Financial Security Services, Inc.

Iowa 

Wells Fargo Financial Services Virginia, Inc.

Virginia 

Wells Fargo Financial Services, Inc.

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Financial South Carolina, Inc.

South Carolina 

Wells Fargo Financial South Dakota, Inc.

South Dakota 

Wells Fargo Financial System Florida, Inc.

Florida 

Wells Fargo Financial System Minnesota, Inc.

Minnesota 

Wells Fargo Financial System Virginia, Inc.

Virginia 

Wells Fargo Financial Tennessee 1, LLC

Tennessee 

Wells Fargo Financial Tennessee, Inc.

Tennessee 

36 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2010:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

Wells Fargo Financial Texas, Inc.

Texas 

Wells Fargo Financial Utah, Inc.

Utah 

Wells Fargo Financial Vermont, Inc.

Vermont 

Wells Fargo Financial Virginia, Inc.

Virginia 

Wells Fargo Financial Washington 1, Inc.

Washington 

Wells Fargo Financial Washington, Inc.

Washington 

Wells Fargo Financial West Virginia, Inc.

West Virginia 

Wells Fargo Financial Wisconsin, Inc.

Wisconsin 

Wells Fargo Financial Wyoming, Inc.

Wyoming 

Wells Fargo Financial, Inc.

Iowa 

Wells Fargo Financing Corporation

California 

Wells Fargo Foothill Canada ULC

Canada 

Wells Fargo Fund Services, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Funding, Inc.

Minnesota 

Wells Fargo Funds Distributor, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Funds Management, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Gaming Capital, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Global Broker Network, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Global Soporte Ltd.

Chile 

Wells Fargo Home Mortgage of Hawaii, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Housing Advisors, Inc.

California 

Wells Fargo India Solutions Private Limited

India 

Wells Fargo Institutional Securities, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Insurance Nevada, Inc.

Nevada 

Wells Fargo Insurance Services Investment Advisors, Inc.

North Carolina 

Wells Fargo Insurance Services of New York, Inc.

New York 

Wells Fargo Insurance Services of West Virginia, Inc.

West Virginia 

Wells Fargo Insurance Services USA, Inc.

North Carolina 

Wells Fargo Insurance Wyoming, Inc.

Wyoming 

Wells Fargo Insurance, Inc.

Minnesota 

Wells Fargo International Banking Corporation

United States 

Wells Fargo International Commercial Services Limited

Hong Kong 

Wells Fargo International Inc.

Delaware 

Wells Fargo International Services Private Limited

India 

Wells Fargo Investment Group, Inc.

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Investments, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Merchant Services, L.LC.

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Mortgage Loan Trust, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Preferred Capital, Inc.

Iowa 

Wells Fargo Principal Lending, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Private Client Funding, Inc.

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Properties, Inc.

Minnesota 

Wells Fargo RE, Inc.

New Jersey 

Wells Fargo Real Estate Advisors Private Limited

India 

37 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2010:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

Wells Fargo Real Estate Capital Investments, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Real Estate Tax Services, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Relative Value Portfolio

Cayman Islands 

Wells Fargo Retail Finance II, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Securities (Japan) Co. Ltd.

Japan 

Wells Fargo Securities Asia Limited

Hong Kong 

Wells Fargo Securities International Limited

United Kingdom-England 

Wells Fargo Securities, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Servicing Solutions, LLC

Florida 

Wells Fargo Small Business Investment Company, Inc.

California 

Wells Fargo Special Risks, Inc.

Illinois 

Wells Fargo Structured Lending, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Student Loans Receivables I, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Third Party Administrators, Inc.

West Virginia 

Wells Fargo Trade Capital Services, Inc.

New York 

Wells Fargo Trade Capital, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Trust Corporation Limited

United Kingdom-England 

Wells Fargo Ventures, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Wealth Brokerage Insurance Agency, LLC

Virginia 

Wells Fargo Wind Holdings, LLC

Delaware 

WES Holding Corporation

Delaware 

WestFin Insurance Agency, Inc.

California 

Westlake Insurance Company (Bermuda), Ltd.

Bermuda 

WF Deferred Compensation Holdings, Inc.

Delaware 

WF Investment Holdings, LLC

Delaware 

WFC Holdings Corporation

Delaware 

WFI Insurance Agency Montana, Inc.

Montana 

WFI Insurance Agency Washington, Inc.

Washington 

WFJV, LLC

Delaware 

WFLC Subsidiary, LLC

Delaware 

WFRBD, LLC

Delaware 

WFS Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

WFS Receivables Corporation 3

California 

WFS Web Investments

California 

WG-5278 MO, LLC

Delaware 

Wheat First Butcher Singer Private Equity Fund, Limited Partnership

Virginia 

Wheels Exchange, LLC

Delaware 

Whippet Funding, LLC

Delaware 

Whitney Hotel Limited Partnership

Louisiana 

WIBC Aruba N.V.

Aruba 

WIH CDO, LLC

Delaware 

WIH Holdings

Mauritius 

William Byrd Hotel Associates, L.P.

Virginia 

William Pitt Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Winmark Financial, LLC

Delaware 

38 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2010:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

WLH 2008-1, LLC

Delaware 

World Loan Company, LLC

Texas 

World Mortgage Company

Colorado 

World Savings, Inc.

California 

WPFC Asset Funding LLC

Delaware 

WREK Retail I, LLC

Delaware 

WSH Holdings, LTD.

UK-Cayman Islands 

39 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 8
 f56816exv23.htm
 EX-23

exv23 

Exhibit 23 

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

The Board of Directors 
Wells Fargo   Company:

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statements noted below on Forms
S-3, S-4 and S-8 of Wells Fargo   Company, of our reports dated February 25, 2011, with respect to
the consolidated balance sheet of Wells Fargo   Company and Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2010
and 2009, and the related consolidated statements of income, changes in stockholders  equity and
comprehensive income, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December
31, 2010 and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2010, which reports appear in the December 31, 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K of Wells Fargo  
Company.

Our report refers to the adoption of a new accounting standard related to its involvement with
variable interest entities effective January 1, 2010, and the Company s change in method of
evaluating other than temporary impairment for debt securities in 2009 and certain equity
investment securities in 2008.

/s/ KPMG LLP 
San Francisco, California 
February 25, 2011

</EX-23>

<EX-24>
 9
 f56816exv24.htm
 EX-24

exv24 

Exhibit 24 

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY

Power of Attorney of Director

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned director of WELLS FARGO   COMPANY, a
Delaware corporation, does hereby make, constitute, and appoint NICHOLAS G. MOORE, a director and
Chairman of the Audit and Examination Committee of the Board of Directors, and CYNTHIA H. MILLIGAN,
a director and member of the Audit and Examination Committee of the Board of Directors, and each or
either of them, the undersigned s true and lawful attorneys-in-fact, with power of substitution,
for the undersigned and in the undersigned s name, place, and stead, to sign and affix the
undersigned s name as such director of said Company to an Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
year ended December 31, 2010, and all amendments thereto, to be filed by said Company with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C. under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and
the rules and regulations of said Commission, and to file the same, with all exhibits thereto and
other supporting documents, with said Commission, granting unto said attorneys-in-fact, and each of
them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts necessary or incidental to the
performance and execution of the powers herein expressly granted.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this power of attorney this 22nd day of
February, 2011.

/s/ JOHN D. BAKER II 
/s/ JOHN S. CHEN 
/s/ LLOYD H. DEAN 
/s/ SUSAN E. ENGEL 
/s/ ENRIQUE HERNANDEZ, JR. 
/s/ DONALD M. JAMES 
/s/ RICHARD D. McCORMICK 
/s/ MACKEY J. McDONALD

/s/ CYNTHIA H. MILLIGAN 
/s/ NICHOLAS G. MOORE 
/s/ PHILIP J. QUIGLEY 
/s/ JUDITH M. RUNSTAD 
/s/ STEPHEN W. SANGER 
/s/ JOHN G. STUMPF 
/s/ SUSAN G. SWENSON

</EX-24>

<EX-31.A>
 10
 f56816exv31wa.htm
 EX-31.A

exv31wa 

Exhibit 31(a) 

CERTIFICATION  

I, John G. Stumpf, certify that:

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of
the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the
period covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods
presented in this report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

(a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused
such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision,
to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its
consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities,
particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

(b) 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or
caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our
supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 

(c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure
controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the
period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 

(d) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s
most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case
of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting;
and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons
performing the equivalent functions): 

(a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the
design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record,
process, summarize and report financial information; and 

(b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management
or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting. 

Date: February 25, 2011  

/s/
JOHN G. STUMPF

John G. Stumpf  

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-31.A>

<EX-31.B>
 11
 f56816exv31wb.htm
 EX-31.B

exv31wb 

Exhibit 31(b) 

CERTIFICATION  

I, Timothy J. Sloan, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010,
of Wells Fargo   Company; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of
the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the
period covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods
presented in this report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

(a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused
such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision,
to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its
consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities,
particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

(b) 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or
caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our
supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 

(c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure
controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the
period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 

(d) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s
most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case
of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting;
and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons
performing the equivalent functions): 

(a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the
design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report
financial information; and 

(b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management
or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting. 

Date: February 25, 2011  

/s/ TIMOTHY J. SLOAN

Timothy J. Sloan  

Senior Executive Vice President
and 
Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-31.B>

<EX-32.A>
 12
 f56816exv32wa.htm
 EX-32.A

exv32wa 

Exhibit 32(a) 

Certification of Periodic Financial Report by 
Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to 
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 
and 18 U.S.C.   1350 

I, John G. Stumpf, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Wells Fargo   Company
(the  Company ), certify that:

(1) 
       
     The Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, (the
 Report ) fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934; and 

(2) 
       
     the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

/s/ JOHN G. STUMPF

John G. Stumpf  

Chairman, President and Chief
Executive Officer 
Wells Fargo   Company February 25, 2011 

A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to
Wells Fargo   Company and will be retained by Wells Fargo   Company and furnished to the Securities
and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.

</EX-32.A>

<EX-32.B>
 13
 f56816exv32wb.htm
 EX-32.B

exv32wb 

Exhibit 32(b) 

Certification of Periodic Financial Report by 
Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 
and 18 U.S.C.   1350 

I, Timothy J. Sloan, Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Wells
Fargo   Company (the  Company ), certify that:

(1) 
       
     The Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, (the
 Report ) fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934; and 

(2) 
       
     the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

/s/ TIMOTHY J. SLOAN

Timothy J. Sloan  

Senior Executive Vice President
and 
Chief Financial Officer 
Wells Fargo   Company February 25, 2011 

A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to
Wells Fargo   Company and will be retained by Wells Fargo   Company and furnished to the Securities
and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.

</EX-32.B>

<EX-99>
 14
 f56816exv99.htm
 EX-99

exv99 

Exhibit 99 

Description of Replacement Capital Covenants of  
 Wells Fargo   Company and Wachovia Corporation 

(1)       On December 5, 2006, Wells Fargo Capital X issued 5.95% Capital Securities and used the
proceeds to purchase from the Parent 5.95% Capital Efficient Notes (the Notes) due 2086 (scheduled
maturity 2036). When it issued the Notes, the Parent entered into a Replacement Capital Covenant
(the Covenant) in which it agreed for the benefit of the holders of the Parent s 5.625% Junior
Subordinated Debentures due 2034 that it will not repay, redeem or repurchase, and that none of its
subsidiaries will purchase, any part of the Notes or the Capital Securities on or before December
1, 2066, unless the repayment, redemption or repurchase is made from the net cash proceeds of the
issuance of certain qualified securities and pursuant to the other terms and conditions set forth
in the Covenant. For more information, refer to the Covenant, which was filed as Exhibit 99.1 to
the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 5, 2006.

(2)       On May 25, 2007, Wells Fargo Capital XI issued 6.25% Enhanced Trust Preferred Securities
(Enhanced  TruPS  ) (the 2007 Capital Securities) and used the proceeds to purchase from the
Parent 6.25% Junior Subordinated Deferrable Interest Debentures due 2067 (the 2007 Notes). When it
issued the 2007 Notes, the Parent entered into a Replacement Capital Covenant (the 2007 Covenant)
in which it agreed for the benefit of the holders of the Parent s 5.625% Junior Subordinated
Debentures due 2034 that it will not repay, redeem or repurchase, and that none of its subsidiaries
will purchase, any part of the 2007 Notes or the 2007 Capital Securities on or before June 15,
2057, unless the repayment, redemption or repurchase is made from the net cash proceeds of the
issuance of certain qualified securities and pursuant to the other terms and conditions set forth
in the 2007 Covenant. For more information, refer to the 2007 Covenant, which was filed as Exhibit
99.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed May 25, 2007.

(3)       On March 12, 2008, Wells Fargo Capital XII issued 7.875% Enhanced Trust Preferred Securities
(Enhanced TRUPS ) (the First 2008 Capital Securities) and used the proceeds to purchase from the
Parent 7.875% Junior Subordinated Deferrable Interest Debentures due 2068 (the First 2008 Notes).
When it issued the First 2008 Notes, the Parent entered into a Replacement Capital Covenant (the
First 2008 Covenant) in which it agreed for the benefit of the holders of the Parent s 5.375% Notes
due 2035 (the Covered Debt) that it will not repay, redeem or repurchase, and that none of its
subsidiaries will purchase, any part of the First 2008 Notes or the First 2008 Capital Securities
on or before March 15, 2048, unless the repayment, redemption or repurchase is made from the net
cash proceeds of the issuance of certain qualified securities and pursuant to the other terms and
conditions set forth in the First 2008 Covenant. For more information, refer to the First 2008
Covenant, which was filed as Exhibit 99.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed March
12, 2008.

(4)       On May 19, 2008, Wells Fargo Capital XIII issued 7.70% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Normal Preferred
Purchase Securities (PPS) (the Second 2008 Capital Securities). The proceeds were used to purchase
Remarketable 7.50% Junior Subordinated Notes maturing in 2044 (the Second 2008 Notes) from the
Parent. In connection with the issuance of the Second 2008 Capital Securities, the Trust and the
Parent entered into a forward stock purchase

contract that obligates the Trust to purchase the Parent s Noncumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock,
Series A (the Series A Preferred Stock) and obligates the Parent to make payments to the Trust of
0.20% per annum through the stock purchase date, expected to be March 26, 2013 (the Series A Stock
Purchase Date). Prior to the Series A Stock Purchase Date, the Trust is required to remarket and
sell the Second 2008 Notes to third party investors to generate cash proceeds to satisfy its
obligation to purchase the Series A Preferred Stock. When it issued the Second 2008 Notes, the
Parent entered into a Replacement Capital Covenant (the Second 2008 Covenant) in which it agreed
for the benefit of the holders of the Covered Debt that, after the date it notifies the holders of
the Covered Debt of the Second 2008 Covenant, it will not repay, redeem or repurchase, and that
none of its subsidiaries will purchase, (i) any part of the Second 2008 Notes prior to the Series A
Stock Purchase Date or (ii) any part of the Second 2008 Capital Securities or the Series A
Preferred Stock prior to the date that is 10 years after the Series A Stock Purchase Date, unless
the repayment, redemption or repurchase is made from the net cash proceeds of the issuance of
certain qualified securities and pursuant to the other terms and conditions set forth in the Second
2008 Covenant. As of December 31, 2010, the Parent has not notified the holders of the Covered Debt
of the effectiveness of the Second 2008 Covenant. For more information, refer to the Second 2008
Covenant, which was filed as Exhibit 99.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed May 19,
2008.

(5)       On September 10, 2008, Wells Fargo Capital XV issued 9.75% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Normal PPS
(the Third 2008 Capital Securities). The proceeds were used to purchase Remarketable 9.25% Junior
Subordinated Notes maturing in 2044 (the Third 2008 Notes) from the Parent. In connection with the
issuance of the Third 2008 Capital Securities, the Trust and the Parent entered into a forward
stock purchase contract that obligates the Trust to purchase the Parent s Noncumulative Perpetual
Preferred Stock, Series B (the Series B Preferred Stock) and obligates the Parent to make payments
to the Trust of 0.50% per annum through the stock purchase date, expected to be September 26, 2013
(the Series B Stock Purchase Date). Prior to the Series B Stock Purchase Date, the Trust is
required to remarket and sell the Third 2008 Notes to third party investors to generate cash
proceeds to satisfy its obligation to purchase the Series B Preferred Stock. When it issued the
Third 2008 Notes, the Parent entered into a Replacement Capital Covenant (the Third 2008 Covenant)
in which it agreed for the benefit of the holders of the Covered Debt that, after the date it
notifies the holders of the Covered Debt of the Third 2008 Covenant, it will not repay, redeem or
repurchase, and that none of its subsidiaries will purchase, (i) any part of the Third 2008 Notes
prior to the Series B Stock Purchase Date or (ii) any part of the Third 2008 Capital Securities or
the Series B Preferred Stock prior to the date that is 10 years after the Series B Stock Purchase
Date, unless the repayment, redemption or repurchase is made from the net cash proceeds of the
issuance of certain qualified securities and pursuant to the other terms and conditions set forth
in the Third 2008 Covenant. As of December 31, 2010, the Parent has not notified the holders of the
Covered Debt of the effectiveness of the Third 2008 Covenant. For more information, refer to the
Third 2008 Covenant, which was filed as Exhibit 99.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K
filed September 10, 2008.

(6)       On February 1, 2006, Wachovia Capital Trust III issued 5.80% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Wachovia
Income Trust Securities (the First Wachovia Trust Securities) and used the proceeds to purchase
from Wachovia Remarketable Junior Subordinated Notes due 2042 (the First Wachovia Notes). In
connection with the issuance of the First Wachovia Trust Securities, the Trust and Wachovia entered
into a forward stock purchase contract that

obligates the Trust to purchase Wachovia s Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series
I (the Series I Preferred Stock) and obligates Wachovia to make payments to the Trust of 0.60% per
annum through the stock purchase date, expected to be March 15, 2011 (the Series I Stock Purchase
Date). Prior to the Series I Stock Purchase Date, the Trust is required to remarket and sell the
First Wachovia Notes to third party investors to generate cash proceeds to satisfy its obligation
to purchase the Series I Preferred Stock. When it issued the First Wachovia Notes, Wachovia
entered into a Declaration of Covenant (the First Wachovia Covenant) in which it agreed for the
benefit of the holders of the Wachovia s Floating Rate Junior Subordinated deferrable Interest
Debentures due January 15, 2027 (the Wachovia Covered Debt) that it will repurchase the First
Wachovia Trust Securities or redeem or repurchase shares of the Series I Preferred Stock only if
and to the extent that the total redemption or repurchase price is equal to or less than the net
cash proceeds of the issuance of certain qualified securities as described in the First Wachovia
Covenant. In connection with the Wachovia acquisition, the Parent assumed all of Wachovia s
obligations under the First Wachovia Covenant. For more information, refer to the First Wachovia
Covenant, which was filed as Exhibit 99.1 to Wachovia s Current Report on Form 8-K filed February
1, 2006.

(7)       On February 15, 2007, Wachovia Capital Trust IV issued 6.375% Trust Preferred Securities (the
Second Wachovia Trust Securities) and used the proceeds to purchase from Wachovia 6.375% Extendible
Long Term Subordinated Notes (the Second Wachovia Notes). When it issued the Second Wachovia Notes,
Wachovia entered into a Replacement Capital Covenant (the Second Wachovia Covenant) in which it
agreed for the benefit of the holders of the Wachovia Covered Debt that it will not repay, redeem
or repurchase, and that none of its subsidiaries will purchase, any part of the Second Wachovia
Notes or the Second Wachovia Trust Securities on or after the scheduled maturity date of the
Second Wachovia Notes and prior to the date that is 20 years prior to the final repayment date of
the Second Wachovia Notes, unless the repayment, redemption or repurchase is made from the net cash
proceeds of the issuance of certain qualified securities and pursuant to the other terms and
conditions set forth in the Second Wachovia Covenant. In connection with the Wachovia acquisition,
the Parent assumed all of Wachovia s obligations under the Second Wachovia Covenant. For more
information, refer to the Second Wachovia Covenant, which was filed as Exhibit 99.1 to Wachovia s
Current Report on Form 8-K filed February 15, 2007.

(8)       On May 8, 2007, Wachovia Capital Trust IX issued 6.375% Trust Preferred Securities (the Third
Wachovia Trust Securities) and used the proceeds to purchase from Wachovia 6.375% Extendible Long
Term Subordinated Notes (the Third Wachovia Notes). When it issued the Third Wachovia Notes,
Wachovia entered into a Replacement Capital Covenant (the Third Wachovia Covenant) in which it
agreed for the benefit of the holders of the Wachovia Covered Debt that it will not repay, redeem
or repurchase, and that none of its subsidiaries will purchase, any part of the Third Wachovia
Notes or the Third Wachovia Trust Securities (i) on or after the earlier of the date that is 30
years prior to the final repayment date of the Third Wachovia Notes and the scheduled maturity date
of the Third Wachovia Notes and (ii) prior to the later of the date that is 20 years prior to the
final repayment date of the Third Wachovia Notes and June 15, 2057, unless the repayment,
redemption or repurchase is made from the net cash proceeds of the issuance of certain qualified
securities and pursuant to the other terms and conditions set forth in the Third Wachovia Covenant.
In connection with the Wachovia acquisition, the Parent assumed all of Wachovia s obligations under
the Third Wachovia Covenant. For more information, refer to

the Third Wachovia Covenant, which was filed as Exhibit 99.1 to Wachovia s Current Report on Form
8-K filed May 8, 2007.

(9)       On November 21, 2007, Wachovia Capital Trust X issued 7.85% Trust Preferred Securities (the
Fourth Wachovia Trust Securities) and used the proceeds to purchase from Wachovia 7.85% Extendible
Long Term Subordinated Notes (the Fourth Wachovia Notes). When it issued the Fourth Wachovia Notes,
Wachovia entered into a Replacement Capital Covenant (the Fourth Wachovia Covenant) in which it
agreed for the benefit of the holders of the Wachovia Covered Debt that it will not repay, redeem
or repurchase, and that none of its subsidiaries will purchase, any part of the Fourth Wachovia
Notes or the Fourth Wachovia Trust Securities (i) on or after the earlier of the date that is 30
years prior to the final repayment date of the Fourth Wachovia Notes and the scheduled maturity
date of the Fourth Wachovia Notes and (ii) prior to the later of the date that is 20 years prior to
the final repayment date of the Fourth Wachovia Notes and December 15, 2057, unless the repayment,
redemption or repurchase is made from the net cash proceeds of the issuance of certain qualified
securities and pursuant to the other terms and conditions set forth in the Fourth Wachovia
Covenant. In connection with the Wachovia acquisition, the Parent assumed all of Wachovia s
obligations under the Fourth Wachovia Covenant. For more information, refer to the Fourth Wachovia
Covenant, which was filed as Exhibit 99.1 to Wachovia s Current Report on Form 8-K filed November
21, 2007.

</EX-99>

<EX-101.INS>
 15
 wfc-20101231.xml
 EX-101 INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 16
 wfc-20101231.xsd
 EX-101 SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 17
 wfc-20101231_cal.xml
 EX-101 CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.LAB>
 18
 wfc-20101231_lab.xml
 EX-101 LABELS LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 19
 wfc-20101231_pre.xml
 EX-101 PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

<EX-101.DEF>
 20
 wfc-20101231_def.xml
 EX-101 DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

