<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20130227_10-K_edgar_data_72971_0001193125-13-078820_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>73956300</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>1876073</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>19619797</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>17393035</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>25102557</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>8250201</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>260</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>20</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-13-078820.hdr.sgml : 20130227
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20130227110748
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-13-078820
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		23
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20121231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20130227
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20130227

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			WELLS FARGO & COMPANY/MN
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000072971
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS [6021]
		IRS NUMBER:				410449260
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-02979
		FILM NUMBER:		13645381

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		420 MONTGOMERY STREET
		CITY:			SAN FRANCISCO
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94163
		BUSINESS PHONE:		6126671234

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		420 MONTGOMERY STREET
		CITY:			SAN FRANCISCO
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94163

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	WELLS FARGO & CO/MN
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19981103

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	NORWEST CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	NORTHWEST BANCORPORATION
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19830516

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001193125-13-078820.txt : 20130227

10-K
 1
 d450230d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

UNITED STATES        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        Washington, D.C. 20549
       Form 10-K       Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934       
     WELLS FARGO   COMPANY    
  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)       
    420 Montgomery Street, San Francisco, California 94163   
  (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip code)      Registrant s telephone number, including area code: 1-866-878-5865   
   Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:    

Title of Each Class   
      
    Name of Each Exchange      on Which Registered     

Warrants to purchase shares of Common Stock (expiring October 28, 2018)  
      
  NYSE   
 
  Depositary Shares, each representing a
1/40   th    interest in a share of 8.00% Non-Cumulative
Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series J  
      
  NYSE   
 
  7.5% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Convertible Class A Preferred Stock, Series L  
      
  NYSE   
 
  Depositary Shares, each representing a
1/1000   th    interest in a share of Non-Cumulative Perpetual
Class A Preferred Stock, Series N  
      
  NYSE   
 
  Depositary Shares, each representing a
1/1000   th    interest in a share of Non-Cumulative Perpetual
Class A Preferred Stock, Series O  
      
  NYSE   
 
  Guarantee of 5.80% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Normal Wachovia Income Trust Securities of Wachovia Capital Trust III  
      
  NYSE   
     Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:    
  Dividend Equalization Preferred Shares, no par value      Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.
Yes             No                Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.
Yes            No                 Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months, and
(2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes             No          
     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Website, if any, every Interactive
Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes             No                Indicate by
check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.             Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See definitions of  large accelerated
filer,   accelerated filer,  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):   

Large accelerated filer        
      
    Accelerated filer         
 
    Non-accelerated filer       
  (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)   
      
    Smaller reporting company         
    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell Company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).
Yes            No                 At June 30, 2012, the aggregate market value of common stock held by non-affiliates was approximately $175.4 billion, based on a closing price of $33.44. At January 31, 2013,
5,270,881,531 shares of common stock were outstanding.       Documents Incorporated by Reference in Form 10-K    

PART I.        

ITEM 1.   
   BUSINESS         Wells Fargo   Company
is a corporation organized under the laws of Delaware and a financial holding company and a bank holding company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (BHC Act). Its principal business is to act as a holding company for
its subsidiaries. References in this report to  the Parent  mean the holding company. References to  we,   our,   us  or  the Company  mean the holding company and its subsidiaries that are
consolidated for financial reporting purposes.      At December 31, 2012, we had assets of $1.4 trillion, loans of
$800 billion, deposits of $1.0 trillion and stockholders  equity of $158 billion. Based on assets, we were the fourth largest bank holding company in the United States. At December 31, 2012, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. was the
Company s principal subsidiary with assets of $1.3 trillion, or 89% of the Company s assets.      At December 31,
2012, we had 269,200 active, full-time equivalent team members.      Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form
10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, are available free at  www.wellsfargo.com/invest_relations/filings  as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities
and Exchange Commission (SEC). They are also available free on the SEC s website at  www.sec.gov .

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS        General       We are a diversified financial services company. We provide retail, commercial
and corporate banking services through banking stores and offices, the internet and other distribution channels to individuals, businesses and institutions in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and in other countries. We provide other financial
services through subsidiaries engaged in various businesses, principally: wholesale banking, mortgage banking, consumer finance, equipment leasing, agricultural finance, commercial finance, securities brokerage and investment banking, insurance
agency and brokerage services, computer and data processing services, trust services, investment advisory services, mortgage-backed securities servicing and venture capital investment.   
  We have three operating segments for management reporting purposes: Community Banking; Wholesale Banking; and Wealth, Brokerage and
Retirement. The 2012 Annual Report to Stockholders includes financial information and descriptions of these operating segments.   
   Competition       The financial services
industry is highly competitive. Our subsidiaries compete with financial services providers such as banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, finance companies, mortgage banking companies, insurance companies, investment banks and mutual
fund companies. They also face increased competition from nonbank institutions such as brokerage houses, as well as from financial services subsidiaries of commercial and manufacturing companies. Many of these competitors enjoy fewer regulatory
constraints and some may have lower cost structures.      Securities firms and insurance companies that elect to become financial
holding companies may acquire banks and other financial institutions. Combinations of this type could significantly change the competitive environment in which we conduct business. The financial services industry is also likely to become more
competitive as further technological advances enable more companies to provide financial services. These technological advances may diminish the importance of depository institutions and other financial intermediaries in the transfer of funds
between parties.   

1   

REGULATION AND SUPERVISION       We describe below, and in Notes 3 (Cash, Loan and Dividend Restrictions) and 26 (Regulatory and Agency Capital Requirements) to Financial Statements included in the 2012 Annual Report to Stockholders, the
material elements of the regulatory framework applicable to us. Banking statutes, regulations and policies are continually under review by Congress and state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies, as well as foreign governments and
financial regulators, and a change in them, including changes in how they are interpreted or implemented, could have a material effect on our business. The regulatory framework applicable to bank holding companies is intended to protect depositors,
federal deposit insurance funds, consumers and the banking system as a whole, and not necessarily investors in bank holding companies such as the Company.      Statutes, regulations and policies could restrict our ability to diversify into other areas of financial services, acquire depository institutions, and pay dividends on our capital stock. They may also
require us to provide financial support to one or more of our subsidiary banks, maintain capital balances in excess of amounts desired by management, and pay higher deposit insurance premiums as a result of a general deterioration in the financial
condition of depository institutions. See the  Risk Factors  section in the 2012 Annual Report to Stockholders for additional information.       General        Parent Bank Holding Company.  As a bank holding company, the Parent is
subject to regulation under the BHC Act and to inspection, examination and supervision by its primary regulator, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve Board or FRB). The Parent is also subject to the disclosure and
regulatory requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, both as administered by the SEC. As a company with securities listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), the Parent is subject
to the rules of the NYSE for listed companies.       Subsidiary Banks.  Our subsidiary national banks, and their subsidiaries, are subject to
regulation and examination primarily by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) and also by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), the FRB, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), the SEC and the Commodities Futures
Trading Commission (CFTC). The foreign branches and representative offices of our subsidiary national banks are subject to regulation and examination by their respective foreign financial regulators as well as by the OCC and the FRB. Foreign
subsidiaries of our national bank subsidiaries may be subject to the laws and regulations of the foreign countries in which they conduct business. Our state-chartered bank is subject to primary federal regulation and examination by the FDIC and, in
addition, is regulated and examined by its state banking department.

Nonbank Subsidiaries.  Many of our nonbank subsidiaries are also subject to regulation by the FRB and
other applicable federal and state agencies. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation by applicable state insurance regulatory agencies, as well as the FRB. Our brokerage subsidiaries are regulated by the SEC, the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority (FINRA) and, in some cases, the CFTC and the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, and state securities regulators. Our other nonbank subsidiaries may be subject to the laws and regulations of the federal government and/or the
various states as well as foreign countries in which they conduct business.       Parent Bank Holding Company Activities    
    Financial in Nature  Requirement.  We became a financial holding company effective March 13, 2000. We continue to maintain our
status as a bank holding company for purposes of other FRB regulations. As a bank holding company that has elected to become a financial holding company pursuant to the BHC Act, we may affiliate with securities firms and insurance companies and
engage in other activities that are financial in nature or incidental or complementary to activities that are financial in nature.  Financial in nature  activities include securities underwriting, dealing and market making; sponsoring
mutual funds and investment companies; insurance underwriting and agency; merchant banking; and activities that the FRB, in consultation with the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury, determines to be financial in nature or incidental to such financial
activity.  Complementary activities  are activities that the FRB determines upon application to be complementary to a financial activity and do not pose a safety and soundness risk.   
  FRB approval is not generally required for us to acquire a company (other than a bank holding company, bank or savings association)
engaged in activities that are financial in nature or incidental to activities that are financial in nature, as determined by the FRB. Prior notice to the FRB may be required, however, if the company to be acquired has total consolidated assets of
$10 billion or more. Prior FRB approval is required before we may acquire the beneficial ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares or substantially all of the assets of a bank holding company, bank or savings association. In
addition, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act) also prohibits our ability to merge, acquire all or substantially all of the assets of, or acquire control of another company if our total resulting
consolidated liabilities would exceed 10% of the aggregate consolidated liabilities of all financial companies.      Because we
are a financial holding company, if any of our subsidiary banks receives a rating under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977, as amended (CRA), of less than satisfactory, we will be prohibited, until the rating is raised to satisfactory or better,
from engaging in new activities or acquiring companies other than bank holding companies, banks or savings associations, except that we could engage in new activities, or acquire companies engaged in activities, that are closely related to banking
under the BHC Act. In addition, if the FRB finds that any one of our subsidiary banks is not well capitalized or well managed, we would be required to enter into

2   

an agreement with the FRB to comply with all applicable capital and management requirements and which may contain additional limitations or conditions. Until corrected, we could be prohibited
from engaging in any new activity or acquiring companies engaged in activities that are not closely related to banking under the BHC Act without prior FRB approval. If we fail to correct any such condition within a prescribed period, the FRB could
order us to divest our banking subsidiaries or, in the alternative, to cease engaging in activities other than those closely related to banking under the BHC Act.       Interstate Banking . Under the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Act (Riegle-Neal Act), a bank holding company may acquire banks in states other than its home state, subject to any state
requirement that the bank has been organized and operating for a minimum period of time, not to exceed five years, and the requirement that the bank holding company not control, prior to or following the proposed acquisition, more than 10% of the
total amount of deposits of insured depository institutions nationwide or, unless the acquisition is the bank holding company s initial entry into the state, more than 30% of such deposits in the state (or such lesser or greater amount set by
the state). The Riegle-Neal Act also authorizes banks to merge across state lines, thereby creating interstate branches. Banks are also permitted to acquire and to establish new branches in other states.   
   Regulatory Approval.  In determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition, federal bank regulators will consider, among other factors,
the effect of the acquisition on competition, financial condition, and future prospects including current and projected capital ratios and levels, the competence, experience, and integrity of management and record of compliance with laws and
regulations, the convenience and needs of the communities to be served, including the acquiring institution s record of compliance under the CRA, the effectiveness of the acquiring institution in combating money laundering activities and the
risk to the stability of the United States banking system.       Dividend Restrictions    
  The Parent is a legal entity separate and distinct from its subsidiary banks and other subsidiaries. A significant source of funds to pay dividends on
our common and preferred stock and principal and interest on our debt is dividends from the Parent s subsidiaries. Various federal and state statutory provisions and regulations limit the amount of dividends the Parent s subsidiary banks
and certain other subsidiaries may pay without regulatory approval. Federal bank regulatory agencies have the authority to prohibit the Parent s subsidiary banks from engaging in unsafe or unsound practices in conducting their businesses. The
payment of dividends, depending on the financial condition of the bank in question, could be deemed an unsafe or unsound practice. The ability of the Parent s subsidiary banks to pay dividends in the future is currently, and could be further,
influenced by bank regulatory policies and capital guidelines. For information about the restrictions applicable to the Parent s subsidiary banks, see Note 3 (Cash, Loan and Dividend

Restrictions) to Financial Statements included in the 2012 Annual Report to Stockholders.      In addition to these restrictions on the ability of our subsidiary banks to pay dividends to us, the FRB finalized rules in late December 2011 that require large bank holding companies (BHCs), including
Wells Fargo, to submit annual capital plans and to obtain regulatory approval before making capital distributions, such as the payment of dividends. In late 2011 the FRB also proposed additional regulations that could restrict or prohibit our
ability to pay dividends. These rules, which have not been finalized, would impose capital distribution restrictions, including on the payment of dividends, upon the occurrence of capital, stress test, risk management, or liquidity risk management
triggers.       Holding Company Structure        Transfer of Funds from Subsidiary Banks.  The Parent s subsidiary banks are subject to restrictions under federal law that limit the transfer of funds or other items of value from such
subsidiaries to the Parent and its nonbank subsidiaries (including affiliates) in so-called  covered transactions.  In general, covered transactions include loans and other extensions of credit, investments and asset purchases, as well as
certain other transactions involving the transfer of value from a subsidiary bank to an affiliate or for the benefit of an affiliate. Unless an exemption applies, covered transactions by a subsidiary bank with a single affiliate are limited to 10%
of the subsidiary bank s capital and surplus and, with respect to all covered transactions with affiliates in the aggregate, to 20% of the subsidiary bank s capital and surplus. Also, loans and extensions of credit to affiliates generally
are required to be secured by qualifying collateral. A bank s transactions with its nonbank affiliates are also generally required to be on arm s length terms.       Source of Strength.  The FRB has a policy that a BHC is expected to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to each of its subsidiary banks and, under appropriate circumstances, to
commit resources to support each such subsidiary bank. This support may be required at times when the BHC may not have the resources to provide the support.      The OCC may order an assessment of the Parent if the capital of one of its national bank subsidiaries were to become impaired. If the Parent failed to pay the assessment within three months, the OCC could
order the sale of the Parent s stock in the national bank to cover the deficiency.       Depositor Preference.  In the event of the
 liquidation or other resolution  of an insured depository institution, the claims of deposits payable in the United States (including the claims of the FDIC as subrogee of insured depositors) and certain claims for administrative expenses
of the FDIC as a receiver will have priority over other general unsecured claims against the institution. If an insured depository institution fails, claims of insured and uninsured U.S. depositors, along with claims of the FDIC, will have priority
in payment ahead of unsecured creditors, including the Parent, and depositors whose deposits

3   

are solely payable at such insured depository institution s non-U.S. offices.   
   Liability of Commonly Controlled Institutions.  All of the Company s subsidiary banks are insured by the FDIC. FDIC-insured depository
institutions can be held liable for any loss incurred, or reasonably expected to be incurred, by the FDIC due to the default of an FDIC-insured depository institution controlled by the same bank holding company, and for any assistance provided by
the FDIC to an FDIC-insured depository institution that is in danger of default and that is controlled by the same bank holding company.  Default  means generally the appointment of a conservator or receiver.  In danger of
default  means generally the existence of certain conditions indicating that a default is likely to occur in the absence of regulatory assistance.       Dodd-Frank Act       The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted on July 21, 2010, will result in broad
changes to the U.S. financial system and is the most significant financial reform legislation since the 1930s. Financial regulatory agencies have issued numerous rulemakings to implement its provisions, but a number of rulemakings required by the
Dodd-Frank Act have either not yet been proposed or have not been finalized. As a result, the ultimate impact of the Dodd-Frank Act is not yet known, but it has affected, and we expect it will continue to affect most of our businesses in some way,
either directly through regulation of specific activities or indirectly through regulation of concentration risks, capital or liquidity. At the enterprise level, the FRB published proposed rules in December 2011 to implement the provisions of the
Dodd-Frank Act regarding enhanced supervision and regulation of large BHCs like Wells Fargo and other systemically significant firms. The proposed rules included new risk-based capital requirements and leverage limits, liquidity requirements,
counterparty credit exposure limits, risk management requirements, stress testing requirements, debt-to-equity requirements, and early remediation requirements. In October 2012, the FRB issued final rules regarding stress testing requirements, which
became effective on November 15, 2012. The OCC issued and finalized similar rules during 2012 for stress testing of large national banks. These stress testing rules set forth the timing and type of stress test activities large BHCs and banks
must undertake as well as rules governing testing controls, oversight and disclosure requirements. Until the remaining provisions of the December 2011 FRB proposal are finalized, we are unable to fully estimate their impact on the Company, but we
expect the final rules will significantly increase our compliance and regulatory requirements.      In addition to requiring
rules for the enhanced supervision and regulation of large BHCs and other systemically significant firms, the Dodd-Frank Act also requires the FDIC and FRB to implement rules requiring large BHCs like Wells Fargo to prepare and submit resolution
plans, known as  living wills,  to facilitate the rapid and orderly resolution of the Company in the event of material distress or its failure. Under the rules implemented by the FDIC and FRB in this regard, Wells Fargo is

required to submit its resolution plan to the FDIC and FRB on or before July 1, 2013. This date is also the deadline for the submission of a resolution plan for our principal banking
subsidiary, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association (WFBNA). Pursuant to its general rulemaking authority, the FDIC also requires large banks, like WFBNA, to prepare resolution plans.   
  Federal regulatory agencies issued numerous other rulemakings in 2011 and 2012 to implement various other requirements of the Dodd-Frank
Act, but many of these other proposed rules remain open for comment. Agencies have proposed rules establishing a comprehensive framework for the regulation of derivatives, restricting banking entities from engaging in proprietary trading or owning
interests in or sponsoring hedge funds or private equity funds (the Volcker Rule), and requiring sponsors of asset-backed securities (ABS) to retain an ownership stake in the ABS. In November 2012, the Financial Stability Oversight Council proposed
new regulations for addressing perceived risks that money market mutual funds may pose to the financial stability of the United States. Once final recommendations are issued, the SEC is required to adopt the recommendations or explain its reasons
for not implementing the recommendations. Although we have analyzed these and other proposed rules, the absence of final rules and the complexity of some of the proposed rules make it difficult for the Company to estimate the financial, compliance
or operational impacts of the proposals.      The Dodd-Frank Act also established the CFPB to ensure consumers receive clear and
accurate disclosures regarding financial products and to protect consumers from hidden fees and unfair or abusive practices. The CFPB, which has now been in operation for over a year, has begun exercising supervisory review of banks under its
jurisdiction and has concentrated much of its initial rulemaking efforts on a variety of mortgage-related topics required under the Dodd-Frank Act, including ability-to-repay and qualified mortgage standards, mortgage servicing standards, loan
originator compensation standards, high-cost mortgage requirements, appraisal and escrow standards and requirements for higher-priced mortgages. Several of the CFPB s rulemakings were issued in January 2013, and we continue to analyze their
requirements to determine the impact of the rules to our businesses. During 2013, we expect the CFPB to focus its rulemaking efforts on integrating disclosure requirements for lenders and settlement agents and expanding the scope of information
lenders must report in connection with mortgage and other housing-related loan applications. In addition to the exercise of its rulemaking authority, the CFPB is continuing its on-going examination activities with respect to a number of consumer
businesses and products.       Capital Requirements       We are subject to regulatory capital requirements and guidelines imposed by the FRB, which are substantially similar to those imposed by the OCC and the FDIC on depository institutions within their
jurisdictions. Under these guidelines, a depository institution s or a holding company s assets and certain specified off-balance sheet commitments and obligations are assigned to various risk categories. Tier 1 capital is considered core
capital   

4   

and generally includes common stockholders  equity, qualifying preferred stock, and trust preferred securities, and noncontrolling interests in consolidated subsidiaries, reduced by
goodwill, net of related taxes, certain intangible and other assets in excess of prescribed limitations, and adjusted for the aggregate impact of certain items included in other comprehensive income. Total capital includes Tier 1 capital,
subordinated debt and other components that do not qualify for Tier 1 capital, and the aggregate allowance for credit losses up to a specified percentage of risk-weighted assets. In addition to measures of Tier 1 and Total capital, an additional
measure of capital, Tier 1 common equity, reflects common equity and retained earnings, less goodwill and certain other deductions.      National banks and bank holding companies currently are required to maintain Tier 1 and Total capital equal to at least 4% and 8%, respectively, of their total risk-weighted assets (including certain
off-balance sheet items, such as standby letters of credit). The risk-based capital rules state that the capital requirements are minimum standards based primarily on broad credit-risk considerations and do not take into account the other types of
risk a banking organization may be exposed to (e.g., interest rate, market, liquidity and operational risks). The FRB may, therefore, set higher capital requirements for categories of banks (e.g. systematically important firms), or for an individual
bank as situations warrant. For example, holding companies experiencing internal growth or making acquisitions are expected to maintain strong capital positions substantially above the minimum supervisory levels, without significant reliance on
intangible assets. For these reasons, we are expected to operate with a capital position well above the minimum ratios, with the amount of capital held to be determined by us through an internal capital assessment that corresponds to our broad risk
exposure.      The regulatory capital rules state that voting common stockholders  equity should be the dominant element
within Tier 1 capital and that banking organizations should avoid overreliance on non-common equity elements. During 2009, in conjunction with the FRB s SCAP stress test process, the ratio of Tier 1 common equity to risk-weighted assets became
significant as a measurement of the predominance of common equity in Tier 1 capital. There is currently no mandated minimum ratio.      In June 2004, the Basel Committee on Bank Supervision (BCBS) published new international guidelines for determining regulatory capital that were designed to be more risk sensitive and to promote enhanced
risk management practices among large, internationally active banking organizations. The United States federal bank regulatory agencies each approved a final rule similar to the international guidelines in November 2007. This advanced capital
adequacy framework is known as  Basel II,  and is intended to more closely align regulatory capital requirements with actual risks. Basel II incorporates three pillars that address (a) capital adequacy, (b) supervisory review,
which relates to the computation of capital and internal assessment processes, and (c) market discipline, through increased disclosure requirements. Embodied within these pillars are aspects of risk strategy, measurement and management that
relate to credit risk, market risk, and operational risk. Banking organizations are required to enhance the measurement and

management of those risks through the use of advanced approaches for calculating risk-based capital requirements. Basel II includes safeguards that include a requirement that banking
organizations conduct a parallel run over a period of four consecutive calendar quarters for measuring regulatory capital under the new regulatory capital rules and the existing general risk-based capital rules before solely operating under the
Basel II framework; a requirement that an institution satisfactorily complete a series of transitional periods before operating under Basel II without floors; and a commitment by the federal bank regulatory agencies to conduct ongoing analysis of
the framework to ensure Basel II is working as intended. However, the federal bank regulators adopted a final rule in 2011 to replace the transitional floors in the advanced approaches with a permanent capital floor equal to the risk-based capital
requirements under the Basel I capital adequacy guidelines. Wells Fargo is implementing the advanced approaches under Basel II, and entered the parallel run in July 2012 with regulatory approval.   
  In addition, the federal bank regulatory agencies have established minimum leverage (Tier 1 capital to adjusted average total assets)
guidelines for banks within their regulatory jurisdiction. These guidelines provide for a minimum leverage ratio of 3% for banks that meet certain specified criteria, including excellent asset quality, high liquidity, low interest rate exposure and
the highest regulatory rating. Institutions not meeting these criteria are required to maintain a leverage ratio of 4%. Our Tier 1 and total risk-based capital ratios and leverage ratio as of December 31, 2012, are included in Note 26
(Regulatory and Agency Capital Requirements) to Financial Statements included in the 2012 Annual Report to Stockholders. At December 31, 2012, the Company and each of its subsidiary banks were  well capitalized  under the
applicable regulatory capital adequacy guidelines.      In December 2010, the BCBS finalized a set of international guidelines
for determining regulatory capital known as  Basel III.  These guidelines were developed in response to the financial crisis of 2008 and 2009 and were intended to address many of the weaknesses identified in the banking sector as
contributing to the crisis including excessive leverage, inadequate and low quality capital and insufficient liquidity buffers. The Basel III guidelines would:   

raise the quality of capital for banks to be better able to absorb losses on both a going concern and gone concern basis;      

increase the risk coverage of the capital framework, specifically for trading activities, securitizations, exposures to off-balance sheet vehicles, and
counterparty credit exposures arising from derivatives;      

raise the level of minimum capital requirements;      

establish an international leverage ratio;      

develop capital buffers; and      

raise standards for the supervisory review process (Pillar 2) and public disclosures (Pillar 3).      
  The BCBS has also proposed additional Tier 1 common equity surcharge requirements for global systemically important banks (G-SIBs). The
surcharge ranges from 1.0% to 3.5% of risk-  

5   

weighted assets depending on the bank s systemic importance, which is determined under an indicator-based approach that would consider five broad categories: cross-jurisdictional activity,
size, inter-connectedness, substitutability/financial institution infrastructure and complexity. These additional capital requirements for G-SIBs, which would be phased in beginning in January 2016 and become fully effective on January 1, 2019,
would be in addition to the minimum Basel III 7.0% Tier 1 common equity requirement finalized in December 2010. The Financial Stability Board (FSB), in an updated list published in November 2012 based on year-end 2011 data, identified the Company as
one of the 28 G-SIBS and provisionally determined that the Company s surcharge would be 1.0%. The FSB may revise the list of G-SIBs and their required surcharges prior to implementation based on additional or future data.   
  U.S. regulatory authorities have been considering the BCBS capital guidelines and proposals, and in June 2012, the U.S. banking
regulators jointly issued three notices of proposed rulemaking that are essentially intended to implement the BCBS capital guidelines for U.S. banks. Together these notices of proposed rulemaking would, among other things:   

implement in the United States the Basel III regulatory capital reforms including those that revise the definition of capital, increase minimum capital
ratios, and introduce a minimum Tier 1 common equity ratio of 4.5% and a capital conservation buffer of 2.5% (for a total minimum Tier 1 common equity ratio of 7.0%) and a potential countercyclical buffer of up to 2.5%, which would be imposed by
regulators at their discretion if it is determined that a period of excessive credit growth is contributing to an increase in systemic risk;      

revise  Basel I  rules for calculating risk-weighted assets to enhance risk sensitivity;      

modify the existing Basel II advanced approaches rules for calculating risk-weighted assets to implement Basel III; and      

comply with the Dodd-Frank Act provision prohibiting the reliance on external credit ratings.      
  Although the proposals contemplated an effective date of January 1, 2013, with phased in compliance requirements, the rules have
not yet been finalized by the U.S. banking regulators due to the volume of comments received and concerns expressed during the comment period. The notices of proposed rulemaking did not address the BCBS capital surcharge proposals for G-SIBs or the
proposed Basel III liquidity standards. U.S. regulatory authorities have indicated that these proposals will be addressed at a later date. The U.S. banking regulators have approved a final rule to implement changes to the market risk capital rule,
which requires banking organizations with significant trading activities to adjust their capital requirements to better account for the market risks of those activities.      Although uncertainty exists regarding final capital rules, we evaluate the impact of Basel III on our capital ratios based on our interpretation of the proposed capital requirements, and we estimate that
our Tier 1 common equity ratio under the Basel III proposals exceeded the fully phased-in minimum of 7.0% by 119 basis points at December 31, 2012. The proposed Basel III

capital rules and interpretations and assumptions used in estimating our Basel III calculations are subject to change depending on final promulgation of Basel III capital rulemaking.   
  From time to time, the FRB and the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC) propose changes and amendments to, and
issue interpretations of, risk-based capital guidelines and related reporting instructions. In addition, the FRB has closely monitored capital levels of the institutions it supervises during the ongoing financial disruption, and may require such
institutions to modify capital levels based on FRB determinations. Such determinations, proposals or interpretations could, if implemented in the future, affect our reported capital ratios and net risk-adjusted assets.   
  As an additional means to identify problems in the financial management of depository institutions, the Federal Deposit Insurance Act
(FDI Act) requires federal bank regulatory agencies to establish certain non-capital safety and soundness standards for institutions for which they are the primary federal regulator. The standards relate generally to operations and management, asset
quality, interest rate exposure, executive compensation and risk management. The agencies are authorized to take action against institutions that fail to meet such standards.      The FDI Act requires federal bank regulatory agencies to take  prompt corrective action  with respect to FDIC-insured depository institutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements. A
depository institution s treatment for purposes of the prompt corrective action provisions will depend upon how its capital levels compare to various capital measures and certain other factors, as established by regulation.   
   Capital Planning       In late 2011, the FRB
finalized rules to require large BHCs to submit capital plans annually for review to determine if the FRB had any objections before making any capital distributions. The rule requires updates to capital plans in the event of material changes in a
BHC s risk profile, including as a result of any significant acquisitions.      On March 13, 2012, the FRB notified us
that it did not object to our 2012 capital plan included in the 2012 Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR). Since the FRB notification, the Company took several capital actions during 2012, including increasing its quarterly common stock
dividend rate to $0.22 per share, completing the redemption of $2.7 billion of trust preferred securities that will no longer count as Tier 1 capital under the Dodd-Frank Act and the proposed Basel III capital standards, repurchasing shares of
our common stock, and purchasing an aggregate of $2.2 billion of our subordinated debt with an effective yield of 2.02% in tender offers for such securities. In first quarter 2013, the Company increased its dividend to $0.25 per share and submitted
for redemption an additional $2.8 billion of trust preferred securities. Each of these actions was contemplated by the capital plan included in the 2012 CCAR.      Under the FRB s capital plan rule, our 2013 CCAR included a comprehensive capital plan supported by an assessment of expected uses and sources of capital over a given planning

6   

horizon under a range of expected and stress scenarios, similar to the process the FRB used to conduct a CCAR in 2012. As part of the 2013 CCAR, the FRB also generated a supervisory stress test
driven by a sharp decline in the economy and significant decline in asset pricing using the information provided by the Company to estimate performance. The FRB is expected to review the supervisory stress results both as required under the
Dodd-Frank Act using a common set of capital actions for all large BHCs and by taking into account the Company s proposed capital actions. We submitted our board approved 2013 capital plan to the FRB on January 4, 2013. The FRB has
indicated that it will publish its supervisory stress test results as required under the Dodd-Frank Act on March 7, 2013, and the related CCAR results, taking into account the Company s proposed capital actions, on March 14, 2013.
      Deposit Insurance Assessments       Our bank subsidiaries, including Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., are members of the Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF) maintained by the FDIC. Through the DIF, the FDIC insures the deposits of our banks up to
prescribed limits for each depositor. The DIF was formed March 31, 2006, upon the merger of the Bank Insurance Fund and the Savings Insurance Fund in accordance with the Federal Deposit Insurance Reform Act of 2005 (the FDIR Act). The FDIR Act
established a range of 1.15% to 1.50% within which the FDIC Board of Directors may set the Designated Reserve Ratio (reserve ratio or DRR). The FDIR Act also granted the FDIC Board the discretion to price deposit insurance according to risk for all
insured institutions regardless of the level of the reserve ratio.      The Dodd-Frank Act gave the FDIC greater discretion to
manage the DIF, raised the minimum DRR to 1.35% and removed the upper limit of the range. In October 2010, the FDIC Board adopted a Restoration Plan to ensure that the DIF reserve ratio reaches 1.35% by September 30, 2020, as required by the
Dodd-Frank Act. At the same time, the FDIC Board proposed a comprehensive, long-range plan for DIF management. In December 2010, as part of the comprehensive plan, the FDIC Board adopted a final rule to set the DRR at 2%, and in February 2011,
the FDIC Board approved the remainder of the comprehensive plan. The Restoration Plan eliminated a 3 basis point increase in the annual assessment rates that was to take effect January 1, 2011.   
  In 2009, the FDIC undertook several measures in an effort to replenish the DIF. On February 27, 2009, the FDIC adopted a final
rule modifying the risk-based assessment system and set new initial base assessment rates beginning April 1, 2009. Rates ranged from a minimum of 12 cents per $100 of domestic deposits for well-managed, well-capitalized institutions with the
highest credit ratings, to 45 cents per $100 for those institutions posing the most risk to the DIF. Risk-based adjustments to the initial assessment rate could have lowered the rate to 7 cents per $100 of domestic deposits for well-managed,
well-capitalized banks with the highest credit ratings or raised the rate to 77.5 cents per $100 for depository institutions posing the most risk to the DIF. On May 22, 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule imposing a 5 basis point special
assessment on each insured

depository institution s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009. The amount of the special assessment for any institution was limited to 10 basis points times the
institution s assessment base for the second quarter 2009. On November 17, 2009, the FDIC amended its regulations to require insured institutions to prepay their estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for fourth quarter 2009, and
all of 2010, 2011, and 2012. For purposes of determining the prepayment, the FDIC used the institution s assessment rate in effect on September 30, 2009. The combined prepayment amount for our banking subsidiaries was $3.9 billion. Any
unused prepaid assessment will be refunded on June 28, 2013.      On February 7, 2011, the FDIC Board approved a final
rule on assessments, dividends, assessment base and large bank pricing that took effect on April 1, 2011. To maintain the DIF, member institutions are assessed an insurance premium based on an assessment base and an assessment rate. Generally,
the assessment base is an institution s average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity. For large and highly complex institutions (those that are very large and are structurally and operationally complex or that pose unique
challenges and risks in the case of failure), the assessment rate is determined by combining supervisory ratings and certain financial measures into scorecards. The score received by an institution will be converted into an assessment rate for the
institution. The FDIC retains the ability to adjust the total score of large and highly complex institutions based upon quantitative or qualitative measures not adequately captured in the scorecards.   
  All FDIC-insured depository institutions must also pay a quarterly assessment towards interest payments on bonds issued by the Financing
Corporation, a federal corporation chartered under the authority of the Federal Housing Finance Board. The bonds (commonly referred to as FICO bonds) were issued to capitalize the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation. FDIC-insured
depository institutions paid approximately 1.00 to 1.02 cents per $100 of assessable deposits during the first nine months of 2011. To coincide with Dodd-Frank Act mandated changes to the insurance assessment base, the FDIC established lower FICO
assessment rates, 0.66 cents per $100 of assessment base for 2012 and 0.64 cents per $100 of assessment base for first quarter 2013. For the year ended December 31, 2012, the Company s FDIC deposit insurance assessments, including FICO
assessments, totaled $1.4 billion.      The FDIC may terminate a depository institution s deposit insurance upon a finding
that the institution s financial condition is unsafe or unsound or that the institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices or has violated any applicable rule, regulation, order or condition enacted or imposed by the institution s
regulatory agency. The termination of deposit insurance for one or more of our bank subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, depending on the collective size of the particular banks involved.   
   Fiscal and Monetary Policies       Our
business and earnings are affected significantly by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies.

7   

We are particularly affected by the policies of the FRB, which regulates the supply of money and credit in
the United States. Among the instruments of monetary policy available to the FRB are (a) conducting open market operations in United States government securities, (b) changing the discount rates of borrowings of depository institutions,
(c) imposing or changing reserve requirements against depository institutions  deposits, and (d) imposing or changing reserve requirements against certain borrowings by banks and their affiliates. These methods are used in varying
degrees and combinations to directly affect the availability of bank loans and deposits, as well as the interest rates charged on loans and paid on deposits. The policies of the FRB may have a material effect on our business, results of operations
and financial condition.       Privacy Provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and Restrictions on Cross-Selling    
  Federal banking regulators, as required under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (the GLB Act), have adopted rules limiting the ability of banks and other
financial institutions to disclose nonpublic information about consumers to nonaffiliated third parties. The rules require disclosure of privacy policies to consumers and, in some circumstances, allow consumers to prevent disclosure of certain
personal information to nonaffiliated third parties. The privacy provisions of the GLB Act affect how consumer information is transmitted through diversified financial services companies and conveyed to outside vendors. Federal financial regulators
have issued regulations under the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act that have the effect of increasing the length of the waiting period, after privacy disclosures are provided to new customers, before information can be shared among
different affiliated companies for the purpose of cross-selling products and services between those affiliated companies.       Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002       The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Sarbanes-Oxley) implemented a broad range of corporate governance and accounting measures to
increase corporate responsibility, to provide for enhanced penalties for accounting and auditing improprieties at publicly traded companies, and to protect investors by improving the accuracy and reliability of disclosures under federal securities
laws. We are subject to Sarbanes-Oxley because we are required to file periodic reports with the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Among other things, Sarbanes-Oxley and/or its implementing regulations established membership
requirements and additional responsibilities for our audit committee, imposed restrictions on the relationship between us and our outside auditors (including restrictions on the types of non-audit services our auditors may provide to us), imposed
additional responsibilities for our external financial statements on our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, expanded the disclosure requirements for our corporate insiders, required our management to evaluate our disclosure
controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting, and required our independent registered public accounting firm to issue a report on our internal control over financial reporting.

Patriot Act       The Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (Patriot Act) is intended to strengthen the ability of U.S. law enforcement
agencies and intelligence communities to work together to combat terrorism on a variety of fronts. The Patriot Act has significant implications for depository institutions, brokers, dealers and other businesses involved in the transfer of money. The
Patriot Act required us to implement new or revised policies and procedures relating to anti-money laundering, compliance, suspicious activities, and currency transaction reporting and due diligence on customers. The Patriot Act also requires
federal bank regulators to evaluate the effectiveness of an applicant in combating money laundering in determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition.       Future Legislation or Regulation       In light of recent conditions in the U.S. and global
financial markets and the U.S. and global economy, legislators, the presidential administration and regulators have continued their increased focus on regulation of the financial services industry. Proposals that further increase regulation of the
financial services industry have been and are expected to continue to be introduced in the U.S. Congress, in state legislatures and abroad. In addition, not all regulations authorized or required under the Dodd-Frank Act have been proposed or
finalized by federal regulators. Further legislative changes and additional regulations may change our operating environment in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such legislation and regulations could increase our cost of doing business, affect
our compensation structure, restrict or expand the activities in which we may engage or affect the competitive balance among banks, savings associations, credit unions, and other financial institutions. We cannot predict whether future legislative
proposals will be enacted and, if enacted, the effect that they, or any implementing regulations, would have on our business, results of operations or financial condition. The same uncertainty exists with respect to regulations authorized or
required under the Dodd-Frank Act but that have not yet been proposed or finalized.       ADDITIONAL INFORMATION    
  Additional information in response to this Item 1 can be found in the 2012 Annual Report to Stockholders under  Financial Review  and
under  Financial Statements.  That information is incorporated into this item by reference.       

ITEM 1A.   
   RISK FACTORS         Information in response to
this Item 1A can be found in this report on pages 2-8 and in the 2012 Annual Report to Stockholders under  Financial Review   Risk Factors.  That information is incorporated into this item by reference.

8   

ITEM 1B.   
   UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS         Not
applicable.   

9   

ITEM 2.   
   PROPERTIES          

City   
      
    State    

We own our corporate headquarters building in:   
      
  San Francisco  
      
  California   

We own administrative facilities in:   
      
  Anchorage  
      
  Alaska   

Chandler  
      
  Arizona   

Phoenix  
      
  Arizona   

Tempe  
      
  Arizona   

El Monte  
      
  California   

Fremont  
      
  California   

Irvine  
      
  California   

San Francisco  
      
  California   

Walnut Creek  
      
  California   

Boise  
      
  Idaho   

Clive  
      
  Iowa   

Des Moines  
      
  Iowa   

West Des Moines  
      
  Iowa   

Minneapolis  
      
  Minnesota   

Shoreview  
      
  Minnesota   

St. Louis  
      
  Missouri   

Billings  
      
  Montana   

Omaha  
      
  Nebraska   

Albuquerque  
      
  New Mexico   

Summit  
      
  New Jersey   

Charlotte  
      
  North Carolina   

Portland  
      
  Oregon   

Sioux Falls  
      
  South Dakota   

Salt Lake City  
      
  Utah   

Glen Allen  
      
  Virginia   

Menomonee Falls  
      
  Wisconsin   

We own operations/servicing centers in:   
      
  Birmingham  
      
  Alabama   

Homewood  
      
  Alabama   

San Leandro  
      
  California   

Springfield  
      
  Illinois   

West Des Moines  
      
  Iowa   

Minneapolis  
      
  Minnesota   

St. Louis  
      
  Missouri   

Charlotte  
      
  North Carolina   

Winston-Salem  
      
  North Carolina   

Sioux Falls  
      
  South Dakota   

San Antonio  
      
  Texas   

State    

We lease office space for various administrative departments in major locations in:   
      
  Arizona  
      
  New Jersey   

California  
      
  New York   

Colorado  
      
  North Carolina   

Delaware  
      
  North Dakota   

Florida  
      
  Oregon   

Georgia  
      
  Pennsylvania   

Illinois  
      
  South Carolina   

Iowa  
      
  South Dakota   

Kansas  
      
  Texas   

Maryland  
      
  Virginia   

Massachusetts  
      
  Washington   

Minnesota  
      
  Wisconsin   

Missouri  
      
  Ontario, Canada   

Nevada  
      
  Puerto Rico   

We lease office space for various operations/ servicing centers in:   
      
  California  
      
  Oregon   

Florida  
      
  Pennsylvania   

Georgia  
      
  Virginia   

North Carolina  

City   
      
    State    
 
    We are a joint venture partner in an office building in:   
      
  Minneapolis  
      
  Minnesota   

Country    
 
    We lease office space for international operations in:   
      
  Argentina  
      
  Japan   

Australia  
      
  Malaysia   

Bahamas  
      
  Mexico   

Bangladesh  
      
  Netherlands   

Brazil  
      
  Philippines   

Canada  
      
  Puerto Rico   

Chile  
      
  Russia   

China  
      
  Singapore   

Colombia  
      
  South Africa   

Dominican Republic  
      
  South Korea   

Ecuador  
      
  Spain   

Egypt  
      
  Taiwan   

France  
      
  Thailand   

Germany  
      
  Turkey   

India  
      
  United Arab Emirates   

Indonesia  
      
  United Kingdom   

Ireland  
      
  Vietnam   

Italy  

As of December 31, 2012, we provided banking, insurance, investments, mortgage and consumer and
commercial finance from more than 9,000 domestic stores under ownership and lease agreements.       ADDITIONAL INFORMATION    
  Additional information in response to this Item 2 can be found in the 2012 Annual Report to Stockholders under  Financial Statements  
Notes to Financial Statements   Note 7 (Premises,

Equipment, Lease Commitments and Other Assets).  That information is incorporated into this item by reference.         

10   

ITEM 3.   
   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS         Information in
response to this Item 3 can be found in the 2012 Annual Report to Stockholders under  Financial Statements   Notes to Financial Statements   Note 15 (Legal Actions).  That information is incorporated into this item by
reference.       

ITEM 4.   
   MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES         Not applicable.
      EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT       Information relating to the Company s executive officers is included in Item 10 of this report.

11   

PART II        

ITEM 5.   
   MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES      
   MARKET INFORMATION       The Company s
common stock is listed on the NYSE (symbol  WFC ). The Quarterly Financial Data table of the 2012 Annual Report to Stockholders provides the quarterly prices of, and quarterly dividends paid on, the Company s common stock for the
two-year period ended December 31, 2012, and is incorporated herein by reference. Prices shown represent the daily high and low, and the quarter-end sale prices of the Company s common stock as reported on the NYSE Composite
Transaction Reporting System for the periods indicated. At January 31, 2013, there were 195,338 holders of record of the Company s common stock.       DIVIDENDS       The dividend restrictions discussions on page 3 of this report and in the 2012
Annual Report to Stockholders under  Financial Statements   Notes to Financial Statements   Note 3 (Cash, Loan and Dividend Restrictions)  are incorporated into this item by reference.

REPURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES       In March 2011, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of 200 million shares of our common stock and in October 2012 our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of an additional
200 million shares of our common stock. The authorizations cover shares repurchased to meet team member benefit plan requirements. The Company maintains a variety of retirement plans for its team members and typically is a net issuer of shares
of common stock to these plans. From time to time, it also purchases shares of common stock from these plans to accommodate team member preferences. Share repurchases are subtracted from the Company s repurchase authority without offset for
share issuances. Shares may be repurchased as part of employee stock option exercises, from the different benefit plans or in the open market, subject to regulatory approval.      The amount and timing of stock repurchases will be based on various factors, including our capital requirements, the number of shares we expect to issue for employee benefit plans and acquisitions, market
conditions (including the trading price of our stock), and regulatory and legal considerations. In June 2010, our Board of Directors also authorized the repurchase of up to $1 billion of warrants to purchase our common stock. The warrants are listed
on the NYSE under the symbol  WFCWS.  The amount and timing of warrant repurchases will be based on various factors including market conditions. See the  Capital Management  section in the 2012 Annual Report to Stockholders for
additional information about our common stock and warrant repurchases.   

12   

The following table shows Company repurchases of its common stock for each calendar month in the quarter
ended December 31, 2012.           

(1)  
  All shares were repurchased under the authorization covering up to 200 million shares of common stock approved by the Board of Directors and publicly announced by the
Company on March 18, 2011, or the authorization covering up to 200 million shares of common stock approved by the Board of Directors and publicly announced by the Company on October 23, 2012. Unless modified or revoked by the Board,
these authorizations do not expire.     
 
  The following table shows Company repurchases of the warrants for each calendar month in the quarter ended December 31, 2012.   

(1)  
  Warrants are purchased under the authorization covering up to $1 billion in warrants approved by the Board of Directors (ratified and approved on June 22, 2010). Unless
modified or revoked by the Board, this authorization does not expire.     

ITEM 6.   
   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA         Information in
response to this Item 6 can be found in the 2012 Annual Report to Stockholders under  Financial Review  in Table 1. That information is incorporated into this item by reference.   

ITEM 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS      
  Information in response to this Item 7 can be found in the 2012 Annual Report to Stockholders under  Financial Review.  That information
is incorporated into this item by reference.       

ITEM 7A.   
   QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK         Information in response to this Item 7A can be found in the 2012 Annual Report to Stockholders under  Financial Review   Risk Management   Asset/Liability Management.  That
information is incorporated into this item by reference.   

ITEM 8.   
   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA         Information in response to this Item 8 can be found in the 2012 Annual Report to Stockholders under  Financial Statements,  under  Notes to Financial Statements  and under
 Quarterly Financial Data.  That information is incorporated into this item by reference.       

ITEM 9.   
   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE         Not applicable.       

ITEM 9A.   
   CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES         Information in
response to this Item 9A can be found in the 2012 Annual Report to Stockholders under  Controls and Procedures.  That information is incorporated into this item by reference.   

ITEM 9B.   
   OTHER INFORMATION         Not applicable.

13   

PART III        

ITEM 10.   
   DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE          EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT       Patricia R. Callahan (age 59)   
  Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer since February 2011;   
  Executive Vice President (Office of Transition) from January 2009 to February 2011;   
  Executive Vice President (Social Responsibility Group) from June 2008 to December 2008;   
  Executive Vice President (Compliance and Risk) from June 2005 to September 2007.   
  Ms. Callahan has served with the Company or its predecessors for 35 years.      David M. Carroll (age 55)      Senior Executive Vice President (Wealth, Brokerage and
Retirement) since January 2009;      Senior Executive Vice President of Wachovia Corporation from September 2001 to January
2009.      Mr. Carroll has served with the Company or its predecessors for 31 years.   
  Michael J. Heid (age 55)   
  Executive Vice President (Home Lending) since July 2011;      Co-President of Wells Fargo Home Mortgage from May 2004 to July 2011.   
  Mr. Heid has served with the Company or its predecessors for 25 years.      David A. Hoyt (age 57)      Senior Executive Vice President (Wholesale Banking) since
August 2005.      Mr. Hoyt has served with the Company or its predecessors for 31 years.   
  Richard D. Levy (age 55)   
  Executive Vice President and Controller since February 2007;      Senior Vice President and Controller from September 2002 to February 2007.   
  Mr. Levy has served with the Company for 10 years.      Michael J. Loughlin (age 57)      Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Risk
Officer since July 2011;      Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer from November 2010 to July 2011;   
  Executive Vice President and Chief Credit and Risk Officer from April 2006 to November 2010.   
  Mr. Loughlin has served with the Company or its predecessors for 31 years.   
  Avid Modjtabai (age 51)      Senior
Executive Vice President (Consumer Lending) since July 2011;      Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer from April
2007 to July 2011;      Executive Vice President (Human Resources) from June 2005 to April 2007.   
  Ms. Modjtabai has served with the Company or its predecessors for 19 years.      Kevin A. Rhein (age 59)      Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Information
Officer since July 2011;      Executive Vice President (Card Services and Consumer Lending) from January 2009 to July 2011;
     Executive Vice President (Card Services) of Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. from February 2004 to January 2009.   
  Mr. Rhein has served with the Company or its predecessors for 34 years.      Timothy J. Sloan (age 52)      Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer since February 2011;      Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer from September 2010 to February
2011;      Executive Vice President (Commercial Banking, Real Estate and Specialized Financial Services) of Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.
     from June 2006 to September 2010.      Mr. Sloan has served with the Company or its predecessors for 25 years.   
         14   

James M. Strother (age 61)      Senior Executive Vice President and General Counsel since July 2011;      Executive
Vice President and General Counsel from January 2004 to July 2011.      Mr. Strother has served with the Company or its
predecessors for 26 years.      John G. Stumpf (age 59)      Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer since January 2010;      President and
Chief Executive Officer from June 2007 to January 2010;      President and Chief Operating Officer from August 2005 to June 2007.
     Mr. Stumpf has served with the Company or its predecessors for 31 years.   
  Carrie L. Tolstedt (age 53)   
  Senior Executive Vice President (Community Banking) since June 2007;   
  Group Executive Vice President (Regional Banking) from July 2002 to June 2007.   
  Ms. Tolstedt has served with the Company or its predecessors for 23 years.      There is no family relationship between any of the Company s executive officers or directors. All executive officers serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.   

AUDIT COMMITTEE INFORMATION       The Audit and Examination Committee is a standing audit committee of the Board of Directors established in accordance with Section 3(a)(58)(A) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Committee
has seven members: John D. Baker II, Enrique Hernandez, Jr., Nicholas G. Moore (Chair), Federico F. Pe a, Philip J. Quigley, Howard V. Richardson and Susan G. Swenson. Each member is independent, as independence for audit committee members is
defined by NYSE rules. The Board of Directors has determined, in its business judgment, that each member of the Audit and Examination Committee is financially literate, as required by NYSE rules, and that each qualifies as an  audit committee
financial expert  as defined by SEC regulations.       CODE OF ETHICS AND BUSINESS CONDUCT    
  The Company s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct for team members (including executive officers), Director Code of Ethics, the Company s
corporate governance guidelines, and the charters for the Audit and Examination, Governance and Nominating, Human Resources, Corporate Responsibility, Credit, Finance, and Risk Committees are available at
 www.wellsfargo.com/about/corporate/corporate_governance . This information is also available in print to any stockholder upon written request to the Office of the Corporate Secretary, Wells Fargo   Company, MAC N9305-173, Wells Fargo
Center, Sixth and Marquette, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55479.   
 
    ADDITIONAL INFORMATION       Additional information in response to this Item 10 can be found in the Company s 2013 Proxy Statement under  Ownership of Our Common Stock   Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership
Reporting Compliance  and  Item 1   Election of Directors   Director Nominees for Election  and    Other Matters Relating to Directors.  That information is incorporated into this item by reference.

ITEM 11.   
   EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION         Information in
response to this Item 11 can be found in the Company s 2013 Proxy Statement under  Item 1  Election of Directors   Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation  and    Director
Compensation,  under  Corporate Governance   Risk Management and Compensation Practices,  under  Information About Related Persons   Related Person Transactions,  and under  Item 2   Executive
Compensation and Advisory Resolution to Approve Executive Compensation (Say-on-Pay)  excluding    Advisory Resolution to Approve Executive Compensation (Say on Pay).  That information is incorporated into this item by reference.

15   

ITEM 12.   
   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS      
  Information in response to this Item 12 can be found in the Company s 2013 Proxy Statement under  Ownership of Our Common Stock  and
 Equity Compensation Plan Information.  That information is incorporated into this item by reference.       

ITEM 13.   
   CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE         Information in response to this Item 13 can be found in the Company s 2013 Proxy Statement under  Corporate Governance   Director Independence  and under  Information About
Related Persons.  That information is incorporated into this item by reference.       

ITEM 14.   
   PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES      
  Information in response to this Item 14 can be found in the Company s 2013 Proxy Statement under  Item 4   Appointment of
Independent Auditors   KPMG Fees  and    Audit and Examination Committee Pre-Approval Policies and Procedures.  That information is incorporated into this item by reference.

16   

PART IV        

ITEM 15.   
   EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES      
  1.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS       The
Company s consolidated financial statements, including the notes thereto, and the report of the independent registered public accounting firm thereon, are set forth in the 2012 Annual Report to Stockholders, and are incorporated into this item
by reference.      2.  FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES       All financial statement schedules for the Company have been included in the consolidated financial statements or the related footnotes, or are either inapplicable or not required.

3.  EXHIBITS       A list of exhibits to this Form 10-K is set forth on the Exhibit Index immediately preceding such exhibits and is incorporated into this item by reference.   
  Stockholders may obtain a copy of any of the following exhibits, upon payment of a reasonable fee, by writing to Wells Fargo   Company, Office
of the Corporate Secretary, Wells Fargo Center, N9305-173, Sixth and Marquette, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55479.      The Company s SEC file
number is 001-2979. On and before November 2, 1998, the Company filed documents with the SEC under the name Norwest Corporation. The former Wells Fargo   Company filed documents under SEC file number 001-6214. The former Wachovia
Corporation filed documents under SEC file number 001-10000.   

17   

SIGNATURES       Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized, on February 27, 2013.        

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY    

By:  
     
  /s/ JOHN G. STUMPF   

John G. Stumpf   

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer   
 
   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.        

By:  
     
  /s/ JOHN G. STUMPF   

John G. Stumpf   

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer   

(Principal Executive Officer)   

February 27, 2013   

By:  
     
  /s/ TIMOTHY J. SLOAN   

Timothy J. Sloan   

Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer   

(Principal Financial Officer)   

February 27, 2013   

By:  
     
  /s/ RICHARD D. LEVY   

Richard D. Levy   

Executive Vice President and Controller   

(Principal Accounting Officer)   

February 27, 2013   
 
   The Directors of Wells Fargo   Company listed below have duly executed powers of attorney empowering
Nicholas G. Moore to sign this document on their behalf.   
    
   John D. Baker II      Elaine L. Chao      John S. Chen      Lloyd H. Dean

Susan E. Engel      Enrique Hernandez, Jr.      Donald M. James      Cynthia H. Milligan

Nicholas G. Moore      Federico F. Pe a      Philip J. Quigley   
  Howard V. Richardson

Judith M. Runstad      Stephen W. Sanger      John G. Stumpf

By:  
     
  /s/ NICHOLAS G. MOORE   

Nicholas G. Moore   

Director and Attorney-in-fact   

February 27, 2013   

18   

EXHIBIT INDEX    

Exhibit     Number   
      
    Description   
      
    Location    

3(a)   
      
  Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended and in effect on the date hereof.  
      
  Filed herewith.   

3(b)   
      
  By-Laws.  
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed January 28, 2011.   

4(a)   
      
  See Exhibits 3(a) and 3(b).  

4(b)   
      
  The Company agrees to furnish upon request to the Commission a copy of each instrument defining the rights of holders of senior and subordinated debt of
the Company.  

10(a)*   
      
  Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan.  
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2009.   

Amendment to Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan   
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2012.   

Forms of Performance Share Award Agreement:   

For grants on or after February 26, 2013;   
      
  Filed herewith.   

For grants on February 28, 2012;   
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011.   

For grants on February 22, 2011; and   
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010.   

For grants to John G. Stumpf, David M. Carroll, David A. Hoyt, and Carrie L. Tolstedt on June 22, 2010.   
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed June 25, 2010.   

Form of Retention Performance Share Award Agreement for grants to John G. Stumpf, David A. Hoyt, and Carrie L. Tolstedt on December 24,
2009.   
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 31, 2009.   

Forms of Award Agreement for grants of stock awards to John G. Stumpf and David A. Hoyt.   
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibits 10(a), 10(b), 10(c) and 10(d) to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed August 6, 2009.   

Forms of Restricted Share Rights Award Agreement:   

For grants on or after February 26, 2013, including grants to John G. Stumpf, Timothy J. Sloan, David M. Carroll, David A. Hoyt, and Carrie L.
Tolstedt;   
      
  Filed herewith.   

For grants on February 28, 2012, including grants to John G. Stumpf, Timothy J. Sloan, David M. Carroll, David A. Hoyt, and Carrie L.
Tolstedt;   
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011.   

For grants on February 22, 2011, including grants to John G. Stumpf, David M. Carroll, David A. Hoyt, Timothy J. Sloan, and Carrie L.
Tolstedt;   
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010.   

For grants prior to February 22, 2011, including grants to John G. Stumpf, David M. Carroll, David A. Hoyt, Timothy J. Sloan, and Carrie L.
Tolstedt;   
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009.   

For grant to David M. Carroll on December 24, 2009;   
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009.   

*  
  Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.     
         19   

Exhibit     Number   
      
    Description   
      
    Location    

For grant to John G. Stumpf on August 3, 2009; and   
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(e) to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed August 6, 2009.   

For grants to David A. Hoyt and Carrie L. Tolstedt on February 24, 2009, as amended on November 16, 2010.   
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed February 27, 2009, and Exhibit 10(a) to the Company s
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010.   

Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement, including grants to John G. Stumpf, David M. Carroll, David A. Hoyt, Timothy J. Sloan, and
Carrie L. Tolstedt.   
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009.   

10(b)*   
      
  Long-Term Incentive Plan.  
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit A to the former Wells Fargo s Proxy Statement filed March 14, 1994.   

10(c)*   
      
  Wells Fargo Bonus Plan, as amended effective January 1, 2011.  
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(c) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011.   

10(d)*   
      
  Performance-Based Compensation Policy.  
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed May 5, 2008.   

10(e)*   
      
  Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended effective January 1, 2008.  
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009.   

Amendment to Deferred Compensation Plan, effective January 1, 2011.   
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2011.   

Amendment to Deferred Compensation Plan, effective December 1, 2009.   
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009.   

Amendment to Deferred Compensation Plan, effective January 1, 2013.   
      
  Filed herewith.   

10(f)*   
      
  Directors Stock Compensation and Deferral Plan.  
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007.   

Amendment to Directors Stock Compensation and Deferral Plan, effective January 24, 2012.   
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011.   

Amendment to Directors Stock Compensation and Deferral Plan, effective January 25, 2011.   
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(d) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011.   

Amendment to Directors Stock Compensation and Deferral Plan, effective February 24, 2009.   
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2009.   

Amendments to Directors Stock Compensation and Deferral Plan, effective September 23, 2008.   
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2008.   

Amendment to Directors Stock Compensation and Deferral Plan, effective January 22, 2008.   
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007.   

Action of Governance and Nominating Committee Increasing Amount of Formula Stock and Option Awards Under Directors Stock Compensation and Deferral
Plan, effective January 1, 2007.   
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2006.    
         20   

Exhibit     Number   
      
    Description   
      
    Location    

10(g)*   
      
  Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors of the former Norwest.  
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(c) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1999.   

Amendment to Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors, effective November 1, 2000.   
      
  Filed as paragraph (4) of Exhibit 10(ff) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2000.   

Amendment to Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors, effective January 1, 2004.   
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2003.   

10(h)*   
      
  Directors  Stock Deferral Plan for directors of the former Norwest.  
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(d) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1999.   

Amendment to Directors  Stock Deferral Plan, effective November 1, 2000.   
      
  Filed as paragraph (5) of Exhibit 10(ff) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2000.   

Amendment to Directors  Stock Deferral Plan, effective January 1, 2004.   
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(c) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2003.   

10(i)*   
      
  Directors  Formula Stock Award Plan for directors of the former Norwest.  
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(e) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1999.   

Amendment to Directors  Formula Stock Award Plan, effective November 1, 2000.   
      
  Filed as paragraph (6) of Exhibit 10(ff) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2000.   

Amendment to Directors  Formula Stock Award Plan, effective January 1, 2004.   
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2003.   

10(j)*   
      
  Deferral Plan for Directors of the former Wells Fargo.  
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the former Wells Fargo s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997.   

Amendment to Deferral Plan, effective January 1, 2004.   
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(d) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2003.   

10(k)*   
      
  Supplemental 401(k) Plan.  
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(c) to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed May 4, 2009.   

10(l)*   
      
  Supplemental Cash Balance Plan.  
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed May 4, 2009.   

10(m)*   
      
  Supplemental Long-Term Disability Plan.  
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1990.   

Amendment to Supplemental Long-Term Disability Plan.   
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(g) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992.   

10(n)*   
      
  Description of Relocation Program.  
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(y) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003.   

10(o)   
      
  PartnerShares Stock Option Plan.  
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(x) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004.   

Amendment to PartnerShares Stock Option Plan, effective August 1, 2005.   
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(c) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30,
2005.    
         21   

Exhibit     Number   
      
    Description   
      
    Location    

Amendment to PartnerShares Stock Option Plan, effective August 4, 2006.   
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(c) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2006.   

Amendment to PartnerShares Stock Option Plan, effective January 1, 2007.   
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(g) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2007.   

Amendment to PartnerShares Stock Option Plan, effective January 22, 2008.   
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(v) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007.   

10(p)   
      
  Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan for Independent Contractors.  
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(x) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007.   

Amendment to Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan for Independent Contractors, effective January 1, 2009.   
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(w) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009.   

10(q)*   
      
  Description of Chairman/CEO Post-Retirement Policy.  
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(w) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.   

10(r)*   
      
  Description of Non-Employee Director Equity Compensation Program.  
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(t) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011.   

10(s)*   
      
  Employment Agreement, dated December 30, 2008, between the Company and David M. Carroll.  
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(y) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.   

10(t)*   
      
  Amended and Restated Wachovia Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors.  
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)(f) to Wachovia Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 29, 2008.   

Amendment to Amended and Restated Wachovia Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors, effective June 1,
2009.   
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(aa) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009.   

10(u)*   
      
  Wachovia Corporation Executive Deferred Compensation Plan.  
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)(d) to Wachovia Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997.   

10(v)*   
      
  Wachovia Corporation Supplemental Executive Long-Term Disability Plan, as amended and restated.  
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (99) to Wachovia Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K filed January 5, 2005.   

10(w)*   
      
  Amended and Restated Wachovia Corporation Elective Deferral Plan (as amended and restated effective January 1, 2009).  
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)(a) to Wachovia Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 29, 2008.   

10(x)*   
      
  Wachovia Corporation 1998 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended.  
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)(j) to Wachovia Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2001.   

10(y)*   
      
  Employment Agreement between Wachovia Corporation and David M. Carroll.  
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)(m) to Wachovia Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004.   

Amendment No. 1 to Employment Agreement between Wachovia Corporation and David M. Carroll.   
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)(a) to Wachovia Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 22, 2005.   

Amendment No. 2 to Employment Agreement between Wachovia Corporation and David M. Carroll.   
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)(h) to Wachovia Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 29, 2008.   

10(z)*   
      
  Wachovia Corporation 2001 Stock Incentive Plan.  
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)(v) to Wachovia Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2001.   
 
         22   

Exhibit     Number   
     
    Description   
      
    Location    

10(aa)*  
     
  Wachovia Corporation Savings Restoration Plan.  
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)(gg) to Wachovia Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2002.    

10(bb)*  
     
  Amendment 2007-1 to Wachovia Corporation Savings Restoration Plan.  
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)(b) to Wachovia Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 20, 2007.   

Amendment 2008-1 to Wachovia Corporation Savings Restoration Plan.   
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)(c) to Wachovia Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 29, 2008.   

10(cc)*  
     
  Amended and Restated Wachovia Corporation Savings Restoration Plan.  
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)(b) to Wachovia Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 29, 2008.   

10(dd)*  
     
  Form of stock award agreement for Executive Officers of Wachovia Corporation, including David M. Carroll.  
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)(ss) to Wachovia Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
2004.   

10(ee)*  
     
  Amended and Restated Wachovia Corporation 2003 Stock Incentive Plan.  
      
  Incorporated by reference to Appendix E to Wachovia Corporation s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Reg. No. 333-134656) filed on July 24,
2006.   

Amendment to Amended and Restated Wachovia Corporation 2003 Stock Incentive Plan, effective February 24, 2009.   
      
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2009.   

12(a)  
     
  Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges:  
      
  Filed herewith.        

12(b)  
     
       Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges and        Preferred Dividends:   
      
                     Filed herewith.   

23   

Exhibit     Number   
     
    Description   
      
    Location    

13  
     
  2012 Annual Report to Stockholders.  
      
  Filed herewith.   

21  
     
  Subsidiaries of the Company.  
      
  Filed herewith.   

23  
     
  Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.  
      
  Filed herewith.   

24  
     
  Powers of Attorney.  
      
  Filed herewith.   

31(a)  
     
  Certification of principal executive officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  
      
  Filed herewith.   

31(b)  
     
  Certification of principal financial officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  
      
  Filed herewith.   

32(a)  
     
  Certification of Periodic Financial Report by Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and 18 U.S.C.   1350.  
      
  Furnished herewith.   

32(b)  
     
  Certification of Periodic Financial Report by Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and 18 U.S.C.   1350.  
      
  Furnished herewith.   

99  
     
  Description of Replacement Capital Covenants of Wells Fargo and Wachovia.  
      
  Filed herewith.   

101.Ins  
     
  XBRL Instance Document.  
      
  Filed herewith.   

101.Sch  
     
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document.  
      
  Filed herewith.   

101.Cal  
     
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document.  
      
  Filed herewith.   

101.Def  
     
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definitions Linkbase Document.  
      
  Filed herewith.   

101.Lab  
     
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document.  
      
  Filed herewith.   

101.Pre  
     
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document.  
      
  Filed herewith.   
 
         24   

<EX-3.(A)>
 2
 d450230dex3a.htm
 EX-3.(A)

EX-3.(a) 

Exhibit 3(a)       RESTATED CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION        OF    
   WELLS FARGO   COMPANY         
        Pursuant to
Section 245 of the        General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware    
         
  Wells Fargo   Company, a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, hereby
certifies as follows:       

1.  
  The present name of the corporation is Wells Fargo   Company.         

2.  
  The corporation was originally incorporated under the name Northwest Bancorporation, and its original Certificate of Incorporation was filed with the Secretary of State
of the State of Delaware on January 24, 1929. On April 26, 1983 the corporation filed an amendment to its Certificate of Incorporation to change its name from Northwest Bancorporation to Norwest Corporation effective April 29, 1983,
and on November 2, 1998 the corporation filed an amendment to its Certificate of Incorporation to change its name from Norwest Corporation to Wells Fargo   Company.     

3.  
  The corporation s Board of Directors has duly adopted this Restated Certificate of Incorporation in accordance with the provisions of Section 245 of the
General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. This Restated Certificate of Incorporation only restates and integrates and does not further amend the provisions of the corporation s Certificate of Incorporation, as theretofore amended or
supplemented or restated, and there is no discrepancy between those provisions and the provisions of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation.         

4.  
  The text of the corporation s Certificate of Incorporation, as heretofore amended or supplemented or restated, is hereby restated to read in its entirety as
follows:        FIRST: The name of this corporation is Wells Fargo   Company.   
  SECOND: Its registered office in the State of Delaware is located in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle. The name and address
of its registered agent is Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington, New Castle County, Delaware 19808.      THIRD: The nature of the business, or objects or purposes to be transacted, promoted or carried on, are:      To acquire by purchase, subscription or otherwise, and to own and hold, for investment purposes, the capital stock, scrip or any voting trust certificates in respect of the shares of capital stock issued
or created by any moneyed, financial or investment corporation or association created and organized, or to be created and organized, under the laws of the United States of America or of any State or territory thereof; and to issue in exchange
therefor shares of the capital stock of this corporation; and while the holder or   

owner of any such shares of capital stock, scrip or voting trust certificates, to possess and exercise in respect thereof any and all rights, powers and privileges of ownership, including the
right to vote thereon;      To loan money to any aforesaid corporation or association, any of whose shares of capital stock, scrip
or voting trust certificates aforesaid shall be owned at the time of such loan by this corporation, and to do any and all lawful things designed to protect, preserve, improve or enhance the value of any such shares, scrip or voting trust
certificates;      In addition to and not in limitation of any of the aforesaid powers, to invest temporarily any of its capital
or surplus funds in bonds, mortgages or evidences of indebtedness and any other securities issued or created by any individual, copartnership or other corporation, joint stock company or association, public or private, or of the Government of the
United States of America, or of any Foreign Government, or of any State, territory, municipality or other political subdivision or of any governmental agency;      To acquire, hold, sell, reissue or cancel any shares of its own capital stock; provided, however, that this corporation may not use any of its funds or property for the purchase of its own shares of
capital stock when such use would cause any impairment of the capital of this corporation, and provided further that the shares of its own capital stock belonging to this corporation shall not be voted, directly or indirectly;   
  To organize, incorporate and reorganize subsidiary corporations for all lawful purposes;   
  To conduct all or any part of its operations and business without restriction or limit as to amount in the State of Delaware or in any or
all other States, territories, districts, colonies and dependencies of the United States of America;      To have and to exercise
any and all powers and privileges now or hereafter conferred by the laws of the State of Delaware upon corporations formed under the Acts hereinafter referred to, or under any Act amendatory thereof or supplemental thereto or substituted therefor;
     The foregoing clauses shall be construed both as objects and powers; and it is hereby expressly provided that the foregoing
enumeration of specific powers shall not be held to limit or restrict in any manner the powers of this corporation.      FOURTH:
The total number of shares of all classes of stock which the corporation shall have authority to issue is Six Billion Twenty-Four Million (6,024,000,000), consisting of Twenty Million (20,000,000) shares of Preferred Stock without par value,
Four Million (4,000,000) shares of Preference Stock without par value, and Six Billion (6,000,000,000) shares of Common Stock of the par value of $1-2/3 per share.   
  The designations and the voting powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and qualifications,
limitations or restrictions thereof, of the Preferred Stock, the Preference Stock and the Common Stock which are fixed by the Certificate of Incorporation and the express grant of authority to the Board of Directors of the corporation (hereinafter
referred to as the  Board of Directors ) to fix by resolution or resolutions the designations and the voting powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and qualifications, limitations or restrictions
thereof, of the Preferred Stock and the Preference Stock which are not fixed by the Certificate of Incorporation are as follows:      1. The Preferred Stock may be issued at any time or from time to time in any amount, provided not more than 20,000,000 shares thereof shall be outstanding at any one time, as Preferred Stock of one or
  
         2   

more series, as hereinafter provided. Each share of any one series of Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects except as to the date from which dividends thereon may be cumulative, each
series of Preferred Stock shall be distinctly designated by letter or descriptive words, and all series of Preferred Stock shall rank equally and be identical in all respects except as permitted by the provisions of Section 2 of this Article
FOURTH. Shares of Preferred Stock shall be issued only as fully paid and non-assessable shares.      The Preference Stock may be
issued at any time or from time to time in any amount, provided not more than 4,000,000 shares thereof shall be outstanding at any one time, as Preference Stock of one or more series, as hereinafter provided. Each share of any one series of
Preference Stock shall be identical in all respects except as to the date from which dividends thereon may be cumulative, each series of Preference Stock shall be distinctly designated by letter or descriptive words, and all series of Preference
Stock shall rank equally and be identical in all respects except as permitted by the provisions of Section 2 of this Article FOURTH. Shares of Preference Stock shall be issued only as fully paid and non-assessable shares.   
  2. Authority is hereby expressly granted to and vested in the Board of Directors at any time or from time to time to issue the Preferred
Stock as Preferred Stock of any series and the Preference Stock as Preference Stock of any series and, in connection with the creation of each such series, to fix by resolution or resolutions providing for the issue of shares thereof the
designations and the voting powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, of such series so far as not inconsistent with the provisions of this Article
FOURTH applicable to all series of Preferred Stock or Preference Stock, respectively, and to the full extent now or hereafter permitted by the laws of the State of Delaware, including the following:   
  (a) The distinctive designation of such series and the number of shares which shall constitute such series, which number
may be increased (except where otherwise provided by the Board of Directors in creating such series) or decreased (but not below the number of shares thereof then outstanding) from time to time by like action of the Board of Directors;   
  (b) The annual rate or rates of dividends payable on shares of such series, whether dividends shall be cumulative and, if
so, the date or dates from which dividends shall be cumulative on the shares of such series, the preferences, restrictions, limitations and conditions upon the payment of dividends, and the dates on which dividends, if declared, shall be payable;
     (c) Whether shares of such series shall be redeemable and, if so, the terms and conditions of such redemption,
including the date or dates upon or after which they shall be redeemable, and the amount per share payable in case of redemption, which amount may vary under different conditions and at different redemption dates;   
  (d) The rights of the shares of such series in the event of voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding
up of the corporation, and the relative rights of priority, if any, of payment of shares of such series;      (e)
Whether shares of such series shall have a purchase, retirement or sinking fund for the purchase, retirement, or redemption of shares of such series and, if so, the terms and provisions thereof;   
  (f) Whether shares of such series shall have conversion privileges and, if so, the terms and provisions thereof, including
provision for adjustment of the conversion rate in such events as the Board of Directors shall determine;   
         3   

(g) Whether shares of such series shall have voting rights, in addition to
voting rights provided by law, and, if so, the terms and provisions thereof; and      (h) Any other preferences and
relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof.      3. The
holders of the Preferred Stock of each series and the holders of the Preference Stock of each series, respectively, shall be entitled to receive such dividends, when and as declared by the Board of Directors, out of funds legally available therefor,
as they may be entitled to in accordance with the resolution or resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors providing for the issue of such series, payable on such dates as may be fixed in such resolution or resolutions. So long as there shall be
outstanding any shares of Preferred Stock of any series or any shares of Preference Stock of any series entitled to cumulative dividends pursuant to the resolution or resolutions providing for the issue of such series, no dividend, whether in cash
or property, shall be paid or declared, nor shall any distribution be made, on the Common Stock, nor shall any shares of Common Stock be purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for value by the corporation, if at the time of making such payment,
declaration, distribution, purchase, redemption or acquisition the corporation shall be in default with respect to any dividend payable on, or obligation to maintain a purchase, retirement or sinking fund with respect to or to redeem, shares of
Preferred Stock of any series or shares of Preference Stock of any series. The foregoing provisions of this Section 3 shall not, however, apply to a dividend payable in Common Stock or to the acquisition of shares of Common Stock in exchange
for, or through application of the proceeds of the sale of, shares of Common Stock.      Subject to the foregoing and to any
further limitations prescribed in accordance with the provisions of Section 2 of this Article FOURTH, the Board of Directors may declare, out of any funds legally available therefor, dividends upon the then outstanding shares of Common Stock,
and shares of Preferred Stock of any series and shares of Preference Stock of any series shall not be entitled to participate therein.      4. In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the corporation, the holders of the Preferred Stock of each series and the holders of the Preference Stock of each
series shall be entitled to receive, out of the assets of the corporation available for distribution to its stockholders, before any distribution of assets shall be made to the holders of the Common Stock, the amount per share fixed by the Board of
Directors pursuant to Section 2 of this Article FOURTH, plus in each such case an amount equal to any cumulative dividends thereon to the date of final distribution to the holders of the Preferred Stock or to the holders of the Preference
Stock, respectively; and the holders of the Common Stock shall be entitled, to the exclusion of the holders of the Preferred Stock of any and all series and the holders of the Preference Stock of any and all series, respectively, to participate
ratably in all the assets of the corporation then remaining in accordance with their respective rights and preferences. If upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the corporation the assets available for distribution shall be insufficient
to pay the holders of all outstanding shares of Preferred Stock or the holders of all outstanding shares of Preference Stock the full amounts to which they respectively shall be entitled, the holders of shares of Preferred Stock of all series and
the holders of shares of Preference Stock of all series, respectively, shall participate ratably in any distribution of assets according to the respective amounts which would be payable in respect of the shares of Preferred Stock or shares of
Preference Stock held by them upon such distribution if all amounts payable in respect of the Preferred Stock of all series or the Preference Stock of all series, respectively, were paid in full. Neither the statutory merger nor consolidation of the
corporation into or with any other corporation, nor the statutory merger or consolidation of any other corporation into or with the corporation, nor a sale, transfer or lease of all or any part of the assets of the corporation, shall be deemed to be
a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the corporation within the meaning of this Section 4.   
         4   

5. The corporation, at the option of the Board of Directors, may redeem the whole or any
part of the Preferred Stock of any series or of the Preference Stock of any series at the price or prices and on the terms and conditions provided in the resolution or resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors providing for the issue of such
series.      6. Anything herein or in any resolution or resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors providing for the issue of
any series of Preferred Stock or any series of Preference Stock contained to the contrary notwithstanding, the rights of the holders of all classes of stock of the corporation in respect of dividends and purchase, retirement or sinking funds, if
any, shall at all times be subject to the power of the Board of Directors from time to time to set aside such reserves and to make such other provisions, if any, as the Board of Directors shall deem to be necessary or advisable for working capital,
for expansion of the corporation s business (including the acquisition of real and personal property for that purpose) and for any other purpose of the corporation.      7. Except as otherwise provided by the statutes of the State of Delaware or by the Certificate of Incorporation or by the resolution or resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors providing for the
issue of any series of Preferred Stock or any series of Preference Stock, the holders of the Preferred Stock and the holders of the Preference Stock shall have no right to vote. The holders of the Preferred Stock and the holders of the Preference
Stock shall not be entitled to receive notice of any meeting of stockholders at which they are not entitled to vote or consent. The holders of shares of Preference Stock shall not be entitled to more than one vote per share.   
  8. Except as otherwise provided by the statutes of the State of Delaware or by the Certificate of Incorporation or by the resolution or
resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors providing for the issue of any series of Preferred Stock or any series of Preference Stock, the vote of the holders of all or any portion of any class of stock, as a class, shall not be required for any
action whatsoever to be taken or authorized by the stockholders of the corporation, including any amendment of the Certificate of Incorporation.      9. No holder of shares of the corporation of any class or of any security or obligation convertible into, or of any warrant, option or right to subscribe for, purchase or otherwise acquire, shares of the
corporation of any class, whether now or hereafter authorized, shall, as such holder, have any preemptive right whatsoever to subscribe for, purchase or otherwise acquire shares of the corporation of any class or any security or obligation
convertible into, or any warrant, option or right to subscribe for, purchase or otherwise acquire, shares of the corporation of any class, whether now or hereafter authorized.      10. If it deems it desirable so to do, the Board of Directors may from time to time issue scrip for fractional shares of stock. Such scrip shall not confer upon the holder any voting or other rights of a
stockholder of the corporation, but the corporation shall from time to time, within such time as the Board of Directors may determine, issue one whole share of stock upon the surrender of scrip for fractional shares aggregating one whole share,
properly endorsed if in registered form.      Pursuant to the authority conferred by this Article FOURTH, the following series of
Preferred Stock have been designated, each such series consisting of such number of shares, with such voting powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and qualifications, limitations or
restrictions thereof as are stated and expressed in the exhibit with respect to such series attached hereto as specified below and incorporated herein by reference:       

Exhibit A    
      
   1997 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock *   
 
     Exhibit B    
      
   1998 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock *    
         5   

Exhibit C    
      
   1999 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock *   
 
     Exhibit D    
      
   2000 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock *   
 
     Exhibit E    
      
   2001 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock *   
 
     Exhibit F    
      
   2002 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock *   
 
     Exhibit G    
      
   2003 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock    
 
    Exhibit H   
      
  2004 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock   
 
    Exhibit I   
      
  2005 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock   
 
    Exhibit J   
      
  2006 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock   
     
    FIFTH: The amount of
capital with which this corporation will commence business is One Thousand Dollars ($1,000.00), being twenty (20) shares of the par value of Fifty Dollars ($50.00) each.      SIXTH: The names and places of residence of the subscribers to the capital stock and the number of shares subscribed for by each are as follows:   

Name   
      
    Residence   
      
  No. of Shares   

A. V. Lane   
      
  Wilmington, Delaware  
      
  18   
 
    C. S. Peabbles   
      
  Wilmington, Delaware  
      
  1   
 
    L. E. Gray   
      
  Wilmington, Delaware  
      
  1   
    SEVENTH: This corporation is to have perpetual existence.   
  EIGHTH: The private property of the stockholders shall not be subject to the payment of corporate debts to any extent whatever.
     NINTH: The number of Directors of the corporation shall be as specified in the By-Laws, and such number may from time to time
be increased or decreased in such manner as may be prescribed in the By-Laws, provided the number of Directors of the corporation shall not be less than three (3). In case of any increase in the number of Directors, the additional Directors may be
elected by the Board of Directors to hold office until the next annual meeting of the stockholders and until their successors are elected and qualified. In case of a vacancy in the Board of Directors, a majority of the remaining members of the Board
may elect Directors to fill such vacancy.      Directors shall be stockholders.   
  TENTH: In furtherance and not in limitation of the powers conferred by the laws of the State of Delaware, the Board of Directors is
expressly authorized:      To make, alter, amend or repeal the By-Laws of the corporation, except as otherwise provided in said
By-Laws;      To determine from time to time whether and to what extent and at what times and places and under what conditions and
regulations the accounts and books of the corporation, or any of them, shall be open to the inspection of the stockholders; and no stockholder shall have any right to inspect any account or book or document of the corporation except as conferred by
the laws of the State of Delaware, unless and until authorized so to do by resolution of the Board of Directors, or of the stockholders.   
         6   

To set apart out of any funds of the corporation available for dividends a reserve or
reserves for working capital or for any other lawful purpose, and also to abolish any such reserve in the same manner in which it was created;      If the By-Laws so provide, to designate two or more of its number to constitute an Executive Committee, which Committee shall for the time being, as provided in said resolution or in the By-Laws of this
corporation, have and exercise any or all of the powers of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of this corporation and have power to authorize the seal of this corporation to be affixed to all papers which may
require it.      This corporation may in its By-Laws confer powers upon its Directors in addition to the foregoing and in addition
to the powers and authorities expressly conferred upon them by the Statute.      Both stockholders and Directors shall have power,
if the By-Laws so provide, to hold their meetings and to have one or more offices within or without the State of Delaware and to keep the books of this corporation (subject to the provisions of the Statutes) outside of the State of Delaware at such
places as may be from time to time designated by the Board of Directors.      ELEVENTH: In the absence of fraud, no contract or
transaction between this corporation and any other association or corporation shall be affected by the fact that any of the Directors or officers of this corporation are interested in or are Directors or officers of such other association or
corporation, and any Director or officer of this corporation individually may be a party to or may be interested in any such contract or transaction of this corporation; and no such contract or transaction of this corporation with any person or
persons, firm, association or corporation shall be affected by the fact that any Director or officer of this corporation is a party to or interested in such contract or transaction in any way connected with such person or persons, firm, association
or corporation; provided that such contract or other transaction shall be authorized or ratified by the vote of a majority of the Directors of this corporation not so interested; and each and every person who may become a Director or officer of this
corporation is hereby relieved from any liability that might otherwise exist from thus contracting with this corporation for the benefit of himself or any person, firm, association or corporation in which he may be in anywise interested.   
  TWELFTH: This corporation reserves the right to amend, alter, change or repeal any provision contained in this Certificate of
Incorporation in the manner now or hereafter prescribed by Statute, and all rights conferred upon stockholders herein are granted subject to this reservation.      THIRTEENTH: The Board of Directors is expressly authorized:      (i)
to adopt, and from time to time to amend, one or more pension, profit sharing, retirement, and benefit plans benefiting any or all officers and employees and former officers and employees of this corporation and affiliated banks and companies;
     (ii) to adopt, and from time to time to amend, one or more stock option, stock purchase, stock bonus,
incentive, and compensation plans benefiting any or all officers and employees of this corporation and affiliated banks and corporations; and      (iii) to authorize affiliated banks and companies, on behalf of this corporation as a stockholder therein, to adopt, and from time to time to amend, any of said types of plans enumerated in clause
(i) of this Article THIRTEENTH benefiting any or all officers and employees and former officers and employees thereof and any of said types of plans enumerated in clause (ii) of this Article THIRTEENTH benefiting any or all officers and
employees thereof.   
         7   

No action shall be taken under this Article except by the affirmative vote of a majority of
the directors in office at the time such action is taken, and such majority shall not include any director who is a salaried officer of the corporation or of any affiliated bank or company.   
  FOURTEENTH: (a)  Elimination of Certain Liability of Directors . A director of the corporation shall not be personally liable
to the corporation or its stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director, except for liability (i) for any breach of the director s duty of loyalty to the corporation or its stockholders, (ii) for acts or
omissions not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law, (iii) under Section 174 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or (iv) for any transaction from which the director derived an
improper personal benefit.      (b)(1)  Right to Indemnification . Each person who was or is made a party or is
threatened to be a made a party to or is involved in any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (hereinafter a  proceeding ), by reason of the fact that he or she, or a person of whom he or she
is the legal representative, is or was a director or officer of the corporation or is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation or of a partnership, joint venture, trust or
other enterprise, including service with respect to employee benefit plans, whether the basis of such proceeding is alleged action or inaction in an official capacity as a director, officer, employee or agent or in any other capacity while serving
as a director, officer, employee or agent, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the corporation to the fullest extent authorized by the Delaware General Corporation Law, as the same exists or may hereafter be amended (but, in the case of any
such amendment, only to the extent that such amendment permits the corporation to provide broader indemnification rights than said law permitted the corporation to provide prior to such amendment), against all expense, liability and loss (including
attorneys  fees, judgments, fines, ERISA excise taxes or penalties and amounts paid or to be paid in settlement) reasonably incurred or suffered by such person in connection therewith and such indemnification shall continue as to a person who
has ceased to be a director, officer, employee or agent and shall inure to the benefit of his or her heirs, executors and administrators; provided, however, that, except as provided in subparagraph (b)(2), the corporation shall indemnify any such
person seeking indemnification in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person only if such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the Board of Directors of the corporation. The right to indemnification conferred
in this paragraph (b) shall be a contract right and shall include the right to be paid by the corporation the expenses incurred in defending any such proceeding in advance of its final disposition; provided, however, that, if the Delaware
General Corporation Law requires, the payment of such expenses incurred by a director or officer in his or her capacity as a director or officer (and not in any other capacity in which service was or is rendered by such person while a director or
officer, including, without limitation, service to an employee benefit plan) in advance of the final disposition of a proceeding, shall be made only upon delivery to the corporation of an undertaking, by or on behalf of such director or officer, to
repay all amounts so advanced if it shall ultimately be determined that such director or officer is not entitled to be indemnified under this paragraph (b) or otherwise. The corporation may, by action of its Board of Directors, provide
indemnification to employees and agents of the corporation with the same scope and effect as the foregoing indemnification of directors and officers.      (2)  Right of Claimant to Bring Suit . If a claim under subparagraph (b)(1) is not paid in full by the corporation within 30 days after a written claim has been received by the corporation, the
claimant may at any time thereafter bring suit against the corporation to recover the unpaid amount of the claim and, if successful in whole or in part, the claimant shall be entitled to be paid also the expense of prosecuting such claim. It shall
be a defense to any such action (other than an action brought to enforce a claim for expenses incurred in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition where the required undertaking, if any is required, has been tendered to the
corporation) that the claimant has not met the standards of conduct   
         8   

which make it permissible under the Delaware General Corporation Law for the corporation to indemnify the claimant for the amount claimed, but the burden of proving such defense shall be on the
corporation. Neither the failure of the corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel, or its stockholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such action that indemnification of the claimant is
proper in the circumstances because he or she has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in the Delaware General Corporation Law, nor an actual determination by the corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel,
or its stockholders) that the claimant has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall be a defense to the action or create a presumption that the claimant has not met the applicable standard of conduct.   
  (3)  Non-Exclusivity of Rights . The right to indemnification and the payment of expenses incurred in defending a proceeding in
advance of its final disposition conferred in this paragraph (b) shall not be exclusive of any other right which any person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the Certificate of Incorporation, by-law, agreement, vote
of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise.      (4)  Insurance . The corporation may maintain insurance, at its
expense, to protect itself and any director, officer, employee or agent of the corporation or another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any such expense, liability or loss, whether or not the corporation
would have the power to indemnify such person against such expense, liability or loss under the Delaware General Corporation Law.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Restated Certificate of Incorporation is executed on behalf of the corporation by its Chairman and attested by its Secretary this  28  th       day of
September, 2006.         

/s/ Richard M. Kovacevich    
 
  Richard M. Kovacevich, Chairman   

Attest:   
     
    /s/ Laurel A. Holschuh    

Laurel A. Holschuh, Secretary    
    [As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on September 28, 2006.]   
         9   

EXHIBIT H       
  CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS      Pursuant to Section 151 of the      General Corporation Law of the State of
Delaware             
  2004 ESOP CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK      (Without Par Value)        
       WELLS
FARGO   COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the  Company ), HEREBY CERTIFIES that, pursuant to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Company (the
 Board ) by the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as amended, which authorizes the issuance of not more than 20,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, without par value (the  Preferred Stock ),
and pursuant to authority conferred upon the ESOP Preferred Stock Committee I of the Board (the  ESOP Committee ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the  General Corporation
Law ) and by the resolutions of the Board set forth herein, the following resolutions were duly adopted by the Board at a meeting of the Board duly held on January 25, 2000, and by the ESOP Committee pursuant to the written consent of the
ESOP Committee duly adopted on March 9, 2004, in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law:      1.
On January 25, 2000, the Board adopted the following resolutions (the  ESOP Board Resolutions ) appointing the ESOP Committee and delegating to the ESOP Committee the full powers of the Board, subject to the ESOP Board Resolutions, in
all matters relating to issuance of one or more series of Preferred Stock ( ESOP Preferred Stock ) to the trustee on behalf of the Company s 401(k) Plan hereinafter referred to:   
  RESOLVED that a committee of one member of the Board of the Company is hereby appointed by the Board as the ESOP Preferred Stock
Committee I (the  First Committee ), which shall have and may exercise the full powers of the Board, subject to these resolutions, to issue from time to time one or more series of ESOP Preferred Stock, including any shares of Company
common stock ($1-2/3 par value) issuable upon conversion of ESOP Preferred Stock, and in connection therewith, to fix the designations, voting powers, preferences, and all other rights, qualifications and restrictions of such ESOP Preferred Stock,
to sell such ESOP Preferred Stock to the Plan on such terms and conditions and for such purchase price as the First Committee in its discretion shall approve, and to take any and all actions as the First Committee shall deem necessary or
appropriate.      RESOLVED that Richard M. Kovacevich is designated to serve as the sole member of the First Committee until his
successor is duly elected and qualified.      * * * *      RESOLVED that any series of ESOP Preferred Stock authorized for issuance by the First Committee . . . shall have the voting rights set forth in Appendix A to these resolutions.   
         H-1

APPENDIX A - VOTING RIGHTS   
  No series of the Preferred Stock, except as hereinafter set forth in this resolution or as otherwise from time to time required by law,
shall have voting rights. Whenever, at any time or times, dividends payable on any shares of a designated series of the Preferred Stock (such shares of such designated series of Preferred Stock being hereinafter referred to as the  Shares of
such series ) shall be in arrears for such number of dividend periods which shall in the aggregate contain not less than 540 days, the holders of the outstanding Shares of such series shall have the exclusive right, voting together as a class
with holders of shares of any one or more other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity with the Shares of such series, either as to dividends or on the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, and upon which like
voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable, to elect two directors of the Company at the Company s next annual meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders. At elections for such directors, each
holder of the Shares of such series shall be entitled to one vote for each share held (the holders of shares of any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on such a parity being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of Preferred
Stock held as may be granted to them). Upon the vesting of such right of such holders, the maximum authorized number of members of the Board shall automatically be increased by two and the two vacancies so created shall be filled by vote of the
holders of such outstanding Shares of such series (together with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of Preferred Stock ranking on such a parity and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable) as herein
set forth. The right of such holders of such Shares of such series (voting together as a class with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of Preferred Stock ranking on such a parity and upon which like voting rights have been
conferred and are exercisable) to elect members of the Board as aforesaid shall continue until such time as all dividends accumulated on such Shares of such series shall have been paid in full, at which time such right with respect to such Shares of
such series shall terminate, except as herein or by law expressly provided, subject to revesting in the event of each and every subsequent default of the character above mentioned.   
  Upon any termination of the right of the holders of all shares of Preferred Stock entitled to vote for directors as herein provided, the
term of office of all directors then in office elected by such holders voting as a class shall terminate immediately. If the office of any director elected by such holders voting as a class becomes vacant by reason of death, resignation, retirement,
disqualification, removal from office or otherwise, the remaining director elected by such holders may choose a successor to fill such vacancy, which such successor shall hold office for the unexpired term in respect of which such vacancy occurred.
Whenever the term of office of the directors elected by such holders voting as a class shall end and the special voting powers vested in such holders as provided in this resolution shall have expired, the number of directors shall be such number as
may be provided for in the By-Laws of the Company irrespective of any increase made pursuant to the provisions of this resolution.      So long as any Shares of such series remain outstanding, the consent of the holders of the outstanding Shares of such series and outstanding shares of all other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a
parity with such Shares of such series either as to dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable, by a vote of at least two-thirds of
all such outstanding Shares of such series and such other series of Preferred Stock voting together as a class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing or at any special or annual meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary to permit,
effect or validate any one or more of the following:      (a) the authorization, creation or issuance, or any
increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any class or series of stock ranking prior to the Shares of such series with respect to payment of dividends or the distribution of assets on liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or   
         H-2

(b) the amendment, alteration or repeal, whether by merger, consolidation or
otherwise, of any of the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or of the resolutions set forth in a Certificate of Designation for the Shares of such series designating the Shares of such series and the preferences and relative,
participating, optional and other special rights and qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof which would materially and adversely affect any right, preference, privilege or voting power of the Shares of such series or of the holders
thereof; provided, however, that any increase in the amount of authorized Preferred Stock or the creation and issuance of other series of Preferred Stock, or any increase in the amount of authorized shares of any series of Preferred Stock, in each
case ranking on a parity with or junior to the Shares of such series with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, shall not be deemed to materially and adversely affect such
rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers.      The foregoing voting provisions shall not apply if, at or prior to the time
when the act with respect to which such vote would otherwise be required shall be effected, all outstanding Shares of such series shall have been redeemed or sufficient funds shall have been deposited in trust to effect such redemption.   
  2. On March 9, 2004, pursuant to authority conferred upon it by the Board in the ESOP Board Resolutions, the ESOP Committee adopted
the following resolutions by written consent in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law:      RESOLVED
that the issuance of a series of Preferred Stock, without par value, of the Company is hereby authorized and the designation, voting powers, preferences, and relative, participating, optional, and other special rights, and qualifications,
limitations and restrictions thereof, in addition to those set forth in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as amended, are hereby fixed as follows:      2004 ESOP CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK      1.  Designation and
Number of Shares; Restricted Issue .      (a) The designation of the series of Preferred Stock, without par value, provided
for herein shall be  2004 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock  (hereinafter referred to as the  2004 ESOP Preferred Stock ) and the number of authorized shares constituting the 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock is 321,000, based
on an offering price for the 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock of $1,071.40 per share. Each share of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have a stated value of $1,000.00 per share. The number of authorized shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock may be reduced by
further resolution duly adopted by the Board or the Securities Committee and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware stating that such reduction has been so authorized,
provided, however, that the authorized number of shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be decreased below the then outstanding number of such shares, and provided further that the number of authorized shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock
shall not be increased. All shares of the 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock purchased, redeemed, or converted by the Company shall be retired and canceled and shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock, without
designation as to series, and may thereafter be issued, but not as shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock.      (b) Shares of
2004 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be issued only to a trustee (the  Trustee ) acting on behalf of the Wells Fargo   Company 401(k) Plan, or any successor to such plan (the  Plan ).
  
         H-3

All references to the holder of shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock shall mean the Trustee or any company with which or into which the Trustee may merge or any successor trustee under the trust
agreement with respect to the Plan. In the event of any transfer of record ownership of shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock to any person other than any successor trustee under the Plan, the shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock so transferred, upon
such transfer and without any further action by the Company or the holder thereof, shall be automatically converted into shares of the common stock, par value $1-2/3 per share, of the Company (the  Common Stock ) on the terms
otherwise provided for the conversion of the shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to paragraph (a) of Section 4 hereof, and no such transferee shall have any of the voting powers, preferences, and
relative, participating, optional or special rights ascribed to shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock hereunder but, rather, only the powers and rights pertaining to the Common Stock into which such shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be so
converted. In the event of such a conversion, the transferee of the shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder of the shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock have
been automatically converted as of the date of such transfer. Shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock may be certificated or uncertificated, at the Company s option. Certificates representing shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock shall bear a legend
to reflect the foregoing provisions. In the case of uncertificated 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock, the transfer agent for the 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock shall note the foregoing provisions on each 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock book entry account. The Company
may require that, as a condition to transferring record ownership of any uncertificated 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock, the proposed transferee acknowledge in writing that the shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock are subject to the foregoing provisions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this paragraph (b) of Section 1, shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock (i)(A) shall be converted into shares of Common Stock as provided in paragraph (a) of Section 4 hereof, and
(B) may be converted into shares of Common Stock as provided by paragraph (b) of Section 4 hereof and the shares of Common Stock issued upon such conversion may be transferred by the holder thereof as permitted by law and
(ii) shall be redeemable by the Company upon the terms and conditions provided in Sections 5 and 6(c) hereof.   
  2.  Voting Rights . No shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have voting rights except such voting rights as may from time
to time be required by law and as set forth in this Section 2, as follows:      (a) Whenever, at any time or times,
dividends payable on shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be in arrears for such number of dividend periods which shall in the aggregate contain not less than 540 days, the holders of the outstanding shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock shall
have the exclusive right, voting together as a class with holders of shares of any one or more other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity with the shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or on the distribution of assets
upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable, to elect two directors of the Company at the Company s next annual meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent annual
meeting of stockholders. At elections for such directors, each holder of the shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to one vote for each share held (the holders of shares of any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on such a parity
being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of Preferred Stock held as may be granted to them). Upon the vesting of such right of such holders, the maximum authorized number of members of the Board shall automatically be increased
by two and the two vacancies so created shall be filled by vote of the holders of such outstanding shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock (together with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of Preferred Stock ranking on such a parity
and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable) as herein set forth. The right of such holders of such shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock (voting together as a class with the holders of shares of any one or more other
series of Preferred Stock ranking on such a parity and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable) to elect members of the Board as aforesaid shall continue until such time as all dividends accumulated on such shares of
2004 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been   
         H-4

paid in full, at which time such right with respect to such shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock shall terminate, except as herein or by law expressly provided, subject to revesting in the event
of each and every subsequent default of the character above mentioned.      (b) Upon any termination of the right of the
holders of all shares of Preferred Stock entitled to vote for directors as herein provided, the term of office of all directors then in office elected by such holders voting as a class shall terminate immediately. If the office of any director
elected by such holders voting as a class becomes vacant by reason of death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office or otherwise, the remaining director elected by such holders may choose a successor to fill such vacancy,
which such successor shall hold office for the unexpired term in respect of which such vacancy occurred. Whenever the term of office of the directors elected by such holders voting as a class shall end and the special voting powers vested in such
holders as provided in this resolution shall have expired, the number of directors shall be such number as may be provided for in the By-Laws of the Company irrespective of any increase made pursuant to the provisions of this resolution.   
  (c) So long as any shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the consent of the holders of the outstanding shares of
2004 ESOP Preferred Stock and outstanding shares of all other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity with such shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock either as to dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding
up and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable, by a vote of at least two-thirds of all such outstanding shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock and such other series of Preferred Stock voting together as a class, given in
person or by proxy, either in writing or at any special or annual meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary to permit, effect or validate any one or more of the following:   
  (i) the authorization, creation or issuance, or any increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any class or series of stock
ranking prior to shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock with respect to payment of dividends or the distribution of assets on liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or      (ii) the amendment, alteration or repeal, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise, of any of the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or of the resolutions set forth in a
Certificate of Designations designating shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock and the preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights and qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof which would materially and
adversely affect any right, preference, privilege or voting power of the shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock or of the holders thereof; provided, however, that any increase in the amount of authorized Preferred Stock, or the creation and issuance of
other series of Preferred Stock, or any increase in the amount of authorized shares of any series of Preferred Stock, in each case ranking on a parity with or junior to the shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends
and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, shall not be deemed to materially and adversely affect such rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers.   
  (d) The foregoing voting provisions shall not apply if, at or prior to the time when the act with respect to which such vote would
otherwise be required shall be effected, all outstanding shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed or sufficient funds shall have been deposited in trust to effect such redemption.   
  3.  Dividends . (a)(i) Holders of shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive, when and as declared by the
Board or a duly authorized committee thereof, out of assets of the Company legally available for payment, an annual cash dividend of $85.00 (the  Base Dividend ) per share, which Base Dividend shall be subject to adjustment from time to
time as provided in this Section 3.   
         H-5

(ii) The Base Dividend shall be adjusted, effective on December 1, 2005 and on
each December 1 thereafter until December 1, 2013, as follows:      (1) If the Current Market Price
(as hereinafter defined) of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or the next preceding Trading Day (as hereinafter defined) if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is equal to or
greater than the First Target Price but less than the Second Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then holders of shares of the 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend for the immediately following
twelve month period equal to $90.00 per share (the  First Adjusted Dividend ).      (2) If the
Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or the next preceding Trading Day if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is equal to or greater than the Second
Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then holders of shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend for the immediately following twelve month period equal to $95.00 per share (the  Second
Adjusted Dividend ).      (3) If the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on
November 30 (or next preceding Trading Day if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is less than the First Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then the holders of
shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend for the immediately following twelve month period equal to the Base Dividend.        Dividend Adjustment Table         
    (4) As an example of the adjustments described in subparagraphs (1) through
(3) above, if on November 30, 2007, the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock is $85.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately following twelve month period per share of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal
$90.00, with the first quarterly payment of such $90.00 dividend to be made on March 1, 2008. If on November 30, 2008, the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock is $115.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately
following twelve month period per share of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $95.00, with the first quarterly payment of such $95.00 dividend to be made on March 1, 2009. If on November 30, 2009, the Current Market Price of one share
of Common Stock is $85.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately following twelve month period per share of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $85.00, with the first quarterly payment of such $85.00 dividend to be made on
March 1, 2010.   
         H-6

(5) For purposes of this Section 3, the terms  First
Adjusted Dividend  and  Second Adjusted Dividend  are sometimes referred to as an  Adjusted Dividend;  the term  Current Market Price  shall have the meaning given to it in Section 4(c)(iv); and the term
 Trading Day  shall have the meaning given to it in Section 4(c)(vi).      (iii) If one share of Common Stock
in any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table shall be changed into a different number of shares or a different class of shares by reason of any reclassification, recapitalization, split-up, combination, exchange of shares or readjustment, or
if a stock dividend thereon shall be declared with a record date within such period, then the First Target Price and the Second Target Price listed in such table for that year and each subsequent year will be appropriately and proportionately
adjusted.      (iv) Dividends payable on shares of the 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock (whether such dividends are equal to the
Base Dividend or to an Adjusted Dividend) shall be payable quarterly on March 1, June 1, September 1, and December 1 of each year, commencing June 1, 2004. Dividends on shares of the 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock will
be cumulative from the date of initial issuance of such shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock. Dividends will be payable, in arrears, to holders of record as they appear on the stock books of the Company on such record dates, not more than 30 days nor
less than 15 days preceding the payment dates thereof, as shall be fixed by the Board or a duly authorized committee thereof. The amount of dividends payable per share for each dividend period shall be computed by dividing by four the Base Dividend
or the Adjusted Dividend, whichever is then applicable. The amount of dividends payable for the initial dividend period or any period shorter than a full dividend period shall be calculated on the basis of actual days elapsed in a 360-day year of
twelve 30-day months.      (b)(i) No full dividends shall be declared or paid or set apart for payment on any stock of the
Company ranking, as to dividends, on a parity with or junior to the 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock for any period unless full cumulative dividends have been or contemporaneously are declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment
thereof has been set apart for such payment on shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock for all dividend payment periods terminating on or prior to the date of payment of such full cumulative dividends. When dividends are not paid in full, as aforesaid,
upon the shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock and any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity as to dividends with 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock, all dividends declared upon shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock and any other series of
Preferred Stock ranking on a parity as to dividends with 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be declared pro rata so that the amount of dividends declared per share on 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock and such other series of Preferred Stock shall in all cases
bear to each other the same ratio that accrued dividends per share on the shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock and such other series of Preferred Stock bear to each other. Holders of shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any
dividend, whether payable in cash, property, or stock, in excess of full cumulative dividends, as herein provided, on 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock. No interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any dividend payment or
payments on 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock which may be in arrears.      (ii) So long as any shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock
are outstanding, no dividend (other than dividends or distributions paid in shares of, or options, warrants, or rights to subscribe for or purchase shares of, Common Stock or any other stock ranking junior to 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock as to
dividends or upon liquidation and other than as provided in paragraph (b)(i) of this Section 3) shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment or other distribution declared or made upon Common Stock or any other capital stock of the
Company ranking junior to or on a parity with 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation, nor shall any Common Stock or any other   
         H-7

capital stock of the Company ranking junior to or on a parity with 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation be redeemed, purchased, or otherwise acquired for any
consideration (or any moneys be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any shares of any such stock) by the Company (except by conversion into or exchange for stock of the Company ranking junior to 2004 ESOP Preferred
Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation), unless, in each case, the full cumulative dividends on all outstanding shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been paid or declared and set aside for payment of the then current dividend payment
period and all past dividend payment periods.      4.  Conversion . Shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock are
convertible from time to time hereafter pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs (a) or (b) of this Section 4 into that number of shares of Common Stock determined by dividing the stated value of each share of 2004 ESOP Preferred
Stock by the then applicable Conversion Price, (as determined in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (c)(iii) of this Section 4), as follows:      (a) Each share of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock released from the unallocated reserve of the Plan in accordance with the terms thereof shall be automatically converted, without any further action by the
Company or the holder thereof, as of the date such release occurs (the  Release Date ), into fully paid and nonassessable shares of Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Price for the 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock provided for in
paragraph (c) of this Section 4.      (b) Subject to and upon compliance with the provisions of this
Section 4, a holder of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled at any time, prior to the close of business on the date fixed for redemption of such shares pursuant to Sections 5 or 6 hereof, to cause any or all of the shares of 2004 ESOP
Preferred Stock held by such holder to be converted into fully paid and nonassessable shares of Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Price for 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock provided for in paragraph (c) of this Section 4.   
  (c) For purposes of these resolutions, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:   
  (i) The  Average Current Market Price  per share of Common Stock on any date shall be deemed to be the average of the
Current Market Price for one share of Common Stock for the twenty (20) consecutive Trading Days ending on the Trading Day occurring prior to the date the  Purchase Offer  is made (as that term is defined in Section 6(d) hereof).
     (ii) A  Business Day  means each day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or a day on which state or federally
chartered banking institutions in the State of New York are not required to be open.      (iii) (A) For purposes of a
mandatory conversion of shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 4, the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be
the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on the relevant Release Date.      (B) For purposes of an optional
conversion of shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section 4, the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be the Current
Market Price of one share of Common Stock on the date the Conversion Notice (as that term is defined in paragraph (d) of this Section 4) is received by the Company, by the transfer agent for the 2004 ESOP
  
         H-8

Preferred Stock or by any agent for conversion of the 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock designated as such pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section 4.   
  (C) For purposes of a conversion of shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock in connection with a
 Purchase Offer  (as defined in Section 6(d) hereof), the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be the Average Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock.   
  Each share of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be valued at its stated value of $1,000.00 for purposes of computing, based on the applicable Conversion
Price, the number of shares of Common Stock into which the shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock will be converted.   
  (iv) The  Current Market Price  of publicly traded shares of Common Stock or any other class of capital stock or other
security of the Company or any other issuer for any day shall mean the reported last sale price, regular way, or, in case no sale takes place on such day, the average of the reported closing bid and asked prices, regular way, in either case as
reported on the New York Stock Exchange only or, if the Common Stock is not listed or admitted to trading on the New York Stock Exchange, on the principal national securities exchange on which the Common Stock is listed or admitted to trading or, if
not listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange, on the National Market System of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotations System ( NASDAQ ) or, if the Common Stock is not quoted on
such National Market System, the average of the closing bid and asked prices on such day in the over-the-counter market as reported by NASDAQ or, if bid and asked prices for the Common Stock on each such day shall not have been reported through
NASDAQ, the average of the bid and asked prices for such day as furnished by any New York Stock Exchange member firm regularly making a market in the Common Stock selected for such purpose by the Board or a committee thereof or, if no such
quotations are available, the fair market value of the Common Stock as determined by a New York Stock Exchange member firm regularly making a market in the Common Stock selected for such purpose by the Board or a committee thereof.   
  (v)  Common Stock  shall mean the Common Stock of the Company as the same exists at the date of this Certificate of
Designations or as such stock may be constituted from time to time.      (vi)  Trading Day  with respect to Common
Stock means (x) if the Common Stock is listed or admitted for trading on the New York Stock Exchange or another national securities exchange, a day on which the New York Stock Exchange or such other national securities exchange is open for
business or (y) if the Common Stock is quoted on the National Market System of NASDAQ, a day on which trades may be made on such National Market System or (z) otherwise, any Business Day.   
  (d) In connection with any conversion of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to this Section 4, a written notice of conversion (the
 Conversion Notice ) shall be delivered to the Company at its principal executive office or the offices of the transfer agent for the 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock or such office or offices in the continental United States of an agent for
conversion as may from time to time be designated by notice to the holders of the 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock by the Company or the transfer agent for the 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock, which notice shall be accompanied by (a) in the case of
certificated 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock, the certificate or certificates representing the shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted pursuant to this Section 4, duly assigned or endorsed for transfer to the Company (or accompanied by
duly executed stock powers relating thereto) and (b) in the case of uncertificated 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock, duly executed assignment and transfer documents for the shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted pursuant to this
Section 4. Each Conversion Notice shall specify (i)(y) in the case of a mandatory conversion pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 4, the number of shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock released from the unallocated reserve of the
Plan on the Release Date or (z) in the case of an optional conversion pursuant to paragraph (b) of this   
         H-9

Section 4, the number of shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted, and (ii) in connection with any conversion hereunder, (x) the name or names in which such holder
wishes the certificate or certificates for Common Stock and, in the case of certificated 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock, for any shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock not to be so converted to be issued, (y) the address to which such holder wishes
delivery to be made of such new certificates to be issued upon such conversion, and (z) such other information as the Company or its agents may reasonably request.      (e) Upon delivery to the Company or the transfer agent for the 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock of the Conversion Notice and all other documentation and certificates required to effect the conversion, as
provided in paragraph (d) of this Section 4, the Company shall issue and send by hand delivery, by courier or by first-class mail (postage prepaid) to the holder thereof or to such holder s designee, at the address designated by such
holder, a certificate or certificates for the number of shares of Common Stock to which such holder shall be entitled upon conversion. If there shall have been surrendered a certificate or certificates representing shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred
Stock only part of which are to be converted, the Company shall issue and deliver to such holder or such holder s designee, in the manner set forth in the preceding sentence, a new certificate or certificates representing the number of shares
of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock which shall not have been converted.      (f) The issuance by the Company of shares of Common
Stock upon a conversion of shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock made pursuant to this Section 4 shall be effective (i) in the case of a mandatory conversion of shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to
paragraph (a) of this Section 4, as of the Release Date; and (ii) in the case of an optional conversion of such shares pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 4, as of the earlier of (A) the delivery to such holder or
such holder s designee of the certificates representing the shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion thereof or (B) the commencement of business on the second Business Day after the delivery to the Company or the transfer agent for
the 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock of the Conversion Notice and all other documentation and certificates required to effect the conversion, as provided in paragraph (d) of this Section 4. On and after the effective date of conversion, the
person or persons entitled to receive the Common Stock issuable upon such conversion shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder or holders of such shares of Common Stock, but no allowance or adjustment shall be made in respect of
dividends payable to holders of Common Stock in respect of any period prior to such effective date. The Company shall not be obligated to pay any dividends which shall have accrued or have been declared and shall be payable to holders of shares of
2004 ESOP Preferred Stock if the date on which such dividends are paid is on or after the effective date of conversion of such shares.      (g) The Company shall not be obligated to deliver to holders of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock any fractional share or shares of Common Stock issuable upon any conversion of such shares of 2004 ESOP
Preferred Stock, but in lieu thereof may make a cash payment in respect thereof in any manner permitted by law.      (h) The
Company shall at all times reserve and keep available out of its authorized and unissued Common Stock, solely for issuance upon the conversion of shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock as herein provided, free from any preemptive rights, such number of
shares of Common Stock as shall from time to time be issuable upon the conversion of all the shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock then outstanding.      (i) The Company will use its best efforts to cause the listing of the shares of Common Stock required to be delivered upon conversion of the 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock prior to distribution to
  
         H-10

Plan participants on the national securities exchange, if any, upon which the outstanding Common Stock is listed at the time of such delivery.   
  (j) The Company will pay any and all documentary stamp or similar issue or transfer taxes payable in respect of the issue or
delivery of shares of Common Stock on conversions of the 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant hereto; provided, however, that the Company shall not be required to pay any tax which may be payable in respect of any transfer involved in the issue or
delivery of shares of Common Stock in a name other than that of the holder of the 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock to be converted and no such issue or delivery shall be made unless and until the person requesting such issue or delivery has paid to the
Company the amount of any such tax or has established, to the satisfaction of the Company, that such tax has been paid.   
  5.  Redemption At the Option of the Company . (a) The 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be redeemable, in whole or in
part, at the option of the Company at any time, at a redemption price per share of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock equal to the higher of (x) $1,000.00 per share, plus an amount equal to all accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for
redemption, and (y) the Fair Market Value (as that term is defined in paragraph (d) of this Section 5) per share of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock on the date fixed for redemption. Payment of the redemption price shall be made by the
Company in cash or shares of Common Stock, or a combination thereof, as permitted by paragraph (c) of this Section 5. From and after the date fixed for redemption, dividends on shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock called for redemption will
cease to accrue and all rights in respect of such shares of the Company shall cease, except the right to receive the redemption price. Upon payment of the redemption price, such shares shall be deemed to have been transferred to the Company, to be
retired as provided in paragraph (a) of Section 1. If the full cumulative dividends have not been paid, or contemporaneously declared and set aside for payment, on all outstanding shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock, the Company may not
redeem fewer than all the outstanding shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to this Section 5.      (b) Unless
otherwise required by law, notice of any redemption pursuant to this Section 5 will be sent to the holders of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock at the address shown on the books of the Company or any transfer agent for the 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock by
hand delivery, by courier, by standard form of telecommunication or by first-class mail (postage prepaid) delivered, sent or mailed, as the case may be, not less than twenty (20) days nor more than sixty (60) days prior to the redemption
date. Each such notice shall state: (i) the redemption date; (ii) the total number of shares of the 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such
shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) whether the redemption price shall be paid in cash or in shares of Common Stock, or in a combination of such Common Stock and cash; (v) in the case of
certificated 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; (vi) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on such redemption
date; and (vii) the conversion rights of the shares to be redeemed, the period within which conversion rights may be exercised and the manner in which the number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of a share of 2004 ESOP
Preferred Stock will be determined. The Company shall redeem shares so called for redemption and not previously converted at the date fixed for redemption and at the redemption price set forth in this Section 5, provided that, in the case of
certificated 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock, the Company shall not be obligated to pay the redemption price until the certificates for the shares to be redeemed are surrendered (properly endorsed or assigned for transfer, if the Board of Directors of the
Company shall so require and the notice shall so state).      (c) The Company, at its option, may make payment of the
redemption price required upon redemption of shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock in cash or in shares of Common Stock, or in a combination of such Common Stock and cash, any such shares of Common Stock to be valued for such
  
         H-11

purposes at their Fair Market Value (as defined in paragraph (d)(ii) of this Section 5) or their Current Market Price, in either case as of the date fixed for redemption of the 2004 ESOP
Preferred Stock, whichever value will result in the issuance of the greater number of shares of Common Stock to the holder of the 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock then being redeemed.   
  (d) For purposes of these resolutions, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:   
  (i)  Adjustment Period  shall mean the period of five (5) consecutive Trading Days preceding the date as of which
the Fair Market Value of a security is to be determined.      (ii)  Fair Market Value  shall mean, as to shares of
Common Stock or any other class of capital stock or securities of the Company or any other issue which are publicly traded, the average of the Current Market Prices of such shares or securities for each day of the Adjustment Period. The  Fair
Market Value  of any security which is not publicly traded (other than the 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock) or of any other property shall mean the fair value thereof on the date as of which the Fair Market Value of the security is to be determined,
as determined by an independent investment banking or appraisal firm experienced in the valuation of such securities or property selected in good faith by the Board or a committee thereof. The  Fair Market Value  of the 2004 ESOP Preferred
Stock for purposes of paragraph (a) of Section 5, and for purposes of paragraph (c) of Section 6 shall mean the fair market value thereof determined by an independent appraiser, appointed by the Trustee of the Plan in accordance
with the provisions of the Plan, as of the date fixed for redemption of the 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock (in the case of a redemption pursuant to Section 5) or as of the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 6 (in the case of a
redemption under that section). For purposes of determining the Fair Market Value of the 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock, the independent appraiser shall assume (i) that all dividends on the 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock would have been paid when due,
and (ii) that the mandatory conversion of shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock held by the Plan into shares of Common Stock pursuant to Section 4(a) hereof would have occurred when and as payments of principal (together with accrued
interest thereon) would have been made by the Trustee of the Plan in accordance with the terms of that certain 2004 ESOP Convertible Preferred Stock Note Agreement dated on or about March 12, 2004 between the Company and the Plan (including any
amendments or modifications thereto).      6.  Consolidation, Merger, Etc.  (a) If the Company consummates any
consolidation or merger or similar business combination, pursuant to which the outstanding shares of Common Stock are by operation of law exchanged solely for or changed, reclassified or converted solely into stock of any successor or resulting
corporation (including the Company) that constitutes  qualifying employer securities  with respect to a holder of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock within the meaning of Section 409(1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and
Section 407(d)(5) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, or any successor provisions of law, and, if applicable, for a cash payment in lieu of fractional shares, if any, the shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock of
such holder shall, in connection with such consolidation, merger or similar business combination, be assumed by and shall become Preferred Stock of such successor or resulting corporation, having in respect of such corporation, insofar as possible,
the same powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights (including the redemption rights provided by Sections 5 and 6 hereof), and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereon, that the 2004 ESOP
Preferred Stock had immediately prior to such transaction, subject to the following:      (1) After such
transaction each share of the 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be convertible, otherwise on the terms and conditions provided by Section 4 hereof, into the number and kind of qualifying employer securities so receivable by a holder of the number
of shares of   
         H-12

Common Stock into which such shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior to such transaction.   
  (2) The Company shall not consummate any such merger, consolidation or similar transaction unless all then
outstanding shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be assumed and authorized by the successor or resulting corporation as aforesaid.      (b) If the Company consummates any consolidation or merger or similar business combination, pursuant to which the outstanding shares of Common Stock are by operation of law exchanged for or changed,
reclassified or converted into other stock or securities or cash or any other property, or any combination thereof, other than any such consideration which is constituted solely of qualifying employer securities (as referred to in paragraph
(a) of this Section 6) and cash payments, if applicable, in lieu of fractional shares, outstanding shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, without any action on the part of the Company or any holder thereof (but subject to paragraph
(c) of this Section 6), be automatically converted by virtue of such merger, consolidation or similar transaction immediately prior to such consummation into the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2004 ESOP
Preferred Stock could have been converted at such time so that each share of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, by virtue of such transaction and on the same terms as apply to the holders of Common Stock, be converted into or exchanged for the
aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash or other property (payable in like kind) receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior to
such transaction. However, if by virtue of the structure of such transaction, a holder of Common Stock is required to make an election with respect to the nature and kind of consideration to be received in such transaction, which election cannot
practicably be made by the holders of the 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock, then the shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, by virtue of such transaction and on the same terms as apply to the holders of Common Stock, be converted into or exchanged for
the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash or other property (payable in kind) receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior to
such transaction if such holder of Common Stock failed to exercise any rights of election as to the kind or amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable upon such transaction. If the kind or amount of stock, securities, cash or
other property receivable upon such transaction is not the same for each non-electing share, then the kind and amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable upon such transaction for each non-electing share shall be the kind and
amount so receivable per share by a plurality of the non-electing shares.      (c) In the event the Company shall enter into
any agreement providing for any consolidation or merger or similar business combination described in paragraph (b) of this Section 6 (a  Business Combination ), then the Company shall as soon as practicable thereafter (and in any
event at least fifteen (15) Business Days before consummation of such transaction) give notice of such agreement and the material terms thereof to each holder of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock and each such holder shall have the right to elect, by
written notice to the Company, to receive, upon consummation of such transaction (if and when such transaction is consummated), from the Company or the successor of the Company, in redemption and retirement of such 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock, a cash
payment per share of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock equal to the higher of (x) $1,000.00, plus accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date of consummation of such transaction or (y) the Fair Market Value per share of 2004 ESOP Preferred
Stock, as of the last Business Day (as defined in paragraph (c) of Section 4 hereof) immediately preceding the date the Business Combination is consummated. No such notice of redemption shall be effective unless given to the Company prior
to the close of business on the last Business Day prior to consummation of such transaction, unless the Company or the successor of the Company shall waive such prior notice, but any notice of redemption so given prior to such time may be
  
         H-13

withdrawn by notice of withdrawal given to the Company prior to the close of business on the last Business Day prior to consummation of such transaction.   
  (d) In the event that a Purchase Offer (as defined below) shall have been made and shall be continuing, each holder of 2004 ESOP
Preferred Stock shall have the right to convert shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock at the Conversion Price specified in Section 4(c)(iii)(C) hereof until the date the Purchase Offer is terminated, including without
limitation because the original Purchase Offer is withdrawn or because the Purchase Offer has expired and is not renewed, upon notice of such conversion given to the Company not later than the close of business on the date the Purchase Offer
terminates (the  Purchase Offer Conversion Period ), unless the Company or any successor of the Company shall waive such prior notice, but any notice of conversion so given may be withdrawn by notice of withdrawal given to the Company
prior to the end of the Purchase Offer Conversion Period.      For purposes of this paragraph (d), the following terms shall have
the meanings set forth below:      (i)  Beneficial Ownership  shall have the meaning ascribed to it in Rule 13d-3 under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ) and  person  shall have the meanings specified in Sections 3(a)(9) and 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act.   
  (ii) A  Purchase Offer  shall have been made when any person (other than the Company or any affiliate of the Company)
shall have  commenced  (as such term is defined in Rule 14d-2 under the Exchange Act) a tender offer or exchange offer to purchase shares of Common Stock, such that, upon consummation of such offer, such person would have Beneficial
Ownership (as defined herein) or the right to acquire Beneficial Ownership, of twenty percent (20%) or more of the voting power of the Company.      7.  Liquidation Rights . (a) Upon the dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, the holders of the shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive and to be
paid out of the assets of the Company available for distribution to its stockholders, before any payment or distribution shall be made on the Common Stock or any other class of stock ranking junior to 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock upon liquidation, the
amount of $1,000.00 per share, plus a sum equal to all dividends (whether or not earned or declared) on such shares accrued and unpaid thereon to the date of final distribution.   
  (b) Neither the sale of all or substantially all the property and assets of the Company, nor the merger or consolidation of the
Company into or with any other corporation, nor the merger or consolidation of any other corporation into or with the Company shall be deemed to be a dissolution, liquidation, or winding up, voluntary or involuntary, for the purposes of this
Section 7.      (c) After the payment to the holders of the shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock of the full preferential
amounts provided for in this Section 7, the holders of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock, as such, shall have no right or claim to any of the remaining assets of the Company.      (d) In the event the assets of the Company available for distribution to the holders of shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock upon any dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, whether
voluntary or involuntary, shall be insufficient to pay in full all amounts to which such holders are entitled pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 7, no such distribution shall be made on account of any shares of any other series of
Preferred Stock or other capital stock of the Company ranking on a parity with the shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock upon such dissolution, liquidation, or winding up unless   
         H-14

proportionate distributive amounts shall be paid on account of the shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock, ratably, in proportion to the full distributable amounts for which holders of all such
parity shares are respectively entitled upon such dissolution, liquidation, or winding up.      (e) Subject to the rights of
the holders of the shares of any series or class or classes of stock ranking on a parity with or prior to the shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock upon liquidation, dissolution, or winding up, upon any liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the
Company, after payment shall have been made in full to the holders of the shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock as provided in this Section 7, but not prior thereto, any other series or class or classes of stock ranking junior to the shares of
2004 ESOP Preferred Stock upon liquidation shall, subject to the respective terms and provisions (if any) applying thereto, be entitled to receive any and all assets remaining to be paid or distributed, and the holders of the shares of 2004 ESOP
Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to share therein.      8.  Ranking . For the purposes of these resolutions,
any stock of any series or class or classes of the Company shall be deemed to rank:      (a) prior to the shares of 2004 ESOP
Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, if the holders of such series or class or classes shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as
the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders of shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock;      (b) on a parity with
shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, whether or not the dividend rates, dividend payment dates, or redemption or liquidation prices per share, or sinking fund provisions, if any, be different from those of
2004 ESOP Preferred Stock, if the holders of such stock shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as the case may be, in proportion to their respective
dividend rates or liquidation prices, without preference or priority, one over the other, as between the holders of such stock and the holders of shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock; and   
  (c) junior to shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, if such class shall be Common Stock
or if the holders of shares of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders
of shares of such series or class or classes.      9.  Priority of 2004 ESOP Preferred Stock . The shares of 2004
ESOP Preferred Stock will rank on a parity, both as to payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, with the Company s 1995 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 1996 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred
Stock, its 1997 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 1998 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 1999 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2000 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2001 ESOP Cumulative
Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2002 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, and its 2003 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock.   
         H-15

EXHIBIT I       
  CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS      Pursuant to Section 151 of the      General Corporation Law of the State of
Delaware             
  2005 ESOP CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK      (Without Par Value)        
       WELLS
FARGO   COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the  Company ), HEREBY CERTIFIES that, pursuant to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Company (the
 Board ) by the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as amended, which authorizes the issuance of not more than 20,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, without par value (the  Preferred Stock ),
and pursuant to authority conferred upon the ESOP Preferred Stock Committee I of the Board (the  ESOP Committee ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the  General Corporation
Law ) and by the resolutions of the Board set forth herein, the following resolutions were duly adopted by the Board at a meeting of the Board duly held on January 25, 2000, and by the ESOP Committee pursuant to the written consent of the
ESOP Committee duly adopted on March 11, 2005, in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law:      1.
On January 25, 2000, the Board adopted the following resolutions (the  ESOP Board Resolutions ) appointing the ESOP Committee and delegating to the ESOP Committee the full powers of the Board, subject to the ESOP Board Resolutions, in
all matters relating to issuance of one or more series of Preferred Stock ( ESOP Preferred Stock ) to the trustee on behalf of the Company s 401(k) Plan hereinafter referred to:   
  RESOLVED that a committee of one member of the Board of the Company is hereby appointed by the Board as the ESOP Preferred Stock
Committee I (the  First Committee ), which shall have and may exercise the full powers of the Board, subject to these resolutions, to issue from time to time one or more series of ESOP Preferred Stock, including any shares of Company
common stock ($1-2/3 par value) issuable upon conversion of ESOP Preferred Stock, and in connection therewith, to fix the designations, voting powers, preferences, and all other rights, qualifications and restrictions of such ESOP Preferred Stock,
to sell such ESOP Preferred Stock to the Plan on such terms and conditions and for such purchase price as the First Committee in its discretion shall approve, and to take any and all actions as the First Committee shall deem necessary or
appropriate.      RESOLVED that Richard M. Kovacevich is designated to serve as the sole member of the First Committee until his
successor is duly elected and qualified.      * * * *      RESOLVED that any series of ESOP Preferred Stock authorized for issuance by the First Committee   shall have the voting rights set forth in Appendix A to these resolutions.   
         I-1

APPENDIX A - VOTING RIGHTS   
  No series of the Preferred Stock, except as hereinafter set forth in this resolution or as otherwise from time to time required by law,
shall have voting rights. Whenever, at any time or times, dividends payable on any shares of a designated series of the Preferred Stock (such shares of such designated series of Preferred Stock being hereinafter referred to as the  Shares of
such series ) shall be in arrears for such number of dividend periods which shall in the aggregate contain not less than 540 days, the holders of the outstanding Shares of such series shall have the exclusive right, voting together as a class
with holders of shares of any one or more other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity with the Shares of such series, either as to dividends or on the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, and upon which like
voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable, to elect two directors of the Company at the Company s next annual meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders. At elections for such directors, each
holder of the Shares of such series shall be entitled to one vote for each share held (the holders of shares of any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on such a parity being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of Preferred
Stock held as may be granted to them). Upon the vesting of such right of such holders, the maximum authorized number of members of the Board shall automatically be increased by two and the two vacancies so created shall be filled by vote of the
holders of such outstanding Shares of such series (together with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of Preferred Stock ranking on such a parity and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable) as herein
set forth. The right of such holders of such Shares of such series (voting together as a class with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of Preferred Stock ranking on such a parity and upon which like voting rights have been
conferred and are exercisable) to elect members of the Board as aforesaid shall continue until such time as all dividends accumulated on such Shares of such series shall have been paid in full, at which time such right with respect to such Shares of
such series shall terminate, except as herein or by law expressly provided, subject to revesting in the event of each and every subsequent default of the character above mentioned.   
  Upon any termination of the right of the holders of all shares of Preferred Stock entitled to vote for directors as herein provided, the
term of office of all directors then in office elected by such holders voting as a class shall terminate immediately. If the office of any director elected by such holders voting as a class becomes vacant by reason of death, resignation, retirement,
disqualification, removal from office or otherwise, the remaining director elected by such holders may choose a successor to fill such vacancy, which such successor shall hold office for the unexpired term in respect of which such vacancy occurred.
Whenever the term of office of the directors elected by such holders voting as a class shall end and the special voting powers vested in such holders as provided in this resolution shall have expired, the number of directors shall be such number as
may be provided for in the By-Laws of the Company irrespective of any increase made pursuant to the provisions of this resolution.      So long as any Shares of such series remain outstanding, the consent of the holders of the outstanding Shares of such series and outstanding shares of all other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a
parity with such Shares of such series either as to dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable, by a vote of at least two-thirds of
all such outstanding Shares of such series and such other series of Preferred Stock voting together as a class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing or at any special or annual meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary to permit,
effect or validate any one or more of the following:      (a) the authorization, creation or issuance, or any
increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any class or series of stock ranking prior to the Shares of such series with respect to payment of dividends or the distribution of assets on liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or   
         I-2

(b) the amendment, alteration or repeal, whether by merger, consolidation or
otherwise, of any of the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or of the resolutions set forth in a Certificate of Designation for the Shares of such series designating the Shares of such series and the preferences and relative,
participating, optional and other special rights and qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof which would materially and adversely affect any right, preference, privilege or voting power of the Shares of such series or of the holders
thereof; provided, however, that any increase in the amount of authorized Preferred Stock or the creation and issuance of other series of Preferred Stock, or any increase in the amount of authorized shares of any series of Preferred Stock, in each
case ranking on a parity with or junior to the Shares of such series with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, shall not be deemed to materially and adversely affect such
rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers.      The foregoing voting provisions shall not apply if, at or prior to the time
when the act with respect to which such vote would otherwise be required shall be effected, all outstanding Shares of such series shall have been redeemed or sufficient funds shall have been deposited in trust to effect such redemption.   
  2. On March 11, 2005, pursuant to authority conferred upon it by the Board in the ESOP Board Resolutions, the ESOP Committee adopted
the following resolutions by written consent in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law:      RESOLVED
that the issuance of a series of Preferred Stock, without par value, of the Company is hereby authorized and the designation, voting powers, preferences, and relative, participating, optional, and other special rights, and qualifications,
limitations and restrictions thereof, in addition to those set forth in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as amended, are hereby fixed as follows:      2005 ESOP CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK      1.  Designation and
Number of Shares; Restricted Issue .      (a) The designation of the series of Preferred Stock, without par value, provided
for herein shall be  2005 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock  (hereinafter referred to as the  2005 ESOP Preferred Stock ) and the number of authorized shares constituting the 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock is 363,000, based
on an offering price for the 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock of $1,067.10 per share. Each share of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have a stated value of $1,000.00 per share. The number of authorized shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock may be reduced by
further resolution duly adopted by the Board or the Securities Committee and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware stating that such reduction has been so authorized,
provided, however, that the authorized number of shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be decreased below the then outstanding number of such shares, and provided further that the number of authorized shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock
shall not be increased. All shares of the 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock purchased, redeemed, or converted by the Company shall be retired and canceled and shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock, without
designation as to series, and may thereafter be issued, but not as shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock.      (b) Shares of
2005 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be issued only to a trustee (the  Trustee ) acting on behalf of the Wells Fargo   Company 401(k) Plan, or any successor to such plan (the  Plan ).
  
         I-3

All references to the holder of shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock shall mean the Trustee or any company with which or into which the Trustee may merge or any successor trustee under the trust
agreement with respect to the Plan. In the event of any transfer of record ownership of shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock to any person other than any successor trustee under the Plan, the shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock so transferred, upon
such transfer and without any further action by the Company or the holder thereof, shall be automatically converted into shares of the common stock, par value $1-2/3 per share, of the Company (the  Common Stock ) on the terms
otherwise provided for the conversion of the shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to paragraph (a) of Section 4 hereof, and no such transferee shall have any of the voting powers, preferences, and
relative, participating, optional or special rights ascribed to shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock hereunder but, rather, only the powers and rights pertaining to the Common Stock into which such shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be so
converted. In the event of such a conversion, the transferee of the shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder of the shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock have
been automatically converted as of the date of such transfer. Shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock may be certificated or uncertificated, at the Company s option. Certificates representing shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock shall bear a legend
to reflect the foregoing provisions. In the case of uncertificated 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock, the transfer agent for the 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock shall note the foregoing provisions on each 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock book entry account. The Company
may require that, as a condition to transferring record ownership of any uncertificated 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock, the proposed transferee acknowledge in writing that the shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock are subject to the foregoing provisions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this paragraph (b) of Section 1, shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock (i)(A) shall be converted into shares of Common Stock as provided in paragraph (a) of Section 4 hereof, and
(B) may be converted into shares of Common Stock as provided by paragraph (b) of Section 4 hereof and the shares of Common Stock issued upon such conversion may be transferred by the holder thereof as permitted by law and
(ii) shall be redeemable by the Company upon the terms and conditions provided in Sections 5 and 6(c) hereof.   
  2.  Voting Rights . No shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have voting rights except such voting rights as may from time
to time be required by law and as set forth in this Section 2, as follows:      (a) Whenever, at any time or times,
dividends payable on shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be in arrears for such number of dividend periods which shall in the aggregate contain not less than 540 days, the holders of the outstanding shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock shall
have the exclusive right, voting together as a class with holders of shares of any one or more other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity with the shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or on the distribution of assets
upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable, to elect two directors of the Company at the Company s next annual meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent annual
meeting of stockholders. At elections for such directors, each holder of the shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to one vote for each share held (the holders of shares of any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on such a parity
being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of Preferred Stock held as may be granted to them). Upon the vesting of such right of such holders, the maximum authorized number of members of the Board shall automatically be increased
by two and the two vacancies so created shall be filled by vote of the holders of such outstanding shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock (together with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of Preferred Stock ranking on such a parity
and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable) as herein set forth. The right of such holders of such shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock (voting together as a class with the holders of shares of any one or more other
series of Preferred Stock ranking on such a parity and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable) to elect members of the Board as aforesaid shall continue until such time as all dividends accumulated on such shares of
2005 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been   
         I-4

paid in full, at which time such right with respect to such shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock shall terminate, except as herein or by law expressly provided, subject to revesting in the event
of each and every subsequent default of the character above mentioned.      (b) Upon any termination of the right of the
holders of all shares of Preferred Stock entitled to vote for directors as herein provided, the term of office of all directors then in office elected by such holders voting as a class shall terminate immediately. If the office of any director
elected by such holders voting as a class becomes vacant by reason of death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office or otherwise, the remaining director elected by such holders may choose a successor to fill such vacancy,
which such successor shall hold office for the unexpired term in respect of which such vacancy occurred. Whenever the term of office of the directors elected by such holders voting as a class shall end and the special voting powers vested in such
holders as provided in this resolution shall have expired, the number of directors shall be such number as may be provided for in the By-Laws of the Company irrespective of any increase made pursuant to the provisions of this resolution.   
  (c) So long as any shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the consent of the holders of the outstanding shares of
2005 ESOP Preferred Stock and outstanding shares of all other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity with such shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock either as to dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding
up and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable, by a vote of at least two-thirds of all such outstanding shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock and such other series of Preferred Stock voting together as a class, given in
person or by proxy, either in writing or at any special or annual meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary to permit, effect or validate any one or more of the following:   
  (i) the authorization, creation or issuance, or any increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any class or series of stock
ranking prior to shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock with respect to payment of dividends or the distribution of assets on liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or      (ii) the amendment, alteration or repeal, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise, of any of the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or of the resolutions set forth in a
Certificate of Designations designating shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock and the preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights and qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof which would materially and
adversely affect any right, preference, privilege or voting power of the shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock or of the holders thereof; provided, however, that any increase in the amount of authorized Preferred Stock, or the creation and issuance of
other series of Preferred Stock, or any increase in the amount of authorized shares of any series of Preferred Stock, in each case ranking on a parity with or junior to the shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends
and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, shall not be deemed to materially and adversely affect such rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers.   
  (d) The foregoing voting provisions shall not apply if, at or prior to the time when the act with respect to which such vote would
otherwise be required shall be effected, all outstanding shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed or sufficient funds shall have been deposited in trust to effect such redemption.   
  3.  Dividends . (a)(i) Holders of shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive, when and as declared by the
Board or a duly authorized committee thereof, out of assets of the Company legally available for payment, an annual cash dividend of $97.50 (the  Base Dividend ) per share, which Base Dividend shall be subject to adjustment from time to
time as provided in this Section 3.   
         I-5

(ii) The Base Dividend shall be adjusted, effective on December 1, 2006 and on
each December 1 thereafter until December 1, 2014, as follows:      (1) If the Current Market Price
(as hereinafter defined) of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or the next preceding Trading Day (as hereinafter defined) if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is equal to or
greater than the First Target Price but less than the Second Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then holders of shares of the 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend for the immediately following
twelve month period equal to $102.50 per share (the  First Adjusted Dividend ).      (2) If the
Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or the next preceding Trading Day if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is equal to or greater than the Second
Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then holders of shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend for the immediately following twelve month period equal to $107.50 per share (the  Second
Adjusted Dividend ).      (3) If the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on
November 30 (or next preceding Trading Day if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is less than the First Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then the holders of
shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend for the immediately following twelve month period equal to the Base Dividend.        Dividend Adjustment Table         
    (4) As an example of the adjustments described in subparagraphs (1) through
(3) above, if on November 30, 2008, the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock is $85.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately following twelve month period per share of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal
$102.50, with the first quarterly payment of such $102.50 dividend to be made on March 1, 2009. If on November 30, 2009, the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock is $115.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately
following twelve month period per share of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $107.50, with the first quarterly payment of such $107.50 dividend to be made on March 1, 2010. If on November 30, 2010, the Current Market Price of one share
of Common Stock is $85.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately following twelve month period per share of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $97.50, with the first quarterly payment of such $97.50 dividend to be made on
March 1, 2011.   
         I-6

(5) For purposes of this Section 3, the terms  First
Adjusted Dividend  and  Second Adjusted Dividend  are sometimes referred to as an  Adjusted Dividend;  the term  Current Market Price  shall have the meaning given to it in Section 4(c)(iv); and the term
 Trading Day  shall have the meaning given to it in Section 4(c)(vi).      (iii) If one share of Common Stock
in any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table shall be changed into a different number of shares or a different class of shares by reason of any reclassification, recapitalization, split-up, combination, exchange of shares or readjustment, or
if a stock dividend thereon shall be declared with a record date within such period, then the First Target Price and the Second Target Price listed in such table for that year and each subsequent year will be appropriately and proportionately
adjusted.      (iv) Dividends payable on shares of the 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock (whether such dividends are equal to the
Base Dividend or to an Adjusted Dividend) shall be payable quarterly on March 1, June 1, September 1, and December 1 of each year, commencing June 1, 2005. Dividends on shares of the 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock will
be cumulative from the date of initial issuance of such shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock. Dividends will be payable, in arrears, to holders of record as they appear on the stock books of the Company on such record dates, not more than 30 days nor
less than 15 days preceding the payment dates thereof, as shall be fixed by the Board or a duly authorized committee thereof. The amount of dividends payable per share for each dividend period shall be computed by dividing by four the Base Dividend
or the Adjusted Dividend, whichever is then applicable. The amount of dividends payable for the initial dividend period or any period shorter than a full dividend period shall be calculated on the basis of actual days elapsed in a 360-day year of
twelve 30-day months.      (b)(i) No full dividends shall be declared or paid or set apart for payment on any stock of the
Company ranking, as to dividends, on a parity with or junior to the 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock for any period unless full cumulative dividends have been or contemporaneously are declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment
thereof has been set apart for such payment on shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock for all dividend payment periods terminating on or prior to the date of payment of such full cumulative dividends. When dividends are not paid in full, as aforesaid,
upon the shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock and any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity as to dividends with 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock, all dividends declared upon shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock and any other series of
Preferred Stock ranking on a parity as to dividends with 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be declared pro rata so that the amount of dividends declared per share on 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock and such other series of Preferred Stock shall in all cases
bear to each other the same ratio that accrued dividends per share on the shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock and such other series of Preferred Stock bear to each other. Holders of shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any
dividend, whether payable in cash, property, or stock, in excess of full cumulative dividends, as herein provided, on 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock. No interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any dividend payment or
payments on 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock which may be in arrears.      (ii) So long as any shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock
are outstanding, no dividend (other than dividends or distributions paid in shares of, or options, warrants, or rights to subscribe for or purchase shares of, Common Stock or any other stock ranking junior to 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock as to
dividends or upon liquidation and other than as provided in paragraph (b)(i) of this Section 3) shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment or other distribution declared or made upon Common Stock or any other capital stock of the
Company ranking junior to or on a parity with 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation, nor shall any Common Stock or any other   
         I-7

capital stock of the Company ranking junior to or on a parity with 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation be redeemed, purchased, or otherwise acquired for any
consideration (or any moneys be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any shares of any such stock) by the Company (except by conversion into or exchange for stock of the Company ranking junior to 2005 ESOP Preferred
Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation), unless, in each case, the full cumulative dividends on all outstanding shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been paid or declared and set aside for payment of the then current dividend payment
period and all past dividend payment periods.      4.  Conversion . Shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock are
convertible from time to time hereafter pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs (a) or (b) of this Section 4 into that number of shares of Common Stock determined by dividing the stated value of each share of 2005 ESOP Preferred
Stock by the then applicable Conversion Price, (as determined in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (c)(iii) of this Section 4), as follows:      (a) Each share of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock released from the unallocated reserve of the Plan in accordance with the terms thereof shall be automatically converted, without any further action by the
Company or the holder thereof, as of the date such release occurs (the  Release Date ), into fully paid and nonassessable shares of Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Price for the 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock provided for in
paragraph (c) of this Section 4.      (b) Subject to and upon compliance with the provisions of this
Section 4, a holder of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled at any time, prior to the close of business on the date fixed for redemption of such shares pursuant to Sections 5 or 6 hereof, to cause any or all of the shares of 2005 ESOP
Preferred Stock held by such holder to be converted into fully paid and nonassessable shares of Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Price for 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock provided for in paragraph (c) of this Section 4.   
  (c) For purposes of these resolutions, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:   
  (i) The  Average Current Market Price  per share of Common Stock on any date shall be deemed to be the average of the
Current Market Price for one share of Common Stock for the twenty (20) consecutive Trading Days ending on the Trading Day occurring prior to the date the  Purchase Offer  is made (as that term is defined in Section 6(d) hereof).
     (ii) A  Business Day  means each day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or a day on which state or federally
chartered banking institutions in the State of New York are not required to be open.      (iii) (A) For purposes of a
mandatory conversion of shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 4, the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be
the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on the relevant Release Date.      (B) For purposes of an optional
conversion of shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section 4, the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be the Current
Market Price of one share of Common Stock on the date the Conversion Notice (as that term is defined in paragraph (d) of this Section 4) is received by the Company, by the transfer agent for the 2005 ESOP
  
         I-8

Preferred Stock or by any agent for conversion of the 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock designated as such pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section 4.   
  (C) For purposes of a conversion of shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock in connection with a
 Purchase Offer  (as defined in Section 6(d) hereof), the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be the Average Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock.   
  Each share of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be valued at its stated value of $1,000.00 for purposes of computing, based on the applicable Conversion
Price, the number of shares of Common Stock into which the shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock will be converted.   
  (iv) The  Current Market Price  of publicly traded shares of Common Stock or any other class of capital stock or other
security of the Company or any other issuer for any day shall mean the reported last sale price, regular way, or, in case no sale takes place on such day, the average of the reported closing bid and asked prices, regular way, in either case as
reported on the New York Stock Exchange only or, if the Common Stock is not listed or admitted to trading on the New York Stock Exchange, on the principal national securities exchange on which the Common Stock is listed or admitted to trading or, if
not listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange, on the National Market System of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotations System ( NASDAQ ) or, if the Common Stock is not quoted on
such National Market System, the average of the closing bid and asked prices on such day in the over-the-counter market as reported by NASDAQ or, if bid and asked prices for the Common Stock on each such day shall not have been reported through
NASDAQ, the average of the bid and asked prices for such day as furnished by any New York Stock Exchange member firm regularly making a market in the Common Stock selected for such purpose by the Board or a committee thereof or, if no such
quotations are available, the fair market value of the Common Stock as determined by a New York Stock Exchange member firm regularly making a market in the Common Stock selected for such purpose by the Board or a committee thereof.   
  (v)  Common Stock  shall mean the Common Stock of the Company as the same exists at the date of this Certificate of
Designations or as such stock may be constituted from time to time.      (vi)  Trading Day  with respect to Common
Stock means (x) if the Common Stock is listed or admitted for trading on the New York Stock Exchange or another national securities exchange, a day on which the New York Stock Exchange or such other national securities exchange is open for
business or (y) if the Common Stock is quoted on the National Market System of NASDAQ, a day on which trades may be made on such National Market System or (z) otherwise, any Business Day.   
  (d) In connection with any conversion of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to this Section 4, a written notice of conversion (the
 Conversion Notice ) shall be delivered to the Company at its principal executive office or the offices of the transfer agent for the 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock or such office or offices in the continental United States of an agent for
conversion as may from time to time be designated by notice to the holders of the 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock by the Company or the transfer agent for the 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock, which notice shall be accompanied by (a) in the case of
certificated 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock, the certificate or certificates representing the shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted pursuant to this Section 4, duly assigned or endorsed for transfer to the Company (or accompanied by
duly executed stock powers relating thereto) and (b) in the case of uncertificated 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock, duly executed assignment and transfer documents for the shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted pursuant to this
Section 4. Each Conversion Notice shall specify (i)(y) in the case of a mandatory conversion pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section   
         I-9

4, the number of shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock released from the unallocated reserve of the Plan on the Release Date or (z) in the case of an optional conversion pursuant to paragraph
(b) of this Section 4, the number of shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted, and (ii) in connection with any conversion hereunder, (x) the name or names in which such holder wishes the certificate or certificates for
Common Stock and, in the case of certificated 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock, for any shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock not to be so converted to be issued, (y) the address to which such holder wishes delivery to be made of such new certificates
to be issued upon such conversion, and (z) such other information as the Company or its agents may reasonably request.   
  (e) Upon delivery to the Company or the transfer agent for the 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock of the Conversion Notice and all other
documentation and certificates required to effect the conversion, as provided in paragraph (d) of this Section 4, the Company shall issue and send by hand delivery, by courier or by first-class mail (postage prepaid) to the holder thereof
or to such holder s designee, at the address designated by such holder, a certificate or certificates for the number of shares of Common Stock to which such holder shall be entitled upon conversion. If there shall have been surrendered a
certificate or certificates representing shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock only part of which are to be converted, the Company shall issue and deliver to such holder or such holder s designee, in the manner set forth in the preceding
sentence, a new certificate or certificates representing the number of shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock which shall not have been converted.      (f) The issuance by the Company of shares of Common Stock upon a conversion of shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock made pursuant to this Section 4 shall be effective
(i) in the case of a mandatory conversion of shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 4, as of the Release Date; and (ii) in the case of an optional conversion of such shares pursuant to
paragraph (b) of this Section 4, as of the earlier of (A) the delivery to such holder or such holder s designee of the certificates representing the shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion thereof or (B) the
commencement of business on the second Business Day after the delivery to the Company or the transfer agent for the 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock of the Conversion Notice and all other documentation and certificates required to effect the conversion, as
provided in paragraph (d) of this Section 4. On and after the effective date of conversion, the person or persons entitled to receive the Common Stock issuable upon such conversion shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder or
holders of such shares of Common Stock, but no allowance or adjustment shall be made in respect of dividends payable to holders of Common Stock in respect of any period prior to such effective date. The Company shall not be obligated to pay any
dividends which shall have accrued or have been declared and shall be payable to holders of shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock if the date on which such dividends are paid is on or after the effective date of conversion of such shares.   
  (g) The Company shall not be obligated to deliver to holders of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock any fractional share or shares of Common
Stock issuable upon any conversion of such shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock, but in lieu thereof may make a cash payment in respect thereof in any manner permitted by law.      (h) The Company shall at all times reserve and keep available out of its authorized and unissued Common Stock, solely for issuance upon the conversion of shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock as herein
provided, free from any preemptive rights, such number of shares of Common Stock as shall from time to time be issuable upon the conversion of all the shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock then outstanding.   
  (i) The Company will use its best efforts to cause the listing of the shares of Common Stock required to be delivered upon
conversion of the 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock prior to distribution to   
         I-10

Plan participants on the national securities exchange, if any, upon which the outstanding Common Stock is listed at the time of such delivery.   
  (j) The Company will pay any and all documentary stamp or similar issue or transfer taxes payable in respect of the issue or
delivery of shares of Common Stock on conversions of the 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant hereto; provided, however, that the Company shall not be required to pay any tax which may be payable in respect of any transfer involved in the issue or
delivery of shares of Common Stock in a name other than that of the holder of the 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock to be converted and no such issue or delivery shall be made unless and until the person requesting such issue or delivery has paid to the
Company the amount of any such tax or has established, to the satisfaction of the Company, that such tax has been paid.   
  5.  Redemption At the Option of the Company . (a) The 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be redeemable, in whole or in
part, at the option of the Company at any time, at a redemption price per share of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock equal to the higher of (x) $1,000.00 per share, plus an amount equal to all accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for
redemption, and (y) the Fair Market Value (as that term is defined in paragraph (d) of this Section 5) per share of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock on the date fixed for redemption. Payment of the redemption price shall be made by the
Company in cash or shares of Common Stock, or a combination thereof, as permitted by paragraph (c) of this Section 5. From and after the date fixed for redemption, dividends on shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock called for redemption will
cease to accrue and all rights in respect of such shares of the Company shall cease, except the right to receive the redemption price. Upon payment of the redemption price, such shares shall be deemed to have been transferred to the Company, to be
retired as provided in paragraph (a) of Section 1. If the full cumulative dividends have not been paid, or contemporaneously declared and set aside for payment, on all outstanding shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock, the Company may not
redeem fewer than all the outstanding shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to this Section 5.      (b) Unless
otherwise required by law, notice of any redemption pursuant to this Section 5 will be sent to the holders of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock at the address shown on the books of the Company or any transfer agent for the 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock by
hand delivery, by courier, by standard form of telecommunication or by first-class mail (postage prepaid) delivered, sent or mailed, as the case may be, not less than twenty (20) days nor more than sixty (60) days prior to the redemption
date. Each such notice shall state: (i) the redemption date; (ii) the total number of shares of the 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such
shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) whether the redemption price shall be paid in cash or in shares of Common Stock, or in a combination of such Common Stock and cash; (v) in the case of
certificated 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; (vi) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on such redemption
date; and (vii) the conversion rights of the shares to be redeemed, the period within which conversion rights may be exercised and the manner in which the number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of a share of 2005 ESOP
Preferred Stock will be determined. The Company shall redeem shares so called for redemption and not previously converted at the date fixed for redemption and at the redemption price set forth in this Section 5, provided that, in the case of
certificated 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock, the Company shall not be obligated to pay the redemption price until the certificates for the shares to be redeemed are surrendered (properly endorsed or assigned for transfer, if the Board of Directors of the
Company shall so require and the notice shall so state).      (c) The Company, at its option, may make payment of the
redemption price required upon redemption of shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock in cash or in shares of Common Stock, or in a combination of such Common Stock and cash, any such shares of Common Stock to be valued for such
  
         I-11

purposes at their Fair Market Value (as defined in paragraph (d)(ii) of this Section 5) or their Current Market Price, in either case as of the date fixed for redemption of the 2005 ESOP
Preferred Stock, whichever value will result in the issuance of the greater number of shares of Common Stock to the holder of the 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock then being redeemed.   
  (d) For purposes of these resolutions, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:   
  (i)  Adjustment Period  shall mean the period of five (5) consecutive Trading Days preceding the date as of which
the Fair Market Value of a security is to be determined.      (ii)  Fair Market Value  shall mean, as to shares of
Common Stock or any other class of capital stock or securities of the Company or any other issue which are publicly traded, the average of the Current Market Prices of such shares or securities for each day of the Adjustment Period. The  Fair
Market Value  of any security which is not publicly traded (other than the 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock) or of any other property shall mean the fair value thereof on the date as of which the Fair Market Value of the security is to be determined,
as determined by an independent investment banking or appraisal firm experienced in the valuation of such securities or property selected in good faith by the Board or a committee thereof. The  Fair Market Value  of the 2005 ESOP Preferred
Stock for purposes of paragraph (a) of Section 5, and for purposes of paragraph (c) of Section 6 shall mean the fair market value thereof determined by an independent appraiser, appointed by the Trustee of the Plan in accordance
with the provisions of the Plan, as of the date fixed for redemption of the 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock (in the case of a redemption pursuant to Section 5) or as of the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 6 (in the case of a
redemption under that section). For purposes of determining the Fair Market Value of the 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock, the independent appraiser shall assume (i) that all dividends on the 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock would have been paid when due,
and (ii) that the mandatory conversion of shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock held by the Plan into shares of Common Stock pursuant to Section 4(a) hereof would have occurred when and as payments of principal (together with accrued
interest thereon) would have been made by the Trustee of the Plan in accordance with the terms of that certain 2005 ESOP Convertible Preferred Stock Note Agreement dated on or about March 17, 2005 between the Company and the Plan (including any
amendments or modifications thereto).      6.  Consolidation, Merger, Etc.  (a) If the Company consummates any
consolidation or merger or similar business combination, pursuant to which the outstanding shares of Common Stock are by operation of law exchanged solely for or changed, reclassified or converted solely into stock of any successor or resulting
corporation (including the Company) that constitutes  qualifying employer securities  with respect to a holder of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock within the meaning of Section 409(1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and
Section 407(d)(5) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, or any successor provisions of law, and, if applicable, for a cash payment in lieu of fractional shares, if any, the shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock of
such holder shall, in connection with such consolidation, merger or similar business combination, be assumed by and shall become Preferred Stock of such successor or resulting corporation, having in respect of such corporation, insofar as possible,
the same powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights (including the redemption rights provided by Sections 5 and 6 hereof), and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereon, that the 2005 ESOP
Preferred Stock had immediately prior to such transaction, subject to the following:      (1) After such
transaction each share of the 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be convertible, otherwise on the terms and conditions provided by Section 4 hereof, into the number and kind of qualifying employer securities so receivable by a holder of the number
of shares of   
         I-12

Common Stock into which such shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior to such transaction.   
  (2) The Company shall not consummate any such merger, consolidation or similar transaction unless all then
outstanding shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be assumed and authorized by the successor or resulting corporation as aforesaid.      (b) If the Company consummates any consolidation or merger or similar business combination, pursuant to which the outstanding shares of Common Stock are by operation of law exchanged for or changed,
reclassified or converted into other stock or securities or cash or any other property, or any combination thereof, other than any such consideration which is constituted solely of qualifying employer securities (as referred to in paragraph
(a) of this Section 6) and cash payments, if applicable, in lieu of fractional shares, outstanding shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, without any action on the part of the Company or any holder thereof (but subject to paragraph
(c) of this Section 6), be automatically converted by virtue of such merger, consolidation or similar transaction immediately prior to such consummation into the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2005 ESOP
Preferred Stock could have been converted at such time so that each share of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, by virtue of such transaction and on the same terms as apply to the holders of Common Stock, be converted into or exchanged for the
aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash or other property (payable in like kind) receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior to
such transaction. However, if by virtue of the structure of such transaction, a holder of Common Stock is required to make an election with respect to the nature and kind of consideration to be received in such transaction, which election cannot
practicably be made by the holders of the 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock, then the shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, by virtue of such transaction and on the same terms as apply to the holders of Common Stock, be converted into or exchanged for
the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash or other property (payable in kind) receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior to
such transaction if such holder of Common Stock failed to exercise any rights of election as to the kind or amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable upon such transaction. If the kind or amount of stock, securities, cash or
other property receivable upon such transaction is not the same for each non-electing share, then the kind and amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable upon such transaction for each non-electing share shall be the kind and
amount so receivable per share by a plurality of the non-electing shares.      (c) In the event the Company shall enter into
any agreement providing for any consolidation or merger or similar business combination described in paragraph (b) of this Section 6 (a  Business Combination ), then the Company shall as soon as practicable thereafter (and in any
event at least fifteen (15) Business Days before consummation of such transaction) give notice of such agreement and the material terms thereof to each holder of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock and each such holder shall have the right to elect, by
written notice to the Company, to receive, upon consummation of such transaction (if and when such transaction is consummated), from the Company or the successor of the Company, in redemption and retirement of such 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock, a cash
payment per share of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock equal to the higher of (x) $1,000.00, plus accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date of consummation of such transaction or (y) the Fair Market Value per share of 2005 ESOP Preferred
Stock, as of the last Business Day (as defined in paragraph (c) of Section 4 hereof) immediately preceding the date the Business Combination is consummated. No such notice of redemption shall be effective unless given to the Company prior
to the close of business on the last Business Day prior to consummation of such transaction, unless the Company or the successor of the Company shall waive such prior notice, but any notice of redemption so given prior to such time may be
  
         I-13

withdrawn by notice of withdrawal given to the Company prior to the close of business on the last Business Day prior to consummation of such transaction.   
  (d) In the event that a Purchase Offer (as defined below) shall have been made and shall be continuing, each holder of 2005 ESOP
Preferred Stock shall have the right to convert shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock at the Conversion Price specified in Section 4(c)(iii)(C) hereof until the date the Purchase Offer is terminated, including without
limitation because the original Purchase Offer is withdrawn or because the Purchase Offer has expired and is not renewed, upon notice of such conversion given to the Company not later than the close of business on the date the Purchase Offer
terminates (the  Purchase Offer Conversion Period ), unless the Company or any successor of the Company shall waive such prior notice, but any notice of conversion so given may be withdrawn by notice of withdrawal given to the Company
prior to the end of the Purchase Offer Conversion Period.      For purposes of this paragraph (d), the following terms shall have
the meanings set forth below:      (i)  Beneficial Ownership  shall have the meaning ascribed to it in Rule 13d-3 under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ) and  person  shall have the meanings specified in Sections 3(a)(9) and 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act.   
  (ii) A  Purchase Offer  shall have been made when any person (other than the Company or any affiliate of the Company)
shall have  commenced  (as such term is defined in Rule 14d-2 under the Exchange Act) a tender offer or exchange offer to purchase shares of Common Stock, such that, upon consummation of such offer, such person would have Beneficial
Ownership (as defined herein) or the right to acquire Beneficial Ownership, of twenty percent (20%) or more of the voting power of the Company.      7.  Liquidation Rights . (a) Upon the dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, the holders of the shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive and to be
paid out of the assets of the Company available for distribution to its stockholders, before any payment or distribution shall be made on the Common Stock or any other class of stock ranking junior to 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock upon liquidation, the
amount of $1,000.00 per share, plus a sum equal to all dividends (whether or not earned or declared) on such shares accrued and unpaid thereon to the date of final distribution.   
  (b) Neither the sale of all or substantially all the property and assets of the Company, nor the merger or consolidation of the
Company into or with any other corporation, nor the merger or consolidation of any other corporation into or with the Company shall be deemed to be a dissolution, liquidation, or winding up, voluntary or involuntary, for the purposes of this
Section 7.      (c) After the payment to the holders of the shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock of the full preferential
amounts provided for in this Section 7, the holders of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock, as such, shall have no right or claim to any of the remaining assets of the Company.      (d) In the event the assets of the Company available for distribution to the holders of shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock upon any dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, whether
voluntary or involuntary, shall be insufficient to pay in full all amounts to which such holders are entitled pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 7, no such distribution shall be made on account of any shares of any other series of
Preferred Stock or other capital stock of the Company ranking on a parity with the shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock upon such dissolution, liquidation, or winding up unless   
         I-14

proportionate distributive amounts shall be paid on account of the shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock, ratably, in proportion to the full distributable amounts for which holders of all such
parity shares are respectively entitled upon such dissolution, liquidation, or winding up.      (e) Subject to the rights of
the holders of the shares of any series or class or classes of stock ranking on a parity with or prior to the shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock upon liquidation, dissolution, or winding up, upon any liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the
Company, after payment shall have been made in full to the holders of the shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock as provided in this Section 7, but not prior thereto, any other series or class or classes of stock ranking junior to the shares of
2005 ESOP Preferred Stock upon liquidation shall, subject to the respective terms and provisions (if any) applying thereto, be entitled to receive any and all assets remaining to be paid or distributed, and the holders of the shares of 2005 ESOP
Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to share therein.      8.  Ranking . For the purposes of these resolutions,
any stock of any series or class or classes of the Company shall be deemed to rank:      (a) prior to the shares of 2005 ESOP
Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, if the holders of such series or class or classes shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as
the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders of shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock;      (b) on a parity with
shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, whether or not the dividend rates, dividend payment dates, or redemption or liquidation prices per share, or sinking fund provisions, if any, be different from those of
2005 ESOP Preferred Stock, if the holders of such stock shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as the case may be, in proportion to their respective
dividend rates or liquidation prices, without preference or priority, one over the other, as between the holders of such stock and the holders of shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock; and   
  (c) junior to shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, if such class shall be Common Stock
or if the holders of shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders
of shares of such series or class or classes.      9.  Priority of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock . The shares of 2005
ESOP Preferred Stock will rank on a parity, both as to payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, with the Company s 1996 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 1997 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred
Stock, its 1998 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 1999 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2000 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2001 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2002 ESOP Cumulative
Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2003 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, and its 2004 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock.   
         I-15

EXHIBIT J       
  CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS      Pursuant to Section 151 of the      General Corporation Law of the State of
Delaware             
  2006 ESOP CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK      (Without Par Value)        
       WELLS
FARGO   COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the  Company ), HEREBY CERTIFIES that, pursuant to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Company (the
 Board ) by the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as amended, which authorizes the issuance of not more than 20,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, without par value (the  Preferred Stock ),
and pursuant to authority conferred upon the ESOP Preferred Stock Committee I of the Board (the  ESOP Committee ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the  General Corporation
Law ) and by the resolutions of the Board set forth herein, the following resolutions were duly adopted by the Board at a meeting of the Board duly held on January 25, 2000, and by the ESOP Committee pursuant to the written consent of the
ESOP Committee duly adopted on March 17, 2006, in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law:      1.
On January 25, 2000, the Board adopted the following resolutions (the  ESOP Board Resolutions ) appointing the ESOP Committee and delegating to the ESOP Committee the full powers of the Board, subject to the ESOP Board Resolutions, in
all matters relating to issuance of one or more series of Preferred Stock ( ESOP Preferred Stock ) to the trustee on behalf of the Company s 401(k) Plan hereinafter referred to:   
  RESOLVED that a committee of one member of the Board of the Company is hereby appointed by the Board as the ESOP Preferred Stock
Committee I (the  First Committee ), which shall have and may exercise the full powers of the Board, subject to these resolutions, to issue from time to time one or more series of ESOP Preferred Stock, including any shares of Company
common stock ($1-2/3 par value) issuable upon conversion of ESOP Preferred Stock, and in connection therewith, to fix the designations, voting powers, preferences, and all other rights, qualifications and restrictions of such ESOP Preferred Stock,
to sell such ESOP Preferred Stock to the Plan on such terms and conditions and for such purchase price as the First Committee in its discretion shall approve, and to take any and all actions as the First Committee shall deem necessary or
appropriate.      RESOLVED that Richard M. Kovacevich is designated to serve as the sole member of the First Committee until his
successor is duly elected and qualified.      * * * *      RESOLVED that any series of ESOP Preferred Stock authorized for issuance by the First Committee   shall have the voting rights set forth in Appendix A to these resolutions.   
         J-1

APPENDIX A - VOTING RIGHTS   
  No series of the Preferred Stock, except as hereinafter set forth in this resolution or as otherwise from time to time required by law,
shall have voting rights. Whenever, at any time or times, dividends payable on any shares of a designated series of the Preferred Stock (such shares of such designated series of Preferred Stock being hereinafter referred to as the  Shares of
such series ) shall be in arrears for such number of dividend periods which shall in the aggregate contain not less than 540 days, the holders of the outstanding Shares of such series shall have the exclusive right, voting together as a class
with holders of shares of any one or more other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity with the Shares of such series, either as to dividends or on the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, and upon which like
voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable, to elect two directors of the Company at the Company s next annual meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders. At elections for such directors, each
holder of the Shares of such series shall be entitled to one vote for each share held (the holders of shares of any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on such a parity being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of Preferred
Stock held as may be granted to them). Upon the vesting of such right of such holders, the maximum authorized number of members of the Board shall automatically be increased by two and the two vacancies so created shall be filled by vote of the
holders of such outstanding Shares of such series (together with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of Preferred Stock ranking on such a parity and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable) as herein
set forth. The right of such holders of such Shares of such series (voting together as a class with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of Preferred Stock ranking on such a parity and upon which like voting rights have been
conferred and are exercisable) to elect members of the Board as aforesaid shall continue until such time as all dividends accumulated on such Shares of such series shall have been paid in full, at which time such right with respect to such Shares of
such series shall terminate, except as herein or by law expressly provided, subject to revesting in the event of each and every subsequent default of the character above mentioned.   
  Upon any termination of the right of the holders of all shares of Preferred Stock entitled to vote for directors as herein provided, the
term of office of all directors then in office elected by such holders voting as a class shall terminate immediately. If the office of any director elected by such holders voting as a class becomes vacant by reason of death, resignation, retirement,
disqualification, removal from office or otherwise, the remaining director elected by such holders may choose a successor to fill such vacancy, which such successor shall hold office for the unexpired term in respect of which such vacancy occurred.
Whenever the term of office of the directors elected by such holders voting as a class shall end and the special voting powers vested in such holders as provided in this resolution shall have expired, the number of directors shall be such number as
may be provided for in the By-Laws of the Company irrespective of any increase made pursuant to the provisions of this resolution.      So long as any Shares of such series remain outstanding, the consent of the holders of the outstanding Shares of such series and outstanding shares of all other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a
parity with such Shares of such series either as to dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable, by a vote of at least two-thirds of
all such outstanding Shares of such series and such other series of Preferred Stock voting together as a class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing or at any special or annual meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary to permit,
effect or validate any one or more of the following:      (a) the authorization, creation or issuance, or any
increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any class or series of stock ranking prior to the Shares of such series with respect to payment of dividends or the distribution of assets on liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or   
         J-2

(b) the amendment, alteration or repeal, whether by merger, consolidation or
otherwise, of any of the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or of the resolutions set forth in a Certificate of Designation for the Shares of such series designating the Shares of such series and the preferences and relative,
participating, optional and other special rights and qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof which would materially and adversely affect any right, preference, privilege or voting power of the Shares of such series or of the holders
thereof; provided, however, that any increase in the amount of authorized Preferred Stock or the creation and issuance of other series of Preferred Stock, or any increase in the amount of authorized shares of any series of Preferred Stock, in each
case ranking on a parity with or junior to the Shares of such series with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, shall not be deemed to materially and adversely affect such
rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers.      The foregoing voting provisions shall not apply if, at or prior to the time
when the act with respect to which such vote would otherwise be required shall be effected, all outstanding Shares of such series shall have been redeemed or sufficient funds shall have been deposited in trust to effect such redemption.   
  2. On March 17, 2006, pursuant to authority conferred upon it by the Board in the ESOP Board Resolutions, the ESOP Committee adopted
the following resolutions by written consent in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law:      RESOLVED
that the issuance of a series of Preferred Stock, without par value, of the Company is hereby authorized and the designation, voting powers, preferences, and relative, participating, optional, and other special rights, and qualifications,
limitations and restrictions thereof, in addition to those set forth in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as amended, are hereby fixed as follows:      2006 ESOP CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK      1.  Designation and
Number of Shares; Restricted Issue .      (a) The designation of the series of Preferred Stock, without par value, provided
for herein shall be  2006 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock  (hereinafter referred to as the  2006 ESOP Preferred Stock ) and the number of authorized shares constituting the 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock is 414,000, based
on an offering price for the 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock of $1,070.40 per share. Each share of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have a stated value of $1,000.00 per share. The number of authorized shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock may be reduced by
further resolution duly adopted by the Board or the Securities Committee and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware stating that such reduction has been so authorized,
provided, however, that the authorized number of shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be decreased below the then outstanding number of such shares, and provided further that the number of authorized shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock
shall not be increased. All shares of the 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock purchased, redeemed, or converted by the Company shall be retired and canceled and shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock, without
designation as to series, and may thereafter be issued, but not as shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock.      (b) Shares of
2006 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be issued only to a trustee (the  Trustee ) acting on behalf of the Wells Fargo   Company 401(k) Plan, or any successor to such plan (the  Plan ).
  
         J-3

All references to the holder of shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock shall mean the Trustee or any company with which or into which the Trustee may merge or any successor trustee under the trust
agreement with respect to the Plan. In the event of any transfer of record ownership of shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock to any person other than any successor trustee under the Plan, the shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock so transferred, upon
such transfer and without any further action by the Company or the holder thereof, shall be automatically converted into shares of the common stock, par value $1-2/3 per share, of the Company (the  Common Stock ) on the terms
otherwise provided for the conversion of the shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to paragraph (a) of Section 4 hereof, and no such transferee shall have any of the voting powers, preferences, and
relative, participating, optional or special rights ascribed to shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock hereunder but, rather, only the powers and rights pertaining to the Common Stock into which such shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be so
converted. In the event of such a conversion, the transferee of the shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder of the shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock have
been automatically converted as of the date of such transfer. Shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock may be certificated or uncertificated, at the Company s option. Certificates representing shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock shall bear a legend
to reflect the foregoing provisions. In the case of uncertificated 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock, the transfer agent for the 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock shall note the foregoing provisions on each 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock book entry account. The Company
may require that, as a condition to transferring record ownership of any uncertificated 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock, the proposed transferee acknowledge in writing that the shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock are subject to the foregoing provisions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this paragraph (b) of Section 1, shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock (i)(A) shall be converted into shares of Common Stock as provided in paragraph (a) of Section 4 hereof, and
(B) may be converted into shares of Common Stock as provided by paragraph (b) of Section 4 hereof and the shares of Common Stock issued upon such conversion may be transferred by the holder thereof as permitted by law and
(ii) shall be redeemable by the Company upon the terms and conditions provided in Sections 5 and 6(c) hereof.   
  2.  Voting Rights . No shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have voting rights except such voting rights as may from time
to time be required by law and as set forth in this Section 2, as follows:      (a) Whenever, at any time or times,
dividends payable on shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be in arrears for such number of dividend periods which shall in the aggregate contain not less than 540 days, the holders of the outstanding shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock shall
have the exclusive right, voting together as a class with holders of shares of any one or more other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity with the shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or on the distribution of assets
upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable, to elect two directors of the Company at the Company s next annual meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent annual
meeting of stockholders. At elections for such directors, each holder of the shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to one vote for each share held (the holders of shares of any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on such a parity
being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of Preferred Stock held as may be granted to them). Upon the vesting of such right of such holders, the maximum authorized number of members of the Board shall automatically be increased
by two and the two vacancies so created shall be filled by vote of the holders of such outstanding shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock (together with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of Preferred Stock ranking on such a parity
and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable) as herein set forth. The right of such holders of such shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock (voting together as a class with the holders of shares of any one or more other
series of Preferred Stock ranking on such a parity and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable) to elect members of the Board as aforesaid shall continue until such time as all dividends accumulated on such shares of
2006 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been   
         J-4

paid in full, at which time such right with respect to such shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock shall terminate, except as herein or by law expressly provided, subject to revesting in the event
of each and every subsequent default of the character above mentioned.      (b) Upon any termination of the right of the
holders of all shares of Preferred Stock entitled to vote for directors as herein provided, the term of office of all directors then in office elected by such holders voting as a class shall terminate immediately. If the office of any director
elected by such holders voting as a class becomes vacant by reason of death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office or otherwise, the remaining director elected by such holders may choose a successor to fill such vacancy,
which such successor shall hold office for the unexpired term in respect of which such vacancy occurred. Whenever the term of office of the directors elected by such holders voting as a class shall end and the special voting powers vested in such
holders as provided in this resolution shall have expired, the number of directors shall be such number as may be provided for in the By-Laws of the Company irrespective of any increase made pursuant to the provisions of this resolution.   
  (c) So long as any shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the consent of the holders of the outstanding shares of
2006 ESOP Preferred Stock and outstanding shares of all other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity with such shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock either as to dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding
up and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable, by a vote of at least two-thirds of all such outstanding shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock and such other series of Preferred Stock voting together as a class, given in
person or by proxy, either in writing or at any special or annual meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary to permit, effect or validate any one or more of the following:   
  (i) the authorization, creation or issuance, or any increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any class or series of stock
ranking prior to shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock with respect to payment of dividends or the distribution of assets on liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or      (ii) the amendment, alteration or repeal, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise, of any of the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or of the resolutions set forth in a
Certificate of Designations designating shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock and the preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights and qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof which would materially and
adversely affect any right, preference, privilege or voting power of the shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock or of the holders thereof; provided, however, that any increase in the amount of authorized Preferred Stock, or the creation and issuance of
other series of Preferred Stock, or any increase in the amount of authorized shares of any series of Preferred Stock, in each case ranking on a parity with or junior to the shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends
and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, shall not be deemed to materially and adversely affect such rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers.   
  (d) The foregoing voting provisions shall not apply if, at or prior to the time when the act with respect to which such vote would
otherwise be required shall be effected, all outstanding shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed or sufficient funds shall have been deposited in trust to effect such redemption.   
  3.  Dividends . (a)(i) Holders of shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive, when and as declared by the
Board or a duly authorized committee thereof, out of assets of the Company legally available for payment, an annual cash dividend of $107.50 (the  Base Dividend ) per share, which Base Dividend shall be subject to adjustment from time to
time as provided in this Section 3.   
         J-5

(ii) The Base Dividend shall be adjusted, effective on December 1, 2007 and on
each December 1 thereafter until December 1, 2015, as follows:      (1) If the Current Market Price
(as hereinafter defined) of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or the next preceding Trading Day (as hereinafter defined) if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is equal to or
greater than the First Target Price but less than the Second Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then holders of shares of the 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend for the immediately following
twelve month period equal to $112.50 per share (the  First Adjusted Dividend ).      (2) If the
Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or the next preceding Trading Day if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is equal to or greater than the Second
Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then holders of shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend for the immediately following twelve month period equal to $117.50 per share (the  Second
Adjusted Dividend ).      (3) If the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on
November 30 (or next preceding Trading Day if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is less than the First Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then the holders of
shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend for the immediately following twelve month period equal to the Base Dividend.        Dividend Adjustment Table         
    (4) As an example of the adjustments described in subparagraphs (1) through
(3) above, if on November 30, 2009, the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock is $85.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately following twelve month period per share of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal
$112.50, with the first quarterly payment of such $112.50 dividend to be made on March 1, 2010. If on November 30, 2010, the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock is $125.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately
following twelve month period per share of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $117.50, with the first quarterly payment of such $117.50 dividend to be made on March 1, 2011. If on November 30, 2011, the Current Market Price of one share
of Common Stock is $85.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately following twelve month period per share of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $107.50, with the first quarterly payment of such $107.50 dividend to be made on
March 1, 2012.   
         J-6

(5) For purposes of this Section 3, the terms  First
Adjusted Dividend  and  Second Adjusted Dividend  are sometimes referred to as an  Adjusted Dividend;  the term  Current Market Price  shall have the meaning given to it in Section 4(c)(iv); and the term
 Trading Day  shall have the meaning given to it in Section 4(c)(vi).      (iii) If one share of Common Stock
in any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table shall be changed into a different number of shares or a different class of shares by reason of any reclassification, recapitalization, split-up, combination, exchange of shares or readjustment, or
if a stock dividend thereon shall be declared with a record date within such period, then the First Target Price and the Second Target Price listed in such table for that year and each subsequent year will be appropriately and proportionately
adjusted.      (iv) Dividends payable on shares of the 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock (whether such dividends are equal to the
Base Dividend or to an Adjusted Dividend) shall be payable quarterly on March 1, June 1, September 1, and December 1 of each year, commencing June 1, 2006. Dividends on shares of the 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock will
be cumulative from the date of initial issuance of such shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock. Dividends will be payable, in arrears, to holders of record as they appear on the stock books of the Company on such record dates, not more than 30 days nor
less than 15 days preceding the payment dates thereof, as shall be fixed by the Board or a duly authorized committee thereof. The amount of dividends payable per share for each dividend period shall be computed by dividing by four the Base Dividend
or the Adjusted Dividend, whichever is then applicable. The amount of dividends payable for the initial dividend period or any period shorter than a full dividend period shall be calculated on the basis of actual days elapsed in a 360-day year of
twelve 30-day months.      (b)(i) No full dividends shall be declared or paid or set apart for payment on any stock of the
Company ranking, as to dividends, on a parity with or junior to the 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock for any period unless full cumulative dividends have been or contemporaneously are declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment
thereof has been set apart for such payment on shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock for all dividend payment periods terminating on or prior to the date of payment of such full cumulative dividends. When dividends are not paid in full, as aforesaid,
upon the shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock and any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity as to dividends with 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock, all dividends declared upon shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock and any other series of
Preferred Stock ranking on a parity as to dividends with 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be declared pro rata so that the amount of dividends declared per share on 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock and such other series of Preferred Stock shall in all cases
bear to each other the same ratio that accrued dividends per share on the shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock and such other series of Preferred Stock bear to each other. Holders of shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any
dividend, whether payable in cash, property, or stock, in excess of full cumulative dividends, as herein provided, on 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock. No interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any dividend payment or
payments on 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock which may be in arrears.      (ii) So long as any shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock
are outstanding, no dividend (other than dividends or distributions paid in shares of, or options, warrants, or rights to subscribe for or purchase shares of, Common Stock or any other stock ranking junior to 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock as to
dividends or upon liquidation and other than as provided in paragraph (b)(i) of this Section 3) shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment or other distribution declared or made upon Common Stock or any other capital stock of the
Company ranking junior to or on a parity with 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation, nor shall any Common Stock or any other   
         J-7

capital stock of the Company ranking junior to or on a parity with 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation be redeemed, purchased, or otherwise acquired for any
consideration (or any moneys be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any shares of any such stock) by the Company (except by conversion into or exchange for stock of the Company ranking junior to 2006 ESOP Preferred
Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation), unless, in each case, the full cumulative dividends on all outstanding shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been paid or declared and set aside for payment of the then current dividend payment
period and all past dividend payment periods.      4.  Conversion . Shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock are
convertible from time to time hereafter pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs (a) or (b) of this Section 4 into that number of shares of Common Stock determined by dividing the stated value of each share of 2006 ESOP Preferred
Stock by the then applicable Conversion Price, (as determined in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (c)(iii) of this Section 4), as follows:      (a) Each share of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock released from the unallocated reserve of the Plan in accordance with the terms thereof shall be automatically converted, without any further action by the
Company or the holder thereof, as of the date such release occurs (the  Release Date ), into fully paid and nonassessable shares of Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Price for the 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock provided for in
paragraph (c) of this Section 4.      (b) Subject to and upon compliance with the provisions of this
Section 4, a holder of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled at any time, prior to the close of business on the date fixed for redemption of such shares pursuant to Sections 5 or 6 hereof, to cause any or all of the shares of 2006 ESOP
Preferred Stock held by such holder to be converted into fully paid and nonassessable shares of Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Price for 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock provided for in paragraph (c) of this Section 4.   
  (c) For purposes of these resolutions, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:   
  (i) The  Average Current Market Price  per share of Common Stock on any date shall be deemed to be the average of the
Current Market Price for one share of Common Stock for the twenty (20) consecutive Trading Days ending on the Trading Day occurring prior to the date the  Purchase Offer  is made (as that term is defined in Section 6(d) hereof).
     (ii) A  Business Day  means each day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or a day on which state or federally
chartered banking institutions in the State of New York are not required to be open.      (iii) (A) For purposes of a
mandatory conversion of shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 4, the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be
the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on the relevant Release Date.      (B) For purposes of an optional
conversion of shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section 4, the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be the Current
Market Price of one share of Common Stock on the date the Conversion Notice (as that term is defined in paragraph (d) of this Section 4) is received by the Company, by the transfer agent for the 2006 ESOP
  
         J-8

Preferred Stock or by any agent for conversion of the 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock designated as such pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section 4.   
  (C) For purposes of a conversion of shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock in connection with a
 Purchase Offer  (as defined in Section 6(d) hereof), the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be the Average Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock.   
  Each share of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be valued at its stated value of $1,000.00 for purposes of computing, based on the applicable Conversion
Price, the number of shares of Common Stock into which the shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock will be converted.   
  (iv) The  Current Market Price  of publicly traded shares of Common Stock or any other class of capital stock or other
security of the Company or any other issuer for any day shall mean the reported last sale price, regular way, or, in case no sale takes place on such day, the average of the reported closing bid and asked prices, regular way, in either case as
reported on the New York Stock Exchange only or, if the Common Stock is not listed or admitted to trading on the New York Stock Exchange, on the principal national securities exchange on which the Common Stock is listed or admitted to trading or, if
not listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange, on the National Market System of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotations System ( NASDAQ ) or, if the Common Stock is not quoted on
such National Market System, the average of the closing bid and asked prices on such day in the over-the-counter market as reported by NASDAQ or, if bid and asked prices for the Common Stock on each such day shall not have been reported through
NASDAQ, the average of the bid and asked prices for such day as furnished by any New York Stock Exchange member firm regularly making a market in the Common Stock selected for such purpose by the Board or a committee thereof or, if no such
quotations are available, the fair market value of the Common Stock as determined by a New York Stock Exchange member firm regularly making a market in the Common Stock selected for such purpose by the Board or a committee thereof.   
  (v)  Common Stock  shall mean the Common Stock of the Company as the same exists at the date of this Certificate of
Designations or as such stock may be constituted from time to time.      (vi)  Trading Day  with respect to Common
Stock means (x) if the Common Stock is listed or admitted for trading on the New York Stock Exchange or another national securities exchange, a day on which the New York Stock Exchange or such other national securities exchange is open for
business or (y) if the Common Stock is quoted on the National Market System of NASDAQ, a day on which trades may be made on such National Market System or (z) otherwise, any Business Day.   
  (d) In connection with any conversion of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to this Section 4, a written notice of conversion (the
 Conversion Notice ) shall be delivered to the Company at its principal executive office or the offices of the transfer agent for the 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock or such office or offices in the continental United States of an agent for
conversion as may from time to time be designated by notice to the holders of the 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock by the Company or the transfer agent for the 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock, which notice shall be accompanied by (a) in the case of
certificated 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock, the certificate or certificates representing the shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted pursuant to this Section 4, duly assigned or endorsed for transfer to the Company (or accompanied by
duly executed stock powers relating thereto) and (b) in the case of uncertificated 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock, duly executed assignment and transfer documents for the shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted pursuant to this
Section 4. Each Conversion Notice shall specify (i)(y) in the case of a mandatory conversion pursuant to paragraph (a) of this   
         J-9

Section 4, the number of shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock released from the unallocated reserve of the Plan on the Release Date or (z) in the case of an optional conversion pursuant
to paragraph (b) of this Section 4, the number of shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted, and (ii) in connection with any conversion hereunder, (x) the name or names in which such holder wishes the certificate or
certificates for Common Stock and, in the case of certificated 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock, for any shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock not to be so converted to be issued, (y) the address to which such holder wishes delivery to be made of such
new certificates to be issued upon such conversion, and (z) such other information as the Company or its agents may reasonably request.      (e) Upon delivery to the Company or the transfer agent for the 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock of the Conversion Notice and all other documentation and certificates required to effect the conversion, as
provided in paragraph (d) of this Section 4, the Company shall issue and send by hand delivery, by courier or by first-class mail (postage prepaid) to the holder thereof or to such holder s designee, at the address designated by such
holder, a certificate or certificates for the number of shares of Common Stock to which such holder shall be entitled upon conversion. If there shall have been surrendered a certificate or certificates representing shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred
Stock only part of which are to be converted, the Company shall issue and deliver to such holder or such holder s designee, in the manner set forth in the preceding sentence, a new certificate or certificates representing the number of shares
of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock which shall not have been converted.      (f) The issuance by the Company of shares of Common
Stock upon a conversion of shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock made pursuant to this Section 4 shall be effective (i) in the case of a mandatory conversion of shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to
paragraph (a) of this Section 4, as of the Release Date; and (ii) in the case of an optional conversion of such shares pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 4, as of the earlier of (A) the delivery to such holder or
such holder s designee of the certificates representing the shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion thereof or (B) the commencement of business on the second Business Day after the delivery to the Company or the transfer agent for
the 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock of the Conversion Notice and all other documentation and certificates required to effect the conversion, as provided in paragraph (d) of this Section 4. On and after the effective date of conversion, the
person or persons entitled to receive the Common Stock issuable upon such conversion shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder or holders of such shares of Common Stock, but no allowance or adjustment shall be made in respect of
dividends payable to holders of Common Stock in respect of any period prior to such effective date. The Company shall not be obligated to pay any dividends which shall have accrued or have been declared and shall be payable to holders of shares of
2006 ESOP Preferred Stock if the date on which such dividends are paid is on or after the effective date of conversion of such shares.      (g) The Company shall not be obligated to deliver to holders of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock any fractional share or shares of Common Stock issuable upon any conversion of such shares of 2006 ESOP
Preferred Stock, but in lieu thereof may make a cash payment in respect thereof in any manner permitted by law.      (h) The
Company shall at all times reserve and keep available out of its authorized and unissued Common Stock, solely for issuance upon the conversion of shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock as herein provided, free from any preemptive rights, such number of
shares of Common Stock as shall from time to time be issuable upon the conversion of all the shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock then outstanding.      (i) The Company will use its best efforts to cause the listing of the shares of Common Stock required to be delivered upon conversion of the 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock prior to distribution to
  
         J-10

Plan participants on the national securities exchange, if any, upon which the outstanding Common Stock is listed at the time of such delivery.   
  (j) The Company will pay any and all documentary stamp or similar issue or transfer taxes payable in respect of the issue or
delivery of shares of Common Stock on conversions of the 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant hereto; provided, however, that the Company shall not be required to pay any tax which may be payable in respect of any transfer involved in the issue or
delivery of shares of Common Stock in a name other than that of the holder of the 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock to be converted and no such issue or delivery shall be made unless and until the person requesting such issue or delivery has paid to the
Company the amount of any such tax or has established, to the satisfaction of the Company, that such tax has been paid.   
  5.  Redemption At the Option of the Company . (a) The 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be redeemable, in whole or in
part, at the option of the Company at any time, at a redemption price per share of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock equal to the higher of (x) $1,000.00 per share, plus an amount equal to all accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for
redemption, and (y) the Fair Market Value (as that term is defined in paragraph (d) of this Section 5) per share of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock on the date fixed for redemption. Payment of the redemption price shall be made by the
Company in cash or shares of Common Stock, or a combination thereof, as permitted by paragraph (c) of this Section 5. From and after the date fixed for redemption, dividends on shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock called for redemption will
cease to accrue and all rights in respect of such shares of the Company shall cease, except the right to receive the redemption price. Upon payment of the redemption price, such shares shall be deemed to have been transferred to the Company, to be
retired as provided in paragraph (a) of Section 1. If the full cumulative dividends have not been paid, or contemporaneously declared and set aside for payment, on all outstanding shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock, the Company may not
redeem fewer than all the outstanding shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to this Section 5.      (b) Unless
otherwise required by law, notice of any redemption pursuant to this Section 5 will be sent to the holders of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock at the address shown on the books of the Company or any transfer agent for the 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock by
hand delivery, by courier, by standard form of telecommunication or by first-class mail (postage prepaid) delivered, sent or mailed, as the case may be, not less than twenty (20) days nor more than sixty (60) days prior to the redemption
date. Each such notice shall state: (i) the redemption date; (ii) the total number of shares of the 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such
shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) whether the redemption price shall be paid in cash or in shares of Common Stock, or in a combination of such Common Stock and cash; (v) in the case of
certificated 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; (vi) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on such redemption
date; and (vii) the conversion rights of the shares to be redeemed, the period within which conversion rights may be exercised and the manner in which the number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of a share of 2006 ESOP
Preferred Stock will be determined. The Company shall redeem shares so called for redemption and not previously converted at the date fixed for redemption and at the redemption price set forth in this Section 5, provided that, in the case of
certificated 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock, the Company shall not be obligated to pay the redemption price until the certificates for the shares to be redeemed are surrendered (properly endorsed or assigned for transfer, if the Board of Directors of the
Company shall so require and the notice shall so state).      (c) The Company, at its option, may make payment of the
redemption price required upon redemption of shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock in cash or in shares of Common Stock, or in a combination of such Common Stock and cash, any such shares of Common Stock to be valued for such
  
         J-11

purposes at their Fair Market Value (as defined in paragraph (d)(ii) of this Section 5) or their Current Market Price, in either case as of the date fixed for redemption of the 2006 ESOP
Preferred Stock, whichever value will result in the issuance of the greater number of shares of Common Stock to the holder of the 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock then being redeemed.   
  (d) For purposes of these resolutions, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:   
  (i)  Adjustment Period  shall mean the period of five (5) consecutive Trading Days preceding the date as of which
the Fair Market Value of a security is to be determined.      (ii)  Fair Market Value  shall mean, as to shares of
Common Stock or any other class of capital stock or securities of the Company or any other issue which are publicly traded, the average of the Current Market Prices of such shares or securities for each day of the Adjustment Period. The  Fair
Market Value  of any security which is not publicly traded (other than the 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock) or of any other property shall mean the fair value thereof on the date as of which the Fair Market Value of the security is to be determined,
as determined by an independent investment banking or appraisal firm experienced in the valuation of such securities or property selected in good faith by the Board or a committee thereof. The  Fair Market Value  of the 2006 ESOP Preferred
Stock for purposes of paragraph (a) of Section 5, and for purposes of paragraph (c) of Section 6 shall mean the fair market value thereof determined by an independent appraiser, appointed by the Trustee of the Plan in accordance
with the provisions of the Plan, as of the date fixed for redemption of the 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock (in the case of a redemption pursuant to Section 5) or as of the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 6 (in the case of a
redemption under that section). For purposes of determining the Fair Market Value of the 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock, the independent appraiser shall assume (i) that all dividends on the 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock would have been paid when due,
and (ii) that the mandatory conversion of shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock held by the Plan into shares of Common Stock pursuant to Section 4(a) hereof would have occurred when and as payments of principal (together with accrued
interest thereon) would have been made by the Trustee of the Plan in accordance with the terms of that certain 2006 ESOP Convertible Preferred Stock Note Agreement dated on or about March 21, 2006 between the Company and the Plan (including any
amendments or modifications thereto).      6.  Consolidation, Merger, Etc.  (a) If the Company consummates any
consolidation or merger or similar business combination, pursuant to which the outstanding shares of Common Stock are by operation of law exchanged solely for or changed, reclassified or converted solely into stock of any successor or resulting
corporation (including the Company) that constitutes  qualifying employer securities  with respect to a holder of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock within the meaning of Section 409(1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and
Section 407(d)(5) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, or any successor provisions of law, and, if applicable, for a cash payment in lieu of fractional shares, if any, the shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock of
such holder shall, in connection with such consolidation, merger or similar business combination, be assumed by and shall become Preferred Stock of such successor or resulting corporation, having in respect of such corporation, insofar as possible,
the same powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights (including the redemption rights provided by Sections 5 and 6 hereof), and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereon, that the 2006 ESOP
Preferred Stock had immediately prior to such transaction, subject to the following:      (1) After such
transaction each share of the 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be convertible, otherwise on the terms and conditions provided by Section 4 hereof, into the number and kind of qualifying employer securities so receivable by a holder of the number
of shares of   
         J-12

Common Stock into which such shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior to such transaction.   
  (2) The Company shall not consummate any such merger, consolidation or similar transaction unless all then
outstanding shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be assumed and authorized by the successor or resulting corporation as aforesaid.      (b) If the Company consummates any consolidation or merger or similar business combination, pursuant to which the outstanding shares of Common Stock are by operation of law exchanged for or changed,
reclassified or converted into other stock or securities or cash or any other property, or any combination thereof, other than any such consideration which is constituted solely of qualifying employer securities (as referred to in paragraph
(a) of this Section 6) and cash payments, if applicable, in lieu of fractional shares, outstanding shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, without any action on the part of the Company or any holder thereof (but subject to paragraph
(c) of this Section 6), be automatically converted by virtue of such merger, consolidation or similar transaction immediately prior to such consummation into the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2006 ESOP
Preferred Stock could have been converted at such time so that each share of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, by virtue of such transaction and on the same terms as apply to the holders of Common Stock, be converted into or exchanged for the
aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash or other property (payable in like kind) receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior to
such transaction. However, if by virtue of the structure of such transaction, a holder of Common Stock is required to make an election with respect to the nature and kind of consideration to be received in such transaction, which election cannot
practicably be made by the holders of the 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock, then the shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, by virtue of such transaction and on the same terms as apply to the holders of Common Stock, be converted into or exchanged for
the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash or other property (payable in kind) receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior to
such transaction if such holder of Common Stock failed to exercise any rights of election as to the kind or amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable upon such transaction. If the kind or amount of stock, securities, cash or
other property receivable upon such transaction is not the same for each non-electing share, then the kind and amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable upon such transaction for each non-electing share shall be the kind and
amount so receivable per share by a plurality of the non-electing shares.      (c) In the event the Company shall enter into
any agreement providing for any consolidation or merger or similar business combination described in paragraph (b) of this Section 6 (a  Business Combination ), then the Company shall as soon as practicable thereafter (and in any
event at least fifteen (15) Business Days before consummation of such transaction) give notice of such agreement and the material terms thereof to each holder of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock and each such holder shall have the right to elect, by
written notice to the Company, to receive, upon consummation of such transaction (if and when such transaction is consummated), from the Company or the successor of the Company, in redemption and retirement of such 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock, a cash
payment per share of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock equal to the higher of (x) $1,000.00, plus accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date of consummation of such transaction or (y) the Fair Market Value per share of 2006 ESOP Preferred
Stock, as of the last Business Day (as defined in paragraph (c) of Section 4 hereof) immediately preceding the date the Business Combination is consummated. No such notice of redemption shall be effective unless given to the Company prior
to the close of business on the last Business Day prior to consummation of such transaction, unless the Company or the successor of the Company shall waive such prior notice, but any notice of redemption so given prior to such time may be
  
         J-13

withdrawn by notice of withdrawal given to the Company prior to the close of business on the last Business Day prior to consummation of such transaction.   
  (d) In the event that a Purchase Offer (as defined below) shall have been made and shall be continuing, each holder of 2006 ESOP
Preferred Stock shall have the right to convert shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock at the Conversion Price specified in Section 4(c)(iii)(C) hereof until the date the Purchase Offer is terminated, including without
limitation because the original Purchase Offer is withdrawn or because the Purchase Offer has expired and is not renewed, upon notice of such conversion given to the Company not later than the close of business on the date the Purchase Offer
terminates (the  Purchase Offer Conversion Period ), unless the Company or any successor of the Company shall waive such prior notice, but any notice of conversion so given may be withdrawn by notice of withdrawal given to the Company
prior to the end of the Purchase Offer Conversion Period.      For purposes of this paragraph (d), the following terms shall have
the meanings set forth below:      (i)  Beneficial Ownership  shall have the meaning ascribed to it in Rule 13d-3 under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ) and  person  shall have the meanings specified in Sections 3(a)(9) and 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act.   
  (ii) A  Purchase Offer  shall have been made when any person (other than the Company or any affiliate of the Company)
shall have  commenced  (as such term is defined in Rule 14d-2 under the Exchange Act) a tender offer or exchange offer to purchase shares of Common Stock, such that, upon consummation of such offer, such person would have Beneficial
Ownership (as defined herein) or the right to acquire Beneficial Ownership, of twenty percent (20%) or more of the voting power of the Company.      7.  Liquidation Rights . (a) Upon the dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, the holders of the shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive and to be
paid out of the assets of the Company available for distribution to its stockholders, before any payment or distribution shall be made on the Common Stock or any other class of stock ranking junior to 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock upon liquidation, the
amount of $1,000.00 per share, plus a sum equal to all dividends (whether or not earned or declared) on such shares accrued and unpaid thereon to the date of final distribution.   
  (b) Neither the sale of all or substantially all the property and assets of the Company, nor the merger or consolidation of the
Company into or with any other corporation, nor the merger or consolidation of any other corporation into or with the Company shall be deemed to be a dissolution, liquidation, or winding up, voluntary or involuntary, for the purposes of this
Section 7.      (c) After the payment to the holders of the shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock of the full preferential
amounts provided for in this Section 7, the holders of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock, as such, shall have no right or claim to any of the remaining assets of the Company.      (d) In the event the assets of the Company available for distribution to the holders of shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock upon any dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, whether
voluntary or involuntary, shall be insufficient to pay in full all amounts to which such holders are entitled pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 7, no such distribution shall be made on account of any shares of any other series of
Preferred Stock or other capital stock of the Company ranking on a parity with the shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock upon such dissolution, liquidation, or winding up unless   
         J-14

proportionate distributive amounts shall be paid on account of the shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock, ratably, in proportion to the full distributable amounts for which holders of all such
parity shares are respectively entitled upon such dissolution, liquidation, or winding up.      (e) Subject to the rights of
the holders of the shares of any series or class or classes of stock ranking on a parity with or prior to the shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock upon liquidation, dissolution, or winding up, upon any liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the
Company, after payment shall have been made in full to the holders of the shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock as provided in this Section 7, but not prior thereto, any other series or class or classes of stock ranking junior to the shares of
2006 ESOP Preferred Stock upon liquidation shall, subject to the respective terms and provisions (if any) applying thereto, be entitled to receive any and all assets remaining to be paid or distributed, and the holders of the shares of 2006 ESOP
Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to share therein.      8.  Ranking . For the purposes of these resolutions,
any stock of any series or class or classes of the Company shall be deemed to rank:      (a) prior to the shares of 2006 ESOP
Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, if the holders of such series or class or classes shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as
the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders of shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock;      (b) on a parity with
shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, whether or not the dividend rates, dividend payment dates, or redemption or liquidation prices per share, or sinking fund provisions, if any, be different from those of
2006 ESOP Preferred Stock, if the holders of such stock shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as the case may be, in proportion to their respective
dividend rates or liquidation prices, without preference or priority, one over the other, as between the holders of such stock and the holders of shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock; and   
  (c) junior to shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, if such class shall be Common Stock
or if the holders of shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders
of shares of such series or class or classes.      9.  Priority of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock . The shares of 2006
ESOP Preferred Stock will rank on a parity, both as to payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, with the Company s 1997 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 1998 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred
Stock, its 1999 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2000 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2001 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2002 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2003 ESOP Cumulative
Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2004 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, and its 2005 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock.   
         J-15

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY   
         
  CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS      Pursuant to Section 151 of the      General Corporation Law of the State of
Delaware             
  2007 ESOP CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK      (Without Par Value)        
       WELLS
FARGO   COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the  Company ), HEREBY CERTIFIES that, pursuant to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Company (the
 Board ) by the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as amended, which authorizes the issuance of not more than 20,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, without par value (the  Preferred Stock ),
and pursuant to authority conferred upon the ESOP Preferred Stock Committee I of the Board (the  ESOP Committee ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the  General Corporation
Law ) and by the resolutions of the Board set forth herein, the following resolutions were duly adopted by the Board at a meeting of the Board duly held on January 25, 2000, and by the ESOP Committee pursuant to the written consent of the
ESOP Committee duly adopted on March 13, 2007, in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law:      1.
On January 25, 2000, the Board adopted the following resolutions (the  ESOP Board Resolutions ) appointing the ESOP Committee and delegating to the ESOP Committee the full powers of the Board, subject to the ESOP Board Resolutions, in
all matters relating to issuance of one or more series of Preferred Stock ( ESOP Preferred Stock ) to the trustee on behalf of the Company s 401(k) Plan hereinafter referred to:   
  RESOLVED that a committee of one member of the Board of the Company is hereby appointed by the Board as the ESOP Preferred Stock
Committee I (the  First Committee ), which shall have and may exercise the full powers of the Board, subject to these resolutions, to issue from time to time one or more series of ESOP Preferred Stock, including any shares of Company
common stock ($1 2/3 par value) issuable upon conversion of ESOP Preferred Stock, and in connection therewith, to fix the designations, voting powers, preferences, and all other rights, qualifications and restrictions of such ESOP Preferred Stock,
to sell such ESOP Preferred Stock to the Plan on such terms and conditions and for such purchase price as the First Committee in its discretion shall approve, and to take any and all actions as the First Committee shall deem necessary or
appropriate.      RESOLVED that Richard M. Kovacevich is designated to serve as the sole member of the First Committee until his
successor is duly elected and qualified.      * * * *      RESOLVED that any series of ESOP Preferred Stock authorized for issuance by the First Committee . . . shall have the voting rights set forth in Appendix A to these resolutions.   
         -1-

APPENDIX A - VOTING RIGHTS   
  No series of the Preferred Stock, except as hereinafter set forth in this resolution or as otherwise from time to time required by law,
shall have voting rights. Whenever, at any time or times, dividends payable on any shares of a designated series of the Preferred Stock (such shares of such designated series of Preferred Stock being hereinafter referred to as the  Shares of
such series ) shall be in arrears for such number of dividend periods which shall in the aggregate contain not less than 540 days, the holders of the outstanding Shares of such series shall have the exclusive right, voting together as a class
with holders of shares of any one or more other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity with the Shares of such series, either as to dividends or on the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, and upon which like
voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable, to elect two directors of the Company at the Company s next annual meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders. At elections for such directors, each
holder of the Shares of such series shall be entitled to one vote for each share held (the holders of shares of any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on such a parity being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of Preferred
Stock held as may be granted to them). Upon the vesting of such right of such holders, the maximum authorized number of members of the Board shall automatically be increased by two and the two vacancies so created shall be filled by vote of the
holders of such outstanding Shares of such series (together with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of Preferred Stock ranking on such a parity and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable) as herein
set forth. The right of such holders of such Shares of such series (voting together as a class with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of Preferred Stock ranking on such a parity and upon which like voting rights have been
conferred and are exercisable) to elect members of the Board as aforesaid shall continue until such time as all dividends accumulated on such Shares of such series shall have been paid in full, at which time such right with respect to such Shares of
such series shall terminate, except as herein or by law expressly provided, subject to revesting in the event of each and every subsequent default of the character above mentioned.   
  Upon any termination of the right of the holders of all shares of Preferred Stock entitled to vote for directors as herein provided, the
term of office of all directors then in office elected by such holders voting as a class shall terminate immediately. If the office of any director elected by such holders voting as a class becomes vacant by reason of death, resignation, retirement,
disqualification, removal from office or otherwise, the remaining director elected by such holders may choose a successor to fill such vacancy, which such successor shall hold office for the unexpired term in respect of which such vacancy occurred.
Whenever the term of office of the directors elected by such holders voting as a class shall end and the special voting powers vested in such holders as provided in this resolution shall have expired, the number of directors shall be such number as
may be provided for in the By-Laws of the Company irrespective of any increase made pursuant to the provisions of this resolution.      So long as any Shares of such series remain outstanding, the consent of the holders of the outstanding Shares of such series and outstanding shares of all other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a
parity with such Shares of such series either as to dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable, by a vote of at least two-thirds of
all such outstanding Shares of such series and such other series of Preferred Stock voting together as a class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing or at any special or annual meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary to permit,
effect or validate any one or more of the following:   
         -2-

(a) the authorization, creation or issuance, or any increase in the
authorized or issued amount, of any class or series of stock ranking prior to the Shares of such series with respect to payment of dividends or the distribution of assets on liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or   
  (b) the amendment, alteration or repeal, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise, of any of the provisions of the
Restated Certificate of Incorporation or of the resolutions set forth in a Certificate of Designation for the Shares of such series designating the Shares of such series and the preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special
rights and qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof which would materially and adversely affect any right, preference, privilege or voting power of the Shares of such series or of the holders thereof; provided, however, that any increase
in the amount of authorized Preferred Stock or the creation and issuance of other series of Preferred Stock, or any increase in the amount of authorized shares of any series of Preferred Stock, in each case ranking on a parity with or junior to the
Shares of such series with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, shall not be deemed to materially and adversely affect such rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers.
     The foregoing voting provisions shall not apply if, at or prior to the time when the act with respect to which such vote
would otherwise be required shall be effected, all outstanding Shares of such series shall have been redeemed or sufficient funds shall have been deposited in trust to effect such redemption.   
  2. On March 13, 2007, pursuant to authority conferred upon it by the Board in the ESOP Board Resolutions, the ESOP Committee adopted
the following resolutions by written consent in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law:      RESOLVED
that the issuance of a series of Preferred Stock, without par value, of the Company is hereby authorized and the designation, voting powers, preferences, and relative, participating, optional, and other special rights, and qualifications,
limitations and restrictions thereof, in addition to those set forth in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as amended, are hereby fixed as follows:      2007 ESOP CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK      1.  Designation and
Number of Shares; Restricted Issue .      (a) The designation of the series of Preferred Stock, without par value, provided
for herein shall be  2007 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock  (hereinafter referred to as the  2007 ESOP Preferred Stock ) and the number of authorized shares constituting the 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock is 484,000, based
on an offering price for the 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock of $1,070.00 per share. Each share of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have a stated value of $1,000.00 per share. The number of authorized shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock may be reduced by
further resolution duly adopted by the Board or the Securities Committee and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware stating that such reduction has been so authorized,
provided, however, that the authorized number of shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be decreased below the then outstanding number of such shares, and provided further that the number of authorized shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock
shall not be increased. All shares of the 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock purchased, redeemed, or converted by the Company shall be retired and canceled and shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock, without
designation as to series, and may thereafter be issued, but not as shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock.   
         -3-

(b) Shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be issued only to a trustee (the
 Trustee ) acting on behalf of the Wells Fargo   Company 401(k) Plan, or any successor to such plan (the  Plan ). All references to the holder of shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock shall mean the Trustee or any company
with which or into which the Trustee may merge or any successor trustee under the trust agreement with respect to the Plan. In the event of any transfer of record ownership of shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock to any person other than any
successor trustee under the Plan, the shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock so transferred, upon such transfer and without any further action by the Company or the holder thereof, shall be automatically converted into shares of the common stock, par
value $1-2/3 per share, of the Company (the  Common Stock ) on the terms otherwise provided for the conversion of the shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to paragraph (a) of Section 4
hereof, and no such transferee shall have any of the voting powers, preferences, and relative, participating, optional or special rights ascribed to shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock hereunder but, rather, only the powers and rights pertaining to
the Common Stock into which such shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be so converted. In the event of such a conversion, the transferee of the shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder of the
shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock have been automatically converted as of the date of such transfer. Shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock may be certificated or uncertificated, at the Company s option.
Certificates representing shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock shall bear a legend to reflect the foregoing provisions. In the case of uncertificated 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock, the transfer agent for the 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock shall note the
foregoing provisions on each 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock book entry account. The Company may require that, as a condition to transferring record ownership of any uncertificated 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock, the proposed transferee acknowledge in writing
that the shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock are subject to the foregoing provisions. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this paragraph (b) of Section 1, shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock (i)(A) shall be converted into shares of
Common Stock as provided in paragraph (a) of Section 4 hereof, and (B) may be converted into shares of Common Stock as provided by paragraph (b) of Section 4 hereof and the shares of Common Stock issued upon such conversion
may be transferred by the holder thereof as permitted by law and (ii) shall be redeemable by the Company upon the terms and conditions provided in Sections 5 and 6(c) hereof.   
  2.  Voting Rights . No shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have voting rights except such voting rights as may from time
to time be required by law and as set forth in this Section 2, as follows:      (a) Whenever, at any time or times,
dividends payable on shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be in arrears for such number of dividend periods which shall in the aggregate contain not less than 540 days, the holders of the outstanding shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock shall
have the exclusive right, voting together as a class with holders of shares of any one or more other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity with the shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or on the distribution of assets
upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable, to elect two directors of the Company at the Company s next annual meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent annual
meeting of stockholders. At elections for such directors, each holder of the shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to one vote for each share held (the holders of shares of any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on such a parity
being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of Preferred Stock held as may be granted to them). Upon the vesting of such right of such holders, the maximum authorized number of members of the Board shall automatically be increased
by two and the two vacancies so created shall be filled by vote of the holders of such outstanding shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock (together with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of Preferred Stock ranking on such a parity
and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable) as herein set forth. The right of such holders of such shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock (voting together as a class with the holders of shares of any
  
         -4-

one or more other series of Preferred Stock ranking on such a parity and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable) to elect members of the Board as aforesaid shall
continue until such time as all dividends accumulated on such shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been paid in full, at which time such right with respect to such shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock shall terminate, except as herein or by
law expressly provided, subject to revesting in the event of each and every subsequent default of the character above mentioned.      (b) Upon any termination of the right of the holders of all shares of Preferred Stock entitled to vote for directors as herein provided, the term of office of all directors then in office elected by
such holders voting as a class shall terminate immediately. If the office of any director elected by such holders voting as a class becomes vacant by reason of death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office or otherwise, the
remaining director elected by such holders may choose a successor to fill such vacancy, which such successor shall hold office for the unexpired term in respect of which such vacancy occurred. Whenever the term of office of the directors elected by
such holders voting as a class shall end and the special voting powers vested in such holders as provided in this resolution shall have expired, the number of directors shall be such number as may be provided for in the By-Laws of the Company
irrespective of any increase made pursuant to the provisions of this resolution.      (c) So long as any shares of 2007 ESOP
Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the consent of the holders of the outstanding shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock and outstanding shares of all other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity with such shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock
either as to dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable, by a vote of at least two-thirds of all such outstanding shares of 2007 ESOP
Preferred Stock and such other series of Preferred Stock voting together as a class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing or at any special or annual meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary to permit, effect or validate any one
or more of the following:      (i) the authorization, creation or issuance, or any increase in the authorized or issued
amount, of any class or series of stock ranking prior to shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock with respect to payment of dividends or the distribution of assets on liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or   
  (ii) the amendment, alteration or repeal, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise, of any of the provisions of the Restated
Certificate of Incorporation or of the resolutions set forth in a Certificate of Designations designating shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock and the preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights and qualifications,
limitations and restrictions thereof which would materially and adversely affect any right, preference, privilege or voting power of the shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock or of the holders thereof; provided, however, that any increase in the
amount of authorized Preferred Stock, or the creation and issuance of other series of Preferred Stock, or any increase in the amount of authorized shares of any series of Preferred Stock, in each case ranking on a parity with or junior to the shares
of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, shall not be deemed to materially and adversely affect such rights, preferences, privileges or voting
powers.      (d) The foregoing voting provisions shall not apply if, at or prior to the time when the act with respect to
which such vote would otherwise be required shall be effected, all outstanding shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed or sufficient funds shall have been deposited in trust to effect such redemption.   
  3.  Dividends . (a)(i) Holders of shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive, when and as declared by the
Board or a duly authorized committee thereof, out of assets of the   
         -5-

Company legally available for payment, an annual cash dividend of $107.50 (the  Base Dividend ) per share, which Base Dividend shall be subject to adjustment from time to time as
provided in this Section 3.      (ii) The Base Dividend shall be adjusted, effective on December 1, 2008 and on
each December 1 thereafter until December 1, 2016, as follows:      (1) If the Current Market Price
(as hereinafter defined) of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or the next preceding Trading Day (as hereinafter defined) if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is equal to or
greater than the First Target Price but less than the Second Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then holders of shares of the 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend for the immediately following
twelve month period equal to $112.50 per share (the  First Adjusted Dividend ).      (2) If the
Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or the next preceding Trading Day if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is equal to or greater than the Second
Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then holders of shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend for the immediately following twelve month period equal to $117.50 per share (the  Second
Adjusted Dividend ).      (3) If the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on
November 30 (or next preceding Trading Day if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is less than the First Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then the holders of
shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend for the immediately following twelve month period equal to the Base Dividend.       Dividend Adjustment Table        
    (4) As an example of the adjustments described in subparagraphs (1) through
(3) above, if on November 30, 2010, the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock is $50, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately following twelve month period per share of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $112.50,
with the first quarterly payment of such $112.50 dividend to be made on March 1, 2011. If on November 30, 2011, the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock is $65, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately following
twelve month period per share of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $117.50, with the first quarterly payment of such $117.50 dividend to be made on March 1, 2012. If on November 30, 2012, the Current Market Price of one share of Common
Stock is $45, then   
         -6-

the cash dividend payable for the immediately following twelve month period per share of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $107.50, with the first quarterly payment of such $107.50 dividend
to be made on March 1, 2013.      (5) For purposes of this Section 3, the terms  First
Adjusted Dividend  and  Second Adjusted Dividend  are sometimes referred to as an  Adjusted Dividend;  the term  Current Market Price  shall have the meaning given to it in Section 4(c)(iv); and the term
 Trading Day  shall have the meaning given to it in Section 4(c)(vi).      (iii) If one share of Common Stock
in any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table shall be changed into a different number of shares or a different class of shares by reason of any reclassification, recapitalization, split-up, combination, exchange of shares or readjustment, or
if a stock dividend thereon shall be declared with a record date within such period, then the First Target Price and the Second Target Price listed in such table for that year and each subsequent year will be appropriately and proportionately
adjusted.      (iv) Dividends payable on shares of the 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock (whether such dividends are equal to the
Base Dividend or to an Adjusted Dividend) shall be payable quarterly on March 1, June 1, September 1, and December 1 of each year, commencing June 1, 2007. Dividends on shares of the 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock will
be cumulative from the date of initial issuance of such shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock. Dividends will be payable, in arrears, to holders of record as they appear on the stock books of the Company on such record dates, not more than 30 days nor
less than 15 days preceding the payment dates thereof, as shall be fixed by the Board or a duly authorized committee thereof. The amount of dividends payable per share for each dividend period shall be computed by dividing by four the Base Dividend
or the Adjusted Dividend, whichever is then applicable. The amount of dividends payable for the initial dividend period or any period shorter than a full dividend period shall be calculated on the basis of actual days elapsed in a 360-day year of
twelve 30-day months.      (b)(i) No full dividends shall be declared or paid or set apart for payment on any stock of the
Company ranking, as to dividends, on a parity with or junior to the 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock for any period unless full cumulative dividends have been or contemporaneously are declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment
thereof has been set apart for such payment on shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock for all dividend payment periods terminating on or prior to the date of payment of such full cumulative dividends. When dividends are not paid in full, as aforesaid,
upon the shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock and any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity as to dividends with 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock, all dividends declared upon shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock and any other series of
Preferred Stock ranking on a parity as to dividends with 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be declared pro rata so that the amount of dividends declared per share on 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock and such other series of Preferred Stock shall in all cases
bear to each other the same ratio that accrued dividends per share on the shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock and such other series of Preferred Stock bear to each other. Holders of shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any
dividend, whether payable in cash, property, or stock, in excess of full cumulative dividends, as herein provided, on 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock. No interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any dividend payment or
payments on 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock which may be in arrears.      (ii) So long as any shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock
are outstanding, no dividend (other than dividends or distributions paid in shares of, or options, warrants, or rights to subscribe for or purchase shares of, Common Stock or any other stock ranking junior to 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock as to
dividends or upon liquidation and other than as provided in paragraph (b)(i) of this   
         -7-

Section 3) shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment or other distribution declared or made upon Common Stock or any other capital stock of the Company ranking junior to or on a
parity with 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation, nor shall any Common Stock or any other capital stock of the Company ranking junior to or on a parity with 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation be
redeemed, purchased, or otherwise acquired for any consideration (or any moneys be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any shares of any such stock) by the Company (except by conversion into or exchange for stock of
the Company ranking junior to 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation), unless, in each case, the full cumulative dividends on all outstanding shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been paid or declared and set aside
for payment of the then current dividend payment period and all past dividend payment periods.   
  4.  Conversion . Shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock are convertible from time to time hereafter pursuant to the
provisions of paragraphs (a) or (b) of this Section 4 into that number of shares of Common Stock determined by dividing the stated value of each share of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock by the then applicable Conversion Price, (as
determined in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (c)(iii) of this Section 4), as follows:      (a) Each share
of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock released from the unallocated reserve of the Plan in accordance with the terms thereof shall be automatically converted, without any further action by the Company or the holder thereof, as of the date such release occurs
(the  Release Date ), into fully paid and nonassessable shares of Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Price for the 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock provided for in paragraph (c) of this Section 4.   
  (b) Subject to and upon compliance with the provisions of this Section 4, a holder of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be
entitled at any time, prior to the close of business on the date fixed for redemption of such shares pursuant to Sections 5 or 6 hereof, to cause any or all of the shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock held by such holder to be converted into fully
paid and nonassessable shares of Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Price for 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock provided for in paragraph (c) of this Section 4.      (c) For purposes of these resolutions, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:      (i) The  Average Current Market Price  per share of Common Stock on any date shall be deemed to be the average of the Current Market Price for one share of Common Stock for the twenty
(20) consecutive Trading Days ending on the Trading Day occurring prior to the date the  Purchase Offer  is made (as that term is defined in Section 6(d) hereof).   
  (ii) A  Business Day  means each day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or a day on which state or federally chartered
banking institutions in the State of New York are not required to be open.      (iii) (A) For purposes of a mandatory
conversion of shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 4, the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be the Current
Market Price of one share of Common Stock on the relevant Release Date.      (B) For purposes of an optional conversion of
shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section   
         -8-

4, the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on the date the Conversion Notice (as that term is
defined in paragraph (d) of this Section 4) is received by the Company, by the transfer agent for the 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock or by any agent for conversion of the 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock designated as such pursuant to paragraph
(d) of this Section 4.      (C) For purposes of a conversion of shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of
Common Stock in connection with a  Purchase Offer  (as defined in Section 6(d) hereof), the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be the Average Current Market Price of one share of Common
Stock.      Each share of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be valued at its stated value of $1,000.00 for purposes of computing, based on the
applicable Conversion Price, the number of shares of Common Stock into which the shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock will be converted.      (iv) The  Current Market Price  of publicly traded shares of Common Stock or any other class of capital stock or other security of the Company or any other issuer for any day shall mean the
reported last sale price, regular way, or, in case no sale takes place on such day, the average of the reported closing bid and asked prices, regular way, in either case as reported on the New York Stock Exchange only or, if the Common Stock is not
listed or admitted to trading on the New York Stock Exchange, on the principal national securities exchange on which the Common Stock is listed or admitted to trading or, if not listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange, on
the National Market System of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotations System ( NASDAQ ) or, if the Common Stock is not quoted on such National Market System, the average of the closing bid and asked prices
on such day in the over-the-counter market as reported by NASDAQ or, if bid and asked prices for the Common Stock on each such day shall not have been reported through NASDAQ, the average of the bid and asked prices for such day as furnished by any
New York Stock Exchange member firm regularly making a market in the Common Stock selected for such purpose by the Board or a committee thereof or, if no such quotations are available, the fair market value of the Common Stock as determined by a New
York Stock Exchange member firm regularly making a market in the Common Stock selected for such purpose by the Board or a committee thereof.      (v)  Common Stock  shall mean the Common Stock of the Company as the same exists at the date of this Certificate of Designations or as such stock may be constituted from time to time.
     (vi)  Trading Day  with respect to Common Stock means (x) if the Common Stock is listed or admitted for
trading on the New York Stock Exchange or another national securities exchange, a day on which the New York Stock Exchange or such other national securities exchange is open for business or (y) if the Common Stock is quoted on the National
Market System of NASDAQ, a day on which trades may be made on such National Market System or (z) otherwise, any Business Day.      (d) In connection with any conversion of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to this Section 4, a written notice of conversion (the  Conversion Notice ) shall be delivered to the Company at
its principal executive office or the offices of the transfer agent for the 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock or such office or offices in the continental United States of an agent for conversion as may from time to time be designated by notice to the
holders of the 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock by the Company or the transfer agent for the 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock, which notice shall be accompanied by (a) in the case of certificated 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock, the certificate or certificates
representing the shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted pursuant to this Section 4, duly assigned or endorsed for transfer to the Company (or accompanied by duly executed stock powers relating thereto) and (b) in the case of
  
         -9-

uncertificated 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock, duly executed assignment and transfer documents for the shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted pursuant to this Section 4. Each
Conversion Notice shall specify (i)(y) in the case of a mandatory conversion pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 4, the number of shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock released from the unallocated reserve of the Plan on the Release
Date or (z) in the case of an optional conversion pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 4, the number of shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted, and (ii) in connection with any conversion hereunder, (x) the
name or names in which such holder wishes the certificate or certificates for Common Stock and, in the case of certificated 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock, for any shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock not to be so converted to be issued, (y) the
address to which such holder wishes delivery to be made of such new certificates to be issued upon such conversion, and (z) such other information as the Company or its agents may reasonably request.   
  (e) Upon delivery to the Company or the transfer agent for the 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock of the Conversion Notice and all other
documentation and certificates required to effect the conversion, as provided in paragraph (d) of this Section 4, the Company shall issue and send by hand delivery, by courier or by first-class mail (postage prepaid) to the holder thereof
or to such holder s designee, at the address designated by such holder, a certificate or certificates for the number of shares of Common Stock to which such holder shall be entitled upon conversion. If there shall have been surrendered a
certificate or certificates representing shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock only part of which are to be converted, the Company shall issue and deliver to such holder or such holder s designee, in the manner set forth in the preceding
sentence, a new certificate or certificates representing the number of shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock which shall not have been converted.      (f) The issuance by the Company of shares of Common Stock upon a conversion of shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock made pursuant to this Section 4 shall be effective
(i) in the case of a mandatory conversion of shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 4, as of the Release Date; and (ii) in the case of an optional conversion of such shares pursuant to
paragraph (b) of this Section 4, as of the earlier of (A) the delivery to such holder or such holder s designee of the certificates representing the shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion thereof or (B) the
commencement of business on the second Business Day after the delivery to the Company or the transfer agent for the 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock of the Conversion Notice and all other documentation and certificates required to effect the conversion, as
provided in paragraph (d) of this Section 4. On and after the effective date of conversion, the person or persons entitled to receive the Common Stock issuable upon such conversion shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder or
holders of such shares of Common Stock, but no allowance or adjustment shall be made in respect of dividends payable to holders of Common Stock in respect of any period prior to such effective date. The Company shall not be obligated to pay any
dividends which shall have accrued or have been declared and shall be payable to holders of shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock if the date on which such dividends are paid is on or after the effective date of conversion of such shares.   
  (g) The Company shall not be obligated to deliver to holders of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock any fractional share or shares of Common
Stock issuable upon any conversion of such shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock, but in lieu thereof may make a cash payment in respect thereof in any manner permitted by law.      (h) The Company shall at all times reserve and keep available out of its authorized and unissued Common Stock, solely for issuance upon the conversion of shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock as herein
provided, free from any preemptive rights, such number of shares of Common Stock as shall from time to time be issuable upon the conversion of all the shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock then outstanding.   
         -10-

(i) The Company will use its best efforts to cause the listing of the shares of Common
Stock required to be delivered upon conversion of the 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock prior to distribution to Plan participants on the national securities exchange, if any, upon which the outstanding Common Stock is listed at the time of such delivery.
     (j) The Company will pay any and all documentary stamp or similar issue or transfer taxes payable in respect of the
issue or delivery of shares of Common Stock on conversions of the 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant hereto; provided, however, that the Company shall not be required to pay any tax which may be payable in respect of any transfer involved in the
issue or delivery of shares of Common Stock in a name other than that of the holder of the 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock to be converted and no such issue or delivery shall be made unless and until the person requesting such issue or delivery has paid
to the Company the amount of any such tax or has established, to the satisfaction of the Company, that such tax has been paid.   
  5.  Redemption At the Option of the Company . (a) The 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be redeemable, in whole or in
part, at the option of the Company at any time, at a redemption price per share of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock equal to the higher of (x) $1,000.00 per share, plus an amount equal to all accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for
redemption, and (y) the Fair Market Value (as that term is defined in paragraph (d) of this Section 5) per share of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock on the date fixed for redemption. Payment of the redemption price shall be made by the
Company in cash or shares of Common Stock, or a combination thereof, as permitted by paragraph (c) of this Section 5. From and after the date fixed for redemption, dividends on shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock called for redemption will
cease to accrue and all rights in respect of such shares of the Company shall cease, except the right to receive the redemption price. Upon payment of the redemption price, such shares shall be deemed to have been transferred to the Company, to be
retired as provided in paragraph (a) of Section 1. If the full cumulative dividends have not been paid, or contemporaneously declared and set aside for payment, on all outstanding shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock, the Company may not
redeem fewer than all the outstanding shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to this Section 5.      (b) Unless
otherwise required by law, notice of any redemption pursuant to this Section 5 will be sent to the holders of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock at the address shown on the books of the Company or any transfer agent for the 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock by
hand delivery, by courier, by standard form of telecommunication or by first-class mail (postage prepaid) delivered, sent or mailed, as the case may be, not less than twenty (20) days nor more than sixty (60) days prior to the redemption
date. Each such notice shall state: (i) the redemption date; (ii) the total number of shares of the 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such
shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) whether the redemption price shall be paid in cash or in shares of Common Stock, or in a combination of such Common Stock and cash; (v) in the case of
certificated 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; (vi) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on such redemption
date; and (vii) the conversion rights of the shares to be redeemed, the period within which conversion rights may be exercised and the manner in which the number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of a share of 2007 ESOP
Preferred Stock will be determined. The Company shall redeem shares so called for redemption and not previously converted at the date fixed for redemption and at the redemption price set forth in this Section 5, provided that, in the case of
certificated 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock, the Company shall not be obligated to pay the redemption price until the certificates for the shares to be redeemed are surrendered (properly endorsed or assigned for transfer, if the Board of Directors of the
Company shall so require and the notice shall so state).   
         -11-

(c) The Company, at its option, may make payment of the redemption price required upon
redemption of shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock in cash or in shares of Common Stock, or in a combination of such Common Stock and cash, any such shares of Common Stock to be valued for such purposes at their Fair Market Value (as defined in
paragraph (d)(ii) of this Section 5) or their Current Market Price, in either case as of the date fixed for redemption of the 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock, whichever value will result in the issuance of the greater number of shares of Common Stock
to the holder of the 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock then being redeemed.      (d) For purposes of these resolutions, the following
terms shall have the meanings set forth below:      (i)  Adjustment Period  shall mean the period of five
(5) consecutive Trading Days preceding the date as of which the Fair Market Value of a security is to be determined.   
  (ii)  Fair Market Value  shall mean, as to shares of Common Stock or any other class of capital stock or securities of
the Company or any other issue which are publicly traded, the average of the Current Market Prices of such shares or securities for each day of the Adjustment Period. The  Fair Market Value  of any security which is not publicly traded
(other than the 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock) or of any other property shall mean the fair value thereof on the date as of which the Fair Market Value of the security is to be determined, as determined by an independent investment banking or appraisal
firm experienced in the valuation of such securities or property selected in good faith by the Board or a committee thereof. The  Fair Market Value  of the 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock for purposes of paragraph (a) of Section 5, and
for purposes of paragraph (c) of Section 6 shall mean the fair market value thereof determined by an independent appraiser, appointed by the Trustee of the Plan in accordance with the provisions of the Plan, as of the date fixed for
redemption of the 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock (in the case of a redemption pursuant to Section 5) or as of the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 6 (in the case of a redemption under that section). For purposes of determining
the Fair Market Value of the 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock, the independent appraiser shall assume (i) that all dividends on the 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock would have been paid when due, and (ii) that the mandatory conversion of shares of 2007
ESOP Preferred Stock held by the Plan into shares of Common Stock pursuant to Section 4(a) hereof would have occurred when and as payments of principal (together with accrued interest thereon) would have been made by the Trustee of the Plan in
accordance with the terms of that certain 2007 ESOP Convertible Preferred Stock Note Agreement dated on or about March 20, 2007 between the Company and the Plan (including any amendments or modifications thereto).   
  6.  Consolidation, Merger, etc.  (a) If the Company consummates any consolidation or merger or similar business
combination, pursuant to which the outstanding shares of Common Stock are by operation of law exchanged solely for or changed, reclassified or converted solely into stock of any successor or resulting corporation (including the Company) that
constitutes  qualifying employer securities  with respect to a holder of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock within the meaning of Section 409(1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and Section 407(d)(5) of the Employee
Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, or any successor provisions of law, and, if applicable, for a cash payment in lieu of fractional shares, if any, the shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock of such holder shall, in connection with
such consolidation, merger or similar business combination, be assumed by and shall become Preferred Stock of such successor or resulting corporation, having in respect of such corporation, insofar as possible, the same powers, preferences and
relative, participating, optional or other special rights (including the redemption rights provided by Sections 5 and 6 hereof), and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereon, that the 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock had immediately prior to
such transaction, subject to the following:   
         -12-

(1) After such transaction each share of the 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock
shall be convertible, otherwise on the terms and conditions provided by Section 4 hereof, into the number and kind of qualifying employer securities so receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of
2007 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior to such transaction.      (2) The
Company shall not consummate any such merger, consolidation or similar transaction unless all then outstanding shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be assumed and authorized by the successor or resulting corporation as aforesaid.   
  (b) If the Company consummates any consolidation or merger or similar business combination, pursuant to which the outstanding shares
of Common Stock are by operation of law exchanged for or changed, reclassified or converted into other stock or securities or cash or any other property, or any combination thereof, other than any such consideration which is constituted solely of
qualifying employer securities (as referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 6) and cash payments, if applicable, in lieu of fractional shares, outstanding shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, without any action on the part of the
Company or any holder thereof (but subject to paragraph (c) of this Section 6), be automatically converted by virtue of such merger, consolidation or similar transaction immediately prior to such consummation into the number of shares of
Common Stock into which such shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted at such time so that each share of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, by virtue of such transaction and on the same terms as apply to the holders of Common
Stock, be converted into or exchanged for the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash or other property (payable in like kind) receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock
could have been converted immediately prior to such transaction. However, if by virtue of the structure of such transaction, a holder of Common Stock is required to make an election with respect to the nature and kind of consideration to be received
in such transaction, which election cannot practicably be made by the holders of the 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock, then the shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, by virtue of such transaction and on the same terms as apply to the holders of Common
Stock, be converted into or exchanged for the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash or other property (payable in kind) receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock could
have been converted immediately prior to such transaction if such holder of Common Stock failed to exercise any rights of election as to the kind or amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable upon such transaction. If the kind or
amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable upon such transaction is not the same for each non-electing share, then the kind and amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable upon such transaction for each
non-electing share shall be the kind and amount so receivable per share by a plurality of the non-electing shares.   
  (c) In the event the Company shall enter into any agreement providing for any consolidation or merger or similar business
combination described in paragraph (b) of this Section 6 (a  Business Combination ), then the Company shall as soon as practicable thereafter (and in any event at least fifteen (15) Business Days before consummation of such
transaction) give notice of such agreement and the material terms thereof to each holder of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock and each such holder shall have the right to elect, by written notice to the Company, to receive, upon consummation of such
transaction (if and when such transaction is consummated), from the Company or the successor of the Company, in redemption and retirement of such 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock, a cash payment per share of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock equal to the higher of
(x) $1,000.00, plus accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date of consummation of such transaction or (y) the Fair Market Value per share of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock, as of the last Business Day (as defined in paragraph (c) of
Section 4 hereof) immediately preceding the date the Business Combination is consummated. No such notice of redemption shall be effective unless given to the Company prior to the close of business on the last
  
         -13-

Business Day prior to consummation of such transaction, unless the Company or the successor of the Company shall waive such prior notice, but any notice of redemption so given prior to such time
may be withdrawn by notice of withdrawal given to the Company prior to the close of business on the last Business Day prior to consummation of such transaction.      (d) In the event that a Purchase Offer (as defined below) shall have been made and shall be continuing, each holder of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have the right to convert shares of 2007 ESOP
Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock at the Conversion Price specified in Section 4(c)(iii)(C) hereof until the date the Purchase Offer is terminated, including without limitation because the original Purchase Offer is withdrawn or
because the Purchase Offer has expired and is not renewed, upon notice of such conversion given to the Company not later than the close of business on the date the Purchase Offer terminates (the  Purchase Offer Conversion Period ), unless
the Company or any successor of the Company shall waive such prior notice, but any notice of conversion so given may be withdrawn by notice of withdrawal given to the Company prior to the end of the Purchase Offer Conversion Period.   
  For purposes of this paragraph (d), the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:   
  (i)  Beneficial Ownership  shall have the meaning ascribed to it in Rule 13d-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the
 Exchange Act ) and  person  shall have the meanings specified in Sections 3(a)(9) and 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act.      (ii) A  Purchase Offer  shall have been made when any person (other than the Company or any affiliate of the Company) shall have  commenced  (as such term is defined in Rule 14d-2
under the Exchange Act) a tender offer or exchange offer to purchase shares of Common Stock, such that, upon consummation of such offer, such person would have Beneficial Ownership (as defined herein) or the right to acquire Beneficial Ownership, of
twenty percent (20%) or more of the voting power of the Company.      7.  Liquidation Rights . (a) Upon the
dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, the holders of the shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive and to be paid out of the assets of the Company available for distribution to its stockholders, before any
payment or distribution shall be made on the Common Stock or any other class of stock ranking junior to 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock upon liquidation, the amount of $1,000.00 per share, plus a sum equal to all dividends (whether or not earned or
declared) on such shares accrued and unpaid thereon to the date of final distribution.      (b) Neither the sale of all or
substantially all the property and assets of the Company, nor the merger or consolidation of the Company into or with any other corporation, nor the merger or consolidation of any other corporation into or with the Company shall be deemed to be a
dissolution, liquidation, or winding up, voluntary or involuntary, for the purposes of this Section 7.      (c) After
the payment to the holders of the shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock of the full preferential amounts provided for in this Section 7, the holders of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock, as such, shall have no right or claim to any of the remaining
assets of the Company.      (d) In the event the assets of the Company available for distribution to the holders of shares of
2007 ESOP Preferred Stock upon any dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, whether voluntary or involuntary, shall be insufficient to pay in full all amounts to which such holders are entitled pursuant to paragraph (a) of this
Section 7, no such distribution shall be made on account of any   
         -14-

shares of any other series of Preferred Stock or other capital stock of the Company ranking on a parity with the shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock upon such dissolution, liquidation, or winding
up unless proportionate distributive amounts shall be paid on account of the shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock, ratably, in proportion to the full distributable amounts for which holders of all such parity shares are respectively entitled upon
such dissolution, liquidation, or winding up.      (e) Subject to the rights of the holders of the shares of any series or
class or classes of stock ranking on a parity with or prior to the shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock upon liquidation, dissolution, or winding up, upon any liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Company, after payment shall have been made
in full to the holders of the shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock as provided in this Section 7, but not prior thereto, any other series or class or classes of stock ranking junior to the shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock upon liquidation
shall, subject to the respective terms and provisions (if any) applying thereto, be entitled to receive any and all assets remaining to be paid or distributed, and the holders of the shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to share
therein.      8.  Ranking . For the purposes of these resolutions, any stock of any series or class or classes of
the Company shall be deemed to rank:      (a) prior to the shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or
upon liquidation, if the holders of such series or class or classes shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as the case may be, in preference or priority
to the holders of shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock;      (b) on a parity with shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock, either
as to dividends or upon liquidation, whether or not the dividend rates, dividend payment dates, or redemption or liquidation prices per share, or sinking fund provisions, if any, be different from those of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock, if the holders
of such stock shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as the case may be, in proportion to their respective dividend rates or liquidation prices, without
preference or priority, one over the other, as between the holders of such stock and the holders of shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock; and      (c) junior to shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, if such class shall be Common Stock or if the holders of shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be
entitled to receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders of shares of such series or class or classes.   
  9.  Priority of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock . The shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock will rank on a parity, both as to
payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, with the Company s 1998 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 1999 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2000 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred
Stock, its 2001 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2002 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2003 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2004 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2005 ESOP Cumulative
Convertible Preferred Stock and its 2006 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has
caused this Certificate of Designations to be signed by Richard M. Kovacevich, its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and attested by Rachelle M. Graham, its Assistant Secretary, whereby such Chairman and Chief Executive Officer affirms, under
  
         -15-

penalties of perjury, that this Certificate of Designations is the act and deed of the Company and that the facts stated herein are true, this 13   th    day of March, 2007.   

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY   

By  
     
    /s/ Richard M. Kovacevich    

Richard M. Kovacevich   

Chairman and     Chief
Executive Officer    

Attest:   

/s/ Rachelle M. Graham    
 
  Rachelle M. Graham   
 
  Assistant Secretary   
    [As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on March 15, 2007.]   
         -16-

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY   
         
  CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS      Pursuant to Section 151 of the      General Corporation Law of the State of
Delaware             
  2008 ESOP CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK      (Without Par Value)        
       WELLS
FARGO   COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the  Company ), HEREBY CERTIFIES that, pursuant to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Company (the
 Board ) by the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as amended, which authorizes the issuance of not more than 20,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, without par value (the  Preferred Stock ),
and pursuant to authority conferred upon the ESOP Preferred Stock Committee II of the Board (the  ESOP Committee ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the  General
Corporation Law ) and by the resolutions of the Board set forth herein, the following resolutions were duly adopted by the Board at meetings of the Board duly held on January 25, 2000 and February 27, 2007, and by the ESOP Committee
pursuant to the written consent of the ESOP Committee duly adopted on March 11, 2008, in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law:      1. On January 25, 2000, the Board adopted the following resolutions (the  ESOP Board Resolutions ) appointing the ESOP Committee and delegating to the ESOP Committee the full powers of the
Board, subject to the ESOP Board Resolutions, in all matters relating to issuance of one or more series of Preferred Stock ( ESOP Preferred Stock ) to the trustee on behalf of the Company s 401(k) Plan hereinafter referred to:
     RESOLVED that a committee of one member of the Board of the Company is hereby appointed by the Board as the ESOP Preferred
Stock Committee II (the  Second Committee ), which shall have and may exercise the full powers of the Board, subject to these resolutions, to issue from time to time one or more series of ESOP Preferred Stock, including any shares of
Company common stock ($1 2/3 par value) issuable upon conversion of ESOP Preferred Stock, and in connection therewith, to fix the designations, voting powers, preferences, and all other rights, qualifications and restrictions of such ESOP Preferred
Stock, to sell such ESOP Preferred Stock to the Plan on such terms and conditions and for such purchase price as the Second Committee in its discretion shall approve, and to take any and all actions as the Second Committee shall deem necessary or
appropriate.      *  *  *  *   
  RESOLVED that any series of ESOP Preferred Stock authorized for issuance by the . . . Second Committee shall have the voting rights set
forth in Appendix A to these resolutions.      APPENDIX A - VOTING RIGHTS   
  No series of the Preferred Stock, except as hereinafter set forth in this resolution or as otherwise from time to time required by law,
shall have voting rights. Whenever, at any time or times, dividends   
         -1-

payable on any shares of a designated series of the Preferred Stock (such shares of such designated series of Preferred Stock being hereinafter referred to as the  Shares of such
series ) shall be in arrears for such number of dividend periods which shall in the aggregate contain not less than 540 days, the holders of the outstanding Shares of such series shall have the exclusive right, voting together as a class with
holders of shares of any one or more other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity with the Shares of such series, either as to dividends or on the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, and upon which like voting
rights have been conferred and are exercisable, to elect two directors of the Company at the Company s next annual meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders. At elections for such directors, each holder of
the Shares of such series shall be entitled to one vote for each share held (the holders of shares of any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on such a parity being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of Preferred Stock held
as may be granted to them). Upon the vesting of such right of such holders, the maximum authorized number of members of the Board shall automatically be increased by two and the two vacancies so created shall be filled by vote of the holders of such
outstanding Shares of such series (together with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of Preferred Stock ranking on such a parity and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable) as herein set forth. The
right of such holders of such Shares of such series (voting together as a class with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of Preferred Stock ranking on such a parity and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are
exercisable) to elect members of the Board as aforesaid shall continue until such time as all dividends accumulated on such Shares of such series shall have been paid in full, at which time such right with respect to such Shares of such series shall
terminate, except as herein or by law expressly provided, subject to revesting in the event of each and every subsequent default of the character above mentioned.      Upon any termination of the right of the holders of all shares of Preferred Stock entitled to vote for directors as herein provided, the term of office of all directors then in office elected by such
holders voting as a class shall terminate immediately. If the office of any director elected by such holders voting as a class becomes vacant by reason of death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office or otherwise, the
remaining director elected by such holders may choose a successor to fill such vacancy, which such successor shall hold office for the unexpired term in respect of which such vacancy occurred. Whenever the term of office of the directors elected by
such holders voting as a class shall end and the special voting powers vested in such holders as provided in this resolution shall have expired, the number of directors shall be such number as may be provided for in the By-Laws of the Company
irrespective of any increase made pursuant to the provisions of this resolution.      So long as any Shares of such series remain
outstanding, the consent of the holders of the outstanding Shares of such series and outstanding shares of all other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity with such Shares of such series either as to dividends or the distribution of assets
upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable, by a vote of at least two-thirds of all such outstanding Shares of such series and such other series of Preferred Stock voting
together as a class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing or at any special or annual meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary to permit, effect or validate any one or more of the following:   
  (a) the authorization, creation or issuance, or any increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any class or series of
stock ranking prior to the Shares of such series with respect to payment of dividends or the distribution of assets on liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or   
  (b) the amendment, alteration or repeal, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise, of any of the provisions of the
Restated Certificate of Incorporation or of the resolutions set forth in a Certificate of Designation for the Shares of such series designating the   
         -2-

Shares of such series and the preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights and qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof which would materially and
adversely affect any right, preference, privilege or voting power of the Shares of such series or of the holders thereof; provided, however, that any increase in the amount of authorized Preferred Stock or the creation and issuance of other series
of Preferred Stock, or any increase in the amount of authorized shares of any series of Preferred Stock, in each case ranking on a parity with or junior to the Shares of such series with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of
assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, shall not be deemed to materially and adversely affect such rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers.      The foregoing voting provisions shall not apply if, at or prior to the time when the act with respect to which such vote would otherwise be required shall be effected, all outstanding Shares of such
series shall have been redeemed or sufficient funds shall have been deposited in trust to effect such redemption.      2. Pursuant
to resolutions adopted on February 27, 2007, the Board designated John G. Stumpf as the sole member of the ESOP Committee, effective April 25, 2007.      3. On March 11, 2008, pursuant to authority conferred upon it by the Board in the ESOP Board Resolutions, the ESOP Committee adopted the following resolutions by written consent in accordance with
Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law:      RESOLVED that the issuance of a series of Preferred Stock, without par
value, of the Company is hereby authorized and the designation, voting powers, preferences, and relative, participating, optional, and other special rights, and qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, in addition to those set forth in
the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as amended, are hereby fixed as follows:      2008 ESOP CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED
STOCK      1.  Designation and Number of Shares; Restricted Issue .   
  (a) The designation of the series of Preferred Stock, without par value, provided for herein shall be  2008 ESOP Cumulative
Convertible Preferred Stock  (hereinafter referred to as the  2008 ESOP Preferred Stock ) and the number of authorized shares constituting the 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock is 520,500, based on an offering price for the 2008 ESOP
Preferred Stock of $1,058.00 per share. Each share of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have a stated value of $1,000.00 per share. The number of authorized shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock may be reduced by further resolution duly adopted by the
Board or the Securities Committee and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware stating that such reduction has been so authorized, provided, however, that the authorized number
of shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be decreased below the then outstanding number of such shares, and provided further that the number of authorized shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be increased. All shares of the 2008
ESOP Preferred Stock purchased, redeemed, or converted by the Company shall be retired and canceled and shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock, without designation as to series, and may thereafter be
issued, but not as shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock.      (b) Shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be issued only to
a trustee (the  Trustee ) acting on behalf of the Wells Fargo   Company 401(k) Plan, or any successor to such plan (the  Plan ). All references to the holder of shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock shall mean the Trustee
or any   
         -3-

company with which or into which the Trustee may merge or any successor trustee under the trust agreement with respect to the Plan. In the event of any transfer of record ownership of shares of
2008 ESOP Preferred Stock to any person other than any successor trustee under the Plan, the shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock so transferred, upon such transfer and without any further action by the Company or the holder thereof, shall be
automatically converted into shares of the common stock, par value $1-2/3 per share, of the Company (the  Common Stock ) on the terms otherwise provided for the conversion of the shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of
Common Stock pursuant to paragraph (a) of Section 4 hereof, and no such transferee shall have any of the voting powers, preferences, and relative, participating, optional or special rights ascribed to shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock
hereunder but, rather, only the powers and rights pertaining to the Common Stock into which such shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be so converted. In the event of such a conversion, the transferee of the shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock
shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder of the shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock have been automatically converted as of the date of such transfer. Shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock may be
certificated or uncertificated, at the Company s option. Certificates representing shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock shall bear a legend to reflect the foregoing provisions. In the case of uncertificated 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock, the
transfer agent for the 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock shall note the foregoing provisions on each 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock book entry account. The Company may require that, as a condition to transferring record ownership of any uncertificated 2008 ESOP
Preferred Stock, the proposed transferee acknowledge in writing that the shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock are subject to the foregoing provisions. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this paragraph (b) of Section 1, shares of
2008 ESOP Preferred Stock (i)(A) shall be converted into shares of Common Stock as provided in paragraph (a) of Section 4 hereof, and (B) may be converted into shares of Common Stock as provided by paragraph (b) of Section 4
hereof and the shares of Common Stock issued upon such conversion may be transferred by the holder thereof as permitted by law and (ii) shall be redeemable by the Company upon the terms and conditions provided in Sections 5 and 6(c) hereof.
     2.  Voting Rights . No shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have voting rights except such voting rights as
may from time to time be required by law and as set forth in this Section 2, as follows:      (a) Whenever, at any time
or times, dividends payable on shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be in arrears for such number of dividend periods which shall in the aggregate contain not less than 540 days, the holders of the outstanding shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred
Stock shall have the exclusive right, voting together as a class with holders of shares of any one or more other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity with the shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or on the
distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable, to elect two directors of the Company at the Company s next annual meeting of stockholders and at
each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders. At elections for such directors, each holder of the shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to one vote for each share held (the holders of shares of any other series of Preferred Stock
ranking on such a parity being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of Preferred Stock held as may be granted to them). Upon the vesting of such right of such holders, the maximum authorized number of members of the Board shall
automatically be increased by two and the two vacancies so created shall be filled by vote of the holders of such outstanding shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock (together with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of Preferred Stock
ranking on such a parity and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable) as herein set forth. The right of such holders of such shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock (voting together as a class with the holders of shares of
any one or more other series of Preferred Stock ranking on such a parity and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable) to elect members of the Board as aforesaid shall continue until such time as all dividends
accumulated on such shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been paid in full, at which time such right with respect to such shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock shall   
         -4-

terminate, except as herein or by law expressly provided, subject to revesting in the event of each and every subsequent default of the character above mentioned.   
  (b) Upon any termination of the right of the holders of all shares of Preferred Stock entitled to vote for directors as herein
provided, the term of office of all directors then in office elected by such holders voting as a class shall terminate immediately. If the office of any director elected by such holders voting as a class becomes vacant by reason of death,
resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office or otherwise, the remaining director elected by such holders may choose a successor to fill such vacancy, which such successor shall hold office for the unexpired term in respect of
which such vacancy occurred. Whenever the term of office of the directors elected by such holders voting as a class shall end and the special voting powers vested in such holders as provided in this resolution shall have expired, the number of
directors shall be such number as may be provided for in the By-Laws of the Company irrespective of any increase made pursuant to the provisions of this resolution.      (c) So long as any shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the consent of the holders of the outstanding shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock and outstanding shares of all other series
of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity with such shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock either as to dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are
exercisable, by a vote of at least two-thirds of all such outstanding shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock and such other series of Preferred Stock voting together as a class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing or at any special or annual
meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary to permit, effect or validate any one or more of the following:   
  (i) the authorization, creation or issuance, or any increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any class or series of stock
ranking prior to shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock with respect to payment of dividends or the distribution of assets on liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or      (ii) the amendment, alteration or repeal, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise, of any of the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or of the resolutions set forth in a
Certificate of Designations designating shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock and the preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights and qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof which would materially and
adversely affect any right, preference, privilege or voting power of the shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock or of the holders thereof; provided, however, that any increase in the amount of authorized Preferred Stock, or the creation and issuance of
other series of Preferred Stock, or any increase in the amount of authorized shares of any series of Preferred Stock, in each case ranking on a parity with or junior to the shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends
and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, shall not be deemed to materially and adversely affect such rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers.   
  (d) The foregoing voting provisions shall not apply if, at or prior to the time when the act with respect to which such vote would
otherwise be required shall be effected, all outstanding shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed or sufficient funds shall have been deposited in trust to effect such redemption.   
  3.  Dividends . (a)(i) Holders of shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive, when and as declared by the
Board or a duly authorized committee thereof, out of assets of the Company legally available for payment, an annual cash dividend of $105.00 (the  Base Dividend ) per share, which Base Dividend shall be subject to adjustment from time to
time as provided in this Section 3.   
         -5-

(ii) The Base Dividend shall be adjusted, effective on December 1, 2009 and on
each December 1 thereafter until December 1, 2017, as follows:      (1) If the Current Market Price
(as hereinafter defined) of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or the next preceding Trading Day (as hereinafter defined) if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is equal to or
greater than the First Target Price but less than the Second Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then holders of shares of the 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend for the immediately following
twelve month period equal to $110.00 per share (the  First Adjusted Dividend ).      (2) If the
Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or the next preceding Trading Day if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is equal to or greater than the Second
Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then holders of shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend for the immediately following twelve month period equal to $115.00 per share (the  Second
Adjusted Dividend ).      (3) If the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on
November 30 (or next preceding Trading Day if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is less than the First Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then the holders of
shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend for the immediately following twelve month period equal to the Base Dividend.       Dividend Adjustment Table        
    (4) As an example of the adjustments described in subparagraphs (1) through
(3) above, if on November 30, 2011, the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock is $50.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately following twelve month period per share of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal
$110.00, with the first quarterly payment of such $110.00 dividend to be made on March 1, 2012. If on November 30, 2012, the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock is $60.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately
following twelve month period per share of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $115.00, with the first quarterly payment of such $115.00 dividend to be made on March 1, 2013. If on November 30, 2013, the Current Market Price of one share
of Common Stock is $40.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately following twelve month period per share of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $105.00, with the first quarterly payment of such $105.00 dividend to be made on
March 1, 2014.   
         -6-

(5) For purposes of this Section 3, the terms  First
Adjusted Dividend  and  Second Adjusted Dividend  are sometimes referred to as an  Adjusted Dividend;  the term  Current Market Price  shall have the meaning given to it in Section 4(c)(iv); and the term
 Trading Day  shall have the meaning given to it in Section 4(c)(vi).      (iii) If one share of Common Stock
in any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table shall be changed into a different number of shares or a different class of shares by reason of any reclassification, recapitalization, split-up, combination, exchange of shares or readjustment, or
if a stock dividend thereon shall be declared with a record date within such period, then the First Target Price and the Second Target Price listed in such table for that year and each subsequent year will be appropriately and proportionately
adjusted.      (iv) Dividends payable on shares of the 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock (whether such dividends are equal to the
Base Dividend or to an Adjusted Dividend) shall be payable quarterly on March 1, June 1, September 1, and December 1 of each year, commencing June 1, 2008. Dividends on shares of the 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock will
be cumulative from the date of initial issuance of such shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock. Dividends will be payable, in arrears, to holders of record as they appear on the stock books of the Company on such record dates, not more than 30 days nor
less than 15 days preceding the payment dates thereof, as shall be fixed by the Board or a duly authorized committee thereof. The amount of dividends payable per share for each dividend period shall be computed by dividing by four the Base Dividend
or the Adjusted Dividend, whichever is then applicable. The amount of dividends payable for the initial dividend period or any period shorter than a full dividend period shall be calculated on the basis of actual days elapsed in a 360-day year of
twelve 30-day months.      (b)(i) No full dividends shall be declared or paid or set apart for payment on any stock of the
Company ranking, as to dividends, on a parity with or junior to the 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock for any period unless full cumulative dividends have been or contemporaneously are declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment
thereof has been set apart for such payment on shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock for all dividend payment periods terminating on or prior to the date of payment of such full cumulative dividends. When dividends are not paid in full, as aforesaid,
upon the shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock and any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity as to dividends with 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock, all dividends declared upon shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock and any other series of
Preferred Stock ranking on a parity as to dividends with 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be declared pro rata so that the amount of dividends declared per share on 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock and such other series of Preferred Stock shall in all cases
bear to each other the same ratio that accrued dividends per share on the shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock and such other series of Preferred Stock bear to each other. Holders of shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any
dividend, whether payable in cash, property, or stock, in excess of full cumulative dividends, as herein provided, on 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock. No interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any dividend payment or
payments on 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock which may be in arrears.      (ii) So long as any shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock
are outstanding, no dividend (other than dividends or distributions paid in shares of, or options, warrants, or rights to subscribe for or purchase shares of, Common Stock or any other stock ranking junior to 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock as to
dividends or upon liquidation and other than as provided in paragraph (b)(i) of this Section 3) shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment or other distribution declared or made upon Common Stock or any other capital stock of the
Company ranking junior to or on a parity with 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation, nor shall any Common Stock or any other   
         -7-

capital stock of the Company ranking junior to or on a parity with 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation be redeemed, purchased, or otherwise acquired for any
consideration (or any moneys be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any shares of any such stock) by the Company (except by conversion into or exchange for stock of the Company ranking junior to 2008 ESOP Preferred
Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation), unless, in each case, the full cumulative dividends on all outstanding shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been paid or declared and set aside for payment of the then current dividend payment
period and all past dividend payment periods.      4.  Conversion . Shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock are
convertible from time to time hereafter pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs (a) or (b) of this Section 4 into that number of shares of Common Stock determined by dividing the stated value of each share of 2008 ESOP Preferred
Stock by the then applicable Conversion Price, (as determined in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (c)(iii) of this Section 4), as follows:      (a) Each share of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock released from the unallocated reserve of the Plan in accordance with the terms thereof shall be automatically converted, without any further action by the
Company or the holder thereof, as of the date such release occurs (the  Release Date ), into fully paid and nonassessable shares of Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Price for the 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock provided for in
paragraph (c) of this Section 4.      (b) Subject to and upon compliance with the provisions of this
Section 4, a holder of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled at any time, prior to the close of business on the date fixed for redemption of such shares pursuant to Sections 5 or 6 hereof, to cause any or all of the shares of 2008 ESOP
Preferred Stock held by such holder to be converted into fully paid and nonassessable shares of Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Price for 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock provided for in paragraph (c) of this Section 4.   
  (c) For purposes of these resolutions, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:   
  (i) The  Average Current Market Price  per share of Common Stock on any date shall be deemed to be the average of the
Current Market Price for one share of Common Stock for the twenty (20) consecutive Trading Days ending on the Trading Day occurring prior to the date the  Purchase Offer  is made (as that term is defined in Section 6(d) hereof).
     (ii) A  Business Day  means each day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or a day on which state or federally
chartered banking institutions in the State of New York are not required to be open.      (iii) (A) For purposes of a
mandatory conversion of shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 4, the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be
the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on the relevant Release Date.      (B) For purposes of an optional
conversion of shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section 4, the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be the Current
Market Price of one share of Common Stock on the date the Conversion Notice (as that term is defined in paragraph (d) of this Section 4) is received by the Company, by the transfer agent for the 2008 ESOP
  
         -8-

Preferred Stock or by any agent for conversion of the 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock designated as such pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section 4.   
  (C) For purposes of a conversion of shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock in connection with a
 Purchase Offer  (as defined in Section 6(d) hereof), the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be the Average Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock.   
  Each share of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be valued at its stated value of $1,000.00 for purposes of computing, based on the applicable Conversion
Price, the number of shares of Common Stock into which the shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock will be converted.   
  (iv) The  Current Market Price  of publicly traded shares of Common Stock or any other class of capital stock or other
security of the Company or any other issuer for any day shall mean the reported last sale price, regular way, or, in case no sale takes place on such day, the average of the reported closing bid and asked prices, regular way, in either case as
reported on the New York Stock Exchange only or, if the Common Stock is not listed or admitted to trading on the New York Stock Exchange, on the principal national securities exchange on which the Common Stock is listed or admitted to trading or, if
not listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange, on the National Market System of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotations System ( NASDAQ ) or, if the Common Stock is not quoted on
such National Market System, the average of the closing bid and asked prices on such day in the over-the-counter market as reported by NASDAQ or, if bid and asked prices for the Common Stock on each such day shall not have been reported through
NASDAQ, the average of the bid and asked prices for such day as furnished by any New York Stock Exchange member firm regularly making a market in the Common Stock selected for such purpose by the Board or a committee thereof or, if no such
quotations are available, the fair market value of the Common Stock as determined by a New York Stock Exchange member firm regularly making a market in the Common Stock selected for such purpose by the Board or a committee thereof.   
  (v)  Common Stock  shall mean the Common Stock of the Company as the same exists at the date of this Certificate of
Designations or as such stock may be constituted from time to time.      (vi)  Trading Day  with respect to Common
Stock means (x) if the Common Stock is listed or admitted for trading on the New York Stock Exchange or another national securities exchange, a day on which the New York Stock Exchange or such other national securities exchange is open for
business or (y) if the Common Stock is quoted on the National Market System of NASDAQ, a day on which trades may be made on such National Market System or (z) otherwise, any Business Day.   
  (d) In connection with any conversion of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to this Section 4, a written notice of conversion (the
 Conversion Notice ) shall be delivered to the Company at its principal executive office or the offices of the transfer agent for the 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock or such office or offices in the continental United States of an agent for
conversion as may from time to time be designated by notice to the holders of the 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock by the Company or the transfer agent for the 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock, which notice shall be accompanied by (a) in the case of
certificated 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock, the certificate or certificates representing the shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted pursuant to this Section 4, duly assigned or endorsed for transfer to the Company (or accompanied by
duly executed stock powers relating thereto) and (b) in the case of uncertificated 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock, duly executed assignment and transfer documents for the shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted pursuant to this
Section 4. Each Conversion Notice shall specify (i)(y) in the case of a mandatory conversion pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section   
         -9-

4, the number of shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock released from the unallocated reserve of the Plan on the Release Date or (z) in the case of an optional conversion pursuant to paragraph
(b) of this Section 4, the number of shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted, and (ii) in connection with any conversion hereunder, (x) the name or names in which such holder wishes the certificate or certificates for
Common Stock and, in the case of certificated 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock, for any shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock not to be so converted to be issued, (y) the address to which such holder wishes delivery to be made of such new certificates
to be issued upon such conversion, and (z) such other information as the Company or its agents may reasonably request.   
  (e) Upon delivery to the Company or the transfer agent for the 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock of the Conversion Notice and all other
documentation and certificates required to effect the conversion, as provided in paragraph (d) of this Section 4, the Company shall issue and send by hand delivery, by courier or by first-class mail (postage prepaid) to the holder thereof
or to such holder s designee, at the address designated by such holder, a certificate or certificates for the number of shares of Common Stock to which such holder shall be entitled upon conversion. If there shall have been surrendered a
certificate or certificates representing shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock only part of which are to be converted, the Company shall issue and deliver to such holder or such holder s designee, in the manner set forth in the preceding
sentence, a new certificate or certificates representing the number of shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock which shall not have been converted.      (f) The issuance by the Company of shares of Common Stock upon a conversion of shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock made pursuant to this Section 4 shall be effective
(i) in the case of a mandatory conversion of shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 4, as of the Release Date; and (ii) in the case of an optional conversion of such shares pursuant to
paragraph (b) of this Section 4, as of the earlier of (A) the delivery to such holder or such holder s designee of the certificates representing the shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion thereof or (B) the
commencement of business on the second Business Day after the delivery to the Company or the transfer agent for the 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock of the Conversion Notice and all other documentation and certificates required to effect the conversion, as
provided in paragraph (d) of this Section 4. On and after the effective date of conversion, the person or persons entitled to receive the Common Stock issuable upon such conversion shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder or
holders of such shares of Common Stock, but no allowance or adjustment shall be made in respect of dividends payable to holders of Common Stock in respect of any period prior to such effective date. The Company shall not be obligated to pay any
dividends which shall have accrued or have been declared and shall be payable to holders of shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock if the date on which such dividends are paid is on or after the effective date of conversion of such shares.   
  (g) The Company shall not be obligated to deliver to holders of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock any fractional share or shares of Common
Stock issuable upon any conversion of such shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock, but in lieu thereof may make a cash payment in respect thereof in any manner permitted by law.      (h) The Company shall at all times reserve and keep available out of its authorized and unissued Common Stock, solely for issuance upon the conversion of shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock as herein
provided, free from any preemptive rights, such number of shares of Common Stock as shall from time to time be issuable upon the conversion of all the shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock then outstanding.   
  (i) The Company will use its best efforts to cause the listing of the shares of Common Stock required to be delivered upon
conversion of the 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock prior to distribution to   
         -10-

Plan participants on the national securities exchange, if any, upon which the outstanding Common Stock is listed at the time of such delivery.   
  (j) The Company will pay any and all documentary stamp or similar issue or transfer taxes payable in respect of the issue or
delivery of shares of Common Stock on conversions of the 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant hereto; provided, however, that the Company shall not be required to pay any tax which may be payable in respect of any transfer involved in the issue or
delivery of shares of Common Stock in a name other than that of the holder of the 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock to be converted and no such issue or delivery shall be made unless and until the person requesting such issue or delivery has paid to the
Company the amount of any such tax or has established, to the satisfaction of the Company, that such tax has been paid.   
  5.  Redemption At the Option of the Company . (a) The 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be redeemable, in whole or in
part, at the option of the Company at any time, at a redemption price per share of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock equal to the higher of (x) $1,000.00 per share, plus an amount equal to all accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for
redemption, and (y) the Fair Market Value (as that term is defined in paragraph (d) of this Section 5) per share of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock on the date fixed for redemption. Payment of the redemption price shall be made by the
Company in cash or shares of Common Stock, or a combination thereof, as permitted by paragraph (c) of this Section 5. From and after the date fixed for redemption, dividends on shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock called for redemption will
cease to accrue and all rights in respect of such shares of the Company shall cease, except the right to receive the redemption price. Upon payment of the redemption price, such shares shall be deemed to have been transferred to the Company, to be
retired as provided in paragraph (a) of Section 1. If the full cumulative dividends have not been paid, or contemporaneously declared and set aside for payment, on all outstanding shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock, the Company may not
redeem fewer than all the outstanding shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to this Section 5.      (b) Unless
otherwise required by law, notice of any redemption pursuant to this Section 5 will be sent to the holders of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock at the address shown on the books of the Company or any transfer agent for the 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock by
hand delivery, by courier, by standard form of telecommunication or by first-class mail (postage prepaid) delivered, sent or mailed, as the case may be, not less than twenty (20) days nor more than sixty (60) days prior to the redemption
date. Each such notice shall state: (i) the redemption date; (ii) the total number of shares of the 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such
shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) whether the redemption price shall be paid in cash or in shares of Common Stock, or in a combination of such Common Stock and cash; (v) in the case of
certificated 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; (vi) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on such redemption
date; and (vii) the conversion rights of the shares to be redeemed, the period within which conversion rights may be exercised and the manner in which the number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of a share of 2008 ESOP
Preferred Stock will be determined. The Company shall redeem shares so called for redemption and not previously converted at the date fixed for redemption and at the redemption price set forth in this Section 5, provided that, in the case of
certificated 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock, the Company shall not be obligated to pay the redemption price until the certificates for the shares to be redeemed are surrendered (properly endorsed or assigned for transfer, if the Board of Directors of the
Company shall so require and the notice shall so state).      (c) The Company, at its option, may make payment of the
redemption price required upon redemption of shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock in cash or in shares of Common Stock, or in a combination of such Common Stock and cash, any such shares of Common Stock to be valued for such
  
         -11-

purposes at their Fair Market Value (as defined in paragraph (d)(ii) of this Section 5) or their Current Market Price, in either case as of the date fixed for redemption of the 2008 ESOP
Preferred Stock, whichever value will result in the issuance of the greater number of shares of Common Stock to the holder of the 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock then being redeemed.   
  (d) For purposes of these resolutions, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:   
  (i)  Adjustment Period  shall mean the period of five (5) consecutive Trading Days preceding the date as of which
the Fair Market Value of a security is to be determined.      (ii)  Fair Market Value  shall mean, as to shares of
Common Stock or any other class of capital stock or securities of the Company or any other issue which are publicly traded, the average of the Current Market Prices of such shares or securities for each day of the Adjustment Period. The  Fair
Market Value  of any security which is not publicly traded (other than the 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock) or of any other property shall mean the fair value thereof on the date as of which the Fair Market Value of the security is to be determined,
as determined by an independent investment banking or appraisal firm experienced in the valuation of such securities or property selected in good faith by the Board or a committee thereof. The  Fair Market Value  of the 2008 ESOP Preferred
Stock for purposes of paragraph (a) of Section 5, and for purposes of paragraph (c) of Section 6 shall mean the fair market value thereof determined by an independent appraiser, appointed by the Trustee of the Plan in accordance
with the provisions of the Plan, as of the date fixed for redemption of the 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock (in the case of a redemption pursuant to Section 5) or as of the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 6 (in the case of a
redemption under that section). For purposes of determining the Fair Market Value of the 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock, the independent appraiser shall assume (i) that all dividends on the 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock would have been paid when due,
and (ii) that the mandatory conversion of shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock held by the Plan into shares of Common Stock pursuant to Section 4(a) hereof would have occurred when and as payments of principal (together with accrued
interest thereon) would have been made by the Trustee of the Plan in accordance with the terms of that certain 2008 ESOP Convertible Preferred Stock Note Agreement dated on or about March 13, 2008 between the Company and the Plan (including any
amendments or modifications thereto).      6.  Consolidation, Merger, etc.  (a) If the Company consummates any
consolidation or merger or similar business combination, pursuant to which the outstanding shares of Common Stock are by operation of law exchanged solely for or changed, reclassified or converted solely into stock of any successor or resulting
corporation (including the Company) that constitutes  qualifying employer securities  with respect to a holder of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock within the meaning of Section 409(1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and
Section 407(d)(5) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, or any successor provisions of law, and, if applicable, for a cash payment in lieu of fractional shares, if any, the shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock of
such holder shall, in connection with such consolidation, merger or similar business combination, be assumed by and shall become Preferred Stock of such successor or resulting corporation, having in respect of such corporation, insofar as possible,
the same powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights (including the redemption rights provided by Sections 5 and 6 hereof), and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereon, that the 2008 ESOP
Preferred Stock had immediately prior to such transaction, subject to the following:      (1) After such
transaction each share of the 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be convertible, otherwise on the terms and conditions provided by Section 4 hereof, into the number and kind of qualifying employer securities so receivable by a holder of the number
of shares of   
         -12-

Common Stock into which such shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior to such transaction.   
  (2) The Company shall not consummate any such merger, consolidation or similar transaction unless all then
outstanding shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be assumed and authorized by the successor or resulting corporation as aforesaid.      (b) If the Company consummates any consolidation or merger or similar business combination, pursuant to which the outstanding shares of Common Stock are by operation of law exchanged for or changed,
reclassified or converted into other stock or securities or cash or any other property, or any combination thereof, other than any such consideration which is constituted solely of qualifying employer securities (as referred to in paragraph
(a) of this Section 6) and cash payments, if applicable, in lieu of fractional shares, outstanding shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, without any action on the part of the Company or any holder thereof (but subject to paragraph
(c) of this Section 6), be automatically converted by virtue of such merger, consolidation or similar transaction immediately prior to such consummation into the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2008 ESOP
Preferred Stock could have been converted at such time so that each share of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, by virtue of such transaction and on the same terms as apply to the holders of Common Stock, be converted into or exchanged for the
aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash or other property (payable in like kind) receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior to
such transaction. However, if by virtue of the structure of such transaction, a holder of Common Stock is required to make an election with respect to the nature and kind of consideration to be received in such transaction, which election cannot
practicably be made by the holders of the 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock, then the shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, by virtue of such transaction and on the same terms as apply to the holders of Common Stock, be converted into or exchanged for
the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash or other property (payable in kind) receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior to
such transaction if such holder of Common Stock failed to exercise any rights of election as to the kind or amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable upon such transaction. If the kind or amount of stock, securities, cash or
other property receivable upon such transaction is not the same for each non-electing share, then the kind and amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable upon such transaction for each non-electing share shall be the kind and
amount so receivable per share by a plurality of the non-electing shares.      (c) In the event the Company shall enter into
any agreement providing for any consolidation or merger or similar business combination described in paragraph (b) of this Section 6 (a  Business Combination ), then the Company shall as soon as practicable thereafter (and in any
event at least fifteen (15) Business Days before consummation of such transaction) give notice of such agreement and the material terms thereof to each holder of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock and each such holder shall have the right to elect, by
written notice to the Company, to receive, upon consummation of such transaction (if and when such transaction is consummated), from the Company or the successor of the Company, in redemption and retirement of such 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock, a cash
payment per share of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock equal to the higher of (x) $1,000.00, plus accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date of consummation of such transaction or (y) the Fair Market Value per share of 2008 ESOP Preferred
Stock, as of the last Business Day (as defined in paragraph (c) of Section 4 hereof) immediately preceding the date the Business Combination is consummated. No such notice of redemption shall be effective unless given to the Company prior
to the close of business on the last Business Day prior to consummation of such transaction, unless the Company or the successor of the Company shall waive such prior notice, but any notice of redemption so given prior to such time may be
  
         -13-

withdrawn by notice of withdrawal given to the Company prior to the close of business on the last Business Day prior to consummation of such transaction.   
  (d) In the event that a Purchase Offer (as defined below) shall have been made and shall be continuing, each holder of 2008 ESOP
Preferred Stock shall have the right to convert shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock at the Conversion Price specified in Section 4(c)(iii)(C) hereof until the date the Purchase Offer is terminated, including without
limitation because the original Purchase Offer is withdrawn or because the Purchase Offer has expired and is not renewed, upon notice of such conversion given to the Company not later than the close of business on the date the Purchase Offer
terminates (the  Purchase Offer Conversion Period ), unless the Company or any successor of the Company shall waive such prior notice, but any notice of conversion so given may be withdrawn by notice of withdrawal given to the Company
prior to the end of the Purchase Offer Conversion Period.      For purposes of this paragraph (d), the following terms shall have
the meanings set forth below:      (i)  Beneficial Ownership  shall have the meaning ascribed to it in Rule 13d-3 under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ) and  person  shall have the meanings specified in Sections 3(a)(9) and 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act.   
  (ii) A  Purchase Offer  shall have been made when any person (other than the Company or any affiliate of the Company)
shall have  commenced  (as such term is defined in Rule 14d-2 under the Exchange Act) a tender offer or exchange offer to purchase shares of Common Stock, such that, upon consummation of such offer, such person would have Beneficial
Ownership (as defined herein) or the right to acquire Beneficial Ownership, of twenty percent (20%) or more of the voting power of the Company.      7.  Liquidation Rights . (a) Upon the dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, the holders of the shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive and to be
paid out of the assets of the Company available for distribution to its stockholders, before any payment or distribution shall be made on the Common Stock or any other class of stock ranking junior to 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock upon liquidation, the
amount of $1,000.00 per share, plus a sum equal to all dividends (whether or not earned or declared) on such shares accrued and unpaid thereon to the date of final distribution.   
  (b) Neither the sale of all or substantially all the property and assets of the Company, nor the merger or consolidation of the
Company into or with any other corporation, nor the merger or consolidation of any other corporation into or with the Company shall be deemed to be a dissolution, liquidation, or winding up, voluntary or involuntary, for the purposes of this
Section 7.      (c) After the payment to the holders of the shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock of the full preferential
amounts provided for in this Section 7, the holders of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock, as such, shall have no right or claim to any of the remaining assets of the Company.      (d) In the event the assets of the Company available for distribution to the holders of shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock upon any dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, whether
voluntary or involuntary, shall be insufficient to pay in full all amounts to which such holders are entitled pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 7, no such distribution shall be made on account of any shares of any other series of
Preferred Stock or other capital stock of the Company ranking on a parity with the shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock upon such dissolution, liquidation, or winding up unless   
         -14-

proportionate distributive amounts shall be paid on account of the shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock, ratably, in proportion to the full distributable amounts for which holders of all such
parity shares are respectively entitled upon such dissolution, liquidation, or winding up.      (e) Subject to the rights of
the holders of the shares of any series or class or classes of stock ranking on a parity with or prior to the shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock upon liquidation, dissolution, or winding up, upon any liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the
Company, after payment shall have been made in full to the holders of the shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock as provided in this Section 7, but not prior thereto, any other series or class or classes of stock ranking junior to the shares of
2008 ESOP Preferred Stock upon liquidation shall, subject to the respective terms and provisions (if any) applying thereto, be entitled to receive any and all assets remaining to be paid or distributed, and the holders of the shares of 2008 ESOP
Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to share therein.      8.  Ranking . For the purposes of these resolutions,
any stock of any series or class or classes of the Company shall be deemed to rank:      (a) prior to the shares of 2008 ESOP
Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, if the holders of such series or class or classes shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as
the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders of shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock;      (b) on a parity with
shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, whether or not the dividend rates, dividend payment dates, or redemption or liquidation prices per share, or sinking fund provisions, if any, be different from those of
2008 ESOP Preferred Stock, if the holders of such stock shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as the case may be, in proportion to their respective
dividend rates or liquidation prices, without preference or priority, one over the other, as between the holders of such stock and the holders of shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock; and   
  (c) junior to shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, if such class shall be Common Stock
or if the holders of shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders
of shares of such series or class or classes.      9.  Priority of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock . The shares of 2008
ESOP Preferred Stock will rank on a parity, both as to payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, with the Company s 1999 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2000 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred
Stock, its 2001 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2002 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2003 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2004 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2005 ESOP Cumulative
Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2006 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock and its 2007 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Certificate of Designations to be signed by John G. Stumpf, its President and Chief Executive Officer, and attested by Jeannine E. Zahn, its Assistant
Secretary, whereby such President and Chief Executive Officer affirms, under penalties of perjury, that this Certificate of Designations is the act and deed of the Company and that the facts stated herein are true, this 12th day of March, 2008.
  
         -15-

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY   

By  
     
    /s/ John G. Stumpf    

John G. Stumpf   

President and     Chief
Executive Officer    

Attest:   

/s/ Jeannine E. Zahn    
 
  Jeannine E. Zahn   
 
  Assistant Secretary   
    [As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on March 12, 2008.]   
         -16-

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY    
         
   CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS        Pursuant to Section 151(g) of the        General Corporation Law
       of the State of Delaware         
        DIVIDEND
EQUALIZATION PREFERRED SHARES        (Without Par Value)    
         
  WELLS FARGO   COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the
 Corporation ), HEREBY CERTIFIES that, pursuant to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the  Board of Directors ) by the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation,
as amended, which authorizes the issuance of not more than 20,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, without par value, and pursuant to authority conferred upon the Securities Committee of the Board of Directors (the  Committee ) in accordance
with Section 141(c) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the  General Corporation Law ), the following resolutions were duly adopted by the Committee pursuant to the written consent of the Committee duly adopted on
November 20, 2008, in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law:      RESOLVED, that pursuant to the
authority vested in the Committee and in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors dated October 2, 2008, the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the By-laws of the Corporation and applicable law, a series
of Preferred Stock, no par value, of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and other powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other
rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as follows:      1.
 Designation.       (a) The shares of such series of Preferred Stock shall be designated Dividend Equalization Preferred
Shares ( DEPs ), and the number of shares constituting such series shall be 97,000.      (b) DEPs redeemed, purchased
or otherwise acquired by the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries (other than in a bona fide fiduciary capacity) shall be cancelled and may not be reissued. DEPs may be issued in fractional shares which are whole number multiples of one
one-millionth of a share, which fractional shares shall entitle the holder, in proportion to such holder s fractional share, to all rights of a holder of a whole share of DEPs.   
  (c) DEPs shall, with respect to distributions upon the liquidation, winding-up and dissolution of the Corporation, rank (x) senior
to the Common Stock for the Liquidation Preference stated and defined in Section 3(a) below and (y) junior to each class or series of preferred stock issued in exchange for preferred stock of Wachovia Corporation established by the board
of   
         -1-

directors of Wachovia Corporation after September 1, 2001 and each class or series of preferred stock established by the Board of Directors after the date hereof.   
  2.  Dividends.  DEPs shall not entitle the holders thereof to any dividends, whether payable in cash, property, stock or otherwise.
     3.  Liquidation.       (a) In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, the holders of full and fractional DEPs shall be entitled, before any
distribution or payment is made on any date to the holders of the Common Stock or any other stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the DEPs upon liquidation, to be paid in full an amount per whole share of DEPs equal to $10.00 (the
 Liquidation Preference ), together with accrued dividends to such distribution or payment date, whether or not earned or declared. If such payment shall have been made in full to all holders of DEPs, the holders of DEPs as such shall have
no right or claim to any of the remaining assets of the Corporation.      (b) In the event the assets of the Corporation
available for distribution to the holders of DEPs upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, shall be insufficient to pay in full all amounts to which such holders are entitled pursuant to
Section 3(a), no such distribution shall be made on account of any shares of any other class or series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity with the DEPs upon such liquidation, dissolution or winding up unless proportionate distributive
amounts shall be paid on account of the DEPs, ratably in proportion to the full distributable amounts for which holders of all such parity shares are respectively entitled upon such liquidation, dissolution or winding up.   
  (c) Upon the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, the holders of DEPs then outstanding shall be entitled to be
paid out of assets of the Corporation available for distribution to its shareholders all amounts to which such holders are entitled pursuant to the first paragraph of this Section 3 before any payment shall be made to the holders of Common
Stock or any other stock of the Corporation ranking junior upon liquidation to the DEPs.      (d) For the purposes of this
Section 3, the consolidation or merger of, or binding statutory share exchange by, the Corporation with any other corporation shall not be deemed to constitute a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.   
  4.  Redemption, Conversion, Exchange.       (a) The DEPs shall not be convertible or exchangeable. Other than as described in the next sentence, the DEPs shall not be redeemable. The DEPs shall be redeemable by the Corporation, at the
Corporation s option and in its sole discretion, for an amount in cash equal to the Liquidation Preference per share of DEPs, after December 31, 2021.      (b) In case of redemption of less than all of the DEPs at the time outstanding, the shares to be redeemed shall be selected pro rata or by lot as determined by the Corporation in its sole discretion,
provided that the Corporation may redeem all shares held by holders of fewer than 0.100 DEPs (or by holders that would hold fewer than 0.100 DEPs following such redemption) prior to its redemption of other DEPs.   
  (c) Notice of any redemption shall be sent by or on behalf of the Corporation no less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the date
specified for redemption in such notice (the   
         -2-

Redemption Date ), by first class mail, postage prepaid, to all holders of record of the DEPs at their last addresses as they appear on the books of the Corporation; provided, however,
that no failure to give such notice or any defect therein or in the mailing thereof shall affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any DEPs except as to the holder to whom the Corporation has failed to give notice or except as to
the holder to whom notice was defective. In addition to any information required by applicable law or regulation or the rules of any exchange upon which the DEPs may be listed or admitted to trading, such notice shall state (1) that such
redemption is being made pursuant to the redemption provisions of this Section 5, (2) the Redemption Date, (3) the redemption price, (4) the total number of DEPs to be redeemed and, if less than all shares held by such holder are
to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed, and (5) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price, including any procedures applicable to redemption to be
accomplished through book-entry transfers. Upon the mailing of any such notice of redemption, the Corporation shall become obligated to redeem, on the Redemption Date, all shares called for redemption.   
  5.  Voting Rights . Except as otherwise required by applicable law or regulation or the rules of a securities
exchange upon which the DEPs may be listed or quoted, holders of the DEPs shall have no voting rights.   
   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, WELLS FARGO   COMPANY  has caused this Certificate of Designations to be signed
by Barbara S. Brett, its Senior Vice President and Assistant Treasurer, and Laurel A. Holschuh, its Secretary, this
 30  th       day of December, 2008.         

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY   

By:  
     
    /s/ Barbara S. Brett    

Barbara S. Brett, Senior Vice President     and Assistant Treasurer    

/s/ Laurel A. Holschuh    
 
  Laurel A. Holschuh, Secretary   
    [As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on December 30, 2008.]   
         -3-

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY    
         
   CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS        Pursuant to Section 151(g) of the        General Corporation Law
       of the State of Delaware         
        CLASS A
PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES G        (Without Par Value)    
         
  WELLS FARGO   COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the
 Corporation ), HEREBY CERTIFIES that, pursuant to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the  Board of Directors ) by the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation,
as amended, which authorizes the issuance of not more than 20,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, without par value, and pursuant to authority conferred upon the Securities Committee of the Board of Directors (the  Committee ) in accordance
with Section 141(c) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the  General Corporation Law ), the following resolutions were duly adopted by the Committee pursuant to the written consent of the Committee duly adopted on
November 20, 2008, in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law:      RESOLVED, that pursuant to the
authority vested in the Committee and in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors dated October 2, 2008, the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the By-laws of the Corporation and applicable law, a series
of Preferred Stock, no par value, of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and other powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other
rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as follows:      1.
 Designation . The shares of such series of Preferred Stock shall be designated Class A Preferred Stock, Series G, with no par value and with a liquidation preference of $15,000.00 per share (hereinafter referred to as the  Series G
Preferred Stock ), and the number of shares constituting such series shall be 50,000, which number may be increased or decreased (but not below the number of shares then outstanding) from time to time by the Board of Directors of the
Corporation. The Series G Preferred Stock shall rank prior to the common stock of the Corporation, $1-2/3 par value per share (the  Common Stock ), and on a parity with each series of the Corporation s Parity Stock with respect to the
payment of dividends and the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation as expressly provided for herein.   
  2.  Defined Terms . As used in this Certificate of Designations, the following terms have the meanings specified below:   
   Affiliate  of any specified Person shall mean (i) any other Person which, directly or indirectly, is in
Control of, is controlled by or is under common Control with such specified Person, or (ii) any other Person who is a director or executive officer (A) of such specified Person, (B) of any subsidiary of such specified Person, or
(C) of any Person described in clause (i) above.   
         -1-

Business Day  means any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a
day on which banks located in the City of New York, New York or Charlotte, North Carolina generally are authorized or required by law or regulation to close.       Common Stock  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.       Conditional Exchange  shall mean the exchange of one Depositary Share for each share of WPFC Series A Preferred Securities following the occurrence of a Supervisory Event.   
   Control  means the power, direct or indirect, to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies
of any Person whether by contract or otherwise; and the terms  controlling  and  controlled  have meanings correlative to the foregoing.       Corporation  means Wells Fargo   Company, a Delaware corporation, together with its successors and assigns.   
   Depositary Company  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5(c).   
   Depositary Share  means a depositary share representing a one-six hundredth interest in one share of Series G
Preferred Stock.       Dividend Payment  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(a).
      Dividend Payment Date  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(a).   
   Dividend Period  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(a).   
   Dividend Record Date  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(a).   
   Federal Reserve Board  means the United States Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.   
   Initial Dividend Period  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(a).   
   Junior Stock  means the Common Stock and all other classes and series of securities of the Corporation that
rank below the Series G Preferred Stock as to dividend rights and rights upon liquidation, winding up, or dissolution.       OCC  means the United States Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.       Parity Stock  means any outstanding class or series of Preferred Stock of the Corporation ranking, in accordance to its terms, as to dividends and upon voluntary or involuntary liquidation,
dissolution or winding-up of affairs of the Corporation on parity with the Series G Preferred Stock.   
   Person  means an individual, corporation, partnership, estate, trust (or portion thereof), association, private
foundation, joint stock company or other entity or any government or agency or political subdivision thereof and also includes a group as that term is used for purposes of Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
  
         -2-

Preferred Stock  means the Corporation s preferred stock, no
par value, of which 20,000,000 shares are authorized as of the date hereof.       Redemption Date  shall
have the meaning set forth in Section 5(c).       Redemption Price  shall have the meaning set forth
in Section 5(b).       Regulatory Capital Event  means a determination by the Corporation, based on
the receipt by the Corporation of an opinion or letter of counsel, rendered by a law firm experienced in such matters, in form and substance satisfactory to the Corporation, which states that there is a significant risk that the Series G Preferred
Stock will no longer constitute Tier 1 capital of the Corporation for purposes of the capital adequacy regulations or guidelines or policies of the Federal Reserve Board, or its successor, as the Corporation s primary Federal banking regulator,
as a result of (i) any amendment to, clarification of, or change in applicable laws or related regulations, guidelines, policies or official interpretations thereof, or (ii) any official administrative pronouncement or judicial decision
interpreting or applying such laws or related regulations, guidelines, policies or official interpretations thereof.       Series G Preferred Stock  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.       Supervisory Event  means the occurrence of one of the following: (i) Wachovia Bank becomes  undercapitalized  under the OCC s prompt corrective action regulations,
(ii) Wachovia Bank is placed into conservatorship or receivership, or (iii) the OCC, in its sole discretion, anticipates Wachovia Bank becoming  undercapitalized  in the near term or takes supervisory action that limits the
payment of dividends by WPFC and in connection therewith the OCC directs an exchange of the WPFC Series A Preferred Securities for the Series G Preferred Stock.       Wachovia Bank  means Wachovia Bank, National Association, a national banking association, or its successors and assigns.   
   WPFC  means Wachovia Preferred Funding Corp., a Delaware corporation.   
   WPFC Series A Preferred Securities  means the 7.25% Non-cumulative Series A Preferred Securities, par value
$0.01, liquidation preference $25.00 per share, of WPFC.      3.  Dividends . (a) The dividend rate for the Series G
Preferred Stock shall be 7.25% per share per annum of the initial liquidation preference of $15,000.00 per share, accruing from the effective date of the Conditional Exchange to and including the last day of March, the last day of June, the
last day of September or the last day of December, whichever occurs first, after issuance of the Series G Preferred Stock following the Conditional Exchange (such period being the  Initial Dividend Period ) and then for each quarterly
period thereafter, commencing on April 1, July 1, October 1 or January 1, as the case may be, of each year and ending on and including the day next preceding the first day of the next such quarterly period (each such
period, including the Initial Dividend Period, being a  Dividend Period ), payable to holders of record of the Series G Preferred Stock on the respective record dates fixed for such purpose by the Board of Directors in advance of payment
of such dividend, which shall be the 15th calendar day of the last calendar month of the applicable Dividend Period (each such date, a  Dividend Record Date ). If such Dividend Record Date is not a Business Day, then the Dividend Record
Date for the applicable Dividend Period shall be the first Business Day immediately following the 15th calendar day of the last calendar month of the applicable Dividend Period, except if such Business Day falls in the calendar month following the
last calendar month of the applicable Dividend Period, the Dividend Record Date shall be the last Business Date immediately preceding the 15th calendar day of the last calendar   
         -3-

month of the applicable Dividend Period. Until no longer outstanding, the holders of the Series G Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive such cash dividends, and the Corporation shall be
bound to pay the same, but only as, if and when declared by the Board of Directors, out of funds legally available for the payment thereof (each such payment, a  Dividend Payment ), on March 31, June 30, September 30 and
December 31 of each year (each a  Dividend Payment Date ) for the respective Dividend Period ending on such date;  provided ,  however , that the Dividend Payment for the Initial Dividend Period shall include any unpaid
dividends accrued from the payment date of the last dividend paid prior to such date on the WPFC Series A Preferred Securities. If a Dividend Payment Date is not a Business Day, the Dividend Payment due on such Dividend Payment Date shall be paid on
the first Business Day immediately following such Dividend Payment Date, except if such Business Day falls in a different calendar year than such Dividend Payment Date, such Dividend Payment shall be paid on the last Business Date immediately
preceding such Dividend Payment Date. The amount of dividends payable for the Initial Dividend Period or any period shorter than a full Dividend Period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year having 30-day months and the actual number of
days elapsed in the period.      (b)  Dividends shall be non-cumulative . If the Board of Directors fails to
or chooses not to declare a dividend on the Series G Preferred Stock for a Dividend Period, then holders of the Series G Preferred Stock shall have no right to receive a dividend for that Dividend Period, and the Corporation shall have no obligation
to pay a dividend for that Dividend Period, whether or not dividends are declared and paid for any future Dividend Period, with respect to either the Series G Preferred Stock, other series of preferred stock of the Corporation, or the Common Stock.
     (c) Holders of Series G Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash,
property or stock, in excess of full dividends for each Dividend Period, as herein provided, on the Series G Preferred Stock. No interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any Dividend Payment or Dividend Payments
or failure to make any Dividend Payment or Dividend Payments.      (d) Unless full dividend payments on the Series
G Preferred Stock have been declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for such payment has been set apart for payment for the immediately preceding Dividend Period, no dividends shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment and no
other distribution shall be declared or made or set aside for payment upon any shares of Junior Stock, nor shall shares of Junior Stock be redeemed, purchased, or otherwise acquired for any consideration, nor shall any monies be paid to or made
available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such securities by the Corporation, except by conversion into or exchange for other Junior Stock.      4.  Liquidation Preference . (a) The amount payable on the Series G Preferred Stock in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, or winding-up of affairs of the
Corporation shall be $15,000.00 per share, plus authorized, declared but unpaid dividends up to the date of such liquidation, dissolution, or winding-up of affairs of the Corporation, and no more before any distribution shall be made to the holders
of any shares of Junior Stock. The holders of Series G Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any further payments in the event of any such voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, or winding-up of affairs of the Corporation other than
what is expressly provided for in this Section 4(a).      (b) If the amounts available for distribution in
respect of the Series G Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock are not sufficient to satisfy the full liquidation rights of all of the outstanding Series G Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock, then the holders of the Series G
  
         -4-

Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock shall share ratably in any such distribution of assets in proportion to the full respective liquidation preference to which they are entitled.   
  (c) The sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or
substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation shall not be deemed a dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of the Corporation
into or with any other corporation or Person or the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of any other corporation or Person into or with the Corporation be deemed to be a dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the
Corporation.      5.  Redemption . (a) The Series G Preferred Stock shall not be redeemable by the Corporation prior to
December 31, 2022, except upon the occurrence of a Regulatory Capital Event.      (b) Prior to
December 31, 2022, upon the occurrence of a Regulatory Capital Event and with the prior approval of the OCC, the Corporation, at the option of the Board of Directors, may redeem the outstanding Series G Preferred Stock, in whole, but not in
part, at a price equal to $15,000.00 per share of Series G Preferred Stock, plus authorized, declared but unpaid dividends to the Redemption Date, without interest, on shares redeemed (collectively, the  Redemption Price ) from funds
legally available for such purpose. On or after December 31, 2022, the Corporation may redeem the Series G Preferred Stock for cash, with the prior approval of the OCC, in whole or in part, at any time and from time to time for the Redemption
Price from funds legally available for such purpose. In the event the Corporation redeems fewer than all the outstanding Series A Preferred Securities, the shares to be redeemed shall be determined by lot,  pro rata , or by such other
method as the Board of Directors in its sole discretion determines.      (c) Not more than 60 days and not less
than 30 days prior to the date established for such redemption by the Board of Directors (the  Redemption Date ), notice of the proposed redemption shall be mailed to the holders of record of the Series G Preferred Stock to be redeemed,
such notice to be addressed to each such stockholder at his last known address shown on the records of the Corporation, and the time of mailing such notice shall be deemed to be the time of the giving thereof. On or after the Redemption Date, the
Series G Preferred Stock called for redemption shall automatically, and without further action on the part of the holder thereof, be deemed to have been redeemed and the former holder thereof shall thereupon only be entitled to receive payment of
the Redemption Price. If such notice of redemption shall have been given as aforesaid, and if on or before the Redemption Date the funds necessary for the redemption shall have been set aside so as to be available therefore, then the dividends
thereon shall cease to accrue after the Redemption Date and all rights with respect to the Series G Preferred Stock so called for redemption shall forthwith after such Redemption Date cease, except the right of the holders to receive the Redemption
Price, without interest. If such notice of redemption of all or any part of the Series G Preferred Stock shall have been mailed as aforesaid and the Corporation shall thereafter deposit money for the payment of the Redemption Price pursuant thereto
with any bank or trust company (the  Depositary Company ), including any Affiliate of the Corporation, selected by the Board of Directors for that purpose, to be applied to such redemption, then from and after the making of such deposit,
such Series G Preferred Stock shall not be deemed to be outstanding for any purpose, and the rights of the holders thereof shall be limited to the rights to receive payment of the Redemption Price, without interest but including any declared,
authorized, but unpaid, dividends to the Redemption Date, from the Depositary Company, if applicable, upon endorsement, if required, and surrender of the certificates therefore. The Corporation shall be entitled to receive, from time to time, from
the Depositary Company, the interest, if any, allowed on such moneys deposited with it, and the holders of any Series G Preferred Stock so redeemed   
         -5-

shall have no claim to any such interest. Any moneys so deposited and remaining unclaimed at the end of three years from the Redemption Date shall, if thereafter requested by resolution of the
Board of Directors, be repaid to the Corporation, and in the event of such repayment to the Corporation, such holders of record of the Series G Preferred Stock so redeemed which shall not have made claim against such moneys prior to such repayment
to the Corporation shall be deemed to be unsecured creditors of the Corporation for an amount equivalent to the amount deposited as stated above for the redemption of the Series G Preferred Stock and so repaid to the Corporation, but shall in no
event be entitled to any interest.      (d) Subject to the provisions herein, the Board of Directors shall have
authority to prescribe from time to time the manner in which the Series G Preferred Stock shall be redeemed.   
  (e) Nothing contained herein shall limit any legal right of the Corporation to purchase any shares of the Series G
Preferred Stock.      6.  Conversion . The holders of the Series G Preferred Stock shall not have any rights to convert such
Series G Preferred Stock into shares of any other class of capital stock of the Corporation.      7.  Rank . Notwithstanding
anything set forth in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation or this Certificate of Designations to the contrary, the Board of Directors, without the vote of the holders of the Series G Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue
additional shares of Junior Stock, Parity Stock or any class or series of stock ranking senior to Series G Preferred Stock as to dividends and upon voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of affairs of the Corporation.
     8.  Repurchase . Subject to the limitations imposed herein, the Corporation may purchase and sell Series G Preferred
Stock from time to time to such extent, in such manner, and upon such terms as the Board of Directors may determine;  provided ,  however , that the Corporation shall not use any of its funds for any such purchase when there are reasonable
grounds to believe that the Corporation is, or by such purchase would be, rendered insolvent.      9.  Voting Rights . The
holders of Series G Preferred Stock will have no voting rights except as expressly provided by applicable law.      10.
 Unissued or Reacquired Shares . Shares of Series G Preferred Stock not issued or which have been issued and converted, redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued
shares of Preferred Stock without designation as to series.      11.  No Sinking Fund . Shares of Series G Preferred Stock
are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund.   
         -6-

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, WELLS FARGO   COMPANY  has caused
this Certificate of Designations to be signed by Barbara S. Brett, its Senior Vice President and Assistant Treasurer, and Laurel A. Holschuh, its Secretary, this  30  th       day of December, 2008.    

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY   

By:  
     
    /s/ Barbara S. Brett    

Barbara S. Brett, Senior Vice President     and Assistant Treasurer    

/s/ Laurel A. Holschuh    
 
  Laurel A. Holschuh, Secretary   
    [As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on December 30, 2008.]   
         -7-

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY    
         
   CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS        Pursuant to Section 151(g) of the        General Corporation Law
       of the State of Delaware         
        CLASS A
PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES H        (Without Par Value)    
         
  WELLS FARGO   COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the
 Corporation ), HEREBY CERTIFIES that, pursuant to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the  Board of Directors ) by the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation,
as amended, which authorizes the issuance of not more than 20,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, without par value, and pursuant to authority conferred upon the Securities Committee of the Board of Directors (the  Committee ) in accordance
with Section 141(c) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the  General Corporation Law ), the following resolutions were duly adopted by the Committee pursuant to the written consent of the Committee duly adopted on
November 20, 2008, in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law:      RESOLVED, that pursuant to the
authority vested in the Committee and in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors dated October 2, 2008, the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the By-laws of the Corporation and applicable law, a series
of Preferred Stock, no par value, of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and other powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other
rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as follows:      1.
 Designation . The shares of such series of Preferred Stock shall be designated Class A Preferred Stock, Series H, with no par value and with a liquidation preference of $20,000.00 per share (hereinafter referred to as the
 Series H Preferred Stock ), and the number of shares constituting such series shall be 50,000, which number may be increased or decreased (but not below the number of shares then outstanding) from time to time by the Board of
Directors of the Corporation. The Series H Preferred Stock shall rank prior to the common stock of the Corporation, $1-2/3 par value per share (the  Common Stock ), and on a parity with each series of the Corporation s Parity
Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation as expressly provided for herein.   
  2.  Defined Terms . As used in this Certificate of Designations, the following terms have the meanings specified below:   
   Affiliate  of any specified Person shall mean (i) any other Person which, directly or indirectly, is in
Control of, is controlled by or is under common Control with such specified Person, or (ii) any other Person who is a director or executive officer (A) of such specified Person, (B) of any subsidiary of such specified Person, or
(C) of any Person described in clause (i) above.   
         -1-

Applicable Rate  means, with respect to distributions on each
Dividend Period, (i) a rate per annum equal to Three-Month LIBOR plus 1.83%, or (ii) upon the occurrence of an initial Fixed Rate Event and thereafter, a fixed rate equal to the Assigned Fixed Rate.   
   Assigned Fixed Rate  means the fixed rate equal to the Applicable Rate on the date of the occurrence of the
initial Fixed Rate Event.       Business Day  means any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on
which banks located in the City of New York, New York or Charlotte, North Carolina generally are authorized or required by law or regulation to close.       Common Stock  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.       Conditional Exchange  shall mean the exchange of one Depositary Share for each share of WPFC Series B Preferred Securities following the occurrence of a Supervisory Event.   
   Control  means the power, direct or indirect, to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies
of any Person whether by contract or otherwise; and the terms  controlling  and  controlled  have meanings correlative to the foregoing.       Corporation  means Wells Fargo   Company, a Delaware corporation, together with its successors and assigns.   
   Depositary Company  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5(c).   
   Depositary Share  means a depositary share representing a one-eight hundredth interest in one share of
Series H Preferred Stock.       Dividend Payment  shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 3(a).       Dividend Payment Date  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(a).
      Dividend Period  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(a).   
   Dividend Record Date  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(a).   
   Federal Reserve Board  means the United States Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.   
   Fixed Rate Event  means any Transfer with respect to all or a portion of the WPFC Series B Preferred
Securities, subsequent to the initial issuance of the WPFC Series B Preferred Securities, through an initial public offering, private placement or otherwise, to any Person who is not an Affiliate of the Corporation.   
   Initial Dividend Period  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(a).   
   Junior Stock  means the Common Stock and all other classes and series of securities of the Corporation that
rank below the Series H Preferred Stock as to dividend rights and rights upon liquidation, winding up, or dissolution.   
         -2-

LIBOR Business Day  means any day on which commercial banks and
foreign exchange markets settle payments and are open for general business (including dealings in foreign exchange and foreign currency deposits) in London and New York.   
   LIBOR Determination Date  means, as to each Dividend Period, commencing with the Initial Dividend Period, the
date that is two LIBOR Business Days prior to the first day of such Dividend Period.       OCC  means the
United States Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.       Parity Stock  means any outstanding class
or series of Preferred Stock of the Corporation ranking, in accordance to its terms, as to dividends and upon voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of affairs of the Corporation on parity with the Series H Preferred
Stock.       Person  means an individual, corporation, partnership, estate, trust (or portion thereof),
association, private foundation, joint stock company or other entity or any government or agency or political subdivision thereof and also includes a group as that term is used for purposes of Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended.       Preferred Stock  means the Corporation s preferred stock, no par value, of
which 20,000,000 shares are authorized as of the date hereof.       Redemption Date  shall have the
meaning set forth in Section 5(c).       Redemption Price  shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 5(a).       Regulatory Capital Event  means a determination by the Corporation, based on the
receipt by the Corporation of an opinion or letter of counsel, rendered by a law firm experienced in such matters, in form and substance satisfactory to the Corporation, which states that there is a significant risk that the Series H Preferred
Stock will no longer constitute Tier 1 capital of the Corporation for purposes of the capital adequacy regulations or guidelines or policies of the Federal Reserve Board, or its successor, as the Corporation s primary Federal banking regulator,
as a result of (i) any amendment to, clarification of, or change in applicable laws or related regulations, guidelines, policies or official interpretations thereof, or (ii) any official administrative pronouncement or judicial decision
interpreting or applying such laws or related regulations, guidelines, policies or official interpretations thereof.       Series H Preferred Stock  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.       Supervisory Event  means the occurrence of one of the following: (i) Wachovia Bank becomes  undercapitalized  under the OCC s prompt corrective action regulations,
(ii) Wachovia Bank is placed into conservatorship or receivership, or (iii) the OCC, in its sole discretion, anticipates Wachovia Bank becoming  undercapitalized  in the near term or takes supervisory action that limits the
payment of dividends by WPFC and in connection therewith the OCC directs an exchange of the WPFC Series B Preferred Securities for the Series H Preferred Stock.   
   Three-Month LIBOR  means, with respect to any LIBOR Determination Date, a rate determined on the basis of the
offered rates for three-month U.S. dollar deposits of not less than a principal amount equal to that which is representative for a single transaction in such market at such time, commencing on the second LIBOR Business Day immediately following such
LIBOR   
         -3-

Determination Date, which appears on US LIBOR Telerate Page 3750 as of approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on such LIBOR Determination Date.   
  If on any LIBOR Determination Date no rate appears on US LIBOR Telerate Page 3750 as of approximately 11:00 a.m.,
London time, the Corporation shall on such LIBOR Determination Date require four major reference banks in the London interbank market selected by the Corporation to provide the Corporation with a quotation of the rate at which three-month deposits
in U.S. dollars, commencing on the second LIBOR Business Day immediately following such LIBOR Determination Date, are offered by them to prime banks in the London interbank market as of approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on such LIBOR
Determination Date and in a principal amount equal to that which is representative for a single transaction in such market at such time. If at least two such quotations are provided, Three-Month LIBOR for such LIBOR Determination Date will be the
arithmetic mean of such quotations as calculated by the Corporation. If fewer than two quotations are provided, Three-Month LIBOR for such LIBOR Determination Date will be the arithmetic mean of the rates quoted as of approximately 11:00 a.m.,
London time, on such LIBOR Determination Date by three major banks in the London inter-bank market selected by the Corporation for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks, having a three-month maturity commencing on the second LIBOR Business
Day immediately following such LIBOR Determination Date and in a principal amount equal to that which is representative for a single transaction in such market at such time; provided, however, that, if the banks selected as aforesaid by the
Corporation are not quoting as mentioned in this sentence, Three-Month LIBOR for such LIBOR Determination Date will be the Three-Month LIBOR determined with respect to the immediately preceding Dividend Period.   
   Transfer  means any sale, transfer, gift, assignment, devise or other disposition of the WPFC Series B
Preferred Securities, including, but not limited to, (i) the granting of any option or entering into any agreement for the sale, transfer or other disposition of such securities, or (ii) the sale, transfer, assignment or other disposition
of any securities or rights convertible into or exchangeable for WPFC Series B Preferred Securities, whether voluntary or involuntary, whether of record or beneficially and whether by operation of law or otherwise.   
   Wachovia Bank  means Wachovia Bank, National Association, a national banking association, or its successors and
assigns.       WPFC  means Wachovia Preferred Funding Corp., a Delaware corporation.   
   WPFC Series B Preferred Securities  means the Floating Rate Non-cumulative Series B Preferred
Securities, par value $0.01, liquidation preference $25.00 per share, of WPFC.      3.  Dividends . (a) The dividend
rate for the Series H Preferred Stock shall be the Applicable Rate per share per annum of the initial liquidation preference of $20,000.00 per share, accruing from the effective date of the Conditional Exchange to and including the last day of
March, the last day of June, the last day of September or the last day of December, whichever occurs first, after issuance of the Series H Preferred Stock following the Conditional Exchange (such period being the  Initial Dividend
Period ) and then for each quarterly period thereafter, commencing on April 1, July 1, October 1 or January 1, as the case may be, of each year and ending on and including the day next preceding the first day of the next
such quarterly period (each such period, including the Initial Dividend Period, being a  Dividend Period ), payable to holders of record of the Series H Preferred Stock on the respective record dates fixed for such purpose by the
Board of Directors in advance of payment of such dividend, which shall be the 15th calendar day of the last calendar month of the applicable Dividend Period (each such date, a  Dividend Record Date ). If such Dividend Record Date is not a
Business Day, then the Dividend Record Date for the applicable Dividend Period shall be the first Business Day immediately following the   
         -4-

15th calendar day of the last calendar month of the applicable Dividend Period, except if such Business Day falls in the calendar month following the last calendar month of the applicable
Dividend Period, the Dividend Record Date shall be the last Business Date immediately preceding the 15th calendar day of the last calendar month of the applicable Dividend Period. Until no longer outstanding, the holders of the Series H
Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive such cash dividends, and the Corporation shall be bound to pay the same, but only as, if and when declared by the Board of Directors, out of funds legally available for the payment thereof (each such
payment, a  Dividend Payment ), on March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 of each year (each a  Dividend Payment Date ) for the respective Dividend Period ending on such date; provided, however, that
the Dividend Payment for the Initial Dividend Period shall include any unpaid dividends accrued from the payment date of the last dividend paid prior to such date on the WPFC Series B Preferred Securities. If a Dividend Payment Date is not a
Business Day, the Dividend Payment due on such Dividend Payment Date shall be paid on the first Business Day immediately following such Dividend Payment Date, except if such Business Day falls in a different calendar year than such Dividend Payment
Date, such Dividend Payment shall be paid on the last Business Date immediately preceding such Dividend Payment Date. The amount of dividends payable for the Initial Dividend Period or any period shorter than a full Dividend Period shall be computed
on the basis of a 360-day year having 30-day months and the actual number of days elapsed in the period.      (b)
Dividends shall be non-cumulative. If the Board of Directors fails to or chooses not to declare a dividend on the Series H Preferred Stock for a Dividend Period, then holders of the Series H Preferred Stock shall have no right to receive a
dividend for that Dividend Period, and the Corporation shall have no obligation to pay a dividend for that Dividend Period, whether or not dividends are declared and paid for any future Dividend Period, with respect to either the Series H
Preferred Stock, other series of preferred stock of the Corporation, or the Common Stock.      (c) Holders of
Series H Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash, property or stock, in excess of full dividends for each Dividend Period, as herein provided, on the Series H Preferred Stock. No interest, or sum of
money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any Dividend Payment or Dividend Payments or failure to make any Dividend Payment or Dividend Payments.   
  (d) Unless full dividend payments on the Series H Preferred Stock have been declared and paid or declared and a sum
sufficient for such payment has been set apart for payment for the immediately preceding Dividend Period, no dividends shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment and no other distribution shall be declared or made or set aside for payment
upon any shares of Junior Stock, nor shall shares of Junior Stock be redeemed, purchased, or otherwise acquired for any consideration, nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such securities by
the Corporation, except by conversion into or exchange for other Junior Stock.      4.  Liquidation Preference . (a) The
amount payable on the Series H Preferred Stock in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, or winding-up of affairs of the Corporation shall be $20,000.00 per share, plus authorized, declared but unpaid dividends up
to the date of such liquidation, dissolution, or winding-up of affairs of the Corporation, and no more before any distribution shall be made to the holders of any shares of Junior Stock. The holders of Series H Preferred Stock shall not be
entitled to any further payments in the event of any such voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, or winding-up of affairs of the Corporation other than what is expressly provided for in this Section 4(a).   
         -5-

(b) If the amounts available for distribution in respect of the
Series H Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock are not sufficient to satisfy the full liquidation rights of all of the outstanding Series H Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock, then the holders of the Series H Preferred Stock and any
Parity Stock shall share ratably in any such distribution of assets in proportion to the full respective liquidation preference to which they are entitled.      (c) The sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation shall not be deemed
a dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of the Corporation into or with any other corporation or Person or the merger, consolidation or any other
business combination transaction of any other corporation or Person into or with the Corporation be deemed to be a dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation.      5.  Redemption . (a) The Series H Preferred Stock shall not be redeemable by the Corporation prior to the fifth anniversary of the initial issuance of the WPFC Series B Preferred
Securities, except upon the occurrence of a Regulatory Capital Event. On or after the fifth anniversary of the initial issuance of the WPFC Series B Preferred Securities, the Corporation may, with the prior approval of the OCC, redeem the
Series H Preferred Stock for cash, in whole or in part, at a price equal to $20,000.00 per share of Series H Preferred Stock, plus authorized, declared, but unpaid dividends to the Redemption Date, without interest, on shares redeemed
(collectively, the  Redemption Price ) from funds legally available for such purpose.      (b) On or
after the fifth anniversary of the initial issuance of the WPFC Series B Preferred Securities, the Corporation, at the option of the Board of Directors, may at any time redeem fewer than all the outstanding Series H Preferred Stock. In
that event, the shares to be redeemed shall be determined by lot, pro rata, or by such other method as the Board of Directors in its sole discretion determines to be equitable.   
  (c) Prior to the fifth anniversary of the initial issuance of the WPFC Series B Preferred Securities, but only upon
or after the occurrence of a Regulatory Capital Event, the Corporation, at the option of the Board of Directors, may redeem the outstanding Series H Preferred Stock, in whole, but not in part, for the Redemption Price from funds legally
available for such purpose.      (d) Not more than 60 days and not less than 30 days prior to the date
established for such redemption by the Board of Directors (the  Redemption Date ), notice of the proposed redemption shall be mailed to the holders of record of the Series H Preferred Stock to be redeemed, such notice to be addressed
to each such stockholder at his last known address shown on the records of the Corporation, and the time of mailing such notice shall be deemed to be the time of the giving thereof. On or after the Redemption Date, the Series H Preferred Stock
called for redemption shall automatically, and without further action on the part of the holder thereof, be deemed to have been redeemed and the former holder thereof shall thereupon only be entitled to receive payment of the Redemption Price. If
such notice of redemption shall have been given as aforesaid, and if on or before the Redemption Date the funds necessary for the redemption shall have been set aside so as to be available therefore, then the dividends thereon shall cease to accrue
after the Redemption Date and all rights with respect to the Series H Preferred Stock so called for redemption shall forthwith after such Redemption Date cease, except the right of the holders to receive the Redemption Price, without interest.
If such notice of redemption of all or any part of the Series H Preferred Stock shall have been mailed as aforesaid and the Corporation shall thereafter deposit money for the payment of the Redemption Price pursuant thereto with any bank or
trust company (the  Depositary Company ), including any Affiliate of the Corporation, selected by the Board of Directors for that purpose, to be   
         -6-

applied to such redemption, then from and after the making of such deposit, such Series H Preferred Stock shall not be deemed to be outstanding for any purpose, and the rights of the holders
thereof shall be limited to the rights to receive payment of the Redemption Price, without interest but including any declared, authorized, but unpaid, dividends to the Redemption Date, from the Depositary Company, if applicable, upon endorsement,
if required, and surrender of the certificates therefore. The Corporation shall be entitled to receive, from time to time, from the Depositary Company, the interest, if any, allowed on such moneys deposited with it, and the holders of any
Series H Preferred Stock so redeemed shall have no claim to any such interest. Any moneys so deposited and remaining unclaimed at the end of three years from the Redemption Date shall, if thereafter requested by resolution of the Board of
Directors, be repaid to the Corporation, and in the event of such repayment to the Corporation, such holders of record of the Series H Preferred Stock so redeemed which shall not have made claim against such moneys prior to such repayment to
the Corporation shall be deemed to be unsecured creditors of the Corporation for an amount equivalent to the amount deposited as stated above for the redemption of the Series H Preferred Stock and so repaid to the Corporation, but shall in no
event be entitled to any interest.      (e) Subject to the provisions herein, the Board of Directors shall have
authority to prescribe from time to time the manner in which the Series H Preferred Stock shall be redeemed.      (f) Nothing contained herein shall limit any legal right of the Corporation to purchase any shares of the Series H Preferred Stock.   
  6.  Conversion . The holders of the Series H Preferred Stock shall not have any rights to convert such Series H Preferred
Stock into shares of any other class of capital stock of the Corporation.      7.  Rank . Notwithstanding anything set forth
in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation or this Certificate of Designations to the contrary, the Board of Directors, without the vote of the holders of the Series H Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional
shares of Junior Stock, Parity Stock or any class or series of stock ranking senior to Series H Preferred Stock as to dividends and upon voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of affairs of the Corporation.   
  8.  Repurchase . Subject to the limitations imposed herein, the Corporation may purchase and sell Series H Preferred Stock from
time to time to such extent, in such manner, and upon such terms as the Board of Directors may determine; provided, however, that the Corporation shall not use any of its funds for any such purchase when there are reasonable grounds to believe that
the Corporation is, or by such purchase would be, rendered insolvent.      9.  Voting Rights . The holders of Series H
Preferred Stock will have no voting rights except as expressly provided by applicable law.      10.  Unissued or Reacquired
Shares . Shares of Series H Preferred Stock not issued or which have been issued and converted, redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of Preferred
Stock without designation as to series.      11.  No Sinking Fund . Shares of Series H Preferred Stock are not subject
to the operation of a sinking fund.       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, WELLS FARGO   COMPANY  has caused
this Certificate of Designations to be signed by Barbara S. Brett, its Senior Vice President and Assistant Treasurer, and Laurel A. Holschuh, its Secretary, this  30  th       day of December, 2008.    
         -7-

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY   

By:  
     
    /s/ Barbara S. Brett    

Barbara S. Brett, Senior Vice President     and Assistant Treasurer    

/s/ Laurel A. Holschuh    
 
  Laurel A. Holschuh, Secretary   
    [As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on December 30, 2008.]   
         -8-

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY    
         
   CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS        Pursuant to Section 151(g) of the        General Corporation Law
       of the State of Delaware         
        CLASS A
PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES I        (Without Par Value)    
         
  WELLS FARGO   COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the
 Corporation ), HEREBY CERTIFIES that, pursuant to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the  Board of Directors ) by the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation,
as amended, which authorizes the issuance of not more than 20,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, without par value, and pursuant to authority conferred upon the Securities Committee of the Board of Directors (the  Committee ) in accordance
with Section 141(c) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the  General Corporation Law ), the following resolutions were duly adopted by the Committee pursuant to the written consent of the Committee duly adopted on
November 20, 2008, in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law:      RESOLVED, that pursuant to the
authority vested in the Committee and in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors dated October 2, 2008, the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the By-laws of the Corporation and applicable law, a series
of Preferred Stock, no par value, of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and other powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other
rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as follows:   
  Section 1.  Designation . The shares of such series of Preferred Stock shall be designated Class A Preferred Stock, Series
I, with no par value and a liquidation preference of $100,000 per share (hereinafter referred to as the  Series I Preferred Stock ). Each share of Series I Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series I
Preferred Stock. Series I Preferred Stock will rank equally with Parity Stock, if any, and will rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.      Section 2.  Number of Shares . The number
of shares of Series I Preferred Stock shall be 25,010. Such number may from time to time be increased (but not in excess of the total number of authorized shares of preferred stock) or decreased (but not below the number of shares of Series I
Preferred Stock then outstanding) by the board of directors. Shares of Series I Preferred Stock that are redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation shall be cancelled and shall revert to authorized but unissued shares of preferred
stock undesignated as to series. The Corporation shall have the authority to issue fractional shares of Series I Preferred Stock.      Section 3.  Definitions . As used herein with respect to Series I Preferred Stock:   
         -1-

Business Day  means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday on which
banking institutions in Charlotte, North Carolina or New York, New York are not authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close.       Depositary Company  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6(d).       Dividend Payment Date  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).       Dividend Period  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).   
   DTC  means The Depositary Trust Company, together with its successors and assigns.   
   Junior Stock  means the Corporation s common stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation hereafter
authorized over which Series I Preferred Stock has preference or priority in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.   
   London Banking Day  means any day on which commercial banks are open for general business (including dealings in deposits in
U.S. dollars) in London.       Parity Stock  means any other class or series of stock of the Corporation that ranks on a
par with Series I Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.       Series I Preferred Stock  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.       Telerate Page 3750  means the display page so designated on the Moneyline/Telerate Service (or such other page as may replace that page on that service, or such other service as may be
nominated as the information vendor, for the purpose of displaying rates or prices comparable to London Interbank Offered Rate for U.S. dollar deposits).       Three-Month LIBOR  means, with respect to any Dividend Period, the rate (expressed as a percentage  per annum  ) for deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the
first day of that Dividend Period that appears on Telerate Page 3750 as of 11:00 a.m. (London time) on the second London Banking Day preceding the first day of that Dividend Period. If such rate does not appear on Telerate Page 3750, Three-Month
LIBOR will be determined on the basis of the rates at which deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period and in a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000 are offered to prime banks in the
London interbank market by four major banks in the London interbank market selected by the Corporation, at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time on the second London Banking Day preceding the first day of that Dividend Period. Wachovia Bank,
National Association, as calculation agent for the Preferred Stock, will request the principal London office of each of such banks to provide a quotation of its rate. If at least two such quotations are provided, Three-Month LIBOR with respect to
that Dividend Period will be the arithmetic mean (rounded upward if necessary to the nearest .00001 of 1%) of such quotations. If fewer than two quotations are provided, Three-Month LIBOR with respect to that Dividend Period will be the arithmetic
mean (rounded upward if necessary to the nearest .00001 of 1%) of the rates quoted by three major banks in New York City selected by the calculation agent, at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the first day of that Dividend Period for
loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period and in a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000. However, if the banks selected by the calculation agent to provide
quotations are not quoting as described above, Three-Month LIBOR for that Dividend Period will be the same as Three-Month   
         -2-

LIBOR as determined for the previous Dividend Period, or in the case of the first Dividend Period, the most recent rate that could have been determined in accordance with the first sentence of
this paragraph had Series I Preferred Stock been outstanding. The calculation agent s establishment of Three-Month LIBOR and calculation of the amount of dividends for each Dividend Period will be on file at the principal offices of the
Corporation, will be made available to any holder of Series I Preferred Stock upon request and will be final and binding in the absence of manifest error.      Section 4.  Dividends .      (a)  Rate . Holders of
Series I Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the board of directors, but only out of funds legally available therefor, non-cumulative cash dividends on the liquidation preference of $100,000 per share of Series
I Preferred Stock, and no more, payable: (1) if the Series I Preferred Stock is issued prior to March 15, 2011, semi-annually in arrears on each March 15 and September 15 through March 15, 2011 and (2) from and
including the later of March 15, 2011 and the date of issuance, quarterly in arrears on each March 15, June 15, September 15 and December 15. If any date prior to March 15, 2011 specified pursuant to the
preceding sentence is not a Business Day, then dividends will be payable on the first Business Day following such date, without accrual to the actual payment date; if any date on or after March 15, 2011 specified pursuant the preceding sentence
is not a Business Day, then dividends will be payable on the first Business Day following such date and dividends shall accrue to the actual payment date. The term  Dividend Payment Date  means each of the following dates occurring after
the date of issuance of the Series I Preferred Stock: (i) each March 15 and September 15 through September 15, 2010 and (ii) each March 15, June 15, September 15 and December 15, or if any such
day in the case of this clause (ii) is not a Business Day, the next Business Day. The term  Dividend Period  means each period from and including a Dividend Payment Date (or the date of issuance of the Series I Preferred Stock for the
first Dividend Payment Date) to but excluding the next Dividend Payment Date. For any Dividend Period ending prior to the Dividend Payment Date in March 2011 dividends will accrue at a rate per annum equal to 5.80%, and for any Dividend Period
ending after the Dividend Payment Date in March 2011, dividends will accrue at a rate per annum equal to the greater of (x) Three-Month LIBOR for the related Dividend Period plus 0.93% and (y) 5.56975%. The amount of dividends payable for
any Dividend Period (1) ending prior to the Dividend Payment Date in March 2011 shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months and (2) beginning on or after the Dividend Payment Date in March 2011 shall
be computed on the basis of a 360-day year and the actual number of days elapsed.      (b)  Non-Cumulative
Dividends . Dividends on shares of Series I Preferred Stock shall be non-cumulative. To the extent that any dividends payable on the shares of Series I Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date are not declared and paid, in full or otherwise,
on such Dividend Payment Date, then such unpaid dividends shall not cumulate and shall cease to accrue and be payable and the Corporation shall have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series I Preferred Stock shall have no right to receive,
dividends accrued for the Dividend Period ending immediately prior to such Dividend Payment Date after such Dividend Payment Date or to pay interest with respect to such dividends, whether or not dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend
Period with respect to Series I Preferred Stock, Parity Stock, Junior Stock or any other class or series of authorized preferred stock of the Corporation. Holders of Series I Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in
cash, property or stock, in excess of full dividends for each Dividend Period on the Series I Preferred Stock. No interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any Dividend Payment or Dividend Payments or failure to
make any Dividend Payment or Dividend Payments.   
         -3-

(c)  Priority of Dividends . So long as any share of Series I Preferred
Stock remains outstanding, (i) no dividend shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared or made or set aside for payment on any Junior Stock, other than a dividend payable solely in Junior Stock,
(ii) no shares of Junior Stock shall be purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into Junior Stock, or the
exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock, and other than through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Junior Stock), nor shall any monies be paid to
or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such securities by the Corporation, and (iii) no shares of Parity Stock shall be purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation otherwise than
pursuant to  pro rata  offers to purchase all, or a  pro rata  portion, of the Series I Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock except by conversion into or exchange for Junior Stock, unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series
I Preferred Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and set aside for payment. The foregoing shall not restrict the ability of the Corporation, or any affiliate of the Corporation, to engage in any market-making
transactions in the Junior Stock or Parity Stock in the ordinary course of business. When dividends are not paid in full upon the shares of Series I Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock, all dividends declared upon shares of Series I Preferred Stock
and any Parity Stock shall be declared on a proportional basis so that the amount of dividends declared per share will bear to each other the same ratio that accrued dividends for the then-current Dividend Period per share on Series I Preferred
Stock, and accrued dividends, including any accumulations on Parity Stock, bear to each other. No interest will be payable in respect of any dividend payment on such offered stock that may be in arrears. If the board of directors determines not to
pay any dividend or a full dividend on a Dividend Payment Date, the Corporation will provide written notice to the holders of the Series I Preferred Stock prior to such date. Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in
cash, stock or otherwise) as may be determined by the board of directors may be declared and paid on any Junior Stock from time to time out of any funds legally available therefor, and the shares of Series I Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to
participate in any such dividend.      Section 5.  Liquidation Rights .   
  (a)  Liquidation . In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs
of the Corporation, holders of Series I Preferred Stock shall be entitled, before any distribution or payment out of the assets of the Corporation may be made to or set aside for the holders of any Junior Stock and subject to the rights of the
holders of any class or series of securities ranking senior to or on parity with Series I Preferred Stock upon liquidation and the rights of the Corporation s depositors and other creditors, to receive in full a liquidation preference in an
amount equal to $100,000 per share, plus an amount equal to all accrued and unpaid dividends for the then-current Dividend Period to the date of liquidation. The holder of Series I Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any further payments in the
event of any such voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation other than what is expressly provided for in this Section 5.   
  (b)  Partial Payment . If the assets of the Corporation are not sufficient to pay in full the liquidation preference
to all holders of Series I Preferred Stock and the liquidation preferences of any Parity Stock to all holders of such Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of Series I Preferred Stock and to the holders of all Parity Stock shall be  pro
rata  in accordance with the respective aggregate liquidation preferences of Series I Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock.   
         -4-

(c)  Residual Distributions . If the liquidation preference has been
paid in full to all holders of Series I Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the holders of Junior Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation according to their respective rights and preferences.
     (d)  Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation . For purposes of this Section 5, the
sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation shall not be deemed a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation
or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of the Corporation into or with any other corporation or person or the merger, consolidation or any other business
combination transaction of any other corporation or person into or with the Corporation be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.   
  Section 6.  Redemption .      (a)  Optional Redemption . So long as full dividends for all outstanding shares of Series I Preferred Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been paid or declared and a sum sufficient for
the payment thereof set aside, the Corporation, at the option of the board of directors, may redeem in whole or in part the shares of Series I Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, at any time on or after the later of March 15, 2011 and the
date of original issuance of the Series I Preferred Stock, upon notice given as provided in Subsection (b) below, at the redemption price in effect at the redemption date as provided in this Section 6. The redemption price for shares of
Series I Preferred Stock shall be $100,000 per share plus dividends that have been declared but not paid plus accrued and unpaid dividends for the then-current Dividend Period to the redemption date.   
  (b)  Notice of Redemption . Notice of every redemption of shares of Series I Preferred Stock shall be mailed by
first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the books of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before
the date fixed for redemption. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series I Preferred Stock is held in book-entry form through DTC, the Corporation may give such notice in any manner permitted by DTC. Any notice mailed as provided in this
Subsection shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of
Series I Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series I Preferred Stock. Each notice shall state (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of
shares of Series I Preferred Stock to be redeemed; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where the Series I Preferred Stock are to be redeemed; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on
the redemption date.      (c)  Partial Redemption . In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of
Series I Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares of Series I Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be selected either  pro rata  from the holders of record of Series I Preferred Stock in proportion to the number of Series I Preferred
Stock held by such holders or by lot or in such other manner as the board of directors may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the provisions hereof, the board of directors shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and
conditions upon which shares of Series I Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time.   
         -5-

(d)  Effectiveness of Redemption . If notice of redemption has been
duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other funds, in trust for the  pro rata  benefit of the
holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, or deposited by the Corporation with a bank or trust company selected by the board of directors (the  Depositary Company ) in trust for the
 pro rata  benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date all shares so
called for redemption shall cease to be outstanding, all dividends with respect to such shares shall cease to accrue after such redemption date, and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate,
except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from such bank or trust company at any time after the redemption date the funds so deposited, without interest. The Corporation shall be entitled to
receive, from time to time, from the Depositary Company any interest accrued on such funds, and the holders of any shares called for redemption shall have no claim to any such interest. Any funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of three years
from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released or repaid to the Corporation, and in the event of such repayment to the Corporation, the holders of record of the shares so called for redemption shall be deemed to be
unsecured creditors of the Corporation for an amount equivalent to the amount deposited as stated above for the redemption of such shares and so repaid to the Corporation, but shall in no event be entitled to any interest.   
  Section 7.  Voting Rights . The holders of Series I Preferred Stock will have no voting rights and will not be entitled to
elect any directors, except as expressly provided by law.      Section 8.  Conversion . The holders of Series I
Preferred Stock shall not have any rights to convert such Series I Preferred Stock into shares of any other class of capital stock of the Corporation.      Section 9.  Rank . Notwithstanding anything set forth in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation or this Certificate of Designations to the contrary, the board of directors,
without the vote of the holders of the Series I Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional shares of Junior Stock, Parity Stock or any class of securities ranking senior to the Series I Preferred Stock as to dividends and upon any voluntary
or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.      Section 10.  Repurchase .
Subject to the limitations imposed herein, the Corporation may purchase and sell Series I Preferred Stock from time to time to such extent, in such manner, and upon such terms as the board of directors may determine; provided, however, that the
Corporation shall not use any of its funds for any such purchase when there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Corporation is, or by such purchase would be, rendered insolvent.   
  Section 11.  Unissued or Reacquired Shares . Shares of Series I Preferred Stock not issued or which have been issued and
converted, redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock without designation as to series.   
  Section 12.  No Sinking Fund . Shares of Series I Preferred Stock are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund.
  
         -6-

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, WELLS FARGO   COMPANY  has caused
this Certificate of Designations to be signed by Barbara S. Brett, its Senior Vice President and Assistant Treasurer, and Laurel A. Holschuh, its Secretary, this  30  th       day of December, 2008.    

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY   

By:  
     
    /s/ Barbara S. Brett    

Barbara S. Brett, Senior Vice President     and Assistant Treasurer    

/s/ Laurel A. Holschuh    
 
  Laurel A. Holschuh, Secretary   
    [As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on December 30, 2008.]   
         -7-

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY    
         
   CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS        Pursuant to Section 151(g) of the        General Corporation Law
       of the State of Delaware         
        8.00%
NON-CUMULATIVE PERPETUAL CLASS A PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES J        (Without Par Value)    
         
  WELLS FARGO   COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the
 Corporation ), HEREBY CERTIFIES that, pursuant to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the  Board of Directors ) by the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation,
as amended, which authorizes the issuance of not more than 20,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, without par value, and pursuant to authority conferred upon the Securities Committee of the Board of Directors (the  Committee ) in accordance
with Section 141(c) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the  General Corporation Law ), the following resolutions were duly adopted by the Committee pursuant to the written consent of the Committee duly adopted on
November 20, 2008, in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law:      RESOLVED, that pursuant to the
authority vested in the Committee and in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors dated October 2, 2008, the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the By-laws of the Corporation and applicable law, a series
of Preferred Stock, no par value, of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and other powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other
rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as follows:   
  Section 1.  Designation . The shares of such series of Preferred Stock shall be designated 8.00% Non-Cumulative Perpetual
Class A Preferred Stock, Series J, with no par value and a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share (hereinafter referred to as the   Series J Preferred Stock  ). Each share of Series J Preferred Stock shall be identical in all
respects to every other share of Series J Preferred Stock. Series J Preferred Stock will rank equally with Parity Stock, if any, and will rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets in the
event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.   
  Section 2.  Number of Shares . The number of shares of Series J Preferred Stock shall be 2,300,000. Such number may from time
to time be increased (but not in excess of the total number of authorized shares of Preferred Stock) or decreased (but not below the number of shares of Series J Preferred Stock then outstanding) by the board of directors. Shares of Series J
Preferred Stock that are redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation shall be cancelled and shall revert to authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock undesignated as to series. The Corporation shall have the authority to
issue fractional shares of Series J Preferred Stock.      Section 3.  Definitions . As used herein with respect to
Series J Preferred Stock:   
         -1-

Business Day   means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday on
which banking institutions in Charlotte, North Carolina or New York, New York are not authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close.        Depositary Company   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6(d).        Dividend Payment Date   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).        Dividend Period   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).        DTC   means The Depositary Trust Company, together with its successors and assigns.        Junior Stock   means the Corporation s common stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation hereafter authorized over which Series J Preferred Stock has preference
or priority in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.   
    Parity Stock   means any other class or series of stock of the Corporation that ranks on a par with Series J Preferred
Stock in the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) or in the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.
       Series J Preferred Stock   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.   
    Voting Parity Stock   means any Parity Stock having similar voting rights as the Series J Preferred Stock.   
  Section 4.  Dividends.       (a)  Rate . Holders of Series J Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the board of directors, but only out of funds legally available therefor, non-cumulative cash
dividends on the liquidation preference of $1,000 per share of Series J Preferred Stock, and no more, payable quarterly in arrears on each March 15, June 15, September 15 and December 15. If any date specified pursuant the
preceding sentence is not a Business Day, then dividends will be payable on the first Business Day following such date and dividends shall accrue to the actual payment date. The term   Dividend Payment Date   means March 15,
June 15, September 15 and December 15, or if any such day in the case of this clause is not a Business Day, the next Business Day. The term   Dividend Period   means each period from and including a Dividend Payment
Date (or the date of issuance of the Series J Preferred Stock for the first Dividend Payment Date) to but excluding the next Dividend Payment Date;  provided  that the first Dividend Period shall be deemed to have commenced on December 15,
2008. Dividends will accrue at a rate per annum equal to 8.00%. The amount of dividends payable for any Dividend Period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.   
  (b)  Non-Cumulative Dividends . Dividends on shares of Series J Preferred Stock shall be non-cumulative. To the extent that any
dividends payable on the shares of Series J Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date are not declared and paid, in full or otherwise, on such Dividend Payment Date, then such unpaid dividends shall not cumulate and shall cease to accrue and be
payable and the Corporation shall have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series J Preferred Stock shall have no right to receive, dividends accrued for the Dividend Period ending immediately prior to such Dividend Payment Date after such
Dividend Payment Date, whether or not dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period with respect to Series J Preferred Stock, Parity Stock, Junior Stock or any   
         -2-

other class or series of authorized preferred stock of the Corporation. Holders of Series J Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash, property or stock, in
excess of full dividends for each Dividend Period on the Series J Preferred Stock. No interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any Dividend Payment or Dividend Payments or failure to make any Dividend Payment or
Dividend Payments.      (c)  Priority of Dividends . So long as any share of Series J Preferred Stock remains outstanding,
unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series J Preferred Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and set aside for payment, (i) no dividend shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment
and no distribution shall be declared or made or set aside for payment on any Junior Stock, other than a dividend payable solely in Junior Stock, (ii) no shares of Junior Stock shall be purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for
consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into Junior Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock,
and other than through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Junior Stock), nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such securities by the
Corporation, and (iii) no shares of Parity Stock shall be purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Parity Stock for or into Parity
Stock or Junior Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Parity Stock for or into another share of Parity Stock or for or into Junior Stock, and other than through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other
shares of Parity Stock or Junior Stock), nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such securities by the Corporation, otherwise than pursuant to  pro rata  offers to purchase all, or a 
pro rata  portion, of the Series J Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock. The foregoing shall not restrict the ability of the Corporation, or any affiliate of the Corporation, to engage in any market-making transactions in the Junior Stock or
Parity Stock in the ordinary course of business. When dividends are not paid in full upon the shares of Series J Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock, all dividends declared upon shares of Series J Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock shall be
declared on a proportional basis so that the amount of dividends declared per share will bear to each other the same ratio that accrued dividends for the then-current Dividend Period per share on Series J Preferred Stock, and accrued dividends,
including any accumulations, on Parity Stock, bear to each other. No interest will be payable in respect of any dividend payment on such Parity Stock that may be in arrears. If the board of directors determines not to pay any dividend or a full
dividend on a Dividend Payment Date, the Corporation will provide written notice to the holders of the Series J Preferred Stock prior to such date. Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, stock or otherwise) as
may be determined by the board of directors may be declared and paid on any Junior Stock from time to time out of any funds legally available therefor, and the shares of Series J Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such
dividend.      Section 5.  Liquidation Rights.       (a)  Liquidation . In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, holders of Series J Preferred Stock shall be entitled, before
any distribution or payment out of the assets of the Corporation may be made to or set aside for the holders of any Junior Stock and subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series of securities ranking senior to or on parity with Series
J Preferred Stock upon liquidation and the rights of the Corporation s depositors and other creditors, to receive in full a liquidation preference in an amount equal to $1,000 per share, plus an amount equal to all declared and unpaid dividends
for the then-current Dividend Period to the date of liquidation. The holder of Series J Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any further payments in the event of any such voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the
affairs of the Corporation other than what is expressly provided for in this Section 5.   
         -3-

(b)  Partial Payment . If the assets of the Corporation are not sufficient to pay in
full the liquidation preference to all holders of Series J Preferred Stock and the liquidation preferences of any Parity Stock to all holders of such Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of Series J Preferred Stock and to the holders of all
Parity Stock shall be  pro rata  in accordance with the respective aggregate liquidation preferences of Series J Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock.      (c)  Residual Distributions . If the liquidation preference has been paid in full to all holders of Series J Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the holders of Junior Stock shall be
entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation according to their respective rights and preferences.      (d)
 Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation . For purposes of this Section 5, the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the
property and assets of the Corporation shall not be deemed a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of the
Corporation into or with any other corporation or person or the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of any other corporation or person into or with the Corporation be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary
dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.      Section 6.  Redemption.    
  (a)  Optional Redemption . So long as full dividends for all outstanding shares of Series J Preferred Stock for the then-current
Dividend Period have been paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside, and subject to applicable regulatory approvals, the Corporation, at the option of the board of directors, may redeem in whole or in part the shares of
Series J Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, on any Dividend Payment Date on or after December 15, 2017 upon notice given as provided in Subsection (b) below, at the redemption price in effect at the redemption date as provided in
this Section 6. The redemption price for shares of Series J Preferred Stock shall be $1,000 per share plus declared and unpaid dividends for the then-current Dividend Period, without interest.   
  (b)  Notice of Redemption . Notice of every redemption of shares of Series J Preferred Stock shall be mailed by first class mail,
postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the books of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for
redemption. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series J Preferred Stock is held in book-entry form through DTC, the Corporation may give such notice in any manner permitted by DTC. Any notice mailed as provided in this Subsection shall be
conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series J Preferred Stock
designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series J Preferred Stock. Each notice shall state (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of Series J Preferred
Stock to be redeemed; (iii) the redemption price; and (iv) the place or places where the Series J Preferred Stock are to be redeemed.      (c)  Partial Redemption . In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series J Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares of Series J Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be
selected either  pro rata  from the holders of record of Series J Preferred Stock in proportion to the number of Series J Preferred Stock held by such holders or by lot or in such other manner as the board of directors may determine to be fair
and equitable. Subject to the provisions hereof, the board of directors   
         -4-

shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series J Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time.   
  (d)  Effectiveness of Redemption . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in
the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other funds, in trust for the  pro rata  benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue
to be available therefor, or deposited by the Corporation with a bank or trust company selected by the board of directors (the   Depositary Company  ) in trust for the  pro rata  benefit of the holders of the shares called for
redemption, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date all shares so called for redemption shall cease to be outstanding, all
dividends with respect to such shares shall cease to accrue after such redemption date, and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive
the amount payable on such redemption from such bank or trust company at any time after the redemption date the funds so deposited, without interest. The Corporation shall be entitled to receive, from time to time, from the Depositary Company any
interest accrued on such funds, and the holders of any shares called for redemption shall have no claim to any such interest. Any funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by
law, be released or repaid to the Corporation, and in the event of such repayment to the Corporation, the holders of record of the shares so called for redemption shall be deemed to be unsecured creditors of the Corporation for an amount equivalent
to the amount deposited as stated above for the redemption of such shares and so repaid to the Corporation, but shall in no event be entitled to any interest.      Section 7.  Voting Rights . The holders of Series J Preferred Stock shall not have any voting rights except as set forth below or as otherwise from time to time required by applicable law.
     (a)  Right To Elect Two Directors Upon Nonpayment Events . If and whenever the dividends on the Series J Preferred Stock
or any class or series of Voting Parity Stock have not been declared and paid in an aggregate amount equal to full dividends for at least six Dividend Periods or their equivalent (whether or not consecutive) (a   Nonpayment Event  ),
the number of directors then constituting the board of directors shall automatically be increased by two and the holders of Series J Preferred Stock, voting together as a single and separate class with the holders of any outstanding shares of Voting
Parity Stock, shall be entitled to elect the two additional directors (the   Preferred Stock Directors  ) by a plurality of the votes cast,  provided  that it shall be a qualification for election for any such Preferred Stock
Director that the election of such director shall not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirement of the New York Stock Exchange (or any other securities exchange or other trading facility on which securities of the
Corporation may then be listed or traded) that listed or traded companies must have a majority of independent directors, and  provided further  that the board of directors shall at no time include more than two Preferred Stock Directors
(including, for purposes of this limitation, all directors that the holders of any series of Voting Parity Stock are entitled to elect pursuant to like voting rights).      In the event that the holders of Series J Preferred Stock and such other holders of Voting Parity Stock shall be entitled to vote for the election of the Preferred Stock Directors following a Nonpayment
Event, such directors shall be initially elected following such Nonpayment Event at the Corporation s next annual meeting of shareholders, and, except as provided below, at each subsequent annual meeting of shareholders of the Corporation.
     When dividends have been paid in full on the Series J Preferred Stock and any and all Voting Parity Stock for at least four
consecutive Dividend Periods or their equivalent after a Nonpayment Event,   
         -5-

then the right of the holders of Series J Preferred Stock to elect the Preferred Stock Directors shall cease (but subject always to revesting of such voting rights in the case of any future
Nonpayment Event), and, if and when all rights of holders of Series J Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock to elect the Preferred Stock Directors shall have ceased, the terms of office of all the Preferred Stock Directors shall forthwith
terminate and the number of directors constituting the board of directors shall automatically be reduced accordingly.      Any
Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Series J Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock, when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a
single and separate class). In case any vacancy shall occur among the Preferred Stock Directors, a successor shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast by the holders of Series J Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock having the voting
rights described above, voting together as a single and separate class. The Preferred Stock Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter that shall come before the board of directors for a vote.   
  (b)  Other Voting Rights . So long as any shares of Series J Preferred Stock are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or
consent of shareholders required by law or by the certificate of incorporation, the vote or consent of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of the shares of Series J Preferred Stock at the time outstanding and entitled to vote thereon, voting separately
as a single class with all other series of preferred stock ranking equally with the Series J Preferred Stock and entitled to vote thereon, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the
purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or validating any of the following actions, whether or not such approval is required by Delaware law:      (i)  Issuance of Senior Stock . The issuance of any class or series of preferred stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series J Preferred Stock with respect to either the payment of
dividends or the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation;      (ii)  Amendment Affecting Series J Preferred Stock . Any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the certificate of incorporation or bylaws so as to adversely affect the rights,
preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series J Preferred Stock;      (iii)  Authorization of Senior Stock . Any
amendment or alteration of any provision of the certificate of incorporation or bylaws to authorize, create or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of, or any securities convertible into shares of, any class or series of capital stock of
the Corporation ranking senior to the Series J Preferred Stock with respect to either the payment of dividends or the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the
Corporation; or      (iv)  Share Exchanges, Reclassifications, Mergers and Consolidations . Any consummation of a binding
share exchange or reclassification involving the Series J Preferred Stock, or of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another corporation or other entity, unless in each case (x) the shares of Series J Preferred Stock remain
outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting corporation, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting corporation
or a corporation controlling such corporation, and (y) such Series J Preferred Stock shares remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, taken as a whole,
as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series J Preferred Stock, taken as a whole;   
         -6-

provided ,  however , that any amendment of the certificate of incorporation to authorize or
create or to increase the authorized amount of any Junior Stock or any class or series or any securities convertible into shares of any class or series of Parity Stock or Junior Stock will not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences,
privileges or voting powers of the Series J Preferred Stock, and the Series J Preferred Stock shall have no right to vote thereon.      If any amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation specified in this Section 7(b) would adversely affect one or more but not all series of voting
preferred stock (including the Series J Preferred Stock), then only those series affected by and entitled to vote on the matter shall vote on the matter together as a single class (in lieu of all other series of preferred stock).   
  (c)  Changes for Clarification . Without the consent of the holders of Series J Preferred Stock, so long as such action does not
adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series J Preferred Stock, the Corporation may amend, alter, supplement or repeal any terms of the Series J Preferred Stock:
     (i) to cure any ambiguity, or to cure, correct or supplement any provision contained in this Certificate of Designations
that may be defective or inconsistent; or      (ii) to make any provision with respect to matters or questions arising with
respect to the Series J Preferred Stock that is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Certificate of Designations.      (d)
 Changes after Provision for Redemption . No vote or consent of the holders of Series J Preferred Stock shall be required pursuant to this Section 7 if, at or prior to the time when any such vote or consent would otherwise be required
pursuant to such Section, all outstanding shares of Series J Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed, or shall have been called for redemption upon proper notice and sufficient funds shall have been set aside for such redemption, in each case
pursuant to Section 6.      (e)  Procedures for Voting and Consents . The rules and procedures for calling and
conducting any meeting of the holders of Series J Preferred Stock (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any
other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the board of directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the
certificate of incorporation, the bylaws, applicable law and any national securities exchange or other trading facility in which the Series J Preferred Stock is listed or traded at the time. Whether the vote or consent of the holders of a plurality,
majority or other portion of the shares of Series J Preferred Stock and any Voting Parity Stock has been cast or given on any matter on which the holders of shares of Series J Preferred Stock are entitled to vote shall be determined by the
Corporation by reference to the specified liquidation amounts of the shares voted or covered by the consent.      For purposes of
determining the voting rights of the holders of Series J Preferred Stock under this Section 7, each holder will be entitled to one vote for each $1,000 of liquidation preference to which his or her shares are entitled. Holders of shares of
Series J Preferred Stock will be entitled to one vote for each such share of Series J Preferred Stock held by them.   
  Section 8.  Conversion.  The holders of Series J Preferred Stock shall not have any rights to convert such Series J Preferred
Stock into shares of any other class of capital stock of the Corporation.   
         -7-

Section 9.  Rank . Notwithstanding anything set forth in the certificate of
incorporation or this Certificate of Designations to the contrary, the board of directors, without the vote of the holders of the Series J Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional shares of Junior Stock or Parity Stock.   
  Section 10.  Repurchase . Subject to the limitations imposed herein, the Corporation may purchase and sell Series J Preferred
Stock from time to time to such extent, in such manner, and upon such terms as the board of directors may determine;  provided ,  however , that the Corporation shall not use any of its funds for any such purchase when there are reasonable
grounds to believe that the Corporation is, or by such purchase would be, rendered insolvent.      Section 11.  Unissued or
Reacquired Shares . Shares of Series J Preferred Stock not issued or which have been issued and redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock
without designation as to series.      Section 12.  No Sinking Fund . Shares of Series J Preferred Stock are not subject
to the operation of a sinking fund.       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, WELLS FARGO   COMPANY  has caused
this Certificate of Designations to be signed by Barbara S. Brett, its Senior Vice President and Assistant Treasurer, and Laurel A. Holschuh, its Secretary, this  30  th       day of December, 2008.    

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY   

By:  
     
    /s/ Barbara S. Brett    

Barbara S. Brett, Senior Vice President     and Assistant Treasurer    

/s/ Laurel A. Holschuh    
 
  Laurel A. Holschuh, Secretary   
    [As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on December 30, 2008.]   
         -8-

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY    
         
   CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS        Pursuant to Section 151(g) of the        General Corporation Law
       of the State of Delaware         
    
   FIXED-TO-FLOATING RATE NON-CUMULATIVE PERPETUAL CLASS A        PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES K        (Without Par Value)    
         
  WELLS FARGO   COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the
 Corporation ), HEREBY CERTIFIES that, pursuant to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the  Board of Directors ) by the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation,
as amended, which authorizes the issuance of not more than 20,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, without par value, and pursuant to authority conferred upon the Securities Committee of the Board of Directors (the  Committee ) in accordance
with Section 141(c) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the  General Corporation Law ), the following resolutions were duly adopted by the Committee pursuant to the written consent of the Committee duly adopted on
November 20, 2008, in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law:      RESOLVED, that pursuant to the
authority vested in the Committee and in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors dated October 2, 2008, the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the By-laws of the Corporation and applicable law, a series
of Preferred Stock, no par value, of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and other powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other
rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as follows:   
  Section 1.  Designation . The shares of such series of Preferred Stock shall be designated Fixed-to-Floating Rate non
Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series K, with no par value and a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share (hereinafter referred to as the   Series K Preferred Stock  ). Each share of Series K Preferred Stock
shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series K Preferred Stock. Series K Preferred Stock will rank equally with Parity Stock, if any, and will rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and the
distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.      Section 2.  Number of Shares . The number of shares of Series K Preferred Stock shall be 3,500,000. Such number may from time to time be increased (but not in excess of the total number of
authorized shares of Preferred Stock) or decreased (but not below the number of shares of Series K Preferred Stock then outstanding) by the board of directors. Shares of Series K Preferred Stock that are redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired by
the Corporation shall be cancelled and shall revert to authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock undesignated as to series. The Corporation shall have the authority to issue fractional shares of Series K Preferred Stock.   
         -1-

Section 3.  Definitions . As used herein with respect to Series K Preferred Stock:
       Business Day   means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday on which banking institutions in
Charlotte, North Carolina or New York, New York are not authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close.   
    Depositary Company   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6(d).   
    Dividend Payment Date   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).   
    Dividend Period   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).   
    DTC   means The Depositary Trust Company, together with its successors and assigns.   
    Fixed Rate Period   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).   
    Floating Rate Period   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).   
    Junior Stock   means the Corporation s common stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation
hereafter authorized over which Series K Preferred Stock has preference or priority in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of
the Corporation.        London Banking Day   means any day on which commercial banks are open for general business
(including dealings in deposits in U.S. dollars) in London.        Nonpayment Event   shall have the meaning set
forth in Section 7(a).        Parity Stock   means any other class or series of stock of the Corporation that
ranks on a par with Series K Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) or in the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up
of the affairs of the Corporation.        Preferred Stock Directors   shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 7(a).        Reuters Screen LIBOR01 page   means the display page so designated on Reuters (or such
other page as may replace that page on that service, or such other service as may be nominated as the information vendor, for the purpose of displaying rates or prices comparable to London Interbank Offered Rate for U.S. dollar deposits).
       Series K Preferred Stock   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.   
    Three-Month LIBOR   means, with respect to any Dividend Period beginning on or after March 15, 2018, the rate for
deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period that appears on Reuters Screen LIBOR01 page as of 11:00 a.m. (London time) on the second London Banking Day preceding the first day of that Dividend Period. If the rate described above does not
appear on Reuters Screen LIBOR01 page, Three-Month LIBOR will be determined on the basis of the rates at which deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period and in a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000 are offered to prime banks in the
London interbank market by four major banks in the London interbank market selected by us, at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time on the second London Banking Day preceding the first day of that Dividend Period. Wachovia Bank, National
Association, as calculation agent for the   
         -2-

Preferred Stock, will request the principal London office of each of such banks to provide a quotation of its rate. If at least two such quotations are provided, Three-Month LIBOR with respect to
that Dividend Period will be the arithmetic mean (rounded upward if necessary to the nearest .00001 of 1%) of such quotations. If fewer than two quotations are provided, Three-Month LIBOR with respect to that Dividend Period will be the arithmetic
mean (rounded upward if necessary to the nearest .00001 of 1%) of the rates quoted by three major banks in New York, New York, selected by the calculation agent, at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the first day of that Dividend
Period for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks for a three-month period and in a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000. However, if the banks selected by the calculation agent to provide quotations are not quoting as described
above, Three-Month LIBOR for that Dividend Period will be the same as Three-Month LIBOR as determined for the previous Dividend Period, or in the case of the first Dividend Period, the most recent rate that could have been determined in accordance
with the first sentence of this paragraph had the Preferred Stock been outstanding. The calculation agent s establishment of Three-Month LIBOR and calculation of the amount of dividends for each Dividend Period will be on file at our principal
offices, will be made available to any holder of Preferred Stock upon request and will be final and binding in the absence of manifest error.        Voting Parity Stock   means any Parity Stock having similar voting rights as the Series K Preferred Stock.      Section 4.  Dividends .      (a)  Rate . Holders of Series K Preferred
Stock shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the board of directors, but only out of funds legally available therefor, non-cumulative cash dividends on the liquidation preference of $1,000 per share of Series K Preferred Stock,
and no more, from the date of issuance to, but excluding March 15, 2018 at a rate of 7.98% per annum (the   Fixed Rate Period  ) payable semi-annually in arrears on each March 15 and September 15, beginning on
September 15, 2008. Thereafter, declared dividends will be at a floating rate equal to Three-Month LIBOR plus 3.77% per annum, payable quarterly in arrears, on March 15, June 15, September 15 and December 15
of each year, beginning on June 15, 2018 (the   Floating Rate Period  ). If any date specified pursuant to the preceding sentence is not a Business Day, then dividends will be payable on the first Business Day following such date
and dividends shall accrue to the actual payment date. The term   Dividend Payment Date   means, with respect to the Fixed Rate Period, March 15 and September 15, and with respect to the Floating Rate Period, March 15,
June 15, September 15 and December 15, or if any such day in the case of this clause is not a Business Day, the next Business Day. The term   Dividend Period   means each period from and including a Dividend Payment
Date (or the date of issuance of the Series K Preferred Stock for the first Dividend Payment Date) to but excluding the next Dividend Payment Date;  provided  that the first Dividend Period shall be deemed to have commenced on December 15,
2008. The amount of dividends payable for any Dividend Period during the Fixed Rate Period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. The amount of dividends payable for any Dividend Period during the
Floating Rate Period shall be computed on the basis of actual number of days in a Dividend Period and a 360-day year.      (b)
 Non-Cumulative Dividends . Dividends on shares of Series K Preferred Stock shall be non-cumulative. To the extent that any dividends payable on the shares of Series K Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date are not declared and paid, in
full or otherwise, on such Dividend Payment Date, then such unpaid dividends shall not cumulate and shall cease to accrue and be payable and the Corporation shall have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series K Preferred Stock shall have no
right to receive, dividends accrued for the Dividend Period ending immediately prior to such Dividend Payment Date after such Dividend Payment Date, whether or not dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period with respect to Series K
Preferred Stock, Parity Stock, Junior Stock or any   
         -3-

other class or series of authorized preferred stock of the Corporation. Holders of Series K Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash, property or stock, in
excess of full dividends for each Dividend Period on the Series K Preferred Stock. No interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any Dividend Payment or Dividend Payments or failure to make any Dividend Payment or
Dividend Payments.      (c)  Priority of Dividends . So long as any share of Series K Preferred Stock remains outstanding,
unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series K Preferred Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and set aside for payment, (i) no dividend shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment
and no distribution shall be declared or made or set aside for payment on any Junior Stock, other than a dividend payable solely in Junior Stock, (ii) no shares of Junior Stock shall be purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for
consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into Junior Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock,
and other than through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Junior Stock), nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such securities by the
Corporation, and (iii) no shares of Parity Stock shall be purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Parity Stock for or into Parity
Stock or Junior Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Parity Stock for or into another share of Parity Stock or for or into Junior Stock, and other than through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other
shares of Parity Stock or Junior Stock), nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such securities by the Corporation, otherwise than pursuant to  pro rata  offers to purchase all, or a 
pro rata  portion, of the Series K Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock. The foregoing shall not restrict the ability of the Corporation, or any affiliate of the Corporation, to engage in any market-making transactions in the Junior Stock or
Parity Stock in the ordinary course of business. When dividends are not paid in full upon the shares of Series K Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock, all dividends declared upon shares of Series K Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock shall be
declared on a proportional basis so that the amount of dividends declared per share will bear to each other the same ratio that accrued dividends for the then-current Dividend Period per share on Series K Preferred Stock, and accrued dividends,
including any accumulations, on Parity Stock, bear to each other. No interest will be payable in respect of any dividend payment on such Parity Stock that may be in arrears. If the board of directors determines not to pay any dividend or a full
dividend on a Dividend Payment Date, the Corporation will provide written notice to the holders of the Series K Preferred Stock prior to such date. Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, stock or otherwise) as
may be determined by the board of directors may be declared and paid on any Junior Stock from time to time out of any funds legally available therefor, and the shares of Series K Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such
dividend.      Section 5.  Liquidation Rights .      (a)  Liquidation . In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, holders of Series K Preferred Stock shall be entitled, before
any distribution or payment out of the assets of the Corporation may be made to or set aside for the holders of any Junior Stock and subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series of securities ranking senior to or on parity with Series
K Preferred Stock upon liquidation and the rights of the Corporation s depositors and other creditors, to receive in full a liquidation preference in an amount equal to $1,000 per share, plus an amount equal to all declared and unpaid dividends
for the then-current Dividend Period to the date of liquidation. The holder of Series K Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any further payments in the event of any such voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the
affairs of the Corporation other than what is expressly provided for in this Section 5.   
         -4-

(b)  Partial Payment . If the assets of the Corporation are not sufficient to pay in
full the liquidation preference to all holders of Series K Preferred Stock and the liquidation preferences of any Parity Stock to all holders of such Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of Series K Preferred Stock and to the holders of all
Parity Stock shall be  pro rata  in accordance with the respective aggregate liquidation preferences of Series K Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock.      (c)  Residual Distributions . If the liquidation preference has been paid in full to all holders of Series K Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the holders of Junior Stock shall be
entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation according to their respective rights and preferences.      (d)
 Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation . For purposes of this Section 5, the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the
property and assets of the Corporation shall not be deemed a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of the
Corporation into or with any other corporation or person or the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of any other corporation or person into or with the Corporation be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary
dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.      Section 6.  Redemption .   
  (a)  Optional Redemption . So long as full dividends for all outstanding shares of Series K Preferred Stock and Parity Stock for the
then-current Dividend Period have been paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside, and subject to applicable regulatory approvals, the Corporation, at the option of the board of directors, may redeem in whole or in part
the shares of Series K Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, on any Dividend Payment Date on or after March 15, 2018 upon notice given as provided in Subsection (b) below, at the redemption price in effect at the redemption date as
provided in this Section 6. The redemption price for shares of Series K Preferred Stock shall be $1,000 per share plus declared and unpaid dividends for the then-current Dividend Period, without interest.   
  (b)  Notice of Redemption . Notice of every redemption of shares of Series K Preferred Stock shall be mailed by first class mail,
postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the books of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for
redemption. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series K Preferred Stock is held in book-entry form through DTC, the Corporation may give such notice in any manner permitted by DTC. Any notice mailed as provided in this Subsection shall be
conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series K Preferred Stock
designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series K Preferred Stock. Each notice shall state (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of Series K Preferred
Stock to be redeemed; (iii) the redemption price; and (iv) the place or places where the Series K Preferred Stock are to be redeemed.      (c)  Partial Redemption . In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series K Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares of Series K Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be
selected either  pro rata  from the holders of record of Series K Preferred Stock in proportion to the number of Series K Preferred Stock held by such holders or by lot or in such other manner as the board of directors may determine to be fair
and equitable. Subject to the provisions hereof, the board of directors shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series K Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time.   
         -5-

(d)  Effectiveness of Redemption . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if
on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other funds, in trust for the  pro rata  benefit of the holders of the shares
called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, or deposited by the Corporation with a bank or trust company selected by the board of directors (the   Depositary Company  ) in trust for the  pro rata 
benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date all shares so called for
redemption shall cease to be outstanding, all dividends with respect to such shares shall cease to accrue after such redemption date, and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only
the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from such bank or trust company at any time after the redemption date the funds so deposited, without interest. The Corporation shall be entitled to receive, from time
to time, from the Depositary Company any interest accrued on such funds, and the holders of any shares called for redemption shall have no claim to any such interest. Any funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption
date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released or repaid to the Corporation, and in the event of such repayment to the Corporation, the holders of record of the shares so called for redemption shall be deemed to be unsecured creditors of
the Corporation for an amount equivalent to the amount deposited as stated above for the redemption of such shares and so repaid to the Corporation, but shall in no event be entitled to any interest.   
  Section 7.  Voting Rights . The holders of Series K Preferred Stock shall not have any voting rights except as set forth below
or as otherwise from time to time required by applicable law.      (a)  Right To Elect Two Directors Upon Nonpayment Events .
If and whenever the dividends on the Series K Preferred Stock or any class or series of Voting Parity Stock have not been declared and paid in an aggregate amount equal to full dividends for at least six Dividend Periods or their equivalent (whether
or not consecutive) (a   Nonpayment Event  ), the number of directors then constituting the board of directors shall automatically be increased by two and the holders of Series K Preferred Stock, voting together as a single and
separate class with the holders of any outstanding shares of Voting Parity Stock, shall be entitled to elect the two additional directors (the   Preferred Stock Directors  ) by a plurality of the votes cast,  provided  that it
shall be a qualification for election for any such Preferred Stock Director that the election of such director shall not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirement of the New York Stock Exchange (or any other securities
exchange or other trading facility on which securities of the Corporation may then be listed or traded) that listed or traded companies must have a majority of independent directors, and  provided further  that the board of directors shall at
no time include more than two Preferred Stock Directors (including, for purposes of this limitation, all directors that the holders of any series of Voting Parity Stock are entitled to elect pursuant to like voting rights).   
  In the event that the holders of Series K Preferred Stock and such other holders of Voting Parity Stock shall be entitled to vote for the
election of the Preferred Stock Directors following a Nonpayment Event, such directors shall be initially elected following such Nonpayment Event at the Corporation s next annual meeting of shareholders, and, except as provided below, at each
subsequent annual meeting of shareholders of the Corporation.      When dividends have been paid in full on the Series K Preferred
Stock and any and all Voting Parity Stock for at least four consecutive Dividend Periods or their equivalent after a Nonpayment Event, then the right of the holders of Series K Preferred Stock to elect the Preferred Stock Directors shall cease (but
subject always to revesting of such voting rights in the case of any future Nonpayment Event), and, if and when all rights of holders of Series K Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock to elect the Preferred Stock Directors shall have ceased, the
terms of office of all the Preferred Stock Directors shall forthwith   
         -6-

terminate and the number of directors constituting the board of directors shall automatically be reduced accordingly.      Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Series K Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock, when they have the voting
rights described above (voting together as a single and separate class). In case any vacancy shall occur among the Preferred Stock Directors, a successor shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast by the holders of Series K Preferred Stock
and Voting Parity Stock having the voting rights described above, voting together as a single and separate class. The Preferred Stock Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter that shall come before the board of
directors for a vote.      (b)  Other Voting Rights . So long as any shares of Series K Preferred Stock are outstanding, in
addition to any other vote or consent of shareholders required by law or by the certificate of incorporation, the vote or consent of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of the shares of Series K Preferred Stock at the time outstanding and entitled to
vote thereon, voting separately as a single class with all other series of preferred stock ranking equally with the Series K Preferred Stock and entitled to vote thereon, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at
any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or validating any of the following actions, whether or not such approval is required by Delaware law:   
  (i)  Issuance of Senior Stock . The issuance of any class or series of preferred stock of the Corporation ranking
senior to the Series K Preferred Stock with respect to either the payment of dividends or the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation;   
  (ii)  Amendment Affecting Series K Preferred Stock . Any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the
certificate of incorporation or bylaws so as to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series K Preferred Stock;      (iii)  Authorization of Senior Stock . Any amendment or alteration of any provision of the certificate of incorporation or bylaws to authorize, create or increase the authorized amount of, any shares
of, or any securities convertible into shares of, any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series K Preferred Stock with respect to either the payment of dividends or the distribution of assets in the event of
any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation; or      (iv)
 Share Exchanges, Reclassifications, Mergers and Consolidations . Any consummation of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Series K Preferred Stock, or of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another
corporation or other entity, unless in each case (x) the shares of Series K Preferred Stock remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting
corporation, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting corporation or a corporation controlling such corporation, and (y) such Series K Preferred Stock shares remaining outstanding or such
preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, taken as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the
Series K Preferred Stock, taken as a whole;       provided ,  however , that any amendment of the certificate of incorporation to
authorize or create or to increase the authorized amount of any Junior Stock or any class or series or any securities convertible into shares of any class or series of Parity Stock or Junior Stock will not be deemed to adversely affect the
  
         -7-

rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series K Preferred Stock, and the Series K Preferred Stock shall have no right to vote thereon.   
  If any amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation specified in this Section 7(b) would
adversely affect one or more but not all series of voting preferred stock (including the Series K Preferred Stock), then only those series affected by and entitled to vote on the matter shall vote on the matter together as a single class (in lieu of
all other series of preferred stock).      (c)  Changes for Clarification . Without the consent of the holders of Series K
Preferred Stock, so long as such action does not adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series K Preferred Stock, the Corporation may amend, alter, supplement or
repeal any terms of the Series K Preferred Stock:      (i) to cure any ambiguity, or to cure, correct or supplement
any provision contained in this Certificate of Designations that may be defective or inconsistent; or      (ii) to
make any provision with respect to matters or questions arising with respect to the Series K Preferred Stock that is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Certificate of Designations.   
  (d)  Changes after Provision for Redemption . No vote or consent of the holders of Series K Preferred Stock shall be required
pursuant to this Section 7 if, at or prior to the time when any such vote or consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding shares of Series K Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed, or shall have been called
for redemption upon proper notice and sufficient funds shall have been set aside for such redemption, in each case pursuant to Section 6.      (e)  Procedures for Voting and Consents . The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Series K Preferred Stock (including, without limitation, the fixing of a
record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the board of
directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the certificate of incorporation, the bylaws, applicable law and any national securities exchange or other trading facility in
which the Series K Preferred Stock is listed or traded at the time. Whether the vote or consent of the holders of a plurality, majority or other portion of the shares of Series K Preferred Stock and any Voting Parity Stock has been cast or given on
any matter on which the holders of shares of Series K Preferred Stock are entitled to vote shall be determined by the Corporation by reference to the specified liquidation amounts of the shares voted or covered by the consent.   
  For purposes of determining the voting rights of the holders of Series K Preferred Stock under this Section 7, each holder will be
entitled to one vote for each $1,000 of liquidation preference to which his or her shares are entitled. Holders of shares of Series K Preferred Stock will be entitled to one vote for each such share of Series K Preferred Stock held by them.
     Section 8.  Conversion . The holders of Series K Preferred Stock shall not have any rights to convert such Series K
Preferred Stock into shares of any other class of capital stock of the Corporation.      Section 9.  Rank .
Notwithstanding anything set forth in the certificate of incorporation or this Certificate of Designations to the contrary, the board of directors, without the vote of the holders of the Series K Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional
shares of Junior Stock or Parity Stock.   
         -8-

Section 10.  Repurchase . Subject to the limitations imposed herein, the
Corporation may purchase and sell Series K Preferred Stock from time to time to such extent, in such manner, and upon such terms as the board of directors may determine;  provided ,  however , that the Corporation shall not use any of its
funds for any such purchase when there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Corporation is, or by such purchase would be, rendered insolvent.      Section 11.  Unissued or Reacquired Shares . Shares of Series K Preferred Stock not issued or which have been issued and redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall be
restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock without designation as to series.   
  Section 12.  No Sinking Fund . Shares of Series K Preferred Stock are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, WELLS FARGO   COMPANY  has caused this Certificate of Designations to
be signed by Barbara S. Brett, its Senior Vice President and Assistant Treasurer, and Laurel A. Holschuh, its Secretary, this
 30  th       day of December, 2008.         

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY   

By:  
     
    /s/ Barbara S. Brett    

Barbara S. Brett, Senior Vice President     and Assistant Treasurer    

/s/ Laurel A. Holschuh    
 
  Laurel A. Holschuh, Secretary   
    [As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on December 30, 2008.]   
         -9-

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY    
         
   CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS        Pursuant to Section 151(g) of the        General Corporation Law
       of the State of Delaware         
        7.50%
NON-CUMULATIVE PERPETUAL CONVERTIBLE        CLASS A PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES L    
   (Without Par Value)         
       WELLS
FARGO   COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the  Corporation ), HEREBY CERTIFIES that, pursuant to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the
 Board of Directors ) by the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, which authorizes the issuance of not more than 20,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, without par value, and pursuant to
authority conferred upon the Securities Committee of the Board of Directors (the  Committee ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the  General Corporation Law ), the
following resolutions were duly adopted by the Committee pursuant to the written consent of the Committee duly adopted on November 20, 2008, in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law:   
  RESOLVED, that pursuant to the authority vested in the Committee and in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors dated
October 2, 2008, the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the By-laws of the Corporation and applicable law, a series of Preferred Stock, no par value, of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and that the designation
and number of shares of such series, and the voting and other powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as
follows:      Section 1.  Designation . The shares of such series of Preferred Stock shall be designated 7.50%
Non-Cumulative Perpetual Convertible Class A Preferred Stock, Series L, with no par value and a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share (hereinafter referred to as the   Series L Preferred Stock  ). Each share of Series L
Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series L Preferred Stock. Series L Preferred Stock will rank equally with Parity Stock, if any, and will rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to the payment of dividends
and the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary dissolution, winding-up and liquidation of the Corporation.      Section 2.  Number of Shares . The authorized number of shares of Series L Preferred Stock shall be 4,025,000. Such number may from time to time be increased (but not in excess of the total
number of authorized shares of Preferred Stock) or decreased (but not below the number of shares of Series L Preferred Stock then outstanding) by the board of directors. Shares of Series L Preferred Stock that are converted in accordance with the
terms hereof, purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation shall be cancelled and shall revert to authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock undesignated as to series. The Corporation shall have the authority to issue fractional shares
of Series L Preferred Stock.   
         -1-

Section 3.  Definitions . As used herein with respect to Series L Preferred Stock:
       Applicable Conversion Price   at any given time means, for each share of Series L Preferred Stock, the price
equal to $1,000 divided by the Applicable Conversion Rate in effect at such time.        Applicable Conversion
Rate   means the Conversion Rate in effect at any given time.        Base Price   has the meaning set forth
in Section 13(d)(i).        Business Day   means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday on which
banking institutions in Charlotte, North Carolina or New York, New York are not authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close.        Capital Stock   of any Person means any and all shares, interests, rights to purchase, warrants, options, participations or other equivalents of or interests in (however designated)
equity of such Person, including any preferred stock, excluding any debt securities convertible into such equity.   
    Closing Price   of the Common Stock on any date of determination means the closing sale price or, if no closing sale
price is reported, the last reported sale price of the shares of the Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on that date. If the Common Stock is not traded on the New York Stock Exchange on any date of determination, the Closing Price of the
Common Stock on such date of determination means the closing sale price as reported in the composite transactions for the principal U.S. national or regional securities exchange or securities exchange in the European Economic Area on which the
Common Stock is so listed or quoted, or, if no closing sale price is reported, the last reported sale price on the principal U.S. national or regional securities exchange or securities exchange in the European Economic Area on which the Common Stock
is so listed or quoted, or if the Common Stock is not so listed or quoted on a U.S. national or regional securities exchange or securities exchange in the European Economic Area, the last quoted bid price for the Common Stock in the over-the-counter
market as reported by Pink Sheets LLC or a similar organization, or, if that bid price is not available, the market price of the Common Stock on that date as determined by a nationally recognized independent investment banking firm (unaffiliated
with the Corporation) retained by the Corporation for this purpose. The  Closing Price  for any other share of Capital Stock shall be determined on a comparable basis,  mutatis mutandis .   
  For purposes of this Certificate of Designations, all references herein to the  Closing Price  and  last reported sale
price  of the Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange shall be such closing sale price and last reported sale price as reflected on the website of the New York Stock Exchange (http://www.nyse.com) and as reported by Bloomberg Professional
Service; provided that in the event that there is a discrepancy between the closing sale price or last reported sale price as reflected on the website of the New York Stock Exchange and as reported by Bloomberg Professional Service, the closing sale
price and last reported sale price on the website of the New York Stock Exchange will govern.      For purposes of calculating the
Closing Price, if a Reorganization Event has occurred and (1) the Exchange Property consists only of shares of common securities, the Closing Price shall be based on the Closing Price of such common securities; (2) the Exchange Property
consists only of cash, the Closing Price shall be the cash amount paid per share; and (3) the Exchange Property consists of securities, cash and/or other property, the Closing Price shall be based on the sum, as applicable, of (x) the
Closing Price of such common securities, (y) the cash amount paid per share of Common Stock   
         -2-

and (z) the value (as determined by the board of directors from time-to-time) of any other securities or property paid to holders of Common Stock in connection with the Reorganization Event.
       Common Stock   means the common stock, $1-2/3 par value per share, of the Corporation.   
    Conversion Agent   means American Stock Transfer   Trust Company acting in its capacity as conversion agent for
the Series L Preferred Stock, and its successors and assigns or any other conversion agent appointed by the Corporation.   
    Conversion Date   has the meaning set forth in Section 13(a)(iv)(B).   
    Conversion Rate   means for each share of Series L Preferred Stock, 6.3814 shares of Common Stock, plus cash in lieu of
fractional shares, subject to adjustment as set forth herein.        Current Market Price   per share of Common
Stock on any date of determination means the average of the VWAP per share of Common Stock on each of the 10 consecutive VWAP Trading Days ending on the earlier of the day in question and the day before the Ex-Date or other specified date with
respect to the issuance or distribution requiring such computation, appropriately adjusted to take into account the occurrence during such period of any event described in Section 14(a)(i) through (v).   
    Depositary   means DTC or its nominee or any successor depositary appointed by the Corporation.   
    Dividend Payment Date   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).   
    Dividend Period   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).   
    Dividend Threshold Amount   has the meaning set forth in Section 14(a)(iv).   
    DTC   means The Depository Trust Company, together with its successors and assigns.   
    Exchange Act   means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.   
    Exchange Property   has the meaning set forth in Section 15(a).   
    Ex-Date   when used with respect to any issuance or distribution, means the first date on which such shares of Common
Stock or other securities trade without the right to receive an issuance or distribution with respect thereto.   
    Expiration Time   has the meaning set forth in Section 12(a)(v).   
    Expiration Date   has the meaning set forth in Section 14(a)(v).   
    Fiscal Quarter   means, with respect to the Corporation, the fiscal quarter publicly disclosed by the Corporation.
       Fundamental Change   has the meaning set forth in Section 13(d)(i).   
    Holder   means the Person in whose name the shares of Series L Preferred Stock are registered, which may be treated by
the Corporation, Transfer Agent, Registrar, paying agent and   
         -3-

Conversion Agent as the absolute owner of the shares of Series L Preferred Stock for the purpose of making payment and settling conversions and for all other purposes.   
    Junior Stock   means the Common Stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation hereafter authorized
over which Series L Preferred Stock has preference or priority in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding-up of the affairs of the Corporation.
       Make-Whole Acquisition   means the occurrence, prior to any Conversion Date, of one of the following:
     (a)   person   or   group   within the meaning of Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act files
a Schedule TO or any schedule, form or report under the Exchange Act disclosing that such person or group has become the direct or indirect ultimate  beneficial owner,  as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act, of common equity of
the Corporation representing more than 50% of the voting power of the Common Stock; or      (b) consummation of any consolidation
or merger of the Corporation or similar transaction or any sale, lease or other transfer in one transaction or a series of related transactions of all or substantially all of the consolidated assets of the Corporation and its subsidiaries, taken as
a whole, to any Person other than one of the Corporation s subsidiaries, in each case, pursuant to which the Common Stock will be converted into cash, securities, or other property, other than pursuant to a transaction in which the Persons that
 beneficially owned  (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) directly or indirectly, Voting Shares immediately prior to such transaction beneficially own, directly or indirectly, Voting Shares representing a majority of the total
voting power of all outstanding classes of Voting Shares of the continuing or surviving Person immediately after the transaction;   
   provided ,  however  that a Make-Whole Acquisition will not be deemed to have occurred if at least 90% of the consideration received by
holders of the Common Stock in the transaction or transactions (as determined by the board of directors) consists of shares of common securities of a Person or American Depositary Receipts in respect of such common securities that are traded on a
U.S. national securities exchange or a securities exchange in the European Economic Area or that will be traded on a U.S. national securities exchange or a securities exchange in the European Economic Area when issued or exchanged in connection with
a Make-Whole Acquisition.        Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion   has the meaning set forth in
Section 13(c)(i).        Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion Period   has the meaning set forth in
Section 13(c)(i).        Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date   has the meaning set forth in
Section 13(c)(i).        Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price   means the price paid per share of Common Stock
in the event of a Make-Whole Acquisition. If the holders of shares of Common Stock receive only cash in the Make-Whole Acquisition in a single per-share amount, other than with respect to appraisal and similar rights, the Make-Whole Acquisition
Stock Price shall be the cash amount paid per share of Common Stock. For purposes of the preceding sentence as applied to a Make-Whole Acquisition of the type set forth in clause (a) of the definition Make-Whole Acquisition, a single price per
share of Common Stock shall be deemed to have been paid only if the transaction or transactions that caused the Make-Whole Acquisition to occur was a tender offer for more than 50% of the then-outstanding Common Stock. Otherwise, the Make-Whole
Acquisition Stock Price shall be the average of the Closing Price per share of   
         -4-

Common Stock on the ten Trading Days up to, but not including, the Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date.        Make-Whole Shares   has the meaning set forth in Section 13(c)(i).        Mandatory Conversion Date   has the meaning set forth in Section 13(b)(iii).        Market Disruption Event   means any of the following events that has occurred:      (a) change or quotation system on which the VWAP is determined pursuant to the definition of the VWAP Trading Day (a   Relevant Exchange  ) during the one-hour period prior to the close of
trading for the regular trading session on the Relevant Exchange (or for purposes of determining the VWAP per share of Common Stock any period or periods aggregating one half-hour or longer during the regular trading session on the relevant day) and
whether by reason of movements in price exceeding limits permitted by the Relevant Exchange, or otherwise relating to Common Stock or in futures or options contracts relating to the Common Stock on the Relevant Exchange;   
  (b) any event (other than an event described in clause (c)) that disrupts or impairs (as determined by the Corporation in its reasonable
discretion) the ability of market participants during the one-hour period prior to the close of trading for the regular trading session on the Relevant Exchange (or for purposes of determining the VWAP per share of Common Stock any period or periods
aggregating one half-hour or longer during the regular trading session on the relevant day) in general to effect transactions in, or obtain market values for, the Common Stock on the Relevant Exchange or to effect transactions in, or obtain market
values for, futures or options contracts relating to the Common Stock on the Relevant Exchange; or      (c) the failure to open of
the Relevant Exchange on which futures or options contracts relating to the Common Stock, are traded or the closure of such Relevant Exchange prior to its respective scheduled closing time for the regular trading session on such day (without regard
to after hours or any other trading outside of the regular trading session hours) unless such earlier closing time is announced by such Relevant Exchange at least one hour prior to the earlier of the actual closing time for the regular trading
session on such day and the submission deadline for orders to be entered into such Relevant Exchange for execution at the actual closing time on such day.        Nonpayment Event   has the meaning set forth in Section 7(a).        Notice of Mandatory Conversion   has the meaning set forth in Section 13(b)(iii).        Parity Stock   means any other class or series of stock of the Corporation that ranks on a par with Series L Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are
cumulative or non-cumulative) or in the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary dissolution, winding-up and liquidation of the Corporation.        Person   means a legal person, including any individual, corporation, estate, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, limited liability company or trust.   
    Preferred Stock Directors   has the meaning set forth in Section 7(a).   
    Purchased Shares   has the meaning set forth in Section 12(a)(v).   
         -5-

Record Date   has the meaning set forth in Section 12(d), except for
purposes of Section 14.        Reference Price   means the applicable Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price.
       Registrar   means American Stock Transfer   Trust Company acting in its capacity as registrar for
the Series L Preferred Stock, and its successors and assigns or any other registrar appointed by the Corporation.   
    Relevant Exchange   has the meaning set forth above in the definition of Market Disruption Event.   
    Reorganization Event   has the meaning set forth in Section 15(a).   
    Series L Preferred Stock   has the meaning set forth in Section 1.   
    Trading Day   means a day on which the shares of Common Stock:   
  (a) are not suspended from trading on any national or regional securities exchange or association or over-the-counter market at the close
of business; and      (b) have traded at least once on the national or regional securities exchange or association or
over-the-counter market that is the primary market for the trading of the Common Stock.        Transfer Agent  
shall mean American Stock Transfer   Trust Company acting in its capacity as transfer agent for the Series L Preferred Stock, and its successors and assigns or any other transfer agent appointed by the Corporation.   
    Voting Parity Stock   means any Parity Stock having similar voting rights as the Series L Preferred Stock.   
    Voting Shares   of a Person means shares of all classes of Capital Stock of such Person then outstanding and normally
entitled (without regard to the occurrence of any contingency) to vote in the election of the board of directors of such Person.        VWAP   per share of the Common Stock on any VWAP Trading Day means the per share volume-weighted average price as displayed under the heading Bloomberg VWAP on Bloomberg page
WFC equity AQR (or its equivalent successor if such page is not available) in respect of the period from the open of trading on the relevant VWAP Trading Day until the close of trading on the relevant VWAP Trading Day (or if such
volume-weighted average price is unavailable, the market price of one share of Common Stock on such VWAP Trading Days determined, using a volume-weighted average method, by a nationally recognized investment banking firm (unaffiliated with the
Corporation) retained for this purpose by the Corporation). The VWAP for any other share of Capital Stock shall be determined on a comparable basis,  mutatis mutandis.         VWAP Trading Day   means, for purposes of determining a VWAP per share of Common Stock, a Business Day on which the Relevant Exchange (as defined in the definition of Market Disruption
Event) is scheduled to be open for business and on which there has not occurred or does not exist a Market Disruption Event.   
  Section 4.  Dividends .   
         -6-

(a)  Rate . Holders of Series L Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, if, as
and when declared by the board of directors, but only out of funds legally available therefor, non-cumulative cash dividends on the liquidation preference of $1,000 per share of Series L Preferred Stock, and no more, from the date of issuance at a
rate  per annum  equal to 7.50%, payable quarterly in arrears on each March 15, June 15, September 15 and December 15, commencing June 15, 2008. The term  Dividend Payment Date  means
March 15, June 15, September 15 and December 15. If any date specified pursuant the preceding sentence is not a Business Day, then dividends will be payable on the first Business Day following such date and dividends
shall be payable to the actual payment date and no interest or other payment shall be paid with respect of such delay. The term  Dividend Period  means each period from and including a Dividend Payment Date (or the date of issuance of the
Series L Preferred Stock for the first Dividend Payment Date) to but excluding the next Dividend Payment Date;  provided  that the first Dividend Period shall be deemed to have commenced on December 15, 2008. The amount of dividends
payable for any Dividend Period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.      (b)
 Non-Cumulative Dividends . Dividends on shares of Series L Preferred Stock shall be non-cumulative. To the extent that any dividends payable on the shares of Series L Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date are not declared and paid, in
full or otherwise, on such Dividend Payment Date, then such unpaid dividends shall not cumulate and shall cease to be payable and the Corporation shall have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series L Preferred Stock shall have no right to
receive, dividends payable in respect of the Dividend Period ending immediately prior to such Dividend Payment Date after such Dividend Payment Date, whether or not dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period with respect to the Series
L Preferred Stock, any Parity Stock, any Junior Stock or any other class or series of authorized preferred stock of the Corporation. Holders of Series L Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash, property or
stock, in excess of full dividends for each Dividend Period on the Series L Preferred Stock. No interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any Dividend Payment or Dividend Payments or failure to make any Dividend
Payment or Dividend Payments.      (c)  Priority of Dividends . So long as any share of Series L Preferred Stock remains
outstanding and, as to any Junior Stock or Parity Stock then outstanding, unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series L Preferred Stock for the Dividend Period ending on or immediately prior to the dividend payment date or other
payment date for such Junior Stock or Parity Stock have been paid in full or declared and set aside for payment, (i) no dividend shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared or made or set aside for
payment on such Junior Stock (other than a dividend payable solely in Junior Stock) or on such Parity Stock, subject to the immediately following paragraph in the case of Parity Stock, (ii) no shares of Junior Stock shall be purchased, redeemed
or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than (1) as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into Junior Stock, (2) the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock for
or into another share of Junior Stock, (3) through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Junior Stock or (4) in connection with the satisfaction of the Corporation s obligations pursuant to
any contract entered into in the ordinary course prior to the beginning of such Dividend Period), nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such securities by the Corporation, and (iii) no
shares of Parity Stock shall be purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than (1) as a result of a reclassification of Parity Stock for or into Parity Stock or Junior Stock,
(2) the exchange or conversion of one share of Parity Stock for or into another share of Parity Stock or for or into Junior Stock, (3) through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Parity Stock
or Junior Stock or (4) in connection with the satisfaction of the Corporation s obligations pursuant to any contract entered into in the ordinary course prior to the beginning of such Dividend Period), nor shall any monies be paid to or
made available for a   
         -7-

sinking fund for the redemption of any such securities by the Corporation (other than through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale described in clause (ii)(3) or
(iii)(3) above), otherwise than pursuant to  pro rata  offers to purchase all, or a  pro rata  portion, of the Series L Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock.      When dividends are not paid in full upon the Series L Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock, dividends upon shares of the Series L Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock will be declared on a proportional
basis, based upon the ratio of the amount of dividends declared on the Series L Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock to the amount that, if declared, would be full dividends (including accrued and unpaid dividends as to any Parity Stock that bears
dividends on a cumulative basis) on the Series L Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock through the next succeeding applicable dividend payment date. If the board of directors determines not to pay any dividend or a full dividend on a Dividend
Payment Date, the Corporation will provide written notice to the holders of the Series L Preferred Stock prior to such date. Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, stock or otherwise) as may be determined by
the board of directors may be declared and paid on any Junior Stock from time to time out of any funds legally available therefor, and the shares of Series L Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividend.   
  Section 5.  Liquidation Rights .      (a)  Liquidation . In the event of any voluntary or involuntary dissolution, winding-up and liquidation of the Corporation, holders of Series L Preferred Stock shall be entitled, before any
distribution or payment out of the assets of the Corporation may be made to or set aside for the holders of any Junior Stock and subject to the rights of the holders of any Parity Stock or class or series of securities ranking senior to or on parity
with the Series L Preferred Stock upon liquidation and the rights of the Corporation s creditors, to receive in full a liquidation preference in an amount equal to $1,000 per share, plus an amount equal to all declared and unpaid dividends for
the then-current Dividend Period to the date of liquidation. The holder of Series L Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any further payments in the event of any such voluntary or involuntary dissolution, winding-up and liquidation of the
Corporation other than what is expressly provided for in this Section 5.      (b)  Partial Payment . If the assets of
the Corporation are not sufficient to pay in full the liquidation preference to all holders of Series L Preferred Stock and the liquidation preferences of any Parity Stock to all holders of such Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of
Series L Preferred Stock and to the holders of all Parity Stock shall be  pro rata  in accordance with the respective aggregate liquidation preferences of Series L Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock.   
  (c)  Residual Distributions . If the applicable liquidation preference has been paid in full to all holders of Series L Preferred
Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the holders of Junior Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation according to their respective rights and preferences.   
  (d)  Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation . For purposes of this Section 5, the sale, conveyance, exchange
or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation shall not be deemed a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding-up of the affairs
of the Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of the Corporation into or with any other corporation or person or the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of any
other corporation or person into or with the Corporation be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding-up of the affairs of the Corporation.   
         -8-

Section 6.  Redemption . The shares of Series L Preferred Stock shall not be
redeemable.      Section 7.  Voting Rights . The holders of Series L Preferred Stock shall not have any voting rights
except as set forth below or as otherwise from time to time required by applicable law.      (a)  Right To Elect Two Directors
Upon Nonpayment Events . If after the issuance of the Series L Preferred Stock the Corporation fails to pay, or declare and set aside for payment, full dividends on the Series L Preferred Stock or any class or series of Voting Parity Stock for
six Dividend Periods or their equivalent (whether or not consecutive) (a   Nonpayment Event  ), the number of directors then constituting the board of directors shall automatically be increased by two and the holders of Series L
Preferred Stock, voting together as a single and separate class with the holders of all outstanding shares of Voting Parity Stock, shall be entitled to elect the two additional directors (the   Preferred Stock Directors  ) by a
plurality of the votes cast; provided that it shall be a qualification for election for any such Preferred Stock Director that the election of such director shall not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirement of the New
York Stock Exchange (or any other securities exchange or other trading facility on which securities of the Corporation may then be listed or traded) that listed or traded companies must have a majority of independent directors; and provided further
that the board of directors shall at no time include more than two Preferred Stock Directors (including, for purposes of this limitation, all directors that the holders of any series of Voting Parity Stock are entitled to elect pursuant to like
voting rights).      In the event that the holders of Series L Preferred Stock and such other holders of Voting Parity Stock shall
be entitled to vote for the election of the Preferred Stock Directors following a Nonpayment Event, such directors shall be initially elected following such Nonpayment Event at the Corporation s next annual meeting of shareholders, and, except
as provided below, at each subsequent annual meeting of shareholders of the Corporation.      When dividends have been paid in
full on the Series L Preferred Stock and any and all Voting Parity Stock for at least four consecutive Dividend Periods or their equivalent after a Nonpayment Event, then the right of the holders of Series L Preferred Stock to elect the Preferred
Stock Directors shall cease (but subject always to revesting of such rights in the case of any future Nonpayment Event), and, if and when all rights of holders of Series L Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock to elect the Preferred Stock
Directors shall have ceased, the terms of office of all the Preferred Stock Directors shall forthwith terminate and the number of directors constituting the board of directors shall automatically be reduced accordingly.   
  Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Series L
Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock, when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a single and separate class). In case any vacancy shall occur among the Preferred Stock Directors, a successor shall be elected by a
plurality of the votes cast by the holders of Series L Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock having the voting rights described above, voting together as a single and separate class. The Preferred Stock Directors shall each be entitled to one vote
per director on any matter that shall come before the board of directors for a vote.      (b)  Other
Voting Rights . So long as any shares of Series L Preferred Stock are outstanding, the vote or consent of the holders of at least 66 2/3 % of the shares of Series L Preferred Stock at the time outstanding and entitled to vote thereon, voting
separately as a single class with all other classes or series of preferred stock ranking equally with the Series L Preferred Stock and entitled to vote thereon, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any
meeting called   
         -9-

for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or validating any of the following actions, whether or not such approval is required by Delaware law:   
  (i)  Amendment Affecting Series L Preferred Stock . Any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the certificate of
incorporation or bylaws so as to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series L Preferred Stock.      (ii)  Authorization or Issuance of Senior Stock . Any amendment or alteration of any provision of the certificate of incorporation or bylaws to authorize, create or increase the authorized amount of,
or any issuance of, any shares of, or any securities convertible into shares of, any class or series of Capital Stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series L Preferred Stock with respect to either the payment of dividends or the
distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary dissolution, winding-up and liquidation of the affairs of the Corporation; or      (iii)  Share Exchanges, Reclassifications, Mergers and Consolidations . Any consummation of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Series L Preferred Stock, or of a merger or
consolidation of the Corporation with another Person, unless in each case (x) the shares of Series L Preferred Stock remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the
surviving or resulting Person, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting Person or a Person controlling such Person, and (y) such Series L Preferred Stock shares remaining outstanding or such
preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, taken as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the
Series L Preferred Stock, taken as a whole;       provided ,  however , that any authorization, creation or increase in the authorized
amount of or issuance of Series L Preferred Stock or any class or series of Parity Stock or Junior Stock or any securities convertible into any class or series of Parity Stock (whether dividends payable in respect of such Parity Stock are cumulative
or non-cumulative) or Junior Stock will be deemed not to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series L Preferred Stock, and holders of the Series L Preferred Stock shall have no right to vote thereon.
     If any amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation specified in this
Section 7(b) would adversely affect one or more but not all series of voting preferred stock (including the Series L Preferred Stock), then only those series affected by and entitled to vote on the matter shall vote on the matter together as a
single class (in lieu of all other series of preferred stock).      (c)  Changes for Clarification . Without the consent of
the holders of Series L Preferred Stock, so long as such action does not adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series L Preferred Stock, the Corporation may amend,
alter, supplement or repeal any terms of the Series L Preferred Stock:      (i) to cure any ambiguity, or to cure, correct or
supplement any provision contained in this Certificate of Designations that may be defective or inconsistent; or      (ii) to
make any provision with respect to matters or questions arising with respect to the Series L Preferred Stock that is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Certificate of Designations.   
         -10-

(d)  Procedures for Voting and Consents . The rules and procedures for calling and
conducting any meeting of the holders of Series L Preferred Stock (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any
other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the board of directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the
certificate of incorporation, the bylaws, applicable law and any national securities exchange or other trading facility in which the Series L Preferred Stock is listed or traded at the time. Whether the vote or consent of the holders of a plurality,
majority or other portion of the shares of Series L Preferred Stock and any Voting Parity Stock has been cast or given on any matter on which the holders of shares of Series L Preferred Stock are entitled to vote shall be determined by the
Corporation by reference to the specified liquidation amounts of the shares voted or covered by the consent.      For purposes of
determining the voting rights of the holders of Series L Preferred Stock under this Section 7, each holder will be entitled to one vote for each $1,000 of liquidation preference to which his or her shares are entitled. Holders of shares of
Series L Preferred Stock will be entitled to one vote for each such share of Series L Preferred Stock held by them.   
  Section 8.  Rank . Notwithstanding anything set forth in the certificate of incorporation or this Certificate of Designations
to the contrary, the board of directors, without the vote of the holders of the Series L Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional shares of Junior Stock or Parity Stock.   
  Section 9.  Repurchase . Subject to the limitations imposed herein, the Corporation may purchase and sell Series L Preferred
Stock from time to time to such extent, in such manner, and upon such terms as the board of directors may determine;  provided ,  however , that the Corporation shall not use any of its funds for any such purchase when there are reasonable
grounds to believe that the Corporation is, or by such purchase would be, rendered insolvent.      Section 10.  Unissued or
Reacquired Shares . Shares of Series L Preferred Stock not issued or which have been issued and converted in accordance with the terms hereof or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall be restored to the status of authorized but
unissued shares of Preferred Stock without designation as to series.      Section 11.  No Sinking Fund . Shares of Series L
Preferred Stock are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund.      Section 12.  Right to Convert . Each
Holder shall have the right, at such Holder s option, at any time, to convert all or any portion of such Holder s Series L Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock at the Applicable Conversion Rate (subject to the conversion procedures
set forth in Section 13 herein) plus cash in lieu of fractional shares.      Section 13.  Conversion .   
  (a)  Conversion Procedures .      (i) Effective immediately prior to the close of business on the Mandatory Conversion Date or any applicable Conversion Date, dividends shall no longer be declared on any converted shares of Series L
Preferred Stock and such shares of Series L Preferred Stock shall cease to be outstanding, in each case, subject to the right of Holders to receive any declared and unpaid dividends on such shares and any other payments to which they are otherwise
entitled pursuant to Section 12, Section 13(b), Section 13(c), Section 13(d), Section 15 or Section 16, as applicable.   
         -11-

(ii) Prior to the close of business on the Mandatory Conversion Date or any applicable
Conversion Date, shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of, or other securities issuable upon conversion of, any shares of Series L Preferred Stock shall not be deemed outstanding for any purpose, and Holders shall have no rights with
respect to the Common Stock or other securities issuable upon conversion (including voting rights, rights to respond to tender offers for the Common Stock and rights to receive any dividends or other distributions on the Common Stock and/or other
securities issuable upon conversion), by virtue of holding shares of Series L Preferred Stock.      (iii) The Person or Persons
entitled to receive the Common Stock and/or other securities issuable upon conversion of Series L Preferred Stock shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder(s) of such shares of Common Stock and/or such other securities as of the close
of business on the Mandatory Conversion Date or any applicable Conversion Date except to the extent that all or a portion of such Common Stock is subject to the limitations set forth in Section 18. In the event that a Holder shall not by
written notice designate the name in which shares of Common Stock and/or cash, other securities or other property (including payments of cash in lieu of fractional shares) to be issued or paid upon conversion of shares of Series L Preferred Stock
should be registered or paid or the manner in which such shares should be delivered, the Corporation shall be entitled to register and deliver such shares, and make such payment, in the name of the Holder and in the manner shown on the records of
the Corporation through book-entry transfer through the Depositary.      (iv) Conversion into shares of Common Stock will occur
on the Mandatory Conversion Date or any applicable Conversion Date as follows:      (A) On the Mandatory
Conversion Date or applicable Conversion Date, certificates or evidence of shares in book-entry form representing shares of Common Stock shall be issued and delivered to Holders or their designee upon presentation and surrender of the certificate
evidencing the Series L Preferred Stock to the Conversion Agent if shares of the Series L Preferred Stock are held in certificated form, and, if required, the furnishing of appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and the payment of all
transfer and similar taxes. If a Holder s interest is a beneficial interest in a global certificate representing Series L Preferred Stock, a book-entry transfer through the Depositary will be made by the Conversion Agent upon compliance
with the Depositary s procedures for converting a beneficial interest in a global security.      (B) On the
date of any conversion at the option of Holders pursuant to Section 12, Section 13(c) or Section 13(d), if a Holder s interest is in certificated form, a Holder must do each of the following in order to convert:   
  (1) complete and manually sign the conversion notice provided by the Conversion Agent, or a facsimile of the conversion
notice, and deliver this irrevocable notice to the Conversion Agent;      (2) surrender the shares of Series L
Preferred Stock to the Conversion Agent;      (3) if required, furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer
documents;      (4) if required, pay all transfer or similar taxes; and   
         -12-

(5) if required, pay funds equal to any declared and unpaid dividend
payable on the next Dividend Payment Date.      If a Holder s interest is a beneficial interest in a global certificate
representing Series L Preferred Stock, in order to convert a Holder must comply with clauses (3) through (5) listed above and comply with the Depositary s procedures for converting a beneficial interest in a global security.
     The date on which a Holder complies with the procedures in this clause (v) is the  Conversion Date. 
     (C) Conversion Agent shall, on a Holder s behalf, convert the Series L Preferred Stock into shares of
Common Stock and/or cash, other securities or other property (involving payments of cash in lieu of fractional shares), in accordance with the terms of the notice delivered by such Holder described in clause (B) above. If a Conversion Date
on which a Holder elects to convert Series L Preferred Stock is prior to the Record Date relating to any declared dividend for the Dividend Period, such Holder will not have the right to receive any declared dividends for that Dividend Period. If a
Conversion Date on which a Holder elects to convert Series L Preferred Stock or the Mandatory Conversion Date is after the Record Date for any declared dividend and prior to the Dividend Payment Date, such Holder shall receive that dividend on the
relevant Dividend Payment Date if such Holder was the Holder of record on the Record Date for that dividend. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, if the Conversion Date is after the Record Date and prior to the Dividend Payment Date, whether or
not such Holder was the Holder of record on the Record Date, the Holder must pay to the Conversion Agent upon conversion of the shares of Series L Preferred Stock an amount in cash equal to the full dividend actually paid on the Dividend Payment
Date for the then-current Dividend Period on the shares of Series L Preferred Stock being converted, unless the Holder s shares of Series L Preferred Stock are being converted pursuant to Section 13(b), Section 13(c) or
Section 13(d).      (b)  Mandatory Conversion at the Corporation s Option .   
  (i) On or after March 15, 2013, the Corporation may, at its option, at any time or from time to time, cause some or all of the
Series L Preferred Stock to be converted into shares of Common Stock at the Applicable Conversion Rate if, for 20 Trading Days during any period of 30 consecutive Trading Days, including the last Trading Day of such period, the Closing Price of the
Common Stock exceeds 130% of the Applicable Conversion Price of the Series L Preferred Stock. The Corporation will provide Notice of Mandatory Conversion as set forth in Section 13(b)(iii) within three Trading Days after the end of the 30
consecutive Trading Day period.      (ii) If the Corporation elects to cause less than all of the Series L Preferred Stock to be
converted under clause (i) above, the Conversion Agent will select the Series L Preferred Stock to be converted by lot, or on a  pro rata  basis or by another method the Conversion Agent considers fair and appropriate, including any method
required by the Depositary (so long as such method is not prohibited by the rules of any stock exchange or quotation association on which the Series L Preferred Stock is then traded or quoted). If the Conversion Agent selects a portion of a
Holder s Series L Preferred Stock for partial conversion at the Corporation s option and such Holder converts a portion of its shares of Series L Preferred Stock at the same time, the portion converted at such Holder s option will
reduce the portion selected for conversion at the Corporation s option under this Section 13(b).      (iii) If the
Corporation exercises the optional conversion right described in this Section 13(b), the Corporation shall give notice (such notice a   Notice of Mandatory Conversion  ) by (i) providing a notice of such conversion by first
class mail to each Holder of record for   
         -13-

the shares of Series L Preferred Stock to be converted or (ii) issuing a press release and making this information available on its website. The Conversion Date shall be a date selected
by the Corporation (the   Mandatory Conversion Date  ), not less than 10 days, and not more than 20 days, after the date on which the Corporation provides the Notice of Mandatory Conversion. In addition to any information
required by applicable law or regulation, the Notice of Mandatory Conversion shall state, as appropriate:      (A)
the Mandatory Conversion Date;      (B) the number of shares of Common Stock to be issued upon conversion of each
share of Series L Preferred Stock; and      (C) the aggregate number of shares of Series L Preferred Stock to be
converted.      (c)  Conversion upon Make-Whole Acquisition .   
  (i) In the event of a Make-Whole Acquisition occurring prior to a Mandatory Conversion Date or Conversion Date, each Holder shall have
the option to convert its shares of Series L Preferred Stock (a   Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion  ) during the period (the   Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion Period  ) beginning on the effective date of the
Make-Whole Acquisition (the   Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date  ) and ending on the date that is 30 days after the Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date and receive an additional number of shares of Common Stock (the
  Make-Whole Shares  ) as set forth in clause (ii) below.      (ii) The number of Make-Whole Shares per share
of Series L Preferred Stock shall be determined by reference to the table below for the applicable Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date and the applicable Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price:   
    Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price         
    (A) The exact Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Prices and Make-Whole Acquisition Effective
Dates may not be set forth in the table, in which case:      (1) if the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price is
between two Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price amounts in the table or the Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date is between two dates in the table, the number of Make-Whole Shares will be determined by straight-line interpolation between the number
of Make-Whole Shares set forth for the higher and lower Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price amounts and the two Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Dates, as applicable, based on a 365-day year;   
         -14-

(2) if the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price is in excess of $502.26 per
share (subject to adjustment pursuant to Section 14), no Make-Whole Shares will be issued upon conversion of the Series L Preferred Stock; and      (3) if the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price is less than $120.54 per share (subject to adjustment pursuant to Section 14), no Make-Whole Shares will be issued upon conversion of the Series L
Preferred Stock.      (B) The Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Prices set forth in the table above are subject to
adjustment pursuant to Section 14 hereof and shall be adjusted as of any date the Conversion Rate is adjusted. The adjusted Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Prices will equal the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Prices applicable immediately prior
to such adjustment multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the Conversion Rate immediately prior to the adjustment giving rise to the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Prices adjustment and the denominator of which is the Conversion Rate as
so adjusted. Each of the number of Make-Whole Shares in the table shall also be subject to adjustment in the same manner as the Conversion Rate pursuant to Section 14.   
  (iii) On or before the twentieth day prior to the date the Corporation anticipates being the effective date for the Make-Whole
Acquisition or within two business days of becoming aware of a Make-Whole Acquisition of the type set forth in clause (a) of the definition Make-Whole Acquisition, a written notice shall be sent by or on behalf of the Corporation, by
first-class mail, postage prepaid, to the Holders as they appear in the records of the Corporation. Such notice shall contain:      (A) the anticipated effective date or effective date of the Make-Whole Acquisition; and      (B) the date, which shall be 30 days after the Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date, by which a Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion must be exercised.   
  (iv) On the Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date or as soon as practicable thereafter, another written notice shall be sent by or on
behalf of the Corporation, by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to the Holders as they appear in the records of the Corporation. Such notice shall contain:   
  (A) the date that shall be 30 days after the Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date;   
  (B) the number of Make-Whole Shares;   
  (C) the amount of cash, securities and other consideration receivable by a Holder of Series L Preferred Stock upon
conversion; and      (D) the instructions a Holder must follow to exercise its conversion option in connection
with such Make-Whole Acquisition.      (v) To exercise a Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion option, a Holder must, no later than
5:00 p.m., New York City time on or before the date by which the Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion option must be exercised as specified in the notice delivered under clause (iv) above, comply with the procedures set forth in
Section 13(a)(iv)(B).   
         -15-

(vi) If a Holder does not elect to exercise the Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion option in
accordance with the provisions specified in this Section 13(c), the shares of Series L Preferred Stock or successor security held by it shall remain outstanding (unless otherwise converted as provided herein), and the Holder will not be
eligible to receive Make-Whole Shares.      (vii) Upon a Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion, the Conversion Agent shall, except as
otherwise provided in the instructions provided by the Holder thereof in the written notice provided to the Corporation or its successor as set forth in Section 13(a)(iv) above, deliver to the Holder such cash, securities or other property as
are issuable with respect to Make-Whole Shares in the Make-Whole Acquisition.      (viii) In the event that a Make-Whole
Acquisition Conversion is effected with respect to shares of Series L Preferred Stock or a successor security representing less than all the shares of Series L Preferred Stock or a successor security held by a Holder, upon such Make-Whole
Acquisition Conversion the Corporation or its successor shall execute and the Conversion Agent shall, unless otherwise instructed in writing, countersign and deliver to the Holder thereof, at the expense of the Corporation or its successors, a
certificate evidencing the shares of Series L Preferred Stock or such successor security held by the Holder as to which a Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion was not effected.      (d)  Conversion Upon Fundamental Change .      (i) If the Reference Price in
connection with a Make-Whole Acquisition is less than $120.54 (a   Fundamental Change  ), a Holder may elect to convert each share of Series L Preferred Stock during the period beginning on the effective date of the Fundamental Change
and ending on the date that is 30 days after the effective date of such Fundamental Change at an adjusted conversion price equal to the greater of (1) the Reference Price and (2) $60.27, subject to adjustment as described in clause
(ii) below (the   Base Price  ). If the Reference Price is less than the Base Price, Holders will receive a maximum of 16.5916 shares of Common Stock per share of Series L Preferred Stock converted, subject to adjustment as
a result of any adjustment to the Base Price described in clause (ii) below.      (ii) The Base Price shall be adjusted as
of any date the Conversion Rate of the Series L Preferred Stock is adjusted pursuant to Section 14. The adjusted Base Price shall equal the Base Price applicable immediately prior to such adjustment multiplied by a fraction, the numerator
of which is the Conversion Rate immediately prior to the adjustment giving rise to the Conversion Rate adjustment and the denominator of which is the Conversion Rate as so adjusted.   
  (iii) In lieu of issuing Common Stock upon conversion in the event of a Fundamental Change, the Corporation may at its option, and if it
obtains any necessary regulatory approval, pay an amount in cash (computed to the nearest cent) equal to the Reference Price for each share of Common Stock otherwise issuable upon conversion.   
  (iv) On or before the twentieth day prior to the date the Corporation anticipates being the effective date for the Fundamental Change or
within two business days of becoming aware of the Fundamental Change if it is a Make-Whole Acquisition of the type set forth in clause (a) of the definition Make-Whole Acquisition, a written notice shall be sent by or on behalf of the
Corporation, by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to the Holders as they appear in the records of the Corporation. Such notice shall contain:   
         -16-

(A) the anticipated effective date of the Fundamental Change; and
     (B) the date, which shall be 30 days after the anticipated effective date of a Fundamental Change, by which a
Fundamental Change conversion must be exercised.      (v) On the effective date of a Fundamental Change or as soon as practicable
thereafter, another written notice shall be sent by or on behalf of the Corporation, by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to the Holders as they appear in the records of the Corporation. Such notice shall contain:   
  (A) the date that shall be 30 days after the effective date of the Fundamental Change;   
  (B) the adjusted conversion price following the Fundamental Change;   
  (C) the amount of cash, securities and other consideration received by a Holder of Series L Preferred Stock upon
conversion; and      (D) the instructions a Holder must follow to exercise its conversion option in connection
with such Fundamental Change.      (vi) To exercise its conversion option upon a Fundamental Change, a Holder must, no later than
5:00 p.m., New York City time on or before the date by which the conversion option upon the Fundamental Change must be exercised as specified in the notice delivered under clause (v) above, comply with the procedures set forth in
Section 13 (a)(v)(B) and indicate that it is exercising the Fundamental Change conversion option.      (vii) If a Holder
does not elect to exercise its conversion option upon a Fundamental Change in accordance with the provisions specified in this Section 13(d), the shares of Series L Preferred Stock or successor security held by it shall remain outstanding
(unless otherwise converted as provided herein) and the Holder will not be eligible to convert its shares pursuant to this Section 13(d).      (viii) Upon a conversion upon a Fundamental Change, the Conversion Agent shall, except as otherwise provided in the instructions provided by the Holder thereof in the written notice provided to the
Corporation or its successor as set forth in Section 13(a)(iv), deliver to the Holder such cash, securities or other property as are issuable with respect to the adjusted conversion price following the Fundamental Change.   
  (ix) In the event that a conversion upon a Fundamental Change is effected with respect to shares of Series L Preferred Stock or a
successor security representing less than all the shares of Series L Preferred Stock or a successor security held by a Holder, upon such conversion the Corporation or its successor shall execute and the Conversion Agent shall, unless otherwise
instructed in writing, countersign and deliver to the Holder thereof, at the expense of the Corporation, a certificate evidencing the shares of Series L Preferred Stock or such successor security held by the Holder as to which a conversion upon a
Fundamental Change was not effected.      Section 14.  Anti-Dilution Adjustments .   
         -17-

(a)  Adjustments . The Conversion Rate will be subject to adjustment, without
duplication, under the following circumstances:      (i) The issuance of Common Stock as a dividend or distribution to all
holders of Common Stock or a subdivision or combination of Common Stock (other than in connection with a Reorganization Event), in which event the Conversion Rate will be adjusted based on the following formula:   
   CR   1    = CR   0      (OS    1    / OS   0   )        where,       

CR  0       
      
  =  
        
  the Conversion Rate in effect at the close of business on the Record Date   
 
   CR  1       
      
  =  
        
  the Conversion Rate in effect immediately after the Record Date   
 
   OS  0       
      
  =  
        
  the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding at the close of business on the Record Date prior to giving effect to such event   
 
   OS  1       
      
  =  
        
  the number of shares of Common Stock that would be outstanding immediately after, and solely as a result of, such event   
    Notwithstanding the foregoing, (1) no adjustment will be made for the issuance of Common Stock as a
dividend or distribution to all holders of Common Stock that is made in lieu of a quarterly or annual cash dividend or distribution to such holders, to the extent such dividend or distribution does not exceed the applicable Dividend Threshold Amount
(with the amount of any such dividend or distribution equaling the number of such shares being issued multiplied by the average of the VWAP of the Common Stock over each of the five consecutive VWAP Trading Days prior to the Ex-Date for such
dividend or distribution) and (2) in the event any dividend, distribution, subdivision or combination that is the subject of this Section 14(a)(i) is declared but not so paid or made, the Conversion Rate shall be immediately readjusted,
effective as of the date the board of directors publicly announces its decision not to pay or make such dividend or distribution or effect such subdivision or combination, to the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such dividend or
distribution had not been declared or such subdivision or combination had not been announced.      (ii) The issuance to all
holders of Common Stock of certain rights or warrants (other than rights issued pursuant to a shareholder rights plan or rights or warrants issued in connection with a Reorganization Event) entitling them for a period expiring 60 days or less
from the date of issuance of such rights or warrants to purchase shares of Common Stock (or securities convertible into Common Stock) at less than (or having a conversion price per share less than) the Current Market Price as of the Record Date, in
which event each Conversion Rate will be adjusted based on the following formula:       CR   1    = CR   0      [(OS   0    + X) / (OS   0    + Y)]        where,       

CR  0       
      
  =  
        
  the Conversion Rate in effect at the close of business on the Record Date   
 
   CR  1       
      
  =  
        
  the Conversion Rate in effect immediately after the Record Date   
 
   OS  0       
      
  =  
        
  the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding at the close of business on the Record Date   
 
   X   
      
  =  
        
  the total number of shares of Common Stock issuable pursuant to such rights or warrants (or upon conversion of such securities)   
 
         -18-

Y   
      
  =  
        
  the number of shares equal to the quotient of the aggregate price payable to exercise such rights or warrants (or the conversion price for such securities paid upon conversion)
divided by the average of the VWAP of the Common Stock over each of the ten consecutive VWAP Trading Days prior to the Business Day immediately preceding the announcement of the issuance of such rights or warrants   
    Notwithstanding the foregoing, (1) in the event that such rights or warrants described in this
Section 14(a)(ii) are not so issued, the Conversion Rate shall be immediately readjusted, effective as of the date the board of directors publicly announces its decision not to issue such rights or warrants, to the Conversion Rate that would
then be in effect if such issuance had not been declared and (2) to the extent that such rights or warrants are not exercised prior to their expiration or shares of the Common Stock are otherwise not delivered pursuant to such rights or
warrants upon the exercise of such rights or warrants, the Conversion Rate shall be readjusted to the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect had the adjustments made upon the issuance of such rights or warrants been made on the basis of
delivery of only the number of shares of Common Stock actually delivered.      In determining the aggregate price payable for such
shares of the Common Stock, there shall be taken into account any consideration received by the Corporation for such rights or warrants and the value of such consideration (if other than cash, to be determined by the board of directors). If an
adjustment to the Conversion Rate may be required pursuant to this Section 14(a)(ii), delivery of any additional shares of Common Stock that may be deliverable upon conversion as a result of an adjustment required pursuant to this
Section 14(a)(ii) shall be delayed to the extent necessary in order to complete the calculations provided for in this Section 14(a)(ii).      (iii) The dividend or other distribution to all holders of Common Stock of shares of capital stock of the Corporation (other than Common Stock) or evidences of its indebtedness or its assets (excluding
any dividend, distribution or issuance covered by clauses (a)(i) or (a)(ii) above or (a)(iv) below, any dividend or distribution in connection with a Reorganization Event or any spin-off to which the provisions set forth below in this
clause (a)(iii) apply) in which event the Conversion Rate will be adjusted based on the following formula:   
   CR   1    = CR   0      [SP   0    / (SP   0      FMV)]        where,       

CR  0       
      
  =  
        
  the Conversion Rate in effect at the close of business on the Record Date   
 
   CR  1       
      
  =  
        
  the Conversion Rate in effect immediately after the Record Date   
 
   SP  0       
      
  =  
        
  the Current Market Price as of the Record Date   
 
   FMV   
      
  =  
        
  the fair market value (as determined by the board of directors) on the Record Date of the shares of capital stock of the Corporation, evidences of indebtedness or assets so
distributed, applicable to one share of Common Stock   
    However, if the transaction that gives rise to an adjustment pursuant to this clause (iii) is one
pursuant to which the payment of a dividend or other distribution on Common Stock consists of shares of capital stock of the Corporation of, or similar equity interests in, a subsidiary or other business unit of the Corporation ( i.e.,  a
spin-off) that are, or, when issued, will be, traded on the New York Stock Exchange, the Nasdaq Stock Market or any other national or regional securities exchange or market, then the Conversion Rate will instead be adjusted based on the following
formula:       CR   1    = CR   0      [(FMV   0    + MP   0   ) / MP   0   ]     
         -19-

where,       

CR  0       
      
  =  
        
  the Conversion Rate in effect at the close of business on the Record Date   
 
   CR  1       
      
  =  
        
  the Conversion Rate in effect immediately after the Record Date   
 
   FMV  0       
      
  =  
        
  the average of the VWAP of the Capital Stock distributed to holders of Common Stock applicable to one share of Common Stock over each of the 10 consecutive VWAP Trading Days
commencing on and including the third VWAP Trading Day after the date on which  ex-distribution trading  commences for such dividend or distribution on the NYSE or such other national or regional exchange or association or over-the-counter
market, or, if not so traded or quoted, the fair market value of the capital stock or similar equity interests distributed to holders of Common Stock applicable to one share of Common Stock as determined by the board of directors   
 
   MP  0       
      
  =  
        
  the average of the VWAP of the Common Stock over each of the 10 consecutive VWAP Trading Days commencing on and including the third VWAP Trading Day after the date on which
 ex-distribution trading  commences for such dividend or distribution on the NYSE or such other national or regional exchange or association or over-the-counter market on which Common Stock is then traded or quoted   
    Notwithstanding the foregoing, (1) if any dividend or distribution of the type described in this
Section 14(a)(iii) is declared but not so paid or made, the Conversion Rate shall be immediately readjusted, effective as of the date the board of directors publicly announces its decision not to pay such dividend or distribution, to the
Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such dividend or distribution had not been declared. If an adjustment to the Conversion Rate may be required under this Section 14(a)(iii), delivery of any additional shares of Common Stock that
may be deliverable upon conversion as a result of an adjustment required under this Section 14(a)(iii) shall be delayed to the extent necessary in order to complete the calculations provided for in this Section 14(a)(iii).   
  (iv) The Corporation makes a distribution consisting exclusively of cash to all holders of Common Stock, excluding (a) any regular
cash dividend on Common Stock to the extent that the aggregate cash dividend per share of Common Stock does not exceed $1.8835 in any fiscal quarter (the   Dividend Threshold Amount  ) and (b) any consideration payable in
connection with a tender or exchange offer made by the Corporation or any its subsidiaries referred to in clause (v) below, in which event, the Conversion Rate will be adjusted based on the following formula:   
   CR   1    = CR   0      [SP   0    / (SP   0      C)]        where,       

CR  0       
     
  =  
        
  the Conversion Rate in effect at the close of business on the Record Date   
 
   CR  1       
     
  =  
        
  the Conversion Rate in effect immediately after the Record Date   
 
   SP  0       
     
  =  
        
  the Current Market Price as of the Record Date   
 
   C   
     
  =  
        
  the amount in cash per share equal to (1) in the case of a regular quarterly dividend, the amount the Corporation distributes to holders or pays, less the Dividend Threshold
Amount or (2) in any other case, the amount the Corporation distributes to holders or pays   
    The Dividend Threshold Amount is subject to adjustment on an inversely proportional basis whenever the
Conversion Rate is adjusted; provided that no adjustment will be made to the Dividend Threshold Amount for any adjustment made to the Conversion Rate pursuant to this clause (iv).   
         -20-

Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any dividend or distribution of the type described in this
Section 14(a)(iv) is declared but not so paid or made, the Conversion Rate shall be immediately readjusted, effective as of the date the board of directors publicly announces its decision not to pay such dividend or distribution, to the
Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such dividend or distribution had not been declared.      (v) The Corporation or
one or more of its subsidiaries make purchases of Common Stock pursuant to a tender offer or exchange offer by the Corporation or a subsidiary of the Corporation for Common Stock to the extent that the cash and value (as determined by the board of
directors) of any other consideration included in the payment per share of Common Stock validly tendered or exchanged exceeds the VWAP per share of Common Stock on the VWAP Trading Day next succeeding the last date on which tenders or exchanges may
be made pursuant to such tender or exchange offer (the   Expiration Date  ), in which event the Conversion Rate will be adjusted based on the following formula:   
   CR  1    = CR   0      [(FMV + (SP   1      OS   1   ) / (SP    1      OS   0   )]        where,       

CR  0       
      
  =  
        
  the Conversion Rate in effect at the close of business on the Expiration Date   
 
   CR  1       
      
  =  
        
  the Conversion Rate in effect immediately after the Expiration Date   
 
   FMV   
      
  =  
        
  the fair market value (as determined by the board of directors), on the Expiration Date, of the aggregate value of all cash and any other consideration paid or payable for shares
validly tendered or exchanged and not withdrawn as of the Expiration Date (the   Purchased Shares  )   
 
   OS  1       
      
  =  
        
  the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding as of the last time tenders or exchanges may be made pursuant to such tender or exchange offer (the   Expiration
Time  ) less any Purchased Shares   
 
   OS  0       
      
  =  
        
  the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding at the Expiration Time, including any Purchased Shares   
 
   SP  1       
      
  =  
        
  the average of the VWAP of the Common Stock over each of the ten consecutive VWAP Trading Days commencing with the VWAP Trading Day immediately after the Expiration
Date.   
    Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Corporation, or one of its subsidiaries, is obligated to purchase
shares of Common Stock pursuant to any such tender or exchange offer, but the Corporation or such subsidiary is permanently prevented by applicable law from effecting any such purchases, or all such purchases are rescinded, then the Conversion Rate
shall be readjusted to be the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such tender or exchange offer had not been made. If an adjustment to the Conversion Rate may be required under this Section 14(a)(v), delivery of any additional
shares of Common Stock that may be deliverable upon conversion as a result of an adjustment required under this Section 14(a)(v) shall be delayed to the extent necessary in order to complete the calculations provided for in this
Section 14(a)(v).      (b)  Calculation of Adjustments . All adjustments to the Conversion Rate shall be calculated by
the Corporation to the nearest 1/10,000th of one share of Common Stock (or if there is not a nearest 1/10,000th of a share, to the next lower 1/10,000th of a share). No adjustment to the Conversion Rate will be required unless such adjustment would
require an increase or decrease of at least one percent;  provided ,  however , that any such minor adjustments that are not required to be made will be carried forward and taken into account in any subsequent adjustment, and provided
further that any such   
         -21-

adjustment of less than one percent that has not been made will be made prior to any conversion pursuant to Section 13(b), Section 13(c) or Section 13(d).   
  (c)  When No Adjustment Required .      (i) Except as otherwise provided in this Section 14, the Conversion Rate will not be adjusted for the issuance of Common Stock or any securities convertible into or exchangeable for Common Stock or
carrying the right to purchase any of the foregoing or for the repurchase of Common Stock.      (ii)  Rights Plans . To the
extent that the Corporation has a stockholders  rights plan in effect upon conversion of the Series L Preferred Stock into Common Stock, Holders will receive, in addition to any of Common Stock deliverable and in lieu of any adjustment to the
Conversion Rate, the rights under the stockholders  rights plan, unless prior to any conversion, the rights have separated from Common Stock, in which case the Conversion Rate will be adjusted at the time of separation as if we distributed to
all holders of Common Stock, shares of the Corporation s Capital Stock, evidences of indebtedness or assets as described in Section 14(a)(iii). A further adjustment will occur as described in Section 14(a)(iii), if such rights become
exercisable to purchase different securities, evidences of indebtedness or assets, subject to readjustment in the event of the expiration, termination or redemption of such rights.   
  (iii) No adjustment to the Conversion Rate need be made:   
  (A) upon the issuance of any shares of Common Stock pursuant to any present or future plan providing for the reinvestment
of dividends or interest payable on securities of the Corporation and the investment of additional optional amounts in Common Stock under any plan;      (B) upon the issuance of any shares of Common Stock or options or rights to purchase those shares pursuant to any present or future employee, director or consultant benefit plan or program of or assumed
by the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries; or      (C) upon the issuance of any shares of Common Stock
pursuant to any option, warrant, right, or exercisable, exchangeable or convertible security outstanding as of the date the Series L Preferred Stock was first issued.      (iv) No adjustment to the Conversion Rate need be made for a transaction referred to in Section 14(a)(i) through (v) if Holders may participate in the transaction on a basis and with notice that
the board of directors determines to be fair and appropriate in light of the basis and notice on which holders of Common Stock participate in the transaction.      (v) No adjustment to the Conversion Rate need be made for a change in the par value or no par value of the Common Stock.      (vi) No adjustment to the Conversion Rate will be made to the extent that such adjustment would result in the Conversion Price being less than the par value of the Common Stock.   
  (d)  Record Date . For purposes of this Section 14,  Record Date  means, with respect to any dividend, distribution
or other transaction or event in which the holders of the Common Stock have the right to receive any cash, securities or other property or in which the Common   
         -22-

Stock (or other applicable security) is exchanged for or converted into any combination of cash, securities or other property, the date fixed for determination of holders of the Common Stock
entitled to receive such cash, securities or other property (whether such date is fixed by the board of directors or by statute, contract or otherwise).      (e)  Successive Adjustments . After an adjustment to the Conversion Rate under this Section 14, any subsequent event requiring an adjustment under this Section 14 shall cause an adjustment
to such Conversion Rate as so adjusted.      (f)  Multiple Adjustments . For the avoidance of doubt, if an event occurs that
would trigger an adjustment to the Conversion Rate pursuant to this Section 14 under more than one subsection hereof, such event, to the extent fully taken into account in a single adjustment, shall not result in multiple adjustments hereunder.
     (g)  Other Adjustments . The Corporation may (but is not required to) make such increases in the Conversion Rate, in
addition to those required by Section 14(a)(i) through (v), as the board of directors considers to be advisable to avoid or diminish any income tax to holders of Common Stock resulting from any dividend or distribution of stock (or rights to
acquire stock) or from any event treated as such for income tax purposes.      In addition to the foregoing, to the extent
permitted by applicable law and subject to the applicable rules of the New York Stock Exchange, the Corporation from time to time may increase the Conversion Rate by any amount for any period of time if the period is at least 20 business days, the
increase is irrevocable during the period and the board of directors shall have made a determination that such increase would be in the best interests of the Corporation, which determination shall be conclusive.   
  (h)  Notice of Adjustments . Whenever a Conversion Rate is adjusted as provided under Section 14, the Corporation shall within
10 Business Days following the occurrence of an event that requires such adjustment (or if the Corporation is not aware of such occurrence, as soon as reasonably practicable after becoming so aware) or within 15 calendar days of the date the
Corporation makes an adjustment pursuant to Section 14(g):      (i) compute the adjusted applicable Conversion Rate in
accordance with Section 14 and prepare and transmit to the Conversion Agent an Officers  Certificate setting forth the applicable Conversion Rate, as the case may be, the method of calculation thereof in reasonable detail, and the facts
requiring such adjustment and upon which such adjustment is based; and      (ii) provide a written notice to the Holders of the
occurrence of such event and a statement in reasonable detail setting forth the method by which the adjustment to the applicable Conversion Rate was determined and setting forth the adjusted applicable Conversion Rate.   
  (i)  Conversion Agent . The Conversion Agent shall not at any time be under any duty or responsibility to any Holder to determine
whether any facts exist that may require any adjustment of the applicable Conversion Rate or with respect to the nature or extent or calculation of any such adjustment when made, or with respect to the method employed in making the same. The
Conversion Agent shall be fully authorized and protected in relying on any Officers  Certificate delivered pursuant to Section 14(h) and any adjustment contained therein and the Conversion Agent shall not be deemed to have knowledge of any
adjustment unless and until it has received such certificate. The Conversion Agent shall not be accountable with respect to the validity or value (or the kind or amount) of any shares of Common Stock, or of any securities or property, that may at
the time be issued or delivered with respect to any of the Series L Preferred Stock; and the Conversion Agent makes no representation   
         -23-

with respect thereto. The Conversion Agent shall not be responsible for any failure of the Corporation to issue, transfer or deliver any shares of Common Stock pursuant to a the conversion of the
Series L Preferred Stock or to comply with any of the duties, responsibilities or covenants of the Corporation contained in this Section 14.      Section 15.  Reorganization Events .      (a) In the event of:   
  (i) any consolidation or merger of the Corporation with or into another Person, in each case pursuant to which the Common Stock will be
converted into cash, securities, or other property of the Corporation or another Person;      (ii) any sale, transfer, lease, or
conveyance to another Person of all or substantially all of the consolidated assets of the Corporation and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, in each case pursuant to which the Common Stock will be converted into cash, securities, or other
property; or      (iii) any reclassification of the Common Stock into securities, including securities other than the Common
Stock; or      (iv) any statutory exchange of the Corporation s securities with another Person (other than in connection
with a merger or acquisition);      (any such event specified in this Section 15(a), a   Reorganization Event   each share
of Series L Preferred Stock outstanding immediately prior to such Reorganization Event shall, without the consent of Holders, become convertible into the types and amounts of securities, cash, and other property that is or was receivable in such
Reorganization Event by a holder of the shares of Common Stock that was not the counterparty to the Reorganization Event or an affiliate of such other party in exchange for such Common Stock (such securities, cash, and other property, the
  Exchange Property  ).      (b) In the event that holders of the shares of the Common Stock have the opportunity
to elect the form of consideration to be received in such transaction, the consideration that the Holders are entitled to receive upon conversion shall be deemed to be the types and amounts of consideration received by the majority of the holders of
the shares of the Common Stock that affirmatively make an election (or of all such holders if none make an election). On each Conversion Date following a Reorganization Event, the Conversion Rate then in effect will be applied to the value on
such Conversion Date of the securities, cash, or other property received per share of Common Stock, determined as set forth above. The amount of Exchange Property receivable upon conversion of any Series L Preferred Stock in accordance with
Section 12, Section 13(b), Section 13(c) or Section 13(d) hereof shall be determined based upon the then Applicable Conversion Rate.      (c) The above provisions of this Section 15 shall similarly apply to successive Reorganization Events and the provisions of Section 14 shall apply to any shares of Capital Stock of the
Corporation (or any successor) received by the holders of the Common Stock in any such Reorganization Event.      (d) The
Corporation (or any successor) shall, within 20 days of the occurrence of any Reorganization Event, provide written notice to the Holders of such occurrence of such event and of the type and amount of the cash, securities or other property that
constitutes the Exchange Property. Failure to deliver such notice shall not affect the operation of this Section 15.   
         -24-

Section 16.  Fractional Shares .   
  (a) No fractional shares of Common Stock will be issued as a result of any conversion of shares of Series L Preferred Stock.   
  (b) In lieu of any fractional share of Common Stock otherwise issuable in respect of any conversion at the Corporation s option
pursuant to Section 13(b) hereof or any conversion at the option of the Holder pursuant to Section 12, Section 13(c) or Section 13(d) hereof, the Corporation shall pay an amount in cash (computed to the nearest cent) equal to the
same fraction of the Closing Price of the Common Stock determined as of the second Trading Day immediately preceding the effective date of conversion.      (c) If more than one share of the Series L Preferred Stock is surrendered for conversion at one time by or for the same Holder, the number of full shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion thereof
shall be computed on the basis of the aggregate number of shares of the Series L Preferred Stock so surrendered.   
  Section 17.  Reservation of Common Stock .      (a) The Corporation shall at all times reserve and keep available out of its authorized and unissued Common Stock, solely for issuance upon the conversion of shares of Series L Preferred Stock as provided
in this Certificate of Designations, free from any preemptive or other similar rights, such number of shares of Common Stock as shall from time to time be issuable upon the conversion of all the shares of Series L Preferred Stock then outstanding,
calculated assuming the Applicable Conversion Price equals the Base Price, subject to adjustment as described under Section 14. For purposes of this Section 17(a), the number of shares of Common Stock that shall be deliverable upon
the conversion of all outstanding shares of Series L Preferred Stock shall be computed as if at the time of computation all such outstanding shares were held by a single Holder.   
  (b) All shares of Common Stock delivered upon conversion of the Series L Preferred Stock shall be duly authorized, validly issued, fully
paid and non-assessable, free and clear of all liens, claims, security interests and other encumbrances (other than liens, charges, security interests and other encumbrances created by the Holders).   
  (c) Prior to the delivery of any securities that the Corporation shall be obligated to deliver upon conversion of the Series L Preferred
Stock, the Corporation shall use its reasonable best efforts to comply with all federal and state laws and regulations thereunder requiring the registration of such securities with, or any approval of or consent to the delivery thereof by, any
governmental authority.      (d) The Corporation hereby covenants and agrees that, so long as the Common Stock shall be listed on
the New York Stock Exchange or any other national securities exchange or automated quotation system, the Corporation will, if permitted by the rules of such exchange or automated quotation system, list and keep listed all the Common Stock issuable
upon conversion of the Series L Preferred Stock;  provided ,  however , that if the rules of such exchange or automated quotation system permit the Corporation to defer the listing of such Common Stock until the first conversion of Series
L Preferred Stock into Common Stock in accordance with the provisions hereof, the Corporation covenants to list such Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Series L Preferred Stock in accordance with the requirements of such exchange or
automated quotation system at such time.   
         -25-

Section 18.  Limitations on Beneficial Ownership . Notwithstanding anything to the
contrary contained herein, and subject to the last sentence of this Section 18, no holder of Series L Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive shares of Common Stock upon conversion pursuant to Section 12 and Section 13 hereof to
the extent, but only to the extent, that such receipt would cause such converting holder to become, directly or indirectly, a  beneficial owner  (within the meaning of Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations
promulgated thereunder) of more than 9.9% of the shares of Common Stock outstanding at such time. Any delivery of shares of Common Stock upon a purported conversion of Series L Preferred Stock shall be void and have no effect and such shares shall
for all purposes continue to represent outstanding shares of Series L Preferred Stock to the extent (but only to the extent) that such delivery would result in the converting holder becoming the beneficial owner of more than 9.9% of the shares of
Common Stock outstanding at such time. If any delivery of shares of Common Stock owed to a holder upon conversion of Series L Preferred Stock is not made, in whole or in part, as a result of this limitation, the Corporation s obligation to make
such delivery shall not be extinguished and the Corporation shall deliver such shares as promptly as practicable after any such converting holder gives notice to the Corporation that such delivery would not result in it being the beneficial owner of
more than 9.9% of the shares of Common Stock outstanding at such time. Notwithstanding anything in this paragraph to the contrary, these limitations on beneficial ownership shall not be applicable to or limit the number of shares of Series L
Preferred Stock to be converted as a result of a mandatory conversion by the Corporation pursuant to Section 13(b).   
  Section 19.  Preemptive or Subscription Rights . The Holders of Series L Preferred Stock shall not have any preemptive or
subscription rights.       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, WELLS FARGO   COMPANY  has caused this
Certificate of Designations to be signed by Barbara S. Brett, its Senior Vice President and Assistant Treasurer, and Laurel A. Holschuh, its Secretary, this  30  th       day of December, 2008.    

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY   

By:  
     
    /s/ Barbara S. Brett    

Barbara S. Brett, Senior Vice President   

and Assistant Treasurer   

/s/ Laurel A. Holschuh    
 
  Laurel A. Holschuh, Secretary   
    [As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on December 30, 2008.]   
         -26-

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY   
         
  CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS      Pursuant to Section 151 of the      General Corporation Law of the State of
Delaware             
  2010 ESOP CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK      (Without Par Value)        
       WELLS
FARGO   COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the  Company ), HEREBY CERTIFIES that, pursuant to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Company (the
 Board ) by the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as amended, which authorizes the issuance of not more than 20,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, without par value (the  Preferred Stock ),
and pursuant to authority conferred upon the ESOP Preferred Stock Committee I of the Board (the  ESOP Committee ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the  General Corporation
Law ) and by the resolutions of the Board set forth herein, the following resolutions were duly adopted by the Board at meetings of the Board duly held on January 25, 2000 and February 24, 2009, and by the ESOP Committee pursuant to
the written consent of the ESOP Committee duly adopted on March 23, 2010, in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law:      1. On January 25, 2000, the Board adopted the following resolutions (the  ESOP Board Resolutions ) appointing the ESOP Committee and delegating to the ESOP Committee the full powers of the
Board, subject to the ESOP Board Resolutions, in all matters relating to issuance of one or more series of Preferred Stock ( ESOP Preferred Stock ) to the trustee on behalf of the Company s 401(k) Plan hereinafter referred to:
     RESOLVED that a committee of one member of the Board of the Company is hereby appointed by the Board as the ESOP Preferred
Stock Committee I (the  First Committee ), which shall have and may exercise the full powers of the Board, subject to these resolutions, to issue from time to time one or more series of ESOP Preferred Stock, including any shares of Company
common stock ($1 2/3 par value) issuable upon conversion of ESOP Preferred Stock, and in connection therewith, to fix the designations, voting powers, preferences, and all other rights, qualifications and restrictions of such ESOP Preferred Stock,
to sell such ESOP Preferred Stock to the Plan on such terms and conditions and for such purchase price as the First Committee in its discretion shall approve, and to take any and all actions as the First Committee shall deem necessary or
appropriate.      2. Pursuant to resolutions adopted on February 24, 2009, the Board designated John G. Stumpf as the sole
member of the ESOP Committee, effective April 29, 2009.      3. On March 23, 2010, pursuant to authority conferred upon
it by the Board in the ESOP Board Resolutions, the ESOP Committee adopted the following resolutions by written consent in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law:   
         - 1 -

RESOLVED that the issuance of a series of Preferred Stock, without par value, of the Company
is hereby authorized and the designation, voting powers, preferences, and relative, participating, optional, and other special rights, and qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, in addition to those set forth in the Restated
Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as amended, are hereby fixed as follows:      2010 ESOP CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK
     1.  Designation and Number of Shares; Restricted Issue .   
  (a) The designation of the series of Preferred Stock, without par value, provided for herein shall be  2010 ESOP Cumulative
Convertible Preferred Stock  (hereinafter referred to as the  2010 ESOP Preferred Stock ) and the number of authorized shares constituting the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock is 1,000,000, based on an offering price for the 2010 ESOP
Preferred Stock of $1,080.00 per share. Each share of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have a stated value of $1,000.00 per share. The number of authorized shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock may be reduced by further resolution duly adopted by the
Board or the Securities Committee and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware stating that such reduction has been so authorized, provided, however, that the authorized number
of shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be decreased below the then outstanding number of such shares, and provided further that the number of authorized shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be increased. All shares of the 2010
ESOP Preferred Stock purchased, redeemed, or converted by the Company shall be retired and canceled and shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock, without designation as to series, and may thereafter be
issued, but not as shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock.      (b) Shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be issued only to a
trustee (the  Trustee ) acting on behalf of the Wells Fargo   Company 401(k) Plan, or any successor to such plan (the  Plan ). All references to the holder of shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall mean the Trustee or
any company with which or into which the Trustee may merge or any successor trustee under the trust agreement with respect to the Plan. In the event of any transfer of record ownership of shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock to any person other than
any successor trustee under the Plan, the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock so transferred, upon such transfer and without any further action by the Company or the holder thereof, shall be automatically converted into shares of the common stock,
par value $1-2/3 per share, of the Company (the  Common Stock ) on the terms otherwise provided for the conversion of the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to paragraph (a) of Section 4
hereof, and no such transferee shall have any of the voting powers, preferences, and relative, participating, optional or special rights ascribed to shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock hereunder but, rather, only the powers and rights pertaining to
the Common Stock into which such shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be so converted. In the event of such a conversion, the transferee of the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder of the
shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock have been automatically converted as of the date of such transfer. Shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock may be certificated or uncertificated, at the Company s option.
Certificates representing shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall bear a legend to reflect the foregoing provisions. In the case of uncertificated 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock, the transfer agent for the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall note the
foregoing provisions on each 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock book entry account. The Company may require that, as a condition to transferring record ownership of any uncertificated 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock, the proposed transferee acknowledge in writing
that the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock are subject to the foregoing provisions. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this paragraph (b) of Section 1, shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock (i)(A) shall be converted into shares of
Common Stock as provided in paragraph (a) of   
         - 2 -

Section 4 hereof, and (B) may be converted into shares of Common Stock as provided by paragraph (b) of Section 4 hereof and the shares of Common Stock issued upon such
conversion may be transferred by the holder thereof as permitted by law and (ii) shall be redeemable by the Company upon the terms and conditions provided in Sections 5 and 6(c) hereof.   
  2.  Voting Rights . No shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have voting rights except such voting rights as may from time to
time be required by law and as set forth in this Section 2, as follows:      (a) Whenever, at any time or times,
dividends payable on shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be in arrears for such number of dividend periods which shall in the aggregate contain not less than 540 days, the holders of the outstanding shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall
have the exclusive right, voting together as a class with holders of shares of any one or more other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity with the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or on the distribution of assets
upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable, to elect two directors of the Company at the Company s next annual meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent annual
meeting of stockholders. At elections for such directors, each holder of the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to one vote for each share held (the holders of shares of any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on such a parity
being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of Preferred Stock held as may be granted to them). Upon the vesting of such right of such holders, the maximum authorized number of members of the Board shall automatically be increased
by two and the two vacancies so created shall be filled by vote of the holders of such outstanding shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock (together with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of Preferred Stock ranking on such a parity
and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable) as herein set forth. The right of such holders of such shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock (voting together as a class with the holders of shares of any one or more other
series of Preferred Stock ranking on such a parity and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable) to elect members of the Board as aforesaid shall continue until such time as all dividends accumulated on such shares of
2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been paid in full, at which time such right with respect to such shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall terminate, except as herein or by law expressly provided, subject to revesting in the event of each and
every subsequent default of the character above mentioned.      (b) Upon any termination of the right of the holders of all
shares of Preferred Stock entitled to vote for directors as herein provided, the term of office of all directors then in office elected by such holders voting as a class shall terminate immediately. If the office of any director elected by such
holders voting as a class becomes vacant by reason of death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office or otherwise, the remaining director elected by such holders may choose a successor to fill such vacancy, which such
successor shall hold office for the unexpired term in respect of which such vacancy occurred. Whenever the term of office of the directors elected by such holders voting as a class shall end and the special voting powers vested in such holders as
provided in this resolution shall have expired, the number of directors shall be such number as may be provided for in the By-Laws of the Company irrespective of any increase made pursuant to the provisions of this resolution.   
  (c) So long as any shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the consent of the holders of the outstanding shares of
2010 ESOP Preferred Stock and outstanding shares of all other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity with such shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock either as to dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding
up and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable, by a vote of at least two-thirds of all such outstanding shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock and such other series of Preferred Stock voting together as a class, given in
person or by proxy, either in writing or at any special or annual meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary to permit, effect or validate any one or more of the following:   
         - 3 -

(i) the authorization, creation or issuance, or any increase in the authorized or
issued amount, of any class or series of stock ranking prior to shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock with respect to payment of dividends or the distribution of assets on liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or   
  (ii) the amendment, alteration or repeal, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise, of any of the provisions of the Restated
Certificate of Incorporation or of the resolutions set forth in a Certificate of Designations designating shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock and the preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights and qualifications,
limitations and restrictions thereof which would materially and adversely affect any right, preference, privilege or voting power of the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock or of the holders thereof; provided, however, that any increase in the
amount of authorized Preferred Stock, or the creation and issuance of other series of Preferred Stock, or any increase in the amount of authorized shares of any series of Preferred Stock, in each case ranking on a parity with or junior to the shares
of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, shall not be deemed to materially and adversely affect such rights, preferences, privileges or voting
powers.      (d) The foregoing voting provisions shall not apply if, at or prior to the time when the act with respect to
which such vote would otherwise be required shall be effected, all outstanding shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed or sufficient funds shall have been deposited in trust to effect such redemption.   
  3.  Dividends . (a)(i) Holders of shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive, when and as declared by the
Board or a duly authorized committee thereof, out of assets of the Company legally available for payment, an annual cash dividend of $95.00 (the  Base Dividend ) per share, which Base Dividend shall be subject to adjustment from time to
time as provided in this Section 3.      (ii) The Base Dividend shall be adjusted, effective on December 1, 2011
and on each December 1 thereafter until December 1, 2019, as follows:      (1) If the Current
Market Price (as hereinafter defined) of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or the next preceding Trading Day (as hereinafter defined) if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is
equal to or greater than the First Target Price but less than the Second Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then holders of shares of the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend for the immediately
following twelve month period equal to $100.00 per share (the  First Adjusted Dividend ).   
  (2) If the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or the next preceding Trading Day
if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is equal to or greater than the Second Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then holders of shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock will
be entitled to receive a cash dividend for the immediately following twelve month period equal to $105.00 per share (the  Second Adjusted Dividend ).      (3) If the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or next preceding Trading Day if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment
Table below is less than the First Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then the holders of shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled   
         - 4 -

to receive a cash dividend for the immediately following twelve month period equal to the Base Dividend.       Dividend Adjustment Table        
    (4) As an example of the adjustments described in subparagraphs (1) through
(3) above, if on November 30, 2011, the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock is $40.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately following twelve month period per share of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal
$100.00, with the first quarterly payment of such $100.00 dividend to be made on March 1, 2012. If on November 30, 2012, the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock is $60.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately
following twelve month period per share of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $105.00, with the first quarterly payment of such $105.00 dividend to be made on March 1, 2013. If on November 30, 2013, the Current Market Price of one share
of Common Stock is $40.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately following twelve month period per share of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $95.00, with the first quarterly payment of such $95.00 dividend to be made on
March 1, 2014.      (5) For purposes of this Section 3, the terms  First Adjusted
Dividend  and  Second Adjusted Dividend  are sometimes referred to as an  Adjusted Dividend;  the term  Current Market Price  shall have the meaning given to it in Section 4(c)(iv); and the term  Trading
Day  shall have the meaning given to it in Section 4(c)(vi).      (iii) If one share of Common Stock in any year
listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table shall be changed into a different number of shares or a different class of shares by reason of any reclassification, recapitalization, split-up, combination, exchange of shares or readjustment, or if a stock
dividend thereon shall be declared with a record date within such period, then the First Target Price and the Second Target Price listed in such table for that year and each subsequent year will be appropriately and proportionately adjusted.
     (iv) Dividends payable on shares of the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock (whether such dividends are equal to the Base
Dividend or to an Adjusted Dividend) shall be payable quarterly on March 1, June 1, September 1, and December 1 of each year, commencing June 1, 2010. Dividends on shares of the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock will be
cumulative from the date of initial issuance of such shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock. Dividends will be payable, in arrears, to holders of record as they appear on the stock books of the Company on such record dates, not more than 30 days nor
less than 15 days preceding the payment dates thereof, as shall be fixed by the Board or a duly authorized committee thereof. The amount of dividends payable per share for each dividend period shall be computed by dividing by four the Base Dividend
or the Adjusted Dividend, whichever is then applicable. The amount   
         - 5 -

of dividends payable for the initial dividend period or any period shorter than a full dividend period shall be calculated on the basis of actual days elapsed in a 360-day year of twelve 30-day
months.      (b)(i) No full dividends shall be declared or paid or set apart for payment on any stock of the Company ranking,
as to dividends, on a parity with or junior to the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock for any period unless full cumulative dividends have been or contemporaneously are declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set
apart for such payment on shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock for all dividend payment periods terminating on or prior to the date of payment of such full cumulative dividends. When dividends are not paid in full, as aforesaid, upon the shares of
2010 ESOP Preferred Stock and any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity as to dividends with 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock, all dividends declared upon shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock and any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on
a parity as to dividends with 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be declared pro rata so that the amount of dividends declared per share on 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock and such other series of Preferred Stock shall in all cases bear to each other the
same ratio that accrued dividends per share on the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock and such other series of Preferred Stock bear to each other. Holders of shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any dividend, whether payable
in cash, property, or stock, in excess of full cumulative dividends, as herein provided, on 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock. No interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any dividend payment or payments on 2010 ESOP
Preferred Stock which may be in arrears.      (ii) So long as any shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock are outstanding, no
dividend (other than dividends or distributions paid in shares of, or options, warrants, or rights to subscribe for or purchase shares of, Common Stock or any other stock ranking junior to 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon
liquidation and other than as provided in paragraph (b)(i) of this Section 3) shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment or other distribution declared or made upon Common Stock or any other capital stock of the Company ranking junior
to or on a parity with 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation, nor shall any Common Stock or any other capital stock of the Company ranking junior to or on a parity with 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon
liquidation be redeemed, purchased, or otherwise acquired for any consideration (or any moneys be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any shares of any such stock) by the Company (except by conversion into or exchange
for stock of the Company ranking junior to 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation), unless, in each case, the full cumulative dividends on all outstanding shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been paid or declared
and set aside for payment of the then current dividend payment period and all past dividend payment periods.   
  4.  Conversion . Shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock are convertible from time to time hereafter pursuant to the
provisions of paragraphs (a) or (b) of this Section 4 into that number of shares of Common Stock determined by dividing the stated value of each share of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock by the then applicable Conversion Price, (as
determined in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (c)(iii) of this Section 4), as follows:      (a) Each share
of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock released from the unallocated reserve of the Plan in accordance with the terms thereof shall be automatically converted, without any further action by the Company or the holder thereof, as of the date such release occurs
(the  Release Date ), into fully paid and nonassessable shares of Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Price for the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock provided for in paragraph (c) of this Section 4.   
         - 6 -

(b) Subject to and upon compliance with the provisions of this Section 4, a holder
of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled at any time, prior to the close of business on the date fixed for redemption of such shares pursuant to Sections 5 or 6 hereof, to cause any or all of the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock held by
such holder to be converted into fully paid and nonassessable shares of Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Price for 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock provided for in paragraph (c) of this Section 4.   
  (c) For purposes of these resolutions, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:   
  (i) The  Average Current Market Price  per share of Common Stock on any date shall be deemed to be the average of the
Current Market Price for one share of Common Stock for the twenty (20) consecutive Trading Days ending on the Trading Day occurring prior to the date the  Purchase Offer  is made (as that term is defined in Section 6(d) hereof).
     (ii) A  Business Day  means each day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or a day on which state or federally
chartered banking institutions in the State of New York are not required to be open.      (iii) (A) For purposes of a
mandatory conversion of shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 4, the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be
the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on the relevant Release Date.      (B) For purposes of an optional
conversion of shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section 4, the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be the Current
Market Price of one share of Common Stock on the date the Conversion Notice (as that term is defined in paragraph (d) of this Section 4) is received by the Company, by the transfer agent for the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock or by any agent
for conversion of the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock designated as such pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section 4.   
  (C) For purposes of a conversion of shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock in connection with a
 Purchase Offer  (as defined in Section 6(d) hereof), the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be the Average Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock.   
  Each share of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be valued at its stated value of $1,000.00 for purposes of computing, based on the applicable Conversion
Price, the number of shares of Common Stock into which the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock will be converted.   
  (iv) The  Current Market Price  of publicly traded shares of Common Stock or any other class of capital stock or other
security of the Company or any other issuer for any day shall mean the reported last sale price, regular way, or, in case no sale takes place on such day, the average of the reported closing bid and asked prices, regular way, in either case as
reported on the New York Stock Exchange only or, if the Common Stock is not listed or admitted to trading on the New York Stock Exchange, on the principal national securities exchange on which the Common Stock is listed or admitted to trading or, if
not listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange, on the National Market System of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotations System ( NASDAQ ) or, if the Common Stock is not quoted on
such National Market System, the average of the   
         - 7 -

closing bid and asked prices on such day in the over-the-counter market as reported by NASDAQ or, if bid and asked prices for the Common Stock on each such day shall not have been reported
through NASDAQ, the average of the bid and asked prices for such day as furnished by any New York Stock Exchange member firm regularly making a market in the Common Stock selected for such purpose by the Board or a committee thereof or, if no such
quotations are available, the fair market value of the Common Stock as determined by a New York Stock Exchange member firm regularly making a market in the Common Stock selected for such purpose by the Board or a committee thereof.   
  (v)  Common Stock  shall mean the Common Stock of the Company as the same exists at the date of this Certificate of
Designations or as such stock may be constituted from time to time.      (vi)  Trading Day  with respect to Common
Stock means (x) if the Common Stock is listed or admitted for trading on the New York Stock Exchange or another national securities exchange, a day on which the New York Stock Exchange or such other national securities exchange is open for
business or (y) if the Common Stock is quoted on the National Market System of NASDAQ, a day on which trades may be made on such National Market System or (z) otherwise, any Business Day.   
  (d) In connection with any conversion of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to this Section 4, a written notice of conversion (the
 Conversion Notice ) shall be delivered to the Company at its principal executive office or the offices of the transfer agent for the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock or such office or offices in the continental United States of an agent for
conversion as may from time to time be designated by notice to the holders of the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock by the Company or the transfer agent for the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock, which notice shall be accompanied by (a) in the case of
certificated 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock, the certificate or certificates representing the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted pursuant to this Section 4, duly assigned or endorsed for transfer to the Company (or accompanied by
duly executed stock powers relating thereto) and (b) in the case of uncertificated 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock, duly executed assignment and transfer documents for the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted pursuant to this
Section 4. Each Conversion Notice shall specify (i)(y) in the case of a mandatory conversion pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 4, the number of shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock released from the unallocated reserve of the
Plan on the Release Date or (z) in the case of an optional conversion pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 4, the number of shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted, and (ii) in connection with any conversion
hereunder, (x) the name or names in which such holder wishes the certificate or certificates for Common Stock and, in the case of certificated 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock, for any shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock not to be so converted to be
issued, (y) the address to which such holder wishes delivery to be made of such new certificates to be issued upon such conversion, and (z) such other information as the Company or its agents may reasonably request.   
  (e) Upon delivery to the Company or the transfer agent for the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock of the Conversion Notice and all other
documentation and certificates required to effect the conversion, as provided in paragraph (d) of this Section 4, the Company shall issue and send by hand delivery, by courier or by first-class mail (postage prepaid) to the holder thereof
or to such holder s designee, at the address designated by such holder, a certificate or certificates for the number of shares of Common Stock to which such holder shall be entitled upon conversion. If there shall have been surrendered a
certificate or certificates representing shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock only part of which are to be converted, the Company shall issue and deliver to such holder or such holder s designee, in the manner set forth in the preceding
sentence, a new certificate or certificates representing the number of shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock which shall not have been converted.   
         - 8 -

(f) The issuance by the Company of shares of Common Stock upon a conversion of shares
of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock made pursuant to this Section 4 shall be effective (i) in the case of a mandatory conversion of shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to paragraph (a) of this
Section 4, as of the Release Date; and (ii) in the case of an optional conversion of such shares pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 4, as of the earlier of (A) the delivery to such holder or such holder s
designee of the certificates representing the shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion thereof or (B) the commencement of business on the second Business Day after the delivery to the Company or the transfer agent for the 2010 ESOP
Preferred Stock of the Conversion Notice and all other documentation and certificates required to effect the conversion, as provided in paragraph (d) of this Section 4. On and after the effective date of conversion, the person or persons
entitled to receive the Common Stock issuable upon such conversion shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder or holders of such shares of Common Stock, but no allowance or adjustment shall be made in respect of dividends payable to
holders of Common Stock in respect of any period prior to such effective date. The Company shall not be obligated to pay any dividends which shall have accrued or have been declared and shall be payable to holders of shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred
Stock if the date on which such dividends are paid is on or after the effective date of conversion of such shares.   
  (g) The Company shall not be obligated to deliver to holders of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock any fractional share or shares of Common
Stock issuable upon any conversion of such shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock, but in lieu thereof may make a cash payment in respect thereof in any manner permitted by law.      (h) The Company shall at all times reserve and keep available out of its authorized and unissued Common Stock, solely for issuance upon the conversion of shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock as herein
provided, free from any preemptive rights, such number of shares of Common Stock as shall from time to time be issuable upon the conversion of all the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock then outstanding.   
  (i) The Company will use its best efforts to cause the listing of the shares of Common Stock required to be delivered upon
conversion of the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock prior to distribution to Plan participants on the national securities exchange, if any, upon which the outstanding Common Stock is listed at the time of such delivery.   
  (j) The Company will pay any and all documentary stamp or similar issue or transfer taxes payable in respect of the issue or
delivery of shares of Common Stock on conversions of the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant hereto; provided, however, that the Company shall not be required to pay any tax which may be payable in respect of any transfer involved in the issue or
delivery of shares of Common Stock in a name other than that of the holder of the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock to be converted and no such issue or delivery shall be made unless and until the person requesting such issue or delivery has paid to the
Company the amount of any such tax or has established, to the satisfaction of the Company, that such tax has been paid.   
  5.  Redemption At the Option of the Company . (a) The 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be redeemable, in whole or in
part, at the option of the Company at any time, at a redemption price per share of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock equal to the higher of (x) $1,000.00 per share, plus an amount equal to all accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for
redemption, and (y) the Fair Market Value (as that term is defined in paragraph (d) of this Section 5) per share of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock on the date fixed for redemption. Payment of the redemption price shall be made by the
Company in cash or shares of Common Stock, or a combination thereof, as permitted by paragraph (c) of this Section 5. From and after the date fixed for redemption, dividends on shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock called for redemption will
cease to accrue and all rights in respect of such shares of the Company   
         - 9 -

shall cease, except the right to receive the redemption price. Upon payment of the redemption price, such shares shall be deemed to have been transferred to the Company, to be retired as provided
in paragraph (a) of Section 1. If the full cumulative dividends have not been paid, or contemporaneously declared and set aside for payment, on all outstanding shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock, the Company may not redeem fewer than all
the outstanding shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to this Section 5.      (b) Unless otherwise required by
law, notice of any redemption pursuant to this Section 5 will be sent to the holders of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock at the address shown on the books of the Company or any transfer agent for the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock by hand delivery, by
courier, by standard form of telecommunication or by first-class mail (postage prepaid) delivered, sent or mailed, as the case may be, not less than twenty (20) days nor more than sixty (60) days prior to the redemption date. Each such
notice shall state: (i) the redemption date; (ii) the total number of shares of the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed
from such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) whether the redemption price shall be paid in cash or in shares of Common Stock, or in a combination of such Common Stock and cash; (v) in the case of certificated 2010 ESOP Preferred
Stock the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; (vi) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on such redemption date; and (vii) the conversion
rights of the shares to be redeemed, the period within which conversion rights may be exercised and the manner in which the number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of a share of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock will be determined. The
Company shall redeem shares so called for redemption and not previously converted at the date fixed for redemption and at the redemption price set forth in this Section 5, provided that, in the case of certificated 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock,
the Company shall not be obligated to pay the redemption price until the certificates for the shares to be redeemed are surrendered (properly endorsed or assigned for transfer, if the Board of Directors of the Company shall so require and the notice
shall so state).      (c) The Company, at its option, may make payment of the redemption price required upon redemption of
shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock in cash or in shares of Common Stock, or in a combination of such Common Stock and cash, any such shares of Common Stock to be valued for such purposes at their Fair Market Value (as defined in paragraph (d)(ii)
of this Section 5) or their Current Market Price, in either case as of the date fixed for redemption of the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock, whichever value will result in the issuance of the greater number of shares of Common Stock to the holder of
the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock then being redeemed.      (d) For purposes of these resolutions, the following terms shall have
the meanings set forth below:      (i)  Adjustment Period  shall mean the period of five (5) consecutive
Trading Days preceding the date as of which the Fair Market Value of a security is to be determined.      (ii)  Fair
Market Value  shall mean, as to shares of Common Stock or any other class of capital stock or securities of the Company or any other issue which are publicly traded, the average of the Current Market Prices of such shares or securities for each
day of the Adjustment Period. The  Fair Market Value  of any security which is not publicly traded (other than the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock) or of any other property shall mean the fair value thereof on the date as of which the Fair
Market Value of the security is to be determined, as determined by an independent investment banking or appraisal firm experienced in the valuation of such securities or property selected in good faith by the Board or a committee thereof. The
 Fair Market Value  of the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock for purposes of paragraph (a) of Section 5, and for purposes of paragraph (c) of Section 6 shall mean the fair market value thereof determined by an independent
appraiser, appointed by the Trustee of the Plan in accordance   
         - 10 -

with the provisions of the Plan, as of the date fixed for redemption of the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock (in the case of a redemption pursuant to Section 5) or as of the date specified in
paragraph (c) of Section 6 (in the case of a redemption under that section). For purposes of determining the Fair Market Value of the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock, the independent appraiser shall assume (i) that all dividends on the 2010
ESOP Preferred Stock would have been paid when due, and (ii) that the mandatory conversion of shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock held by the Plan into shares of Common Stock pursuant to Section 4(a) hereof would have occurred when and as
payments of principal (together with accrued interest thereon) would have been made by the Trustee of the Plan in accordance with the terms of that certain 2010 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock Note Agreement dated on or about
March 26, 2010 between the Company and the Plan (including any amendments or modifications thereto).   
  6.  Consolidation, Merger, etc.  (a) If the Company consummates any consolidation or merger or similar business
combination, pursuant to which the outstanding shares of Common Stock are by operation of law exchanged solely for or changed, reclassified or converted solely into stock of any successor or resulting corporation (including the Company) that
constitutes  qualifying employer securities  with respect to a holder of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock within the meaning of Section 409(1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and Section 407(d)(5) of the Employee
Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, or any successor provisions of law, and, if applicable, for a cash payment in lieu of fractional shares, if any, the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock of such holder shall, in connection with
such consolidation, merger or similar business combination, be assumed by and shall become Preferred Stock of such successor or resulting corporation, having in respect of such corporation, insofar as possible, the same powers, preferences and
relative, participating, optional or other special rights (including the redemption rights provided by Sections 5 and 6 hereof), and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereon, that the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock had immediately prior to
such transaction, subject to the following:      (1) After such transaction each share of the 2010 ESOP
Preferred Stock shall be convertible, otherwise on the terms and conditions provided by Section 4 hereof, into the number and kind of qualifying employer securities so receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which
such shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior to such transaction.   
  (2) The Company shall not consummate any such merger, consolidation or similar transaction unless all then
outstanding shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be assumed and authorized by the successor or resulting corporation as aforesaid.      (b) If the Company consummates any consolidation or merger or similar business combination, pursuant to which the outstanding shares of Common Stock are by operation of law exchanged for or changed,
reclassified or converted into other stock or securities or cash or any other property, or any combination thereof, other than any such consideration which is constituted solely of qualifying employer securities (as referred to in paragraph
(a) of this Section 6) and cash payments, if applicable, in lieu of fractional shares, outstanding shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, without any action on the part of the Company or any holder thereof (but subject to paragraph
(c) of this Section 6), be automatically converted by virtue of such merger, consolidation or similar transaction immediately prior to such consummation into the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2010 ESOP
Preferred Stock could have been converted at such time so that each share of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, by virtue of such transaction and on the same terms as apply to the holders of Common Stock, be converted into or exchanged for the
aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash or other property (payable in like kind) receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior to
such transaction. However, if by virtue of the structure of such transaction, a holder of Common Stock is   
         - 11 -

required to make an election with respect to the nature and kind of consideration to be received in such transaction, which election cannot practicably be made by the holders of the 2010 ESOP
Preferred Stock, then the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, by virtue of such transaction and on the same terms as apply to the holders of Common Stock, be converted into or exchanged for the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash or
other property (payable in kind) receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior to such transaction if such holder of Common Stock failed
to exercise any rights of election as to the kind or amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable upon such transaction. If the kind or amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable upon such transaction is not the
same for each non-electing share, then the kind and amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable upon such transaction for each non-electing share shall be the kind and amount so receivable per share by a plurality of the
non-electing shares.      (c) In the event the Company shall enter into any agreement providing for any consolidation or
merger or similar business combination described in paragraph (b) of this Section 6 (a  Business Combination ), then the Company shall as soon as practicable thereafter (and in any event at least fifteen (15) Business Days
before consummation of such transaction) give notice of such agreement and the material terms thereof to each holder of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock and each such holder shall have the right to elect, by written notice to the Company, to receive, upon
consummation of such transaction (if and when such transaction is consummated), from the Company or the successor of the Company, in redemption and retirement of such 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock, a cash payment per share of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock
equal to the higher of (x) $1,000.00, plus accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date of consummation of such transaction or (y) the Fair Market Value per share of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock, as of the last Business Day (as defined in
paragraph (c) of Section 4 hereof) immediately preceding the date the Business Combination is consummated. No such notice of redemption shall be effective unless given to the Company prior to the close of business on the last Business Day
prior to consummation of such transaction, unless the Company or the successor of the Company shall waive such prior notice, but any notice of redemption so given prior to such time may be withdrawn by notice of withdrawal given to the Company prior
to the close of business on the last Business Day prior to consummation of such transaction.      (d) In the event that a
Purchase Offer (as defined below) shall have been made and shall be continuing, each holder of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have the right to convert shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock at the Conversion Price
specified in Section 4(c)(iii)(C) hereof until the date the Purchase Offer is terminated, including without limitation because the original Purchase Offer is withdrawn or because the Purchase Offer has expired and is not renewed, upon notice of
such conversion given to the Company not later than the close of business on the date the Purchase Offer terminates (the  Purchase Offer Conversion Period ), unless the Company or any successor of the Company shall waive such prior notice,
but any notice of conversion so given may be withdrawn by notice of withdrawal given to the Company prior to the end of the Purchase Offer Conversion Period.      For purposes of this paragraph (d), the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:      (i)  Beneficial Ownership  shall have the meaning ascribed to it in Rule 13d-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ) and  person  shall have the
meanings specified in Sections 3(a)(9) and 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act.      (ii) A  Purchase Offer  shall have
been made when any person (other than the Company or any affiliate of the Company) shall have  commenced  (as such term is defined in Rule 14d-2   
         - 12 -

under the Exchange Act) a tender offer or exchange offer to purchase shares of Common Stock, such that, upon consummation of such offer, such person would have Beneficial Ownership (as defined
herein) or the right to acquire Beneficial Ownership, of twenty percent (20%) or more of the voting power of the Company.   
  7.  Liquidation Rights . (a) Upon the dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, the holders of the shares of
2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive and to be paid out of the assets of the Company available for distribution to its stockholders, before any payment or distribution shall be made on the Common Stock or any other class of stock
ranking junior to 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock upon liquidation, the amount of $1,000.00 per share, plus a sum equal to all dividends (whether or not earned or declared) on such shares accrued and unpaid thereon to the date of final distribution.
     (b) Neither the sale of all or substantially all the property and assets of the Company, nor the merger or consolidation
of the Company into or with any other corporation, nor the merger or consolidation of any other corporation into or with the Company shall be deemed to be a dissolution, liquidation, or winding up, voluntary or involuntary, for the purposes of this
Section 7.      (c) After the payment to the holders of the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock of the full preferential
amounts provided for in this Section 7, the holders of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock, as such, shall have no right or claim to any of the remaining assets of the Company.      (d) In the event the assets of the Company available for distribution to the holders of shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock upon any dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, whether
voluntary or involuntary, shall be insufficient to pay in full all amounts to which such holders are entitled pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 7, no such distribution shall be made on account of any shares of any other series of
Preferred Stock or other capital stock of the Company ranking on a parity with the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock upon such dissolution, liquidation, or winding up unless proportionate distributive amounts shall be paid on account of the shares
of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock, ratably, in proportion to the full distributable amounts for which holders of all such parity shares are respectively entitled upon such dissolution, liquidation, or winding up.   
  (e) Subject to the rights of the holders of the shares of any series or class or classes of stock ranking on a parity with or prior
to the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock upon liquidation, dissolution, or winding up, upon any liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Company, after payment shall have been made in full to the holders of the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred
Stock as provided in this Section 7, but not prior thereto, any other series or class or classes of stock ranking junior to the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock upon liquidation shall, subject to the respective terms and provisions (if any)
applying thereto, be entitled to receive any and all assets remaining to be paid or distributed, and the holders of the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to share therein.   
  8.  Ranking . For the purposes of these resolutions, any stock of any series or class or classes of the Company shall be
deemed to rank:      (a) prior to the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, if the
holders of such series or class or classes shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders of shares
of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock;   
         - 13 -

(b) on a parity with shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or
upon liquidation, whether or not the dividend rates, dividend payment dates, or redemption or liquidation prices per share, or sinking fund provisions, if any, be different from those of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock, if the holders of such stock shall
be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as the case may be, in proportion to their respective dividend rates or liquidation prices, without preference or
priority, one over the other, as between the holders of such stock and the holders of shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock; and   
  (c) junior to shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, if such class shall be Common Stock
or if the holders of shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders
of shares of such series or class or classes.      9.  Priority of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock . The shares of 2010
ESOP Preferred Stock will rank on a parity, both as to payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, with the Company s 2001 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2002 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred
Stock, its 2003 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2004 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2005 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2006 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2007 ESOP Cumulative
Convertible Preferred Stock and its 2008 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock.      IN WITNESS
WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Certificate of Designations to be signed by John G. Stumpf, its Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and attested by Jeannine E. Zahn, its Assistant Secretary, whereby such President and Chief
Executive Officer affirms, under penalties of perjury, that this Certificate of Designations is the act and deed of the Company and that the facts stated herein are true, this  23  rd       day of March, 2010.    

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY   

By  
     
    /s/ John G. Stumpf    

John G. Stumpf   

Chairman, President and   

Chief Executive Officer   

Attest:   

/s/ Jeannine E. Zahn    
 
  Jeannine E. Zahn   
 
  Assistant Secretary   
    [As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on March 23, 2010.]   
         - 14 -

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY   
         
  CERTIFICATE OF AMENDMENT      OF      CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION   
         
  Pursuant to Section 242 of the      General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware        
       Laurel A.
Holschuh, Senior Vice President, and Rachelle M. Graham, Assistant Secretary, of Wells Fargo   Company, a corporation organized and existing under and by virtue of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the
 Company ), do hereby certify:      FIRST: That at a meeting of the Board of Directors of the Company duly held on
February 23, 2010, a resolution was duly adopted setting forth a proposed amendment of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, declaring the advisability of the amendment, and directing that the amendment be presented to
stockholders of the Company for their consideration at the next annual meeting of the stockholders to be held on April 27, 2010. The resolution setting forth the proposed amendment is as follows:   
  RESOLVED that an amendment to ARTICLE FOURTH of the Company s Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, to
increase the authorized common stock to 9,000,000,000 shares is hereby proposed and declared advisable, and the following amendment to the first sentence of ARTICLE FOURTH is hereby directed to be presented to the stockholders of the Company for
consideration at the annual meeting of stockholders to be held on April 27, 2010:      FOURTH: The total number of shares of
all classes of stock which the corporation shall have authority to issue is Nine Billion Twenty-Four Million (9,024,000,000), consisting of Twenty Million (20,000,000) shares of Preferred Stock without par value, Four Million
(4,000,000) shares of Preference Stock without par value, and Nine Billion (9,000,000,000) shares of Common Stock of the par value of $1 2/3 per share.      SECOND: That at such annual meeting of stockholders, duly called and held upon notice in accordance with Section 222 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, which notice set forth in
full the proposed amendment, a majority of the outstanding shares of common stock of the Company were voted in favor of the amendment.      THIRD: That the amendment was duly adopted in accordance with the provisions of Section 242 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.   
         - 1 -

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, WELLS FARGO   COMPANY has caused this
Certificate to be signed by Laurel A. Holschuh, its Senior Vice President, and attested by Rachelle M. Graham, its Assistant Secretary, this  29  th       day of April, 2010.    

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY:   

(Corporate Seal)  

By:  
      
    /s/ Laurel A. Holschuh    

Senior Vice President   
    ATTEST:       

By:  
     
    /s/ Rachelle M. Graham    

Assistant Secretary   
    [As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on April 29, 2010.]   
         - 2 -

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY   
         
  CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS      Pursuant to Section 151 of the      General Corporation Law of the State of
Delaware             
  2011 ESOP CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK      (Without Par Value)        
       WELLS
FARGO   COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the  Company ), HEREBY CERTIFIES that, pursuant to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Company (the
 Board ) by the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as amended, which authorizes the issuance of not more than 20,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, without par value (the  Preferred Stock ),
and pursuant to authority conferred upon the ESOP Preferred Stock Committee I of the Board (the  ESOP Committee ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the  General Corporation
Law ) and by the resolutions of the Board set forth herein, the following resolutions were duly adopted by the Board at meetings of the Board duly held on January 25, 2000 and February 24, 2009, and by the ESOP Committee pursuant to
the written consent of the ESOP Committee duly adopted on March 15, 2011, in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law:      1. On January 25, 2000, the Board adopted the following resolutions (the  ESOP Board Resolutions ) appointing the ESOP Committee and delegating to the ESOP Committee the full powers of the
Board, subject to the ESOP Board Resolutions, in all matters relating to issuance of one or more series of Preferred Stock ( ESOP Preferred Stock ) to the trustee on behalf of the Company s 401(k) Plan hereinafter referred to:
     RESOLVED that a committee of one member of the Board of the Company is hereby appointed by the Board as the ESOP Preferred
Stock Committee I (the  First Committee ), which shall have and may exercise the full powers of the Board, subject to these resolutions, to issue from time to time one or more series of ESOP Preferred Stock, including any shares of Company
common stock ($1 2/3 par value) issuable upon conversion of ESOP Preferred Stock, and in connection therewith, to fix the designations, voting powers, preferences, and all other rights, qualifications and restrictions of such ESOP Preferred Stock,
to sell such ESOP Preferred Stock to the Plan on such terms and conditions and for such purchase price as the First Committee in its discretion shall approve, and to take any and all actions as the First Committee shall deem necessary or
appropriate.      2. Pursuant to resolutions adopted on February 24, 2009, the Board designated John G. Stumpf as the sole
member of the ESOP Committee, effective April 29, 2009.      3. On March 15, 2011, pursuant to authority conferred upon
it by the Board in the ESOP Board Resolutions, the ESOP Committee adopted the following resolutions by written consent in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law:   
  RESOLVED that the issuance of a series of Preferred Stock, without par value, of the Company is hereby authorized and the designation,
voting powers, preferences, and relative, participating, optional,   
         1   

and other special rights, and qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, in addition to those set forth in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as amended, are
hereby fixed as follows:      2011 ESOP CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK   
  1.  Designation and Number of Shares; Restricted Issue .   
  (a) The designation of the series of Preferred Stock, without par value, provided for herein shall be  2011 ESOP Cumulative
Convertible Preferred Stock  (hereinafter referred to as the  2011 ESOP Preferred Stock ) and the number of authorized shares constituting the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock is 1,200,000, based on an offering price for the 2011 ESOP
Preferred Stock of $1,085.00 per share. Each share of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have a stated value of $1,000.00 per share. The number of authorized shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock may be reduced by further resolution duly adopted by the
Board or the Securities Committee and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware stating that such reduction has been so authorized, provided, however, that the authorized number
of shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be decreased below the then outstanding number of such shares, and provided further that the number of authorized shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be increased. All shares of the 2011
ESOP Preferred Stock purchased, redeemed, or converted by the Company shall be retired and canceled and shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock, without designation as to series, and may thereafter be
issued, but not as shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock.      (b) Shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be issued only to
a trustee (the  Trustee ) acting on behalf of the Wells Fargo   Company 401(k) Plan, or any successor to such plan (the  Plan ). All references to the holder of shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall mean the Trustee
or any company with which or into which the Trustee may merge or any successor trustee under the trust agreement with respect to the Plan. In the event of any transfer of record ownership of shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock to any person other
than any successor trustee under the Plan, the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock so transferred, upon such transfer and without any further action by the Company or the holder thereof, shall be automatically converted into shares of the common
stock, par value $1-2/3 per share, of the Company (the  Common Stock ) on the terms otherwise provided for the conversion of the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to paragraph (a) of
Section 4 hereof, and no such transferee shall have any of the voting powers, preferences, and relative, participating, optional or special rights ascribed to shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock hereunder but, rather, only the powers and rights
pertaining to the Common Stock into which such shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be so converted. In the event of such a conversion, the transferee of the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be treated for all purposes as the record
holder of the shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock have been automatically converted as of the date of such transfer. Shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock may be certificated or uncertificated, at the
Company s option. Certificates representing shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall bear a legend to reflect the foregoing provisions. In the case of uncertificated 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock, the transfer agent for the 2011 ESOP Preferred
Stock shall note the foregoing provisions on each 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock book entry account. The Company may require that, as a condition to transferring record ownership of any uncertificated 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock, the proposed transferee
acknowledge in writing that the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock are subject to the foregoing provisions. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this paragraph (b) of Section 1, shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock (i)(A) shall be
converted into shares of Common Stock as provided in paragraph (a) of Section 4 hereof, and (B) may be converted into shares of Common Stock as provided by paragraph (b) of Section 4 hereof and the shares of Common Stock
issued upon such conversion may be transferred by the   
         2   

holder thereof as permitted by law and (ii) shall be redeemable by the Company upon the terms and conditions provided in Sections 5 and 6(c) hereof.   
  2.  Voting Rights . No shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have voting rights except such voting rights as may from time
to time be required by law and as set forth in this Section 2, as follows:      (a) Whenever, at any time or times,
dividends payable on shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be in arrears for such number of dividend periods which shall in the aggregate contain not less than 540 days, the holders of the outstanding shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall
have the exclusive right, voting together as a class with holders of shares of any one or more other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity with the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or on the distribution of assets
upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable, to elect two directors of the Company at the Company s next annual meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent annual
meeting of stockholders. At elections for such directors, each holder of the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to one vote for each share held (the holders of shares of any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on such a parity
being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of Preferred Stock held as may be granted to them). Upon the vesting of such right of such holders, the maximum authorized number of members of the Board shall automatically be increased
by two and the two vacancies so created shall be filled by vote of the holders of such outstanding shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock (together with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of Preferred Stock ranking on such a parity
and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable) as herein set forth. The right of such holders of such shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock (voting together as a class with the holders of shares of any one or more other
series of Preferred Stock ranking on such a parity and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable) to elect members of the Board as aforesaid shall continue until such time as all dividends accumulated on such shares of
2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been paid in full, at which time such right with respect to such shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall terminate, except as herein or by law expressly provided, subject to revesting in the event of each and
every subsequent default of the character above mentioned.      (b) Upon any termination of the right of the holders of all
shares of Preferred Stock entitled to vote for directors as herein provided, the term of office of all directors then in office elected by such holders voting as a class shall terminate immediately. If the office of any director elected by such
holders voting as a class becomes vacant by reason of death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office or otherwise, the remaining director elected by such holders may choose a successor to fill such vacancy, which such
successor shall hold office for the unexpired term in respect of which such vacancy occurred. Whenever the term of office of the directors elected by such holders voting as a class shall end and the special voting powers vested in such holders as
provided in this resolution shall have expired, the number of directors shall be such number as may be provided for in the By-Laws of the Company irrespective of any increase made pursuant to the provisions of this resolution.   
  (c) So long as any shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the consent of the holders of the outstanding shares of
2011 ESOP Preferred Stock and outstanding shares of all other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity with such shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock either as to dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding
up and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable, by a vote of at least two-thirds of all such outstanding shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock and such other series of Preferred Stock voting together as a class, given in
person or by proxy, either in writing or at any special or annual meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary to permit, effect or validate any one or more of the following:   
         3   

(i) the authorization, creation or issuance, or any increase in the authorized or
issued amount, of any class or series of stock ranking prior to shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock with respect to payment of dividends or the distribution of assets on liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or   
  (ii) the amendment, alteration or repeal, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise, of any of the provisions of the Restated
Certificate of Incorporation or of the resolutions set forth in a Certificate of Designations designating shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock and the preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights and qualifications,
limitations and restrictions thereof which would materially and adversely affect any right, preference, privilege or voting power of the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock or of the holders thereof; provided, however, that any increase in the
amount of authorized Preferred Stock, or the creation and issuance of other series of Preferred Stock, or any increase in the amount of authorized shares of any series of Preferred Stock, in each case ranking on a parity with or junior to the shares
of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, shall not be deemed to materially and adversely affect such rights, preferences, privileges or voting
powers.      (d) The foregoing voting provisions shall not apply if, at or prior to the time when the act with respect to
which such vote would otherwise be required shall be effected, all outstanding shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed or sufficient funds shall have been deposited in trust to effect such redemption.   
  3.  Dividends . (a)(i) Holders of shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive, when and as declared by the
Board or a duly authorized committee thereof, out of assets of the Company legally available for payment, an annual cash dividend of $90.00 (the  Base Dividend ) per share, which Base Dividend shall be subject to adjustment from time to
time as provided in this Section 3.      (ii) The Base Dividend shall be adjusted, effective on December 1, 2012
and on each December 1 thereafter until December 1, 2020, as follows:      (1) If the Current
Market Price (as hereinafter defined) of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or the next preceding Trading Day (as hereinafter defined) if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is
equal to or greater than the First Target Price but less than the Second Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then holders of shares of the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend for the immediately
following twelve month period equal to $95.00 per share (the  First Adjusted Dividend ).   
  (2) If the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or the next preceding Trading Day
if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is equal to or greater than the Second Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then holders of shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock will
be entitled to receive a cash dividend for the immediately following twelve month period equal to $100.00 per share (the  Second Adjusted Dividend ).      (3) If the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or next preceding Trading Day if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment
Table below is less than the First Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then the holders of shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend for the immediately following twelve month period equal to
the Base Dividend.   
         4   

Dividend Adjustment Table     
   
    (4) As an example of the adjustments described in subparagraphs (1) through
(3) above, if on November 30, 2012, the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock is $40.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately following twelve month period per share of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal
$95.00, with the first quarterly payment of such $95.00 dividend to be made on March 1, 2013. If on November 30, 2013, the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock is $60.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately
following twelve month period per share of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $100.00, with the first quarterly payment of such $100.00 dividend to be made on March 1, 2014. If on November 30, 2014, the Current Market Price of one share
of Common Stock is $40.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately following twelve month period per share of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $90.00, with the first quarterly payment of such $90.00 dividend to be made on
March 1, 2015.      (5) For purposes of this Section 3, the terms  First Adjusted
Dividend  and  Second Adjusted Dividend  are sometimes referred to as an  Adjusted Dividend;  the term  Current Market Price  shall have the meaning given to it in Section 4(c)(iv); and the term  Trading
Day  shall have the meaning given to it in Section 4(c)(vi).      (iii) If one share of Common Stock in any year
listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table shall be changed into a different number of shares or a different class of shares by reason of any reclassification, recapitalization, split-up, combination, exchange of shares or readjustment, or if a stock
dividend thereon shall be declared with a record date within such period, then the First Target Price and the Second Target Price listed in such table for that year and each subsequent year will be appropriately and proportionately adjusted.
     (iv) Dividends payable on shares of the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock (whether such dividends are equal to the Base
Dividend or to an Adjusted Dividend) shall be payable quarterly on March 1, June 1, September 1, and December 1 of each year, commencing June 1, 2011. Dividends on shares of the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock will be
cumulative from the date of initial issuance of such shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock. Dividends will be payable, in arrears, to holders of record as they appear on the stock books of the Company on such record dates, not more than 30 days nor
less than 15 days preceding the payment dates thereof, as shall be fixed by the Board or a duly authorized committee thereof. The amount of dividends payable per share for each dividend period shall be computed by dividing by four the Base Dividend
or the Adjusted Dividend, whichever is then applicable. The amount of dividends payable for the initial dividend period or any period shorter than a full dividend period shall be calculated on the basis of actual days elapsed in a 360-day year of
twelve 30-day months.   
         5   

(b)(i) No full dividends shall be declared or paid or set apart for payment on any
stock of the Company ranking, as to dividends, on a parity with or junior to the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock for any period unless full cumulative dividends have been or contemporaneously are declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the
payment thereof has been set apart for such payment on shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock for all dividend payment periods terminating on or prior to the date of payment of such full cumulative dividends. When dividends are not paid in full, as
aforesaid, upon the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock and any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity as to dividends with 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock, all dividends declared upon shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock and any other series
of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity as to dividends with 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be declared pro rata so that the amount of dividends declared per share on 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock and such other series of Preferred Stock shall in all
cases bear to each other the same ratio that accrued dividends per share on the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock and such other series of Preferred Stock bear to each other. Holders of shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to
any dividend, whether payable in cash, property, or stock, in excess of full cumulative dividends, as herein provided, on 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock. No interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any dividend
payment or payments on 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock which may be in arrears.      (ii) So long as any shares of 2011 ESOP
Preferred Stock are outstanding, no dividend (other than dividends or distributions paid in shares of, or options, warrants, or rights to subscribe for or purchase shares of, Common Stock or any other stock ranking junior to 2011 ESOP Preferred
Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation and other than as provided in paragraph (b)(i) of this Section 3) shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment or other distribution declared or made upon Common Stock or any other capital stock
of the Company ranking junior to or on a parity with 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation, nor shall any Common Stock or any other capital stock of the Company ranking junior to or on a parity with 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock
as to dividends or upon liquidation be redeemed, purchased, or otherwise acquired for any consideration (or any moneys be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any shares of any such stock) by the Company (except by
conversion into or exchange for stock of the Company ranking junior to 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation), unless, in each case, the full cumulative dividends on all outstanding shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall
have been paid or declared and set aside for payment of the then current dividend payment period and all past dividend payment periods.      4.  Conversion . Shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock are convertible from time to time hereafter pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs (a) or (b) of this Section 4 into
that number of shares of Common Stock determined by dividing the stated value of each share of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock by the then applicable Conversion Price, (as determined in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (c)(iii) of this
Section 4), as follows:      (a) Each share of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock released from the unallocated reserve of the
Plan in accordance with the terms thereof shall be automatically converted, without any further action by the Company or the holder thereof, as of the date such release occurs (the  Release Date ), into fully paid and nonassessable shares
of Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Price for the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock provided for in paragraph (c) of this Section 4.      (b) Subject to and upon compliance with the provisions of this Section 4, a holder of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled at any time, prior to the close of business on the date fixed
for redemption of such shares pursuant to Sections 5 or 6 hereof, to cause any or all of the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock held by such holder to be converted into fully paid and nonassessable shares of
  
         6   

Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Price for 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock provided for in paragraph (c) of this Section 4.   
  (c) For purposes of these resolutions, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:   
  (i) The  Average Current Market Price  per share of Common Stock on any date shall be deemed to be the average of the
Current Market Price for one share of Common Stock for the twenty (20) consecutive Trading Days ending on the Trading Day occurring prior to the date the  Purchase Offer  is made (as that term is defined in Section 6(d) hereof).
     (ii) A  Business Day  means each day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or a day on which state or federally
chartered banking institutions in the State of New York are not required to be open.      (iii) (A) For purposes of a
mandatory conversion of shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 4, the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be
the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on the relevant Release Date.      (B) For purposes of an optional
conversion of shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section 4, the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be the Current
Market Price of one share of Common Stock on the date the Conversion Notice (as that term is defined in paragraph (d) of this Section 4) is received by the Company, by the transfer agent for the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock or by any agent
for conversion of the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock designated as such pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section 4.   
  (C) For purposes of a conversion of shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock in connection with a
 Purchase Offer  (as defined in Section 6(d) hereof), the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be the Average Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock.   
  Each share of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be valued at its stated value of $1,000.00 for purposes of computing, based on the applicable Conversion
Price, the number of shares of Common Stock into which the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock will be converted.   
  (iv) The  Current Market Price  of publicly traded shares of Common Stock or any other class of capital stock or other
security of the Company or any other issuer for any day shall mean the reported last sale price, regular way, or, in case no sale takes place on such day, the average of the reported closing bid and asked prices, regular way, in either case as
reported on the New York Stock Exchange only or, if the Common Stock is not listed or admitted to trading on the New York Stock Exchange, on the principal national securities exchange on which the Common Stock is listed or admitted to trading or, if
not listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange, on the National Market System of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotations System ( NASDAQ ) or, if the Common Stock is not quoted on
such National Market System, the average of the closing bid and asked prices on such day in the over-the-counter market as reported by NASDAQ or, if bid and asked prices for the Common Stock on each such day shall not have been reported through
NASDAQ, the average of the bid and asked prices for such day as furnished by any New York Stock Exchange member firm regularly making a market in the Common Stock selected for such purpose by the
  
         7   

Board or a committee thereof or, if no such quotations are available, the fair market value of the Common Stock as determined by a New York Stock Exchange member firm regularly making a market in
the Common Stock selected for such purpose by the Board or a committee thereof.      (v)  Common Stock  shall mean
the Common Stock of the Company as the same exists at the date of this Certificate of Designations or as such stock may be constituted from time to time.      (vi)  Trading Day  with respect to Common Stock means (x) if the Common Stock is listed or admitted for trading on the New York Stock Exchange or another national securities exchange, a day
on which the New York Stock Exchange or such other national securities exchange is open for business or (y) if the Common Stock is quoted on the National Market System of NASDAQ, a day on which trades may be made on such National Market System
or (z) otherwise, any Business Day.      (d) In connection with any conversion of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to this
Section 4, a written notice of conversion (the  Conversion Notice ) shall be delivered to the Company at its principal executive office or the offices of the transfer agent for the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock or such office or offices
in the continental United States of an agent for conversion as may from time to time be designated by notice to the holders of the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock by the Company or the transfer agent for the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock, which notice shall
be accompanied by (a) in the case of certificated 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock, the certificate or certificates representing the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted pursuant to this Section 4, duly assigned or endorsed for
transfer to the Company (or accompanied by duly executed stock powers relating thereto) and (b) in the case of uncertificated 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock, duly executed assignment and transfer documents for the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock
being converted pursuant to this Section 4. Each Conversion Notice shall specify (i)(y) in the case of a mandatory conversion pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 4, the number of shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock released from
the unallocated reserve of the Plan on the Release Date or (z) in the case of an optional conversion pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 4, the number of shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted, and (ii) in
connection with any conversion hereunder, (x) the name or names in which such holder wishes the certificate or certificates for Common Stock and, in the case of certificated 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock, for any shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock
not to be so converted to be issued, (y) the address to which such holder wishes delivery to be made of such new certificates to be issued upon such conversion, and (z) such other information as the Company or its agents may reasonably
request.      (e) Upon delivery to the Company or the transfer agent for the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock of the Conversion
Notice and all other documentation and certificates required to effect the conversion, as provided in paragraph (d) of this Section 4, the Company shall issue and send by hand delivery, by courier or by first-class mail (postage prepaid)
to the holder thereof or to such holder s designee, at the address designated by such holder, a certificate or certificates for the number of shares of Common Stock to which such holder shall be entitled upon conversion. If there shall have
been surrendered a certificate or certificates representing shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock only part of which are to be converted, the Company shall issue and deliver to such holder or such holder s designee, in the manner set forth in the
preceding sentence, a new certificate or certificates representing the number of shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock which shall not have been converted.      (f) The issuance by the Company of shares of Common Stock upon a conversion of shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock made pursuant to this Section 4 shall be effective
(i) in the case of a mandatory conversion of shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 4, as of the Release Date; and (ii) in the case of an optional conversion of such shares pursuant to
paragraph (b) of this Section 4, as of the earlier of (A) the delivery to such holder   
         8   

or such holder s designee of the certificates representing the shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion thereof or (B) the commencement of business on the second Business Day after
the delivery to the Company or the transfer agent for the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock of the Conversion Notice and all other documentation and certificates required to effect the conversion, as provided in paragraph (d) of this Section 4. On
and after the effective date of conversion, the person or persons entitled to receive the Common Stock issuable upon such conversion shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder or holders of such shares of Common Stock, but no allowance
or adjustment shall be made in respect of dividends payable to holders of Common Stock in respect of any period prior to such effective date. The Company shall not be obligated to pay any dividends which shall have accrued or have been declared and
shall be payable to holders of shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock if the date on which such dividends are paid is on or after the effective date of conversion of such shares.      (g) The Company shall not be obligated to deliver to holders of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock any fractional share or shares of Common Stock issuable upon any conversion of such shares of 2011 ESOP
Preferred Stock, but in lieu thereof may make a cash payment in respect thereof in any manner permitted by law.      (h) The
Company shall at all times reserve and keep available out of its authorized and unissued Common Stock, solely for issuance upon the conversion of shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock as herein provided, free from any preemptive rights, such number of
shares of Common Stock as shall from time to time be issuable upon the conversion of all the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock then outstanding.      (i) The Company will use its best efforts to cause the listing of the shares of Common Stock required to be delivered upon conversion of the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock prior to distribution to Plan
participants on the national securities exchange, if any, upon which the outstanding Common Stock is listed at the time of such delivery.      (j) The Company will pay any and all documentary stamp or similar issue or transfer taxes payable in respect of the issue or delivery of shares of Common Stock on conversions of the 2011 ESOP
Preferred Stock pursuant hereto; provided, however, that the Company shall not be required to pay any tax which may be payable in respect of any transfer involved in the issue or delivery of shares of Common Stock in a name other than that of the
holder of the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock to be converted and no such issue or delivery shall be made unless and until the person requesting such issue or delivery has paid to the Company the amount of any such tax or has established, to the
satisfaction of the Company, that such tax has been paid.      5.  Redemption At the Option of the
Company . (a) The 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be redeemable, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company at any time, at a redemption price per share of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock equal to the higher of (x) $1,000.00 per
share, plus an amount equal to all accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for redemption, and (y) the Fair Market Value (as that term is defined in paragraph (d) of this Section 5) per share of 2011 ESOP Preferred
Stock on the date fixed for redemption. Payment of the redemption price shall be made by the Company in cash or shares of Common Stock, or a combination thereof, as permitted by paragraph (c) of this Section 5. From and after the date
fixed for redemption, dividends on shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock called for redemption will cease to accrue and all rights in respect of such shares of the Company shall cease, except the right to receive the redemption price. Upon payment of
the redemption price, such shares shall be deemed to have been transferred to the Company, to be retired as provided in paragraph (a) of Section 1. If the full cumulative dividends have not been paid, or contemporaneously declared and set
aside for payment, on all outstanding shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock, the Company may not redeem fewer than all the outstanding shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to this Section 5.   
         9   

(b) Unless otherwise required by law, notice of any redemption pursuant to this
Section 5 will be sent to the holders of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock at the address shown on the books of the Company or any transfer agent for the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock by hand delivery, by courier, by standard form of telecommunication or
by first-class mail (postage prepaid) delivered, sent or mailed, as the case may be, not less than twenty (20) days nor more than sixty (60) days prior to the redemption date. Each such notice shall state: (i) the redemption date;
(ii) the total number of shares of the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption
price; (iv) whether the redemption price shall be paid in cash or in shares of Common Stock, or in a combination of such Common Stock and cash; (v) in the case of certificated 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock the place or places where
certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; (vi) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on such redemption date; and (vii) the conversion rights of the shares to be
redeemed, the period within which conversion rights may be exercised and the manner in which the number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of a share of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock will be determined. The Company shall redeem shares so
called for redemption and not previously converted at the date fixed for redemption and at the redemption price set forth in this Section 5, provided that, in the case of certificated 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock, the Company shall not be
obligated to pay the redemption price until the certificates for the shares to be redeemed are surrendered (properly endorsed or assigned for transfer, if the Board of Directors of the Company shall so require and the notice shall so state).
     (c) The Company, at its option, may make payment of the redemption price required upon redemption of shares of 2011 ESOP
Preferred Stock in cash or in shares of Common Stock, or in a combination of such Common Stock and cash, any such shares of Common Stock to be valued for such purposes at their Fair Market Value (as defined in paragraph (d)(ii) of this
Section 5) or their Current Market Price, in either case as of the date fixed for redemption of the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock, whichever value will result in the issuance of the greater number of shares of Common Stock to the holder of the 2011
ESOP Preferred Stock then being redeemed.      (d) For purposes of these resolutions, the following terms shall have the
meanings set forth below:      (i)  Adjustment Period  shall mean the period of five (5) consecutive Trading
Days preceding the date as of which the Fair Market Value of a security is to be determined.      (ii)  Fair Market
Value  shall mean, as to shares of Common Stock or any other class of capital stock or securities of the Company or any other issue which are publicly traded, the average of the Current Market Prices of such shares or securities for each day of
the Adjustment Period. The  Fair Market Value  of any security which is not publicly traded (other than the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock) or of any other property shall mean the fair value thereof on the date as of which the Fair Market Value
of the security is to be determined, as determined by an independent investment banking or appraisal firm experienced in the valuation of such securities or property selected in good faith by the Board or a committee thereof. The  Fair Market
Value  of the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock for purposes of paragraph (a) of Section 5, and for purposes of paragraph (c) of Section 6 shall mean the fair market value thereof determined by an independent appraiser, appointed by
the Trustee of the Plan in accordance with the provisions of the Plan, as of the date fixed for redemption of the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock (in the case of a redemption pursuant to Section 5) or as of the date specified in paragraph (c) of
Section 6 (in the case of a redemption under that section). For purposes of determining the Fair Market Value of the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock, the independent appraiser shall assume (i) that all dividends on the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock
would have been paid when due, and (ii) that the mandatory conversion of shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock held by the Plan into shares of Common Stock pursuant to Section 4(a)   
         10   

hereof would have occurred when and as payments of principal (together with accrued interest thereon) would have been made by the Trustee of the Plan in accordance with the terms of that certain
2011 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock Note Agreement dated on or about March 18, 2011 between the Company and the Plan (including any amendments or modifications thereto).   
  6.  Consolidation, Merger, etc.  (a) If the Company consummates any consolidation or merger or similar business
combination, pursuant to which the outstanding shares of Common Stock are by operation of law exchanged solely for or changed, reclassified or converted solely into stock of any successor or resulting corporation (including the Company) that
constitutes  qualifying employer securities  with respect to a holder of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock within the meaning of Section 409(1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and Section 407(d)(5) of the Employee
Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, or any successor provisions of law, and, if applicable, for a cash payment in lieu of fractional shares, if any, the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock of such holder shall, in connection with
such consolidation, merger or similar business combination, be assumed by and shall become Preferred Stock of such successor or resulting corporation, having in respect of such corporation, insofar as possible, the same powers, preferences and
relative, participating, optional or other special rights (including the redemption rights provided by Sections 5 and 6 hereof), and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereon, that the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock had immediately prior to
such transaction, subject to the following:      (1) After such transaction each share of the 2011 ESOP
Preferred Stock shall be convertible, otherwise on the terms and conditions provided by Section 4 hereof, into the number and kind of qualifying employer securities so receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which
such shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior to such transaction.   
  (2) The Company shall not consummate any such merger, consolidation or similar transaction unless all then
outstanding shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be assumed and authorized by the successor or resulting corporation as aforesaid.      (b) If the Company consummates any consolidation or merger or similar business combination, pursuant to which the outstanding shares of Common Stock are by operation of law exchanged for or changed,
reclassified or converted into other stock or securities or cash or any other property, or any combination thereof, other than any such consideration which is constituted solely of qualifying employer securities (as referred to in paragraph
(a) of this Section 6) and cash payments, if applicable, in lieu of fractional shares, outstanding shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, without any action on the part of the Company or any holder thereof (but subject to paragraph
(c) of this Section 6), be automatically converted by virtue of such merger, consolidation or similar transaction immediately prior to such consummation into the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2011 ESOP
Preferred Stock could have been converted at such time so that each share of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, by virtue of such transaction and on the same terms as apply to the holders of Common Stock, be converted into or exchanged for the
aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash or other property (payable in like kind) receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior to
such transaction. However, if by virtue of the structure of such transaction, a holder of Common Stock is required to make an election with respect to the nature and kind of consideration to be received in such transaction, which election cannot
practicably be made by the holders of the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock, then the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, by virtue of such transaction and on the same terms as apply to the holders of Common Stock, be converted into or exchanged for
the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash or other property (payable in kind) receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted
  
         11   

immediately prior to such transaction if such holder of Common Stock failed to exercise any rights of election as to the kind or amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable
upon such transaction. If the kind or amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable upon such transaction is not the same for each non-electing share, then the kind and amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable
upon such transaction for each non-electing share shall be the kind and amount so receivable per share by a plurality of the non-electing shares.      (c) In the event the Company shall enter into any agreement providing for any consolidation or merger or similar business combination described in paragraph (b) of this Section 6 (a
 Business Combination ), then the Company shall as soon as practicable thereafter (and in any event at least fifteen (15) Business Days before consummation of such transaction) give notice of such agreement and the material terms
thereof to each holder of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock and each such holder shall have the right to elect, by written notice to the Company, to receive, upon consummation of such transaction (if and when such transaction is consummated), from the
Company or the successor of the Company, in redemption and retirement of such 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock, a cash payment per share of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock equal to the higher of (x) $1,000.00, plus accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to
the date of consummation of such transaction or (y) the Fair Market Value per share of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock, as of the last Business Day (as defined in paragraph (c) of Section 4 hereof) immediately preceding the date the
Business Combination is consummated. No such notice of redemption shall be effective unless given to the Company prior to the close of business on the last Business Day prior to consummation of such transaction, unless the Company or the successor
of the Company shall waive such prior notice, but any notice of redemption so given prior to such time may be withdrawn by notice of withdrawal given to the Company prior to the close of business on the last Business Day prior to consummation of
such transaction.      (d) In the event that a Purchase Offer (as defined below) shall have been made and shall be
continuing, each holder of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have the right to convert shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock at the Conversion Price specified in Section 4(c)(iii)(C) hereof until the date the Purchase
Offer is terminated, including without limitation because the original Purchase Offer is withdrawn or because the Purchase Offer has expired and is not renewed, upon notice of such conversion given to the Company not later than the close of business
on the date the Purchase Offer terminates (the  Purchase Offer Conversion Period ), unless the Company or any successor of the Company shall waive such prior notice, but any notice of conversion so given may be withdrawn by notice of
withdrawal given to the Company prior to the end of the Purchase Offer Conversion Period.      For purposes of this paragraph (d),
the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:      (i)  Beneficial Ownership  shall have the meaning
ascribed to it in Rule 13d-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ) and  person  shall have the meanings specified in Sections 3(a)(9) and 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act.   
  (ii) A  Purchase Offer  shall have been made when any person (other than the Company or any affiliate of the Company)
shall have  commenced  (as such term is defined in Rule 14d-2 under the Exchange Act) a tender offer or exchange offer to purchase shares of Common Stock, such that, upon consummation of such offer, such person would have Beneficial
Ownership (as defined herein) or the right to acquire Beneficial Ownership, of twenty percent (20%) or more of the voting power of the Company.   
         12   

7.  Liquidation Rights . (a) Upon the dissolution, liquidation, or winding up
of the Company, the holders of the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive and to be paid out of the assets of the Company available for distribution to its stockholders, before any payment or distribution shall be made on
the Common Stock or any other class of stock ranking junior to 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock upon liquidation, the amount of $1,000.00 per share, plus a sum equal to all dividends (whether or not earned or declared) on such shares accrued and unpaid
thereon to the date of final distribution.      (b) Neither the sale of all or substantially all the property and assets of
the Company, nor the merger or consolidation of the Company into or with any other corporation, nor the merger or consolidation of any other corporation into or with the Company shall be deemed to be a dissolution, liquidation, or winding up,
voluntary or involuntary, for the purposes of this Section 7.      (c) After the payment to the holders of the shares of
2011 ESOP Preferred Stock of the full preferential amounts provided for in this Section 7, the holders of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock, as such, shall have no right or claim to any of the remaining assets of the Company.   
  (d) In the event the assets of the Company available for distribution to the holders of shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock upon any
dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, whether voluntary or involuntary, shall be insufficient to pay in full all amounts to which such holders are entitled pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 7, no such distribution
shall be made on account of any shares of any other series of Preferred Stock or other capital stock of the Company ranking on a parity with the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock upon such dissolution, liquidation, or winding up unless
proportionate distributive amounts shall be paid on account of the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock, ratably, in proportion to the full distributable amounts for which holders of all such parity shares are respectively entitled upon such
dissolution, liquidation, or winding up.      (e) Subject to the rights of the holders of the shares of any series or class
or classes of stock ranking on a parity with or prior to the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock upon liquidation, dissolution, or winding up, upon any liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Company, after payment shall have been made in
full to the holders of the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock as provided in this Section 7, but not prior thereto, any other series or class or classes of stock ranking junior to the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock upon liquidation shall,
subject to the respective terms and provisions (if any) applying thereto, be entitled to receive any and all assets remaining to be paid or distributed, and the holders of the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to share
therein.      8.  Ranking . For the purposes of these resolutions, any stock of any series or class or classes of
the Company shall be deemed to rank:      (a) prior to the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or
upon liquidation, if the holders of such series or class or classes shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as the case may be, in preference or priority
to the holders of shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock;      (b) on a parity with shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock, either
as to dividends or upon liquidation, whether or not the dividend rates, dividend payment dates, or redemption or liquidation prices per share, or sinking fund provisions, if any, be different from those of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock, if the holders
of such stock shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as the case   
         13   

may be, in proportion to their respective dividend rates or liquidation prices, without preference or priority, one over the other, as between the holders of such stock and the holders of shares
of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock; and      (c) junior to shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon
liquidation, if such class shall be Common Stock or if the holders of shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as the case
may be, in preference or priority to the holders of shares of such series or class or classes.      9.  Priority of 2011
ESOP Preferred Stock . The shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock will rank on a parity, both as to payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, with the Company s 2002 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock,
its 2003 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2004 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2005 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2006 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2007 ESOP Cumulative
Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2008 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock and its 2010 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock.   
         14   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Certificate of Designations to be signed by
John G. Stumpf, its Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and attested by Jeannine E. Zahn, its Assistant Secretary, whereby such President and Chief Executive Officer affirms, under penalties of perjury, that this Certificate of
Designations is the act and deed of the Company and that the facts stated herein are true, this 17th day of March, 2011.        

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY   

By  
     
    /s/ John G. Stumpf    

John G. Stumpf   

Chairman, President and   

Chief Executive Officer    

Attest:   

/s/ Jeannine E. Zahn    
 
  Jeannine E. Zahn   
 
  Assistant Secretary   
    [As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on March 17, 2011.]   
         15   

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY   
         
  CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS      Pursuant to Section 151 of the      General Corporation Law of the State of
Delaware             
  2012 ESOP CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK      (Without Par Value)        
       WELLS
FARGO   COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the  Company ), HEREBY CERTIFIES that, pursuant to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Company (the
 Board ) by the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as amended, which authorizes the issuance of not more than 20,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, without par value (the  Preferred Stock ),
and pursuant to authority conferred upon the ESOP Preferred Stock Committee I of the Board (the  ESOP Committee ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the  General Corporation
Law ) and by the resolutions of the Board set forth herein, the following resolutions were duly adopted by the Board at meetings of the Board duly held on January 25, 2000 and February 24, 2009, and by the ESOP Committee pursuant to
the written consent of the ESOP Committee duly adopted on January 9, 2012, in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law:      1. On January 25, 2000, the Board adopted the following resolutions (the  ESOP Board Resolutions ) appointing the ESOP Committee and delegating to the ESOP Committee the full powers of the
Board, subject to the ESOP Board Resolutions, in all matters relating to issuance of one or more series of Preferred Stock ( ESOP Preferred Stock ) to the trustee on behalf of the Company s 401(k) Plan hereinafter referred to:
     RESOLVED that a committee of one member of the Board of the Company is hereby appointed by the Board as the ESOP Preferred
Stock Committee I (the  First Committee ), which shall have and may exercise the full powers of the Board, subject to these resolutions, to issue from time to time one or more series of ESOP Preferred Stock, including any shares of Company
common stock ($1 2/3 par value) issuable upon conversion of ESOP Preferred Stock, and in connection therewith, to fix the designations, voting powers, preferences, and all other rights, qualifications and restrictions of such ESOP Preferred Stock,
to sell such ESOP Preferred Stock to the Plan on such terms and conditions and for such purchase price as the First Committee in its discretion shall approve, and to take any and all actions as the First Committee shall deem necessary or
appropriate.      2. Pursuant to resolutions adopted on February 24, 2009, the Board designated John G. Stumpf as the sole
member of the ESOP Committee, effective April 29, 2009.      3. On January 9, 2012, pursuant to authority conferred upon
it by the Board in the ESOP Board Resolutions, the ESOP Committee adopted the following resolutions by written consent in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law:   
         1   

RESOLVED that the issuance of a series of Preferred Stock, without par value, of the Company
is hereby authorized and the designation, voting powers, preferences, and relative, participating, optional, and other special rights, and qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, in addition to those set forth in the Restated
Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as amended, are hereby fixed as follows:      2012 ESOP CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK
     1.  Designation and Number of Shares; Restricted Issue .   
  (a) The designation of the series of Preferred Stock, without par value, provided for herein shall be  2012 ESOP Cumulative
Convertible Preferred Stock  (hereinafter referred to as the  2012 ESOP Preferred Stock ) and the number of authorized shares constituting the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock is 940,000, based on an offering price for the 2012 ESOP
Preferred Stock of $1,094.00 per share. Each share of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have a stated value of $1,000.00 per share. The number of authorized shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock may be reduced by further resolution duly adopted by the
Board or the Securities Committee and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware stating that such reduction has been so authorized, provided, however, that the authorized number
of shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be decreased below the then outstanding number of such shares, and provided further that the number of authorized shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be increased. All shares of the 2012
ESOP Preferred Stock purchased, redeemed, or converted by the Company shall be retired and canceled and shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock, without designation as to series, and may thereafter be
issued, but not as shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock.      (b) Shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be issued only to
a trustee (the  Trustee ) acting on behalf of the Wells Fargo   Company 401(k) Plan, or any successor to such plan (the  Plan ). All references to the holder of shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall mean the Trustee
or any company with which or into which the Trustee may merge or any successor trustee under the trust agreement with respect to the Plan. In the event of any transfer of record ownership of shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock to any person other
than any successor trustee under the Plan, the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock so transferred, upon such transfer and without any further action by the Company or the holder thereof, shall be automatically converted into shares of the common
stock, par value $1-2/3 per share, of the Company (the  Common Stock ) on the terms otherwise provided for the conversion of the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to paragraph (a) of
Section 4 hereof, and no such transferee shall have any of the voting powers, preferences, and relative, participating, optional or special rights ascribed to shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock hereunder but, rather, only the powers and rights
pertaining to the Common Stock into which such shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be so converted. In the event of such a conversion, the transferee of the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be treated for all purposes as the record
holder of the shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock have been automatically converted as of the date of such transfer. Shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock may be certificated or uncertificated, at the
Company s option. Certificates representing shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall bear a legend to reflect the foregoing provisions. In the case of uncertificated 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock, the transfer agent for the 2012 ESOP Preferred
Stock shall note the foregoing provisions on each 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock book entry account. The Company may require that, as a condition to transferring record ownership of any uncertificated 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock, the proposed
  
         2   

transferee acknowledge in writing that the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock are subject to the foregoing provisions. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this paragraph (b) of
Section 1, shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock (i)(A) shall be converted into shares of Common Stock as provided in paragraph (a) of Section 4 hereof, and (B) may be converted into shares of Common Stock as provided by paragraph
(b) of Section 4 hereof and the shares of Common Stock issued upon such conversion may be transferred by the holder thereof as permitted by law and (ii) shall be redeemable by the Company upon the terms and conditions provided in
Sections 5 and 6(c) hereof.      2.  Voting Rights . No shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have voting rights
except such voting rights as may from time to time be required by law and as set forth in this Section 2, as follows:   
  (a) Whenever, at any time or times, dividends payable on shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be in arrears for such number of
dividend periods which shall in the aggregate contain not less than 540 days, the holders of the outstanding shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have the exclusive right, voting together as a class with holders of shares of any one or more
other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity with the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or on the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, and upon which like voting rights have been
conferred and are exercisable, to elect two directors of the Company at the Company s next annual meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders. At elections for such directors, each holder of the shares of 2012
ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to one vote for each share held (the holders of shares of any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on such a parity being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of Preferred Stock held as
may be granted to them). Upon the vesting of such right of such holders, the maximum authorized number of members of the Board shall automatically be increased by two and the two vacancies so created shall be filled by vote of the holders of such
outstanding shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock (together with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of Preferred Stock ranking on such a parity and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable) as herein set
forth. The right of such holders of such shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock (voting together as a class with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of Preferred Stock ranking on such a parity and upon which like voting rights have
been conferred and are exercisable) to elect members of the Board as aforesaid shall continue until such time as all dividends accumulated on such shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been paid in full, at which time such right with
respect to such shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall terminate, except as herein or by law expressly provided, subject to revesting in the event of each and every subsequent default of the character above mentioned.   
  (b) Upon any termination of the right of the holders of all shares of Preferred Stock entitled to vote for directors as herein
provided, the term of office of all directors then in office elected by such holders voting as a class shall terminate immediately. If the office of any director elected by such holders voting as a class becomes vacant by reason of death,
resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office or otherwise, the remaining director elected by such holders may choose a successor to fill such vacancy, which such successor shall hold office for the unexpired term in respect of
which such vacancy occurred. Whenever the term of office of the directors elected by such holders voting as a class shall end and the special voting powers vested in such holders as provided in this resolution shall have expired, the number of
directors shall be such number as may be provided for in the By-Laws of the Company irrespective of any increase made pursuant to the provisions of this resolution.   
         3   

(c) So long as any shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the consent
of the holders of the outstanding shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock and outstanding shares of all other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity with such shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock either as to dividends or the distribution of
assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable, by a vote of at least two-thirds of all such outstanding shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock and such other series of
Preferred Stock voting together as a class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing or at any special or annual meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary to permit, effect or validate any one or more of the following:   
  (i) the authorization, creation or issuance, or any increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any class or series of stock
ranking prior to shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock with respect to payment of dividends or the distribution of assets on liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or      (ii) the amendment, alteration or repeal, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise, of any of the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or of the resolutions set forth in a
Certificate of Designations designating shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock and the preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights and qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof which would materially and
adversely affect any right, preference, privilege or voting power of the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock or of the holders thereof; provided, however, that any increase in the amount of authorized Preferred Stock, or the creation and issuance of
other series of Preferred Stock, or any increase in the amount of authorized shares of any series of Preferred Stock, in each case ranking on a parity with or junior to the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends
and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, shall not be deemed to materially and adversely affect such rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers.   
  (d) The foregoing voting provisions shall not apply if, at or prior to the time when the act with respect to which such vote would
otherwise be required shall be effected, all outstanding shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed or sufficient funds shall have been deposited in trust to effect such redemption.   
  3.  Dividends . (a)(i) Holders of shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive, when and as declared by the Board
or a duly authorized committee thereof, out of assets of the Company legally available for payment, an annual cash dividend of $100.00 (the  Base Dividend ) per share, which Base Dividend shall be subject to adjustment from time to time as
provided in this Section 3.      (ii) The Base Dividend shall be adjusted, effective on December 1, 2013 and on each
December 1 thereafter until December 1, 2021, as follows:      (1) If the Current Market Price (as
hereinafter defined) of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or the next preceding Trading Day (as hereinafter defined) if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is equal to or
greater than the First Target Price but less than the Second Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then holders of shares of the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend for the immediately following
twelve month period equal to $105.00 per share (the  First Adjusted Dividend ).   
         4   

(2) If the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on
November 30 (or the next preceding Trading Day if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is equal to or greater than the Second Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then
holders of shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend for the immediately following twelve month period equal to $110.00 per share (the  Second Adjusted Dividend ).   
  (3) If the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or next preceding Trading Day if
November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is less than the First Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then the holders of shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to
receive a cash dividend for the immediately following twelve month period equal to the Base Dividend.        Dividend
Adjustment Table         
    (4) As an example of the adjustments described in subparagraphs (1) through
(3) above, if on November 30, 2013, the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock is $30.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately following twelve month period per share of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal
$105.00, with the first quarterly payment of such $105.00 dividend to be made on March 1, 2014. If on November 30, 2014, the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock is $40.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately
following twelve month period per share of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $110.00, with the first quarterly payment of such $110.00 dividend to be made on March 1, 2015. If on November 30, 2015, the Current Market Price of one share
of Common Stock is $30.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately following twelve month period per share of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $100.00, with the first quarterly payment of such $100.00 dividend to be made on
March 1, 2016.      (5) For purposes of this Section 3, the terms  First Adjusted
Dividend  and  Second Adjusted Dividend  are sometimes referred to as an  Adjusted Dividend;  the term  Current Market Price  shall have the meaning given to it in Section 4(c)(iv); and the term  Trading
Day  shall have the meaning given to it in Section 4(c)(vi).   
         5   

(iii) If one share of Common Stock in any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table
shall be changed into a different number of shares or a different class of shares by reason of any reclassification, recapitalization, split-up, combination, exchange of shares or readjustment, or if a stock dividend thereon shall be declared with a
record date within such period, then the First Target Price and the Second Target Price listed in such table for that year and each subsequent year will be appropriately and proportionately adjusted.   
  (iv) Dividends payable on shares of the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock (whether such dividends are equal to the Base Dividend or to an
Adjusted Dividend) shall be payable quarterly on March 1, June 1, September 1, and December 1 of each year, commencing March 1, 2012. Dividends on shares of the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock will be cumulative from the
date of initial issuance of such shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock. Dividends will be payable, in arrears, to holders of record as they appear on the stock books of the Company on such record dates, not more than 30 days nor less than 15 days
preceding the payment dates thereof, as shall be fixed by the Board or a duly authorized committee thereof. The amount of dividends payable per share for each dividend period shall be computed by dividing by four the Base Dividend or the Adjusted
Dividend, whichever is then applicable. The amount of dividends payable for the initial dividend period or any period shorter than a full dividend period shall be calculated on the basis of actual days elapsed in a 360-day year of twelve 30-day
months.      (b)(i) No full dividends shall be declared or paid or set apart for payment on any stock of the Company ranking,
as to dividends, on a parity with or junior to the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock for any period unless full cumulative dividends have been or contemporaneously are declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set
apart for such payment on shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock for all dividend payment periods terminating on or prior to the date of payment of such full cumulative dividends. When dividends are not paid in full, as aforesaid, upon the shares of
2012 ESOP Preferred Stock and any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity as to dividends with 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock, all dividends declared upon shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock and any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on
a parity as to dividends with 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be declared pro rata so that the amount of dividends declared per share on 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock and such other series of Preferred Stock shall in all cases bear to each other the
same ratio that accrued dividends per share on the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock and such other series of Preferred Stock bear to each other. Holders of shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any dividend, whether payable
in cash, property, or stock, in excess of full cumulative dividends, as herein provided, on 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock. No interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any dividend payment or payments on 2012 ESOP
Preferred Stock which may be in arrears.      (ii) So long as any shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock are outstanding, no
dividend (other than dividends or distributions paid in shares of, or options, warrants, or rights to subscribe for or purchase shares of, Common Stock or any other stock ranking junior to 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon
liquidation and other than as provided in paragraph (b)(i) of this Section 3) shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment or other distribution declared or made upon Common Stock or any other capital stock of the Company ranking junior
to or on a parity with 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation, nor shall any Common Stock or any other capital stock of the Company ranking junior to or on a parity with 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon
liquidation be redeemed, purchased, or otherwise acquired for any consideration (or any moneys be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any shares of any such stock) by the
  
         6   

Company (except by conversion into or exchange for stock of the Company ranking junior to 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation), unless, in each case, the full cumulative
dividends on all outstanding shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been paid or declared and set aside for payment of the then current dividend payment period and all past dividend payment periods.   
  4.  Conversion . Shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock are convertible from time to time hereafter pursuant to the
provisions of paragraphs (a) or (b) of this Section 4 into that number of shares of Common Stock determined by dividing the stated value of each share of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock by the then applicable Conversion Price, (as
determined in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (c)(iii) of this Section 4), as follows:      (a) Each share
of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock released from the unallocated reserve of the Plan in accordance with the terms thereof shall be automatically converted, without any further action by the Company or the holder thereof, as of the date such release occurs
(the  Release Date ), into fully paid and nonassessable shares of Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Price for the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock provided for in paragraph (c) of this Section 4.   
  (b) Subject to and upon compliance with the provisions of this Section 4, a holder of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be
entitled at any time, prior to the close of business on the date fixed for redemption of such shares pursuant to Sections 5 or 6 hereof, to cause any or all of the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock held by such holder to be converted into fully
paid and nonassessable shares of Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Price for 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock provided for in paragraph (c) of this Section 4.      (c) For purposes of these resolutions, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:      (i) The  Average Current Market Price  per share of Common Stock on any date shall be deemed to be the average of the Current Market Price for one share of Common Stock for the twenty
(20) consecutive Trading Days ending on the Trading Day occurring prior to the date the  Purchase Offer  is made (as that term is defined in Section 6(d) hereof).   
  (ii) A  Business Day  means each day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or a day on which state or federally chartered
banking institutions in the State of New York are not required to be open.      (iii) (A) For purposes of a mandatory
conversion of shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 4, the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be the Current
Market Price of one share of Common Stock on the relevant Release Date.      (B) For purposes of an optional conversion of
shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section 4, the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be the Current Market Price
of one share of Common Stock on the date the Conversion Notice (as that term is defined in paragraph (d) of this Section 4) is received by the Company, by the transfer agent for the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock or by any agent for conversion
of the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock designated as such pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section 4.   
         7   

(C) For purposes of a conversion of shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of
Common Stock in connection with a  Purchase Offer  (as defined in Section 6(d) hereof), the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be the Average Current Market Price of one share of Common
Stock.      Each share of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be valued at its stated value of $1,000.00 for purposes of computing, based on the
applicable Conversion Price, the number of shares of Common Stock into which the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock will be converted.      (iv) The  Current Market Price  of publicly traded shares of Common Stock or any other class of capital stock or other security of the Company or any other issuer for any day shall mean the
reported last sale price, regular way, or, in case no sale takes place on such day, the average of the reported closing bid and asked prices, regular way, in either case as reported on the New York Stock Exchange only or, if the Common Stock is not
listed or admitted to trading on the New York Stock Exchange, on the principal national securities exchange on which the Common Stock is listed or admitted to trading or, if not listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange, on
the National Market System of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotations System ( NASDAQ ) or, if the Common Stock is not quoted on such National Market System, the average of the closing bid and asked prices
on such day in the over-the-counter market as reported by NASDAQ or, if bid and asked prices for the Common Stock on each such day shall not have been reported through NASDAQ, the average of the bid and asked prices for such day as furnished by any
New York Stock Exchange member firm regularly making a market in the Common Stock selected for such purpose by the Board or a committee thereof or, if no such quotations are available, the fair market value of the Common Stock as determined by a New
York Stock Exchange member firm regularly making a market in the Common Stock selected for such purpose by the Board or a committee thereof.      (v)  Common Stock  shall mean the Common Stock of the Company as the same exists at the date of this Certificate of Designations or as such stock may be constituted from time to time.
     (vi)  Trading Day  with respect to Common Stock means (x) if the Common Stock is listed or admitted for
trading on the New York Stock Exchange or another national securities exchange, a day on which the New York Stock Exchange or such other national securities exchange is open for business or (y) if the Common Stock is quoted on the National
Market System of NASDAQ, a day on which trades may be made on such National Market System or (z) otherwise, any Business Day.      (d) In connection with any conversion of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to this Section 4, a written notice of conversion (the  Conversion Notice ) shall be delivered to the Company at
its principal executive office or the offices of the transfer agent for the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock or such office or offices in the continental United States of an agent for conversion as may from time to time be designated by notice to the
holders of the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock by the Company or the transfer agent for the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock, which notice shall be accompanied by (a) in the case of certificated 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock, the certificate or certificates
representing the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted pursuant to this Section 4, duly assigned or endorsed for transfer to the Company (or accompanied by duly executed stock powers relating thereto) and (b) in the case of
uncertificated 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock, duly executed assignment and transfer documents for the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted pursuant to this Section 4. Each Conversion Notice
  
         8   

shall specify (i)(y) in the case of a mandatory conversion pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 4, the number of shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock released from the unallocated
reserve of the Plan on the Release Date or (z) in the case of an optional conversion pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 4, the number of shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted, and (ii) in connection with any
conversion hereunder, (x) the name or names in which such holder wishes the certificate or certificates for Common Stock and, in the case of certificated 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock, for any shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock not to be so
converted to be issued, (y) the address to which such holder wishes delivery to be made of such new certificates to be issued upon such conversion, and (z) such other information as the Company or its agents may reasonably request.
     (e) Upon delivery to the Company or the transfer agent for the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock of the Conversion Notice and
all other documentation and certificates required to effect the conversion, as provided in paragraph (d) of this Section 4, the Company shall issue and send by hand delivery, by courier or by first-class mail (postage prepaid) to the
holder thereof or to such holder s designee, at the address designated by such holder, a certificate or certificates for the number of shares of Common Stock to which such holder shall be entitled upon conversion. If there shall have been
surrendered a certificate or certificates representing shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock only part of which are to be converted, the Company shall issue and deliver to such holder or such holder s designee, in the manner set forth in the
preceding sentence, a new certificate or certificates representing the number of shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock which shall not have been converted.      (f) The issuance by the Company of shares of Common Stock upon a conversion of shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock made pursuant to this Section 4 shall be effective
(i) in the case of a mandatory conversion of shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 4, as of the Release Date; and (ii) in the case of an optional conversion of such shares pursuant to
paragraph (b) of this Section 4, as of the earlier of (A) the delivery to such holder or such holder s designee of the certificates representing the shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion thereof or (B) the
commencement of business on the second Business Day after the delivery to the Company or the transfer agent for the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock of the Conversion Notice and all other documentation and certificates required to effect the conversion, as
provided in paragraph (d) of this Section 4. On and after the effective date of conversion, the person or persons entitled to receive the Common Stock issuable upon such conversion shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder or
holders of such shares of Common Stock, but no allowance or adjustment shall be made in respect of dividends payable to holders of Common Stock in respect of any period prior to such effective date. The Company shall not be obligated to pay any
dividends which shall have accrued or have been declared and shall be payable to holders of shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock if the date on which such dividends are paid is on or after the effective date of conversion of such shares.   
  (g) The Company shall not be obligated to deliver to holders of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock any fractional share or shares of Common
Stock issuable upon any conversion of such shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock, but in lieu thereof may make a cash payment in respect thereof in any manner permitted by law.      (h) The Company shall at all times reserve and keep available out of its authorized and unissued Common Stock, solely for issuance upon the conversion of shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock as herein
provided, free from any preemptive rights, such number of   
         9   

shares of Common Stock as shall from time to time be issuable upon the conversion of all the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock then outstanding.   
  (i) The Company will use its best efforts to cause the listing of the shares of Common Stock required to be delivered upon
conversion of the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock prior to distribution to Plan participants on the national securities exchange, if any, upon which the outstanding Common Stock is listed at the time of such delivery.   
  (j) The Company will pay any and all documentary stamp or similar issue or transfer taxes payable in respect of the issue or
delivery of shares of Common Stock on conversions of the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant hereto; provided, however, that the Company shall not be required to pay any tax which may be payable in respect of any transfer involved in the issue or
delivery of shares of Common Stock in a name other than that of the holder of the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock to be converted and no such issue or delivery shall be made unless and until the person requesting such issue or delivery has paid to the
Company the amount of any such tax or has established, to the satisfaction of the Company, that such tax has been paid.   
  5.  Redemption At the Option of the Company . (a) The 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be redeemable, in whole or in
part, at the option of the Company at any time, at a redemption price per share of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock equal to the higher of (x) $1,000.00 per share, plus an amount equal to all accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for
redemption, and (y) the Fair Market Value (as that term is defined in paragraph (d) of this Section 5) per share of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock on the date fixed for redemption. Payment of the redemption price shall be made by the
Company in cash or shares of Common Stock, or a combination thereof, as permitted by paragraph (c) of this Section 5. From and after the date fixed for redemption, dividends on shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock called for redemption will
cease to accrue and all rights in respect of such shares of the Company shall cease, except the right to receive the redemption price. Upon payment of the redemption price, such shares shall be deemed to have been transferred to the Company, to be
retired as provided in paragraph (a) of Section 1. If the full cumulative dividends have not been paid, or contemporaneously declared and set aside for payment, on all outstanding shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock, the Company may not
redeem fewer than all the outstanding shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to this Section 5.      (b) Unless
otherwise required by law, notice of any redemption pursuant to this Section 5 will be sent to the holders of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock at the address shown on the books of the Company or any transfer agent for the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock by
hand delivery, by courier, by standard form of telecommunication or by first-class mail (postage prepaid) delivered, sent or mailed, as the case may be, not less than twenty (20) days nor more than sixty (60) days prior to the redemption
date. Each such notice shall state: (i) the redemption date; (ii) the total number of shares of the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such
shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) whether the redemption price shall be paid in cash or in shares of Common Stock, or in a combination of such Common Stock and cash; (v) in the case of
certificated 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; (vi) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on such redemption
date; and (vii) the conversion rights of the shares to be redeemed, the period within which conversion rights may be exercised and the manner in which the number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of a share of 2012 ESOP
Preferred Stock will be determined. The Company shall redeem shares so called for   
         10   

redemption and not previously converted at the date fixed for redemption and at the redemption price set forth in this Section 5, provided that, in the case of certificated 2012 ESOP
Preferred Stock, the Company shall not be obligated to pay the redemption price until the certificates for the shares to be redeemed are surrendered (properly endorsed or assigned for transfer, if the Board of Directors of the Company shall so
require and the notice shall so state).      (c) The Company, at its option, may make payment of the redemption price
required upon redemption of shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock in cash or in shares of Common Stock, or in a combination of such Common Stock and cash, any such shares of Common Stock to be valued for such purposes at their Fair Market Value (as
defined in paragraph (d)(ii) of this Section 5) or their Current Market Price, in either case as of the date fixed for redemption of the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock, whichever value will result in the issuance of the greater number of shares of
Common Stock to the holder of the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock then being redeemed.      (d) For purposes of these resolutions,
the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:      (i)  Adjustment Period  shall mean the period of
five (5) consecutive Trading Days preceding the date as of which the Fair Market Value of a security is to be determined.   
  (ii)  Fair Market Value  shall mean, as to shares of Common Stock or any other class of capital stock or securities of
the Company or any other issue which are publicly traded, the average of the Current Market Prices of such shares or securities for each day of the Adjustment Period. The  Fair Market Value  of any security which is not publicly traded
(other than the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock) or of any other property shall mean the fair value thereof on the date as of which the Fair Market Value of the security is to be determined, as determined by an independent investment banking or appraisal
firm experienced in the valuation of such securities or property selected in good faith by the Board or a committee thereof. The  Fair Market Value  of the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock for purposes of paragraph (a) of Section 5, and
for purposes of paragraph (c) of Section 6 shall mean the fair market value thereof determined by an independent appraiser, appointed by the Trustee of the Plan in accordance with the provisions of the Plan, as of the date fixed for
redemption of the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock (in the case of a redemption pursuant to Section 5) or as of the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 6 (in the case of a redemption under that section). For purposes of determining
the Fair Market Value of the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock, the independent appraiser shall assume (i) that all dividends on the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock would have been paid when due, and (ii) that the mandatory conversion of shares of 2012
ESOP Preferred Stock held by the Plan into shares of Common Stock pursuant to Section 4(a) hereof would have occurred when and as payments of principal (together with accrued interest thereon) would have been made by the Trustee of the Plan in
accordance with the terms of that certain 2012 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock Note Agreement dated on or about January 12, 2012 between the Company and the Plan (including any amendments or modifications thereto).   
  6.  Consolidation, Merger, etc.  (a) If the Company consummates any consolidation or merger or similar business
combination, pursuant to which the outstanding shares of Common Stock are by operation of law exchanged solely for or changed, reclassified or converted solely into stock of any successor or resulting corporation (including the Company) that
constitutes  qualifying employer securities  with respect to a holder of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock within the meaning of Section 409(1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and Section
  
         11   

407(d)(5) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, or any successor provisions of law, and, if applicable, for a cash payment in lieu of fractional shares, if any, the
shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock of such holder shall, in connection with such consolidation, merger or similar business combination, be assumed by and shall become Preferred Stock of such successor or resulting corporation, having in respect of
such corporation, insofar as possible, the same powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights (including the redemption rights provided by Sections 5 and 6 hereof), and the qualifications, limitations or
restrictions thereon, that the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock had immediately prior to such transaction, subject to the following:      (1) After such transaction each share of the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be convertible, otherwise on the terms and conditions provided by Section 4 hereof, into the number and kind of
qualifying employer securities so receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior to such transaction.   
  (2) The Company shall not consummate any such merger, consolidation or similar transaction unless all then
outstanding shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be assumed and authorized by the successor or resulting corporation as aforesaid.      (b) If the Company consummates any consolidation or merger or similar business combination, pursuant to which the outstanding shares of Common Stock are by operation of law exchanged for or changed,
reclassified or converted into other stock or securities or cash or any other property, or any combination thereof, other than any such consideration which is constituted solely of qualifying employer securities (as referred to in paragraph
(a) of this Section 6) and cash payments, if applicable, in lieu of fractional shares, outstanding shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, without any action on the part of the Company or any holder thereof (but subject to paragraph
(c) of this Section 6), be automatically converted by virtue of such merger, consolidation or similar transaction immediately prior to such consummation into the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2012 ESOP
Preferred Stock could have been converted at such time so that each share of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, by virtue of such transaction and on the same terms as apply to the holders of Common Stock, be converted into or exchanged for the
aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash or other property (payable in like kind) receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior to
such transaction. However, if by virtue of the structure of such transaction, a holder of Common Stock is required to make an election with respect to the nature and kind of consideration to be received in such transaction, which election cannot
practicably be made by the holders of the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock, then the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, by virtue of such transaction and on the same terms as apply to the holders of Common Stock, be converted into or exchanged for
the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash or other property (payable in kind) receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior to
such transaction if such holder of Common Stock failed to exercise any rights of election as to the kind or amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable upon such transaction. If the kind or amount of stock, securities, cash or
other property receivable upon such transaction is not the same for each non-electing share, then the kind and amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable upon such transaction for each non-electing share shall be the kind and
amount so receivable per share by a plurality of the non-electing shares.   
         12   

(c) In the event the Company shall enter into any agreement providing for any
consolidation or merger or similar business combination described in paragraph (b) of this Section 6 (a  Business Combination ), then the Company shall as soon as practicable thereafter (and in any event at least fifteen
(15) Business Days before consummation of such transaction) give notice of such agreement and the material terms thereof to each holder of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock and each such holder shall have the right to elect, by written notice to the
Company, to receive, upon consummation of such transaction (if and when such transaction is consummated), from the Company or the successor of the Company, in redemption and retirement of such 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock, a cash payment per share of
2012 ESOP Preferred Stock equal to the higher of (x) $1,000.00, plus accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date of consummation of such transaction or (y) the Fair Market Value per share of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock, as of the last
Business Day (as defined in paragraph (c) of Section 4 hereof) immediately preceding the date the Business Combination is consummated. No such notice of redemption shall be effective unless given to the Company prior to the close of
business on the last Business Day prior to consummation of such transaction, unless the Company or the successor of the Company shall waive such prior notice, but any notice of redemption so given prior to such time may be withdrawn by notice of
withdrawal given to the Company prior to the close of business on the last Business Day prior to consummation of such transaction.      (d) In the event that a Purchase Offer (as defined below) shall have been made and shall be continuing, each holder of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have the right to convert shares of 2012 ESOP
Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock at the Conversion Price specified in Section 4(c)(iii)(C) hereof until the date the Purchase Offer is terminated, including without limitation because the original Purchase Offer is withdrawn or
because the Purchase Offer has expired and is not renewed, upon notice of such conversion given to the Company not later than the close of business on the date the Purchase Offer terminates (the  Purchase Offer Conversion Period ), unless
the Company or any successor of the Company shall waive such prior notice, but any notice of conversion so given may be withdrawn by notice of withdrawal given to the Company prior to the end of the Purchase Offer Conversion Period.   
  For purposes of this paragraph (d), the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:   
  (i)  Beneficial Ownership  shall have the meaning ascribed to it in Rule 13d-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the
 Exchange Act ) and  person  shall have the meanings specified in Sections 3(a)(9) and 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act.      (ii) A  Purchase Offer  shall have been made when any person (other than the Company or any affiliate of the Company) shall have  commenced  (as such term is defined in Rule 14d-2
under the Exchange Act) a tender offer or exchange offer to purchase shares of Common Stock, such that, upon consummation of such offer, such person would have Beneficial Ownership (as defined herein) or the right to acquire Beneficial Ownership, of
twenty percent (20%) or more of the voting power of the Company.      7.  Liquidation Rights . (a) Upon the
dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, the holders of the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive and to be paid out of the assets of the Company available for distribution to its stockholders, before any
payment or distribution shall be made on the Common Stock or any other class of stock ranking junior to 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock upon liquidation, the amount of $1,000.00 per   
         13   

share, plus a sum equal to all dividends (whether or not earned or declared) on such shares accrued and unpaid thereon to the date of final distribution.   
  (b) Neither the sale of all or substantially all the property and assets of the Company, nor the merger or consolidation of the
Company into or with any other corporation, nor the merger or consolidation of any other corporation into or with the Company shall be deemed to be a dissolution, liquidation, or winding up, voluntary or involuntary, for the purposes of this
Section 7.      (c) After the payment to the holders of the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock of the full preferential
amounts provided for in this Section 7, the holders of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock, as such, shall have no right or claim to any of the remaining assets of the Company.      (d) In the event the assets of the Company available for distribution to the holders of shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock upon any dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, whether
voluntary or involuntary, shall be insufficient to pay in full all amounts to which such holders are entitled pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 7, no such distribution shall be made on account of any shares of any other series of
Preferred Stock or other capital stock of the Company ranking on a parity with the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock upon such dissolution, liquidation, or winding up unless proportionate distributive amounts shall be paid on account of the shares
of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock, ratably, in proportion to the full distributable amounts for which holders of all such parity shares are respectively entitled upon such dissolution, liquidation, or winding up.   
  (e) Subject to the rights of the holders of the shares of any series or class or classes of stock ranking on a parity with or prior
to the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock upon liquidation, dissolution, or winding up, upon any liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Company, after payment shall have been made in full to the holders of the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred
Stock as provided in this Section 7, but not prior thereto, any other series or class or classes of stock ranking junior to the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock upon liquidation shall, subject to the respective terms and provisions (if any)
applying thereto, be entitled to receive any and all assets remaining to be paid or distributed, and the holders of the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to share therein.   
  8.  Ranking . For the purposes of these resolutions, any stock of any series or class or classes of the Company shall be
deemed to rank:      (a) prior to the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, if the
holders of such series or class or classes shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders of shares
of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock;      (b) on a parity with shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon
liquidation, whether or not the dividend rates, dividend payment dates, or redemption or liquidation prices per share, or sinking fund provisions, if any, be different from those of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock, if the holders of such stock shall be
entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as the case may be, in proportion to their respective dividend rates or liquidation prices, without preference
  
         14   

or priority, one over the other, as between the holders of such stock and the holders of shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock; and   
  (c) junior to shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, if such class shall be Common Stock
or if the holders of shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders
of shares of such series or class or classes.      9.  Priority of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock . The shares of 2012
ESOP Preferred Stock will rank on a parity, both as to payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, with the Company s 2003 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2004 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred
Stock, its 2005 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2006 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2007 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2008 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2010 ESOP Cumulative
Convertible Preferred Stock and its 2011 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has
caused this Certificate of Designations to be signed by John G. Stumpf, its Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and attested by Jeannine E. Zahn, its Assistant Secretary, whereby such President and Chief Executive Officer affirms, under
penalties of perjury, that this Certificate of Designations is the act and deed of the Company and that the facts stated herein are true, this 10th day of January, 2012.   

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY   

By  
     
    /s/ John G. Stumpf    

John G. Stumpf   

Chairman, President and   

Chief Executive Officer    

Attest:   

/s/ Jeannine E. Zahn    
 
  Jeannine E. Zahn   
 
  Assistant Secretary   
    [As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on January 10, 2012.]   
         15   

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY   
         
  CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION      Pursuant to Section 151(g) of the      General Corporation Law   
  of the State of Delaware        
       NON-CUMULATIVE
PERPETUAL CLASS A PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES N      (Without Par Value)   
         
  WELLS FARGO   COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the
  Corporation  ), HEREBY CERTIFIES that, pursuant to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the   Board of Directors  ) by the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the
Corporation, as amended, which authorize the issuance of not more than 20,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, without par value, and pursuant to authority conferred upon the Securities Committee of the Board of Directors (the
  Committee  ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the   General Corporation Law  ), the following resolutions were duly adopted by the Committee pursuant to
the unanimous written consent of the Committee duly adopted on August 14, 2012, in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law:       R ESOLVED ,  that pursuant to the authority vested in the Committee and in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors dated January 27, 2009, the provisions of the
Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the By-laws of the Corporation, and applicable law, a series of Preferred Stock, no par value, of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the
voting and other powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as follows:   
   RIGHTS AND PREFERENCES        Section 1. Designation . The shares of such series of Preferred Stock shall be designated Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series N, with no par value and a
liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share (the   Series N Preferred Stock  ). Each share of Series N Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series N Preferred Stock except with respect
to the date from which dividends may accrue. Series N Preferred Stock will rank equally with Parity Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution
or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation and will rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of
the affairs of the Corporation.       Section 2. Number of Shares . The number of authorized shares of Series N
Preferred Stock shall be 30,000. Such number may from time to time be increased (but not in excess of the total number of authorized shares of Preferred Stock) or decreased (but not below the number of shares of Series N Preferred Stock then
outstanding) by further resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the   

Board of Directors of the Corporation and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General Corporation Law stating that such increase or decrease, as the case may be, has
been so authorized. The Corporation shall have the authority to issue fractional shares of Series N Preferred Stock.   
   Section 3. Definitions . As used herein with respect to Series N Preferred Stock:   
    Business Day   means any day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, that is neither a legal holiday nor a day on which
banking institutions are authorized or required by law or regulation to close in New York, New York.        Certificate of
Designation   means this Certificate of Designation relating to the Series N Preferred Stock, as it may be amended from time to time.        Common Stock   means the common stock of the Corporation, par value $1 2/3 per share, as the same exists at the date of this Certificate of Designation or as such stock may be constituted
from time to time.        Depositary Company   has the meaning set forth in Section 6(d) hereof.   
    Dividend Payment Date   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.   
    Dividend Period   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.   
    DTC   means The Depository Trust Company, together with its successors and assigns.   
    Junior Stock   means the Common Stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or
hereafter authorized over which the Series N Preferred Stock has preference or priority in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the
Corporation.        Liquidation Preference   has the meaning set forth in Section 5(a) hereof.   
    Nonpayment Event   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(b).   
    Parity Stock   means any other class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized that
ranks on par with the Series N Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) or in the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up
of the affairs of the Corporation.        Preference Stock   means any and all series of preference stock, having
no par value, of the Corporation.        Preferred Stock   means any and all series of preferred stock, having no
par value, of the Corporation, including the Series N Preferred Stock.   
         2   

Preferred Stock Directors   shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 7(b).        Regulatory Capital Treatment Event   means the Corporation s reasonable
determination that as a result of any (i) amendment to, or change (including any announced prospective change) in, the laws or regulations of the United States or any political subdivision of or in the United States that is enacted or becomes
effective after the initial issuance of any shares of Series N Preferred Stock; (ii) proposed change in those laws or regulations that is announced or becomes effective after the initial issuance of any shares of Series N Preferred Stock; or
(iii) official administrative decision or judicial decision or administrative action or other official pronouncement interpreting or applying those laws or regulations that is announced after the initial issuance of any shares of Series N
Preferred Stock, there is more than an insubstantial risk that the Corporation will not be entitled to treat the full liquidation preference amount of all shares of Series N Preferred Stock then outstanding as Tier 1 capital (or its equivalent) for
purposes of the capital adequacy guidelines or regulations of the appropriate federal banking agency, as then in effect and applicable, for as long as any share of Series N Preferred Stock is outstanding.   
    Series N Preferred Stock   has the meaning set forth in Section 1 hereof.   
    Voting Parity Stock   means any Parity Stock having similar voting rights as the Series N Preferred Stock.   
   Section 4. Dividends.        (a) Rate . Dividends on the Series N Preferred Stock will not be mandatory. Holders of Series N Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors of
the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, but only out of assets legally available therefor, non-cumulative cash dividends on the liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share of the Series N
Preferred Stock, payable quarterly in arrears on the 15th day of March, June, September and December of each year (commencing on December 15, 2012);  provided ,  however , if any such day is not a Business Day, then payment of any
dividend otherwise payable on that date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day, without any interest or other payment in respect of such delay (each such day on which dividends are payable a   Dividend Payment
Date  ). A   Dividend Period   means the period from, and including, a Dividend Payment Date to, but excluding, the next succeeding Dividend Payment Date, except for the initial Dividend Period, which will be the period
from, and including, August 16, 2012 to, but excluding, December 15, 2012. Dividends on each share of Series N Preferred Stock will accrue at a rate  per annum  equal to 5.20%. The record date for payment of dividends on the
Series N Preferred Stock shall be the last Business Day of the calendar month immediately preceding the month during which the Dividend Payment Date falls or such other date as determined by the Corporation s Board of Directors. The amount of
dividends payable shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. Dollar amounts resulting from that calculation will be rounded to the nearest cent, with one-half cent being rounded upward.   
   (b) Non-Cumulative Dividends . Dividends on shares of Series N Preferred Stock shall be non-cumulative. To the extent
that any dividends payable on the shares of Series N Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date are not declared prior to such Dividend Payment Date, then such dividends shall not cumulate and shall cease to accrue and be payable, and the
  
         3   

Corporation shall have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series N Preferred Stock shall have no right to receive, dividends accrued for such Dividend Period on the Dividend Payment Date
for such Dividend Period or at any time in the future or interest with respect to such dividends, whether or not dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period with respect to Series N Preferred Stock or any other series of authorized
Preferred Stock, Preference Stock, or Common Stock of the Corporation.       (c) Priority of Dividends . So long as any
shares of Series N Preferred Stock remain outstanding,      (1) no dividend shall be declared and paid or set aside for payment
and no distribution shall be declared and made or set aside for payment on any Common Stock, and no shares of Common Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly, nor shall
any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such Common Stock by the Corporation (other than (i) a dividend payable in Common Stock or (ii) the acquisition of shares of Common Stock in exchange for,
or through application of proceeds of the sale of, shares of Common Stock);      (2) no dividend shall be declared and paid or set
aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared and made or set aside for payment on any Junior Stock other than Common Stock, and no shares of Junior Stock other than Common Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for
consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly, nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such Junior Stock other than Common Stock by the Corporation (other than (i) a dividend
payable solely in shares of Junior Stock, (ii) any dividend in connection with the implementation of a stockholder rights plan, or the redemption or repurchase of any rights under any such plan, (iii) any dividend in the form of stock,
warrants, options or other rights where the dividend stock or stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants, options or other rights is the same stock as that on which the dividend is being paid or ranks equally with or junior to such stock,
(iv) as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock other than Common Stock for or into other Junior Stock, (v) the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock other than Common Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock,
(vi) through the use of proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Junior Stock, (vii) any purchase, redemption or other acquisition of Junior Stock other than Common Stock pursuant to any of the Corporation s
or any of its subsidiaries  employee, consultant or director incentive or benefit plans or arrangements (including any employment, severance or consulting arrangements) adopted before or after August 9, 2012, (viii) any purchase of
fractional interests in shares of Junior Stock other than Common Stock pursuant to the conversion or exchange provisions of such Junior Stock other than Common Stock or the securities being converted or exchanged, (ix) the purchase of Junior
Stock other than Common Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with the distribution thereof or (x) the purchase of Junior Stock other than Common Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or
any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with market-making or other secondary market activities in the ordinary course of business); and      (3) no shares of Parity Stock will be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation otherwise than pursuant to pro rata offers to purchase all, or a pro rata portion, of
the Series N Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock during a Dividend Period (other than (i) as a result of a reclassification of Parity Stock for or into other Parity Stock or   
         4   

Junior Stock, (ii) the exchange or conversion of one share of Parity Stock for or into another share of Parity Stock or Junior Stock, (iii) through the use of proceeds of a
substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Parity Stock or Junior Stock, (iv) any purchase, redemption or other acquisition of Parity Stock pursuant to any of the Corporation s or any of its subsidiaries  employee,
consultant or director incentive or benefit plans or arrangements (including any employment, severance or consulting arrangements) adopted before or after August 9, 2012, (v) any purchase of fractional interests in shares of Parity Stock
pursuant to the conversion or exchange provisions of such Parity Stock or the securities being converted or exchanged, (vi) the purchase of Parity Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection
with the distribution thereof or (vii) the purchase of Parity Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with market-making or other secondary market activities in the ordinary course of
business),      unless, in each case, the full dividends for the then-current Dividend Period on all outstanding shares of the Series N Preferred
Stock have been declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment of those dividends has been set aside.   
  Subject to the succeeding sentence, for so long as any shares of Series N Preferred Stock remain outstanding, no dividends shall be
declared, paid, or set aside for payment on any Parity Stock for any period unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series N Preferred Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for
the payment thereof set aside. To the extent the Corporation declares dividends on the Series N Preferred Stock and on any Parity Stock but cannot make full payment of those declared dividends, the Corporation will allocate the dividend
payments on a proportional basis among the holders of shares of Series N Preferred Stock and the holders of any Parity Stock then outstanding where the terms of such Parity Stock provide similar dividend rights.   
  Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, stock or otherwise) as may be determined by the Board of
Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the board of Directors of the Corporation may be declared and paid on the Common Stock and any other stock that is Parity Stock or Junior Stock, from time to time out of any assets
legally available for such payment, and the shares of Series N Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends.       Section 5. Liquidation Rights.        (a) Liquidation . In the
event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, holders of Series N Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive in full out of assets available for distribution to its stockholders
before any distribution or payment out of the assets of the Corporation may be made to or set aside for the holders of the Common Stock or any other Junior Stock, and subject to the rights of the holders of Parity Stock or any stock of the
Corporation ranking senior to the Series N Preferred Stock as to such distribution, a liquidating distribution in the amount of $25,000 per share, plus an amount equal to any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid, without accumulation
of any undeclared dividends, to the date of liquidation (the   Liquidation Preference  ). The holders of Series N Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any further payments in the event of any such voluntary or involuntary
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation other than what is expressly provided for in this Section 5.   
         5   

(b) Partial Payment . If the assets of the Corporation are not sufficient to pay
in full the Liquidation Preference to all holders of Series N Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of Series N Preferred Stock and to the holders of all Parity Stock shall be  pro rata  in
accordance with the respective aggregate liquidation preference of Series N Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock.       (c)
Residual Distributions . If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in full to all holders of Series N Preferred Stock and all other amounts payable upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation have been paid in full to
all holders of any Parity Stock, the holders of Common Stock and any other Junior Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation according to their respective rights and preferences.   
   (d) Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation . For purposes of this Section 5, the sale, conveyance,
exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation shall not be deemed a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of
the affairs of the Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of the Corporation into or with any other corporation or person or the merger, consolidation or any other business combination
transaction of any other corporation or person into or with the Corporation be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.   
   Section 6. Redemption.        (a) Optional Redemption . The Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, may redeem, subject to the
prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board, out of funds legally available therefor, in whole or in part, the shares of Series N Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, at any time on any Dividend Payment Date on or after September 15, 2017,
upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below. The redemption price for shares of Series N Preferred Stock shall be $25,000 per share plus an amount equal to any dividends that have been declared but not paid up to the redemption
date without accumulation of any undeclared dividends.      Notwithstanding the foregoing, within 90 days of the
Corporation s good faith determination that a Regulatory Capital Treatment Event has occurred, the Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, may, subject
to the approval of the appropriate federal banking agency, redeem out of funds legally available therefor, in whole, but not in part, the shares of Series N Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, prior to September 15, 2017, upon notice given
as provided in Section 6(b) below. The redemption price for shares of Series N Preferred Stock shall be $25,000 per share plus an amount equal to any dividends that have been declared but not paid, without accumulation of any undeclared
dividends.       (b) Notice of Redemption . Notice of every redemption of shares of Series N Preferred Stock shall be
mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of such shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the stock register of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 40 days and not
more than 70 days   
         6   

before the date fixed for redemption. Any notice mailed as provided in this Section 6(b) shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such
notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series N Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the
redemption of any other shares of Series N Preferred Stock. Each notice shall state (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of Series N Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder
are to be redeemed, if applicable, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where the certificates for those shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption
price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on the redemption date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series N Preferred Stock is held in book-entry form through DTC, the Corporation may give such
notice in any manner permitted by DTC.      (c) Partial Redemption . In case of any redemption of only part of the
shares of Series N Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares of Series N Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be selected either  pro rata  from the holders of record of Series N Preferred Stock in proportion to the number of Series N
Preferred Stock held by such holders or in such other manner as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the
provisions of this Section 6, the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series N Preferred
Stock shall be redeemed from time to time.       (d) Effectiveness of Redemption . If notice of redemption has been duly
given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been irrevocably set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other assets, in trust for the  pro rata  benefit of
the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, or deposited by the Corporation with a bank or trust company selected by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee
of the Board of Directors (the   Depositary Company  ) in trust for the  pro rata  benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has
not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date all shares so called for redemption shall cease to be outstanding, all dividends with respect to such shares shall cease to accrue after such redemption date, and all rights
with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from the Depository Company at any time after the redemption
date from the funds so deposited, without interest. The Corporation shall be entitled to receive, from time to time, from the Depositary Company any interest accrued on such funds, and the holders of any shares called for redemption shall have
no claim to any such interest. Any funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of two years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released or repaid to the Corporation, after which time the holders of the shares so
called for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares.   
   Section 7. Voting Rights.    
         7   

(a) General.  The holders of Series N Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to vote on
any matter except as set forth in paragraph 7(b) below or as required by applicable law.       (b) Right To Elect Two
Directors Upon Nonpayment Events.  Whenever dividends payable on any shares of Series N Preferred Stock or any class or series of Voting Parity Stock have not been declared and paid in an aggregate amount equal to, as to any class or series, at
least six quarterly Dividend Periods or their equivalent, whether or not for consecutive Dividend Periods (a   Nonpayment Event  ), the holders of the outstanding Series N Preferred Stock, voting together as a class with holders of
Voting Parity Stock whose voting rights are exercisable, will be entitled to vote for the election of two additional directors of the Corporation s Board of Directors at the Corporation s next annual meeting of stockholders and at each
subsequent annual meeting of stockholders (the   Preferred Stock Directors  ) by a plurality of the votes cast;  provided  that the Board of Directors shall at no time include more than two Preferred Stock Directors (including,
for purposes of this limitation, all directors that the holders of any series of Voting Parity Stock are entitled to elect pursuant to like voting rights). Upon the vesting of such right of such holders, the maximum authorized number of members of
the Board of Directors shall automatically be increased by two and the two vacancies so created shall be filled by vote of the holders of the outstanding Series N Preferred Stock (together with the holders of shares of any one or more other series
of Voting Parity Stock). At elections for such directors, each holder of the Series N Preferred Stock shall be entitled to 25 votes for each share held (the holders of shares of any other series of Voting Parity Stock being entitled to such number
of votes, if any, for each share of such stock as may be granted to them). The right of the holders of the Series N Preferred Stock (voting together as a class with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of Voting Parity Stock) to
elect Preferred Stock Directors shall continue until such time as the Corporation has paid in full dividends for the equivalent of at least four quarterly Dividend Periods or their equivalent, at which time such right with respect to the Series N
Preferred Stock shall terminate, except as provided by law, and subject to revesting in the event of each and every subsequent default of the character described in this Section 7(b).   
  Upon any termination of the right of the holders of all shares of Series N Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock to vote for Preferred
Stock Directors, the term of office of all Preferred Stock Directors then in office elected by only those holders voting as a class shall terminate immediately. Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of
a majority of the outstanding shares of Series N Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock, when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a class). In case any vacancy shall occur among the Preferred Stock Directors, a successor
may be elected by a plurality of the votes cast by the holders of Series N Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock having the voting rights described above, voting together as a class, unless the vacancy has already been filled. The Preferred Stock
Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter that shall come before the Board of Directors for a vote. Whenever the term of office of the directors elected by such holders voting as a class shall end and the special voting
powers vested in such holders as provided in this Section 7(b) shall have expired, the number of directors shall be such number as may be provided for in the By-Laws irrespective of any increase made pursuant to this Section 7(b).
      (c) Other Voting Rights . In addition to any other vote required by law or the Restated Certificate of Incorporation,
so long as any shares of the Series N Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the vote or consent of the holders of the outstanding shares of Series N   
         8   

Preferred Stock and outstanding shares of all other series of Voting Parity Stock entitled to vote on the matter, by a vote of at least 66 2/3% in voting power of all such outstanding Series
N Preferred Stock and such Voting Parity Stock, voting together as a class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary to permit, effect or validate any one or more
of the following actions, whether or not such approval is required by Delaware law: (i) the issuance of any class or series of Preferred Stock or Preference Stock ranking senior to the Series N Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends or the
distribution of assets in the event of the Corporation s voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up; (ii) any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, including the
Certificate of Designation, or the Bylaws that would adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series N Preferred Stock; (iii) any amendment or alteration of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation,
including the Certificate of Designation, or Bylaws to authorize, create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of, or any securities convertible into shares of, any class or series of the Corporation s capital stock ranking senior
to the Series N Preferred Stock with respect to either the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets in the event of the Corporation s voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up; or (iv) any consummation of
a reclassification involving the Series N Preferred Stock or a merger or consolidation with another corporation or other entity, except holders of the Series N Preferred Stock will have no right to vote under this section 7(c)(iv) if in each case
(a) the shares of Series N Preferred Stock remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference
securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (b) such shares of Series N Preferred Stock remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and
voting powers, taken as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series N Preferred Stock, taken as a whole;  provided, however , that any
authorization, creation or increase in the authorized amount of or issuance of the Series N Preferred Stock or any Parity Stock or Junior Stock or any securities convertible into any class or series of Parity Stock (whether dividends payable in
respect of such Parity Stock are cumulative or non-cumulative) or Junior Stock will be deemed not to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series N Preferred Stock, and holders of the Series N Preferred Stock
shall have no right to vote thereon.      If any amendment, alteration, repeal, reclassification, merger or consolidation
specified in this Section 7(c) would adversely affect one or more but not all series of voting Preferred Stock (including the Series N Preferred Stock), then only those series affected by and entitled to vote on the matter shall vote on the
matter together as a class (in lieu of all other series of Preferred Stock).      Each holder of the Series N Preferred Stock will
have 25 votes per share on any matter on which holders of the Series N Preferred Stock are entitled to vote, whether separately or together with any other series of stock of the Corporation (the holders of any shares of any other series of stock
being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of stock as may be granted to them), pursuant to Delaware law or otherwise, including by written consent.       (d) Changes after Provision for Redemption.  No vote or consent of the holders of Series N Preferred Stock shall be required pursuant to Section 7(b) or (c) above if, at or prior to the
time when any such vote or consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding Series N Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed, or notice of redemption has   
         9   

been given and sufficient funds shall have been irrevocably deposited in trust to effect such redemption.       (e) Procedures for Voting and Consents.  The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Series N Preferred Stock (including, without limitation, the fixing of a
record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the Board of
Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the Bylaws, applicable law and any national securities exchange or other trading
facility in which the Series N Preferred Stock is listed or traded at the time.       Section 8. Preemption and
Conversion . The holders of Series N Preferred Stock shall not have any rights of preemption or rights to convert such Series N Preferred Stock into shares of any other class of capital stock of the Corporation.   
   Section 9. Reacquired Shares . Shares of Series N Preferred Stock which have been issued and redeemed or otherwise purchased
or acquired by the Corporation shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock without designation as to series.       Section 10. No Sinking Fund . Shares of Series N Preferred Stock are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund.       Section 11. Additional Classes or Series of Stock . Notwithstanding anything set forth in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designation to the contrary, the Board
of Directors of the Corporation, or any authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, (i) without the vote of the holders of the Series N Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional shares of Junior Stock and Parity
Stock and (ii) with the requisite vote of the holders of the Series N Preferred Stock and Parity Stock entitled to vote thereon, may authorize and issue any additional class or series of Preferred Stock or Preference Stock senior to the Series
N Preferred Stock as to the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.   
         10   

I N  W ITNESS  W HEREOF ,
W ELLS  F ARGO    C OMPANY     has caused this Certificate of Designation to be signed by Barbara S. Brett, its Senior Vice President and Assistant Treasurer, and Jeannine E. Zahn, its
Assistant Secretary, this 14   th    day of August, 2012.

W ELLS  F ARGO    C OMPANY     

By :  
     
    /s/ Barbara S. Brett    

Barbara S. Brett, Senior Vice President       and Assistant Treasurer     

/s/ Jeannine E. Zahn    
 
  Jeannine E. Zahn, Assistant Secretary   
    [As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on August 15, 2012.]   

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY    
         
   CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION       Pursuant to Section 151(g) of the      General Corporation Law   
  of the State of Delaware        
    
   NON-CUMULATIVE PERPETUAL CLASS A PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES O        (Without Par Value)         
       WELLS
FARGO   COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the   Corporation  ), HEREBY CERTIFIES that, pursuant to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the
  Board of Directors  ) by the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, which authorize the issuance of not more than 20,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, without par value, and pursuant
to authority conferred upon the Securities Committee of the Board of Directors (the   Committee  ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the   General Corporation
Law  ), the following resolutions were duly adopted by the Committee pursuant to the unanimous written consent of the Committee duly adopted on November 16, 2012, in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law:
      R ESOLVED ,  that pursuant to the authority vested in the Committee and in accordance with the resolutions
of the Board of Directors dated January 27, 2009, the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the By-laws of the Corporation, and applicable law, a series of Preferred Stock, no par value, of the Corporation be and hereby is
created, and that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and other powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of
the shares of such series, are as follows:       RIGHTS AND PREFERENCES    
   Section 1. Designation . The shares of such series of Preferred Stock shall be designated Non-Cumulative Perpetual
Class A Preferred Stock, Series O, with no par value and a liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share (the   Series O Preferred Stock  ). Each share of Series O Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to
every other share of Series O Preferred Stock except with respect to the date from which dividends may accrue. Series O Preferred Stock will rank equally with Parity Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and distribution of assets in
the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation and will rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets in the event of any
voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.       Section 2. Number
of Shares . The number of authorized shares of Series O Preferred Stock shall be 27,600. Such number may from time to time be increased (but not in excess of the total number of authorized shares of Preferred Stock) or decreased (but
not below the number of shares of Series O Preferred Stock then outstanding) by further resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the

Board of Directors of the Corporation and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General Corporation Law stating that such increase or decrease, as the case may be, has
been so authorized. The Corporation shall have the authority to issue fractional shares of Series O Preferred Stock.   
   Section 3. Definitions . As used herein with respect to Series O Preferred Stock:   
    Business Day   means any day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, that is neither a legal holiday nor a day on which
banking institutions are authorized or required by law or regulation to close in New York, New York.        Certificate of
Designation   means this Certificate of Designation relating to the Series O Preferred Stock, as it may be amended from time to time.        Common Stock   means the common stock of the Corporation, par value $1 2/3 per share, as the same exists at the date of this Certificate of Designation or as such stock may be constituted
from time to time.        Depositary Company   has the meaning set forth in Section 6(d) hereof.   
    Dividend Payment Date   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.   
    Dividend Period   has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.   
    DTC   means The Depository Trust Company, together with its successors and assigns.   
    Junior Stock   means the Common Stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or
hereafter authorized over which the Series O Preferred Stock has preference or priority in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the
Corporation.        Liquidation Preference   has the meaning set forth in Section 5(a) hereof.   
    Nonpayment Event   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(b).   
    Parity Stock   means any other class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized that
ranks on par with the Series O Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) or in the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up
of the affairs of the Corporation.        Preference Stock   means any and all series of preference stock, having
no par value, of the Corporation.        Preferred Stock   means any and all series of preferred stock, having no
par value, of the Corporation, including the Series O Preferred Stock.   
         2   

Preferred Stock Directors   shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 7(b).        Regulatory Capital Treatment Event   means the Corporation s reasonable
determination that as a result of any (i) amendment to, clarification of, or change (including any announced prospective change) in, the laws or regulations of the United States or any political subdivision of or in the United States that is
enacted or becomes effective on or after November 13, 2012; (ii) proposed change in those laws or regulations that is announced or becomes effective on or after November 13, 2012; or (iii) official administrative decision or
judicial decision or administrative action or other official pronouncement interpreting or applying those laws or regulations that is announced on or after November 13, 2012, there is more than an insubstantial risk that the Corporation will
not be entitled to treat the full liquidation preference amount of all shares of Series O Preferred Stock then outstanding as Tier 1 capital (or its equivalent) for purposes of the capital adequacy guidelines or regulations of the appropriate
federal banking agency, as then in effect and applicable, for as long as any share of Series O Preferred Stock is outstanding.   
    Series O Preferred Stock   has the meaning set forth in Section 1 hereof.   
    Voting Parity Stock   means any Parity Stock having similar voting rights as the Series O Preferred Stock.   
   Section 4. Dividends.        (a) Rate . Dividends on the Series O Preferred Stock will not be mandatory. Holders of Series O Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors of
the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, but only out of assets legally available therefor, non-cumulative cash dividends on the liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share of the Series O
Preferred Stock, payable quarterly in arrears on the 15th day of March, June, September and December of each year (commencing on March 15, 2013);  provided ,  however , if any such day is not a Business Day, then payment of any
dividend otherwise payable on that date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day, without any interest or other payment in respect of such delay (each such day on which dividends are payable a   Dividend Payment
Date  ). A   Dividend Period   means the period from, and including, a Dividend Payment Date to, but excluding, the next succeeding Dividend Payment Date, except for the initial Dividend Period, which will be the period
from, and including, November 20, 2012 to, but excluding, March 15, 2013. Dividends on each share of Series O Preferred Stock will accrue at a rate  per annum  equal to 5.125%. The record date for payment of dividends on the
Series O Preferred Stock shall be the last Business Day of the calendar month immediately preceding the month during which the Dividend Payment Date falls or such other date as determined by the Corporation s Board of Directors. The amount of
dividends payable shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. Dollar amounts resulting from that calculation will be rounded to the nearest cent, with one-half cent being rounded upward.   
   (b) Non-Cumulative Dividends . Dividends on shares of Series O Preferred Stock shall be non-cumulative. To the extent
that any dividends payable on the shares of Series O Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date are not declared prior to such Dividend Payment Date, then such dividends shall not cumulate and shall cease to accrue and be payable, and the
Corporation shall have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series O Preferred Stock shall have no right to receive, dividends accrued for such Dividend Period on the Dividend Payment   
         3   

Date for such Dividend Period or at any time in the future or interest with respect to such dividends, whether or not dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period with respect to
Series O Preferred Stock or any other series of authorized Preferred Stock, Preference Stock, or Common Stock of the Corporation.       (c) Priority of Dividends . So long as any shares of Series O Preferred Stock remain outstanding,      (1) no dividend shall be declared and paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared and made or set aside for payment on any Common Stock, and no shares of Common Stock shall be
repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly, nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such Common Stock by the Corporation (other than
(i) a dividend payable in Common Stock or (ii) the acquisition of shares of Common Stock in exchange for, or through application of proceeds of the sale of, shares of Common Stock);   
  (2) no dividend shall be declared and paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared and made or set aside for
payment on any Junior Stock other than Common Stock, and no shares of Junior Stock other than Common Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly, nor shall any monies be
paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such Junior Stock other than Common Stock by the Corporation (other than (i) a dividend payable solely in shares of Junior Stock, (ii) any dividend in connection with
the implementation of a stockholder rights plan, or the redemption or repurchase of any rights under any such plan, (iii) any dividend in the form of stock, warrants, options or other rights where the dividend stock or stock issuable upon
exercise of such warrants, options or other rights is the same stock as that on which the dividend is being paid or ranks equally with or junior to such stock, (iv) as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock other than Common Stock for
or into other Junior Stock, (v) the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock other than Common Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock, (vi) through the use of proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other
shares of Junior Stock, (vii) any purchase, redemption or other acquisition of Junior Stock other than Common Stock pursuant to any of the Corporation s or any of its subsidiaries  employee, consultant or director incentive or benefit
plans or arrangements (including any employment, severance or consulting arrangements) adopted before or after November 13, 2012, (viii) any purchase of fractional interests in shares of Junior Stock other than Common Stock pursuant to the
conversion or exchange provisions of such Junior Stock other than Common Stock or the securities being converted or exchanged, (ix) the purchase of Junior Stock other than Common Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of
the Corporation, in connection with the distribution thereof or (x) the purchase of Junior Stock other than Common Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with market-making or other
secondary market activities in the ordinary course of business); and      (3) no shares of Parity Stock will be repurchased,
redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation otherwise than pursuant to  pro rata  offers to purchase all, or a  pro rata  portion, of the Series O Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock during a Dividend Period
(other than (i) as a result of a reclassification of Parity Stock for or into other Parity Stock or Junior Stock, (ii) the exchange or conversion of one share of Parity Stock for or into another share of Parity Stock or Junior Stock,
(iii) through the use of proceeds of a substantially   
         4   

contemporaneous sale of other shares of Parity Stock or Junior Stock, (iv) any purchase, redemption or other acquisition of Parity Stock pursuant to any of the Corporation s or any of
its subsidiaries  employee, consultant or director incentive or benefit plans or arrangements (including any employment, severance or consulting arrangements) adopted before or after November 13, 2012, (v) any purchase of fractional
interests in shares of Parity Stock pursuant to the conversion or exchange provisions of such Parity Stock or the securities being converted or exchanged, (vi) the purchase of Parity Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate
of the Corporation, in connection with the distribution thereof or (vii) the purchase of Parity Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with market-making or other secondary market
activities in the ordinary course of business),      unless, in each case, the full dividends for the then-current Dividend Period on all
outstanding shares of the Series O Preferred Stock have been declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment of those dividends has been set aside.      Subject to the succeeding sentence, for so long as any shares of Series O Preferred Stock remain outstanding, no dividends shall be declared, paid, or set aside for payment on any Parity Stock for any
period unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series O Preferred Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside. To the extent the Corporation
declares dividends on the Series O Preferred Stock and on any Parity Stock but cannot make full payment of those declared dividends, the Corporation will allocate the dividend payments on a proportional basis among the holders of shares of Series O
Preferred Stock and the holders of any Parity Stock then outstanding where the terms of such Parity Stock provide similar dividend rights.      Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, stock or otherwise) as may be determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the
board of Directors of the Corporation may be declared and paid on the Common Stock and any other stock that is Parity Stock or Junior Stock, from time to time out of any assets legally available for such payment, and the shares of Series O Preferred
Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends.       Section 5. Liquidation Rights.    
   (a) Liquidation . In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the
Corporation, holders of Series O Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive in full out of assets available for distribution to its stockholders before any distribution or payment out of the assets of the Corporation may be made to or set aside
for the holders of the Common Stock or any other Junior Stock, and subject to the rights of the holders of Parity Stock or any stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series O Preferred Stock as to such distribution, a liquidating
distribution in the amount of $25,000 per share, plus an amount equal to any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends, to the date of liquidation (the   Liquidation
Preference  ). The holders of Series O Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any further payments in the event of any such voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation other than
what is expressly provided for in this Section 5.   
         5   

(b) Partial Payment . If the assets of the Corporation are not sufficient to pay
in full the Liquidation Preference to all holders of Series O Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of Series O Preferred Stock and to the holders of all Parity Stock shall be  pro rata  in
accordance with the respective aggregate liquidation preference of Series O Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock.       (c)
Residual Distributions . If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in full to all holders of Series O Preferred Stock and all other amounts payable upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation have been paid in full to
all holders of any Parity Stock, the holders of Common Stock and any other Junior Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation according to their respective rights and preferences.   
   (d) Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation . For purposes of this Section 5, the sale, conveyance,
exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation shall not be deemed a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of
the affairs of the Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of the Corporation into or with any other corporation or person or the merger, consolidation or any other business combination
transaction of any other corporation or person into or with the Corporation be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.   
   Section 6. Redemption.        (a) Optional Redemption . The Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, may redeem, subject to the
prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board, out of funds legally available therefor, in whole or in part, the shares of Series O Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, at any time on any Dividend Payment Date on or after December 15, 2017,
upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below. The redemption price for shares of Series O Preferred Stock shall be $25,000 per share plus an amount equal to any dividends that have been declared but not paid up to the redemption
date without accumulation of any undeclared dividends.      Notwithstanding the foregoing, within 90 days of the
Corporation s good faith determination that a Regulatory Capital Treatment Event has occurred, the Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, may, subject
to the approval of the appropriate federal banking agency, redeem out of funds legally available therefor, in whole, but not in part, the shares of Series O Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, prior to December 15, 2017, upon notice given
as provided in Section 6(b) below. The redemption price for shares of Series O Preferred Stock shall be $25,000 per share plus an amount equal to any dividends that have been declared but not paid, without accumulation of any undeclared
dividends.       (b) Notice of Redemption . Notice of every redemption of shares of Series O Preferred Stock shall be
mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of such shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the stock register of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 40 days and not
more than 70 days   
         6   

before the date fixed for redemption. Any notice mailed as provided in this Section 6(b) shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such
notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series O Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the
redemption of any other shares of Series O Preferred Stock. Each notice shall state (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of Series O Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder
are to be redeemed, if applicable, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where the certificates for those shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption
price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on the redemption date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series O Preferred Stock is held in book-entry form through DTC, the Corporation may give such
notice in any manner permitted by DTC.      (c) Partial Redemption . In case of any redemption of only part of the
shares of Series O Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares of Series O Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be selected either  pro rata  from the holders of record of Series O Preferred Stock in proportion to the number of Series O
Preferred Stock held by such holders or in such other manner as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the
provisions of this Section 6, the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series O Preferred
Stock shall be redeemed from time to time.       (d) Effectiveness of Redemption . If notice of redemption has been duly
given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been irrevocably set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other assets, in trust for the  pro rata  benefit of
the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, or deposited by the Corporation with a bank or trust company selected by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee
of the Board of Directors (the   Depositary Company  ) in trust for the  pro rata  benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has
not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date all shares so called for redemption shall cease to be outstanding, all dividends with respect to such shares shall cease to accrue after such redemption date, and all rights
with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from the Depository Company at any time after the redemption
date from the funds so deposited, without interest. The Corporation shall be entitled to receive, from time to time, from the Depositary Company any interest accrued on such funds, and the holders of any shares called for redemption shall have
no claim to any such interest. Any funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of two years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released or repaid to the Corporation, after which time the holders of the shares so
called for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares.   
   Section 7. Voting Rights.    
         7   

(a) General.  The holders of Series O Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to vote on
any matter except as set forth in paragraph 7(b) below or as required by applicable law.       (b) Right To Elect Two
Directors Upon Nonpayment Events.  Whenever dividends payable on any shares of Series O Preferred Stock or any class or series of Voting Parity Stock have not been declared and paid in an aggregate amount equal to, as to any class or series, at
least six quarterly Dividend Periods or their equivalent, whether or not for consecutive Dividend Periods (a   Nonpayment Event  ), the holders of the outstanding Series O Preferred Stock, voting together as a class with holders of
Voting Parity Stock whose voting rights are exercisable, will be entitled to vote for the election of two additional directors of the Corporation s Board of Directors at the Corporation s next annual meeting of stockholders and at each
subsequent annual meeting of stockholders (the   Preferred Stock Directors  ) by a plurality of the votes cast;  provided  that the Board of Directors shall at no time include more than two Preferred Stock Directors (including,
for purposes of this limitation, all directors that the holders of any series of Voting Parity Stock are entitled to elect pursuant to like voting rights). Upon the vesting of such right of such holders, the maximum authorized number of members of
the Board of Directors shall automatically be increased by two and the two vacancies so created shall be filled by vote of the holders of the outstanding Series O Preferred Stock (together with the holders of shares of any one or more other series
of Voting Parity Stock). At elections for such directors, each holder of the Series O Preferred Stock shall be entitled to 25 votes for each share held (the holders of shares of any other series of Voting Parity Stock being entitled to such number
of votes, if any, for each share of such stock as may be granted to them). The right of the holders of the Series O Preferred Stock (voting together as a class with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of Voting Parity Stock) to
elect Preferred Stock Directors shall continue until such time as the Corporation has paid in full dividends for the equivalent of at least four quarterly Dividend Periods or their equivalent, at which time such right with respect to the Series O
Preferred Stock shall terminate, except as provided by law, and subject to revesting in the event of each and every subsequent default of the character described in this Section 7(b).   
  Upon any termination of the right of the holders of all shares of Series O Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock to vote for Preferred
Stock Directors, the term of office of all Preferred Stock Directors then in office elected by only those holders voting as a class shall terminate immediately. Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of
a majority of the outstanding shares of Series O Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock, when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a class). In case any vacancy shall occur among the Preferred Stock Directors, a successor
may be elected by a plurality of the votes cast by the holders of Series O Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock having the voting rights described above, voting together as a class, unless the vacancy has already been filled. The Preferred Stock
Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter that shall come before the Board of Directors for a vote. Whenever the term of office of the directors elected by such holders voting as a class shall end and the special voting
powers vested in such holders as provided in this Section 7(b) shall have expired, the number of directors shall be such number as may be provided for in the By-Laws irrespective of any increase made pursuant to this Section 7(b).
      (c) Other Voting Rights . In addition to any other vote required by law or the Restated Certificate of Incorporation,
so long as any shares of the Series O Preferred Stock   
         8   

remain outstanding, the vote or consent of the holders of the outstanding shares of Series O Preferred Stock and outstanding shares of all other series of Voting Parity Stock entitled to vote on
the matter, by a vote of at least 66 2/3% in voting power of all such outstanding Series O Preferred Stock and such Voting Parity Stock, voting together as a class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or at any meeting
called for the purpose, shall be necessary to permit, effect or validate any one or more of the following actions, whether or not such approval is required by Delaware law: (i) the issuance of any class or series of Preferred Stock or
Preference Stock ranking senior to the Series O Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends or the distribution of assets in the event of the Corporation s voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up; (ii) any
amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, including the Certificate of Designation, or the Bylaws that would adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series O
Preferred Stock; (iii) any amendment or alteration of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, including the Certificate of Designation, or Bylaws to authorize, create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of, or any securities
convertible into shares of, any class or series of the Corporation s capital stock ranking senior to the Series O Preferred Stock with respect to either the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets in the event of the
Corporation s voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up; or (iv) any consummation of a reclassification involving the Series O Preferred Stock or a merger or consolidation with another corporation or other entity,
except holders of the Series O Preferred Stock will have no right to vote under this section 7(c)(iv) if in each case (a) the shares of Series O Preferred Stock remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect
to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (b) such shares of Series O Preferred Stock remaining
outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, taken as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and
voting powers of the Series O Preferred Stock, taken as a whole;  provided, however , that any authorization, creation or increase in the authorized amount of or issuance of the Series O Preferred Stock or any Parity Stock or Junior Stock or
any securities convertible into any class or series of Parity Stock (whether dividends payable in respect of such Parity Stock are cumulative or non-cumulative) or Junior Stock will be deemed not to adversely affect the rights, preferences,
privileges or voting powers of the Series O Preferred Stock, and holders of the Series O Preferred Stock shall have no right to vote thereon.      If any amendment, alteration, repeal, reclassification, merger or consolidation specified in this Section 7(c) would adversely affect one or more but not all series of voting Preferred Stock
(including the Series O Preferred Stock), then only those series affected by and entitled to vote on the matter shall vote on the matter together as a class (in lieu of all other series of Preferred Stock).   
  Each holder of the Series O Preferred Stock will have 25 votes per share on any matter on which holders of the Series O Preferred Stock
are entitled to vote, whether separately or together with any other series of stock of the Corporation (the holders of any shares of any other series of stock being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of stock as may be granted
to them), pursuant to Delaware law or otherwise, including by written consent.       (d) Changes after Provision for
Redemption.  No vote or consent of the holders of Series O Preferred Stock shall be required pursuant to Section 7(b) or (c) above if, at or prior to   
         9   

the time when any such vote or consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding Series O Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed, or notice of redemption has been
given and sufficient funds shall have been irrevocably deposited in trust to effect such redemption.       (e) Procedures for
Voting and Consents.  The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Series O Preferred Stock (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of
proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which
rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the Bylaws, applicable law and any national securities exchange or other trading facility in which the Series O Preferred Stock is listed or traded
at the time.       Section 8. Preemption and Conversion . The holders of Series O Preferred Stock shall not have any
rights of preemption or rights to convert such Series O Preferred Stock into shares of any other class of capital stock of the Corporation.       Section 9. Reacquired Shares . Shares of Series O Preferred Stock which have been issued and redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall be restored to the status of
authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock without designation as to series.       Section 10. No Sinking Fund .
Shares of Series O Preferred Stock are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund.       Section 11. Additional Classes
or Series of Stock . Notwithstanding anything set forth in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designation to the contrary, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, or any authorized committee of the Board of
Directors of the Corporation, (i) without the vote of the holders of the Series O Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional shares of Junior Stock and Parity Stock and (ii) with the requisite vote of the holders of the Series O
Preferred Stock and Parity Stock entitled to vote thereon, may authorize and issue any additional class or series of Preferred Stock or Preference Stock senior to the Series O Preferred Stock as to the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of
assets upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.   
         10   

I N  W ITNESS  W HEREOF ,
W ELLS  F ARGO    C OMPANY     has caused this Certificate of Designation to be signed by Barbara S. Brett, its Senior Vice President and Assistant Treasurer, and Jeannine E. Zahn, its
Assistant Secretary, this 19   th    day of November, 2012.

W ELLS  F ARGO    C OMPANY     

By :  
     
    /s/ Barbara S. Brett    

Barbara S. Brett, Senior Vice President       and Assistant Treasurer     

/s/ Jeannine E. Zahn    
 
  Jeannine E. Zahn, Assistant Secretary   
    [As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on November 19, 2012.]   
  [ Signature Page to Series O Certificate of Designation ]   

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY   
         
  CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION      Pursuant to Section 151 of the      General Corporation Law of the State of
Delaware             
  2013 ESOP CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK      (Without Par Value)        
       WELLS
FARGO   COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the  Company ), HEREBY CERTIFIES that, pursuant to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Company (the
 Board ) by the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as amended, which authorize the issuance of not more than 20,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, without par value (the  Preferred Stock ),
and pursuant to authority conferred upon the ESOP Preferred Stock Committee I of the Board (the  ESOP Committee ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the  General Corporation
Law ) and by the resolutions of the Board set forth herein, the following resolutions were duly adopted by the Board at meetings of the Board duly held on January 25, 2000, January 27, 2009, and February 24, 2009, and by the
ESOP Committee pursuant to the written consent of the ESOP Committee duly adopted on January 7, 2013, in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law:   
  1. On January 25, 2000, the Board adopted the following resolution (the  ESOP Board Resolutions ) appointing the ESOP
Committee and delegating to the ESOP Committee the full powers of the Board, subject to the ESOP Board Resolutions, in all matters relating to issuance of one or more series of Preferred Stock ( ESOP Preferred Stock ) to the trustee on
behalf of the Company s 401(k) Plan hereinafter referred to:      RESOLVED that a committee of one member of the Board of the
Company is hereby appointed by the Board as the ESOP Preferred Stock Committee I (the  First Committee ), which shall have and may exercise the full powers of the Board, subject to these resolutions, to issue from time to time one or more
series of ESOP Preferred Stock, including any shares of Company common stock ($1 2/3 par value) issuable upon conversion of ESOP Preferred Stock, and in connection therewith, to fix the designations, voting powers, preferences, and all other rights,
qualifications and restrictions of such ESOP Preferred Stock, to sell such ESOP Preferred Stock to the Plan on such terms and conditions and for such purchase price as the First Committee in its discretion shall approve, and to take any and all
actions as the First Committee shall deem necessary or appropriate.   
         1   

2. On January 27, 2009, the Board adopted the following resolutions (the  January
2009 Resolutions ) amending the ESOP Board Resolutions to allow the ESOP Committee to establish the voting rights of any series of ESOP Preferred Stock:      RESOLVED that the resolution set forth in the [ESOP Board Resolutions] under the caption  Voting Rights of ESOP Preferred Stock  is hereby deleted in its entirety.   
  RESOLVED that the [ESOP Board Resolutions] are hereby further amended to delete  Appendix A   Voting Rights  in its
entirety.      3. Pursuant to resolutions adopted on February 24, 2009, the Board designated John G. Stumpf as the sole
member of the ESOP Committee, effective April 29, 2009.      4. On January 7, 2013, pursuant to authority conferred upon
it by the Board in the ESOP Board Resolutions as amended by the January 2009 Resolutions, the ESOP Committee adopted the following resolution by written consent in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law:   
  RESOLVED that the issuance of a series of Preferred Stock, without par value, of the Company is hereby authorized and the designation,
voting powers, preferences, and relative, participating, optional, and other special rights, and qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, in addition to those set forth in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as
amended, are hereby fixed as follows:      2013 ESOP CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK   
  1.  Designation and Number of Shares; Restricted Issue .      (a) The designation of the series of Preferred Stock, without par value, provided for herein shall be  2013 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock  (hereinafter referred to as the
 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock ) and the number of authorized shares constituting the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock is 1,200,000, based on an offering price for the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock of $1,090.00 per share. Each share of 2013 ESOP
Preferred Stock shall have a stated value of $1,000.00 per share. The number of authorized shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock may be reduced by further resolution duly adopted by the Board or the Securities Committee and by the filing of a
certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware stating that such reduction has been so authorized, provided, however, that the authorized number of shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be
decreased below the then outstanding number of such shares, and provided further that the number of authorized shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be increased. All shares of the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock purchased, redeemed, or converted
by the Company shall be retired and canceled and shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock, without designation as to series, and may thereafter be issued, but not as shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock.
  
         2   

(b) Shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be issued only to a trustee (the
 Trustee ) acting on behalf of the Wells Fargo   Company 401(k) Plan, or any successor to such plan (the  Plan ). All references to the holder of shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall mean the Trustee or any company
with which or into which the Trustee may merge or any successor trustee under the trust agreement with respect to the Plan. In the event of any transfer of record ownership of shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock to any person other than any
successor trustee under the Plan, the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock so transferred, upon such transfer and without any further action by the Company or the holder thereof, shall be automatically converted into shares of the common stock, par
value $1-2/3 per share, of the Company (the  Common Stock ) on the terms otherwise provided for the conversion of the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to paragraph (a) of Section 4
hereof, and no such transferee shall have any of the voting powers, preferences, and relative, participating, optional or special rights ascribed to shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock hereunder but, rather, only the powers and rights pertaining to
the Common Stock into which such shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be so converted. In the event of such a conversion, the transferee of the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder of the
shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock have been automatically converted as of the date of such transfer. Shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock may be certificated or uncertificated, at the Company s option.
Certificates representing shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall bear a legend to reflect the foregoing provisions. In the case of uncertificated 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock, the transfer agent for the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall note the
foregoing provisions on each 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock book entry account. The Company may require that, as a condition to transferring record ownership of any uncertificated 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock, the proposed transferee acknowledge in writing
that the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock are subject to the foregoing provisions. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this paragraph (b) of Section 1, shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock (i)(A) shall be converted into shares of
Common Stock as provided in paragraph (a) of Section 4 hereof, and (B) may be converted into shares of Common Stock as provided by paragraph (b) of Section 4 hereof and the shares of Common Stock issued upon such conversion
may be transferred by the holder thereof as permitted by law and (ii) shall be redeemable by the Company upon the terms and conditions provided in Sections 5 and 6(c) hereof.   
  2.  Voting Rights . No shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have voting rights except such voting rights as may from time
to time be required by law and as set forth in this Section 2, as follows:      (a) Whenever, at any time or times,
dividends payable on shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be in arrears for such number of dividend periods which shall in the aggregate contain not less than 540 days, the holders of the outstanding shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall
have the exclusive right, voting together as a class with holders of shares of any one or more series of Voting Parity Stock, as defined in paragraph (e) of this Section 2, whose voting rights are exercisable, to elect two directors
  
         3   

of the Company s Board at the Company s next annual meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders (the  Preferred Stock Directors ) by a
plurality of the votes cast; provided that the Board of Directors shall at no time include more than two Preferred Stock Directors (including, for purposes of this limitation, all directors that the holders of any series of Voting Parity Stock are
entitled to elect pursuant to like voting rights). At elections for such directors, each holder of the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to one vote for each share held (the holders of shares of any series of Voting Parity Stock
being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of Preferred Stock held as may be granted to them). Upon the vesting of such right of such holders, the maximum authorized number of members of the Board shall automatically be increased
by two and the two vacancies so created shall be filled by vote of the holders of such outstanding shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock (together with the holders of shares of any one or more series of Voting Parity Stock whose voting rights are
exercisable) as herein set forth. The right of such holders of such shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock (voting together as a class with the holders of shares of any one or more series of Voting Parity Stock whose voting rights are exercisable) to
elect Preferred Stock Directors as aforesaid shall continue until such time as all dividends accumulated on such shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been paid in full, at which time such right with respect to such shares of 2013 ESOP
Preferred Stock shall terminate, except as herein or by law expressly provided, subject to revesting in the event of each and every subsequent default of the character above mentioned.   
  (b) Upon any termination of the right of the holders of all shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock entitled to
vote for Preferred Stock Directors, the term of office of all Preferred Stock Directors then in office elected by such holders voting as a class shall terminate immediately. Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by
the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock, when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a class). In case any vacancy shall occur among the Preferred Stock
Directors, a successor may be elected by a plurality of the votes cast by the holders of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock having the voting rights described above, voting together as a class, unless the vacancy has already been
filled. The Preferred Stock Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter that shall come before the Board of Directors for a vote. Whenever the term of office of the directors elected by such holders voting as a class
shall end and the special voting powers vested in such holders as provided in this resolution shall have expired, the number of directors shall be such number as may be provided for in the By-Laws of the Company irrespective of any increase made
pursuant to the provisions of this Section 2(b).      (c) In addition to any other vote required by law or the Restated
Certificate of Incorporation, so long as any shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the vote or consent of the holders of the outstanding shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock and outstanding shares of all series of Voting Parity
Stock entitled to vote on the matter, by a vote of at least two-thirds in voting power of all such outstanding   
         4   

shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock and such series of Voting Parity Stock voting together as a class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing or at any special or annual meeting called
for the purpose, shall be necessary to permit, effect or validate any one or more of the following whether or not such approval is required by Delaware law:      (i) the authorization, creation or issuance, or any increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any class or series of stock ranking prior to shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock with respect to
payment of dividends or the distribution of assets on the Company s voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or      (ii) the amendment, alteration or repeal, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise, of any of the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or of the resolutions set forth in a
Certificate of Designation designating shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock and the preferences, powers and relative, participating, optional and other special rights and qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof which would materially and
adversely affect any right, preference, privilege or voting power of the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock or of the holders thereof; provided, however, that any increase in the amount of authorized Preferred Stock, or the creation and issuance of
other series of Preferred Stock, or any increase in the amount of authorized shares of any series of Preferred Stock, in each case ranking on a parity with or junior to the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends
and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, shall not be deemed to materially and adversely affect such rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers.   
  (d) The foregoing voting provisions shall not apply if, at or prior to the time when the act with respect to which such vote would
otherwise be required shall be effected, all outstanding shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed or sufficient funds shall have been irrevocably deposited in trust to effect such redemption.   
  (e) As used in this Section 2,  Voting Parity Stock  means any other class or series of stock of the Company now existing
or hereafter authorized that ranks on par with the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) or in the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Company and having similar voting rights as the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock.      3.  Dividends . (a)(i) Holders of shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive, when and as declared by the Board or a duly authorized committee thereof, out of assets of the
Company legally available for payment, an annual cash dividend of $85.00 (the  Base Dividend ) per share, which Base Dividend shall be subject to adjustment from time to time as provided in this Section 3.   
         5   

(ii) The Base Dividend shall be adjusted, effective on December 1, 2014 and on
each December 1 thereafter until December 1, 2021, as follows:      (1) If the Current Market Price
(as hereinafter defined) of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or the next preceding Trading Day (as hereinafter defined) if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is equal to or
greater than the First Target Price but less than the Second Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then holders of shares of the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend for the immediately following
twelve month period equal to $90.00 per share (the  First Adjusted Dividend ).      (2) If the
Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or the next preceding Trading Day if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is equal to or greater than the Second
Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then holders of shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend for the immediately following twelve month period equal to $95.00 per share (the  Second
Adjusted Dividend ).      (3) If the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on
November 30 (or next preceding Trading Day if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is less than the First Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then the holders of
shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend for the immediately following twelve month period equal to the Base Dividend.   
         6   

Dividend Adjustment Table     
   
    (4) As an example of the adjustments described in subparagraphs (1) through
(3) above, if on November 30, 2014, the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock is $37.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately following twelve month period per share of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal
$90.00, with the first quarterly payment of such $90.00 dividend to be made on March 1, 2015. If on November 30, 2015, the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock is $45.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately
following twelve month period per share of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $95.00, with the first quarterly payment of such $95.00 dividend to be made on March 1, 2016. If on November 30, 2016, the Current Market Price of one share
of Common Stock is $40.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately following twelve month period per share of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $85.00, with the first quarterly payment of such $85.00 dividend to be made on
March 1, 2017.      (5) For purposes of this Section 3, the terms  First Adjusted
Dividend  and  Second Adjusted Dividend  are sometimes referred to as an  Adjusted Dividend;  the term  Current Market Price  shall have the meaning given to it in Section 4(c)(iv); and the term  Trading
Day  shall have the meaning given to it in Section 4(c)(vi).      (iii) If one share of Common Stock in any year
listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table shall be changed into a different number of shares or a different class of shares by reason of any reclassification, recapitalization, split-up, combination, exchange of shares or readjustment, or if a stock
dividend thereon shall be declared with a record date within such period, then the First Target Price and the Second Target Price listed in such table for that year and each subsequent year will be appropriately and proportionately adjusted.
     (iv) Dividends payable on shares of the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock (whether such dividends are equal to the Base
Dividend or to an Adjusted Dividend) shall be payable quarterly on March 1, June 1, September 1, and December 1   
         7   

of each year, commencing March 1, 2013. Dividends on shares of the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock will be cumulative from the date of initial issuance of such shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock.
Dividends will be payable, in arrears, to holders of record as they appear on the stock books of the Company on such record dates, not more than 30 days nor less than 15 days preceding the payment dates thereof, as shall be fixed by the Board or a
duly authorized committee thereof. The amount of dividends payable per share for each dividend period shall be computed by dividing by four the Base Dividend or the Adjusted Dividend, whichever is then applicable. The amount of dividends payable for
the initial dividend period or any period shorter than a full dividend period shall be calculated on the basis of actual days elapsed in a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.   
  (b)(i) No full dividends shall be declared or paid or set apart for payment on any stock of the Company ranking, as to dividends, on
a parity with or junior to the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock for any period unless full cumulative dividends have been or contemporaneously are declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set apart for such
payment on shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock for all dividend payment periods terminating on or prior to the date of payment of such full cumulative dividends. When dividends are not paid in full, as aforesaid, upon the shares of 2013 ESOP
Preferred Stock and any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity as to dividends with 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock, all dividends declared upon shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock and any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity
as to dividends with 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be declared pro rata so that the amount of dividends declared per share on 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock and such other series of Preferred Stock shall in all cases bear to each other the same ratio
that accrued dividends per share on the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock and such other series of Preferred Stock bear to each other. Holders of shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any dividend, whether payable in cash,
property, or stock, in excess of full cumulative dividends, as herein provided, on 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock. No interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any dividend payment or payments on 2013 ESOP Preferred
Stock which may be in arrears.      (ii) So long as any shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock are outstanding, no dividend
(other than dividends or distributions paid in shares of, or options, warrants, or rights to subscribe for or purchase shares of, Common Stock or any other stock ranking junior to 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation and
other than as provided in paragraph (b)(i) of this Section 3) shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment or other distribution declared or made upon Common Stock or any other capital stock of the Company ranking junior to or on a parity
with 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation, nor shall any Common Stock or any other capital stock of the Company ranking junior to or on a parity with 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution
or winding up be redeemed, purchased, or otherwise acquired for any consideration (or any moneys be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any shares of any such stock) by the Company (except by conversion into or
exchange for stock of the Company ranking junior to 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon   
         8   

liquidation, dissolution or winding up), unless, in each case, the full cumulative dividends on all outstanding shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been paid or declared and set aside
for payment of the then current dividend payment period and all past dividend payment periods.   
  4.  Conversion . Shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock are convertible from time to time hereafter pursuant to the
provisions of paragraphs (a) or (b) of this Section 4 into that number of shares of Common Stock determined by dividing the stated value of each share of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock by the then applicable Conversion Price, (as
determined in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (c)(iii) of this Section 4), as follows:      (a) Each share
of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock released from the unallocated reserve of the Plan in accordance with the terms thereof shall be automatically converted, without any further action by the Company or the holder thereof, as of the date such release occurs
(the  Release Date ), into fully paid and nonassessable shares of Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Price for the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock provided for in paragraph (c) of this Section 4.   
  (b) Subject to and upon compliance with the provisions of this Section 4, a holder of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be
entitled at any time, prior to the close of business on the date fixed for redemption of such shares pursuant to Sections 5 or 6 hereof, to cause any or all of the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock held by such holder to be converted into fully
paid and nonassessable shares of Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Price for 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock provided for in paragraph (c) of this Section 4.      (c) For purposes of these resolutions, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:      (i) The  Average Current Market Price  per share of Common Stock on any date shall be deemed to be the average of the Current Market Price for one share of Common Stock for the twenty
(20) consecutive Trading Days ending on the Trading Day occurring prior to the date the  Purchase Offer  is made (as that term is defined in Section 6(d) hereof).   
  (ii) A  Business Day  means each day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or a day on which state or federally chartered
banking institutions in the State of New York are not required to be open.      (iii) (A) For purposes of a mandatory
conversion of shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 4, the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be the Current
Market Price of one share of Common Stock on the relevant Release Date.   
         9   

(B) For purposes of an optional conversion of shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock into
shares of Common Stock pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section 4, the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on the date
the Conversion Notice (as that term is defined in paragraph (d) of this Section 4) is received by the Company, by the transfer agent for the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock or by any agent for conversion of the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock
designated as such pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section 4.      (C) For purposes of a conversion of shares of
2013 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock in connection with a  Purchase Offer  (as defined in Section 6(d) hereof), the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be the Average
Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock.      Each share of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be valued at its stated value of $1,000.00
for purposes of computing, based on the applicable Conversion Price, the number of shares of Common Stock into which the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock will be converted.   
  (iv) The  Current Market Price  of publicly traded shares of Common Stock or any other class of capital stock or other
security of the Company or any other issuer for any day shall mean the reported last sale price, regular way, or, in case no sale takes place on such day, the average of the reported closing bid and asked prices, regular way, in either case as
reported on the New York Stock Exchange only or, if the Common Stock is not listed or admitted to trading on the New York Stock Exchange, on the principal national securities exchange on which the Common Stock is listed or admitted to trading or, if
not listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange, on the National Market System of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotations System ( NASDAQ ) or, if the Common Stock is not quoted on
such National Market System, the average of the closing bid and asked prices on such day in the over-the-counter market as reported by NASDAQ or, if bid and asked prices for the Common Stock on each such day shall not have been reported through
NASDAQ, the average of the bid and asked prices for such day as furnished by any New York Stock Exchange member firm regularly making a market in the Common Stock selected for such purpose by the Board or a committee thereof or, if no such
quotations are available, the fair market value of the Common Stock as determined by a New York Stock Exchange member firm regularly making a market in the Common Stock selected for such purpose by the Board or a committee thereof.   
  (v)  Common Stock  shall mean the Common Stock of the Company as the same exists at the date of this Certificate of
Designation or as such stock may be constituted from time to time.      (vi)  Trading Day  with respect to Common Stock
means (x) if the Common Stock is listed or admitted for trading on the New York Stock Exchange or   
         10   

another national securities exchange, a day on which the New York Stock Exchange or such other national securities exchange is open for business or (y) if the Common Stock is quoted on the
National Market System of NASDAQ, a day on which trades may be made on such National Market System or (z) otherwise, any Business Day.      (d) In connection with any conversion of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to this Section 4, a written notice of conversion (the  Conversion Notice ) shall be delivered to the Company at
its principal executive office or the offices of the transfer agent for the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock or such office or offices in the continental United States of an agent for conversion as may from time to time be designated by notice to the
holders of the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock by the Company or the transfer agent for the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock, which Conversion Notice shall be accompanied by (a) in the case of certificated 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock, the certificate or
certificates representing the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted pursuant to this Section 4, duly assigned or endorsed for transfer to the Company (or accompanied by duly executed stock powers relating thereto) and (b) in
the case of uncertificated 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock, duly executed assignment and transfer documents for the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted pursuant to this Section 4. Each Conversion Notice shall specify (i)(y) in the
case of a mandatory conversion pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 4, the number of shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock released from the unallocated reserve of the Plan on the Release Date or (z) in the case of an optional
conversion pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 4, the number of shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted, and (ii) in connection with any conversion hereunder, (x) the name or names in which such holder wishes
the certificate or certificates for Common Stock and, in the case of certificated 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock, for any shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock not to be so converted to be issued, (y) the address to which such holder wishes delivery
to be made of such new certificates to be issued upon such conversion, and (z) such other information as the Company or its agents may reasonably request.      (e) Upon delivery to the Company or the transfer agent for the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock of the Conversion Notice and all other documentation and certificates required to effect the conversion, as
provided in paragraph (d) of this Section 4, the Company shall issue and send by hand delivery, by courier or by first-class mail (postage prepaid) to the holder thereof or to such holder s designee, at the address designated by such
holder, a certificate or certificates for the number of shares of Common Stock to which such holder shall be entitled upon conversion. If there shall have been surrendered a certificate or certificates representing shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred
Stock only part of which are to be converted, the Company shall issue and deliver to such holder or such holder s designee, in the manner set forth in the preceding sentence, a new certificate or certificates representing the number of shares
of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock which shall not have been converted.      (f) The issuance by the Company of shares of Common
Stock upon a conversion of shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock made pursuant to this Section 4 shall be effective (i) in the case of a mandatory conversion of
  
         11   

shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 4, as of the Release Date; and (ii) in the case of an optional conversion of such shares pursuant to
paragraph (b) of this Section 4, as of the earlier of (A) the delivery to such holder or such holder s designee of the certificates representing the shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion thereof or (B) the
commencement of business on the second Business Day after the delivery to the Company or the transfer agent for the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock of the Conversion Notice and all other documentation and certificates required to effect the conversion, as
provided in paragraph (d) of this Section 4. On and after the effective date of a conversion, the person or persons entitled to receive the Common Stock issuable upon such conversion shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder
or holders of such shares of Common Stock, but no allowance or adjustment shall be made in respect of dividends payable to holders of Common Stock in respect of any period prior to such effective date. The Company shall not be obligated to pay any
dividends which shall have accrued or have been declared and shall be payable to holders of shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock if the date on which such dividends are paid is on or after the effective date of conversion of such shares.   
  (g) The Company shall not be obligated to deliver to holders of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock any fractional share or shares of Common
Stock issuable upon any conversion of such shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock, but in lieu thereof may make a cash payment in respect thereof in any manner permitted by law.      (h) The Company shall at all times reserve and keep available out of its authorized and unissued Common Stock, solely for issuance upon the conversion of shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock as herein
provided, free from any preemptive rights, such number of shares of Common Stock as shall from time to time be issuable upon the conversion of all the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock then outstanding.   
  (i) The Company will use its best efforts to cause the listing of the shares of Common Stock required to be delivered upon
conversion of the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock prior to distribution to Plan participants on the national securities exchange, if any, upon which the outstanding Common Stock is listed at the time of such delivery.   
  (j) The Company will pay any and all documentary stamp or similar issue or transfer taxes payable in respect of the issue or
delivery of shares of Common Stock on conversions of the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant hereto; provided, however, that the Company shall not be required to pay any tax which may be payable in respect of any transfer involved in the issue or
delivery of shares of Common Stock in a name other than that of the holder of the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock to be converted and no such issue or delivery shall be made unless and until the person requesting such issue or delivery has paid to the
Company the amount of any such tax or has established, to the satisfaction of the Company, that such tax has been paid.   
  5.  Redemption At the Option of the Company . (a) The 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be redeemable out of assets
legally available therefor, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company at any time, at a redemption price per share of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock equal to the higher of (x) $1,000.00 per share, plus an amount
  
         12   

equal to all accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for redemption, and (y) the Fair Market Value (as that term is defined in paragraph (d) of this
Section 5) per share of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock on the date fixed for redemption. Payment of the redemption price shall be made by the Company in cash or shares of Common Stock, or a combination thereof, as permitted by paragraph
(c) of this Section 5. From and after the date fixed for redemption, dividends on shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock called for redemption will cease to accrue and all rights in respect of such shares of the Company shall cease, except
the right to receive the redemption price. Upon payment of the redemption price, such shares shall be deemed to have been transferred to the Company, to be retired as provided in paragraph (a) of Section 1. If the full cumulative dividends
have not been paid, or contemporaneously declared and set aside for payment, on all outstanding shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock, the Company may not redeem fewer than all the outstanding shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to this
Section 5.      (b) Unless otherwise required by law, notice of any redemption pursuant to this Section 5 will be
sent to the holders of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock at the address shown on the books of the Company or any transfer agent for the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock by hand delivery, by courier, by standard form of telecommunication or by first-class mail
(postage prepaid) delivered, sent or mailed, as the case may be, not less than twenty (20) days nor more than sixty (60) days prior to the redemption date. Each such notice shall state: (i) the redemption date; (ii) the total
number of shares of the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) whether
the redemption price shall be paid in cash or in shares of Common Stock, or in a combination of such Common Stock and cash; (v) in the case of certificated 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock the place or places where certificates for such shares are to
be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; (vi) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on such redemption date; and (vii) the conversion rights of the shares to be redeemed, the period within which
conversion rights may be exercised and the manner in which the number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of a share of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock will be determined. The Company shall redeem shares so called for redemption and not
previously converted at the date fixed for redemption and at the redemption price set forth in this Section 5, provided that, in the case of certificated 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock, the Company shall not be obligated to pay the redemption price
until the certificates for the shares to be redeemed are surrendered (properly endorsed or assigned for transfer, if the Board of Directors of the Company shall so require and the notice shall so state).   
  (c) The Company, at its option, may make payment of the redemption price required upon redemption of shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred
Stock in cash or in shares of Common Stock, or in a combination of such Common Stock and cash, any such shares of Common Stock to be valued for such purposes at their Fair Market Value (as defined in paragraph (d)(ii) of this Section 5) or
their Current Market Price, in either case as of the date fixed for redemption of the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock, whichever value will result in the issuance of the greater number of shares of Common Stock to the holder of the 2013 ESOP Preferred
Stock then being redeemed.   
         13   

(d) For purposes of these resolutions, the following terms shall have the meanings set
forth below:      (i)  Adjustment Period  shall mean the period of five (5) consecutive Trading Days
preceding the date as of which the Fair Market Value of a security is to be determined.      (ii)  Fair Market
Value  shall mean, as to shares of Common Stock or any other class of capital stock or securities of the Company or any other issue which are publicly traded, the average of the Current Market Prices of such shares or securities for each day of
the Adjustment Period. The  Fair Market Value  of any security which is not publicly traded (other than the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock) or of any other property shall mean the fair value thereof on the date as of which the Fair Market Value
of the security is to be determined, as determined by an independent investment banking or appraisal firm experienced in the valuation of such securities or property selected in good faith by the Board or a committee thereof. The  Fair Market
Value  of the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock for purposes of paragraph (a) of Section 5, and for purposes of paragraph (c) of Section 6 shall mean the fair market value thereof determined by an independent appraiser, appointed by
the Trustee of the Plan in accordance with the provisions of the Plan, as of the date fixed for redemption of the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock (in the case of a redemption pursuant to Section 5) or as of the date specified in paragraph (c) of
Section 6 (in the case of a redemption under that section). For purposes of determining the Fair Market Value of the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock, the independent appraiser shall assume (i) that all dividends on the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock
would have been paid when due, and (ii) that the mandatory conversion of shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock held by the Plan into shares of Common Stock pursuant to Section 4(a) hereof would have occurred when and as payments of principal
(together with accrued interest thereon) would have been made by the Trustee of the Plan in accordance with the terms of that certain 2013 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock Note Agreement dated on or about January 10, 2013 between the
Company and the Plan (including any amendments or modifications thereto).      6.  Consolidation, Merger,
etc.  (a) If the Company consummates any consolidation or merger or similar business combination, pursuant to which the outstanding shares of Common Stock are by operation of law exchanged solely for or changed, reclassified or
converted solely into stock of any successor or resulting corporation (including the Company) that constitutes  qualifying employer securities  with respect to a holder of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock within the meaning of Section 409(1)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and Section 407(d)(5) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, or any successor provisions of law, and, if applicable, for a cash payment in lieu of fractional shares,
if any, the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock of such holder shall, in connection with such consolidation, merger or similar business combination, be assumed by and shall become Preferred Stock of such successor or resulting corporation, having in
respect of such corporation, insofar as possible, the same powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights (including the redemption rights provided   
         14   

by Sections 5 and 6 hereof), and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereon, that the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock had immediately prior to such transaction, subject to the following:
     (1) After such transaction each share of the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be convertible, otherwise on
the terms and conditions provided by Section 4 hereof, into the number and kind of qualifying employer securities so receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock could have
been converted immediately prior to such transaction.      (2) The Company shall not consummate any such
merger, consolidation or similar transaction unless all then outstanding shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be assumed and authorized by the successor or resulting corporation as aforesaid.   
  (b) If the Company consummates any consolidation or merger or similar business combination, pursuant to which the outstanding shares
of Common Stock are by operation of law exchanged for or changed, reclassified or converted into other stock or securities or cash or any other property, or any combination thereof, other than any such consideration which is constituted solely of
qualifying employer securities (as referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 6) and cash payments, if applicable, in lieu of fractional shares, outstanding shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, without any action on the part of the
Company or any holder thereof (but subject to paragraph (c) of this Section 6), be automatically converted by virtue of such merger, consolidation or similar transaction immediately prior to such consummation into the number of shares of
Common Stock into which such shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted at such time so that each share of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, by virtue of such transaction and on the same terms as apply to the holders of Common
Stock, be converted into or exchanged for the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash or other property (payable in like kind) receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock
could have been converted immediately prior to such transaction. However, if by virtue of the structure of such transaction, a holder of Common Stock is required to make an election with respect to the nature and kind of consideration to be received
in such transaction, which election cannot practicably be made by the holders of the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock, then the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, by virtue of such transaction and on the same terms as apply to the holders of Common
Stock, be converted into or exchanged for the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash or other property (payable in kind) receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock could
have been converted immediately prior to such transaction if such holder of Common Stock failed to exercise any rights of election as to the kind or amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable upon such transaction. If the kind or
amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable upon such transaction is not the same for each non-electing share, then the kind and amount of stock, securities, cash or   
         15   

other property receivable upon such transaction for each non-electing share shall be the kind and amount so receivable per share by a plurality of the non-electing shares.   
  (c) In the event the Company shall enter into any agreement providing for any consolidation or merger or similar business
combination described in paragraph (b) of this Section 6 (a  Business Combination ), then the Company shall as soon as practicable thereafter (and in any event at least fifteen (15) Business Days before consummation of such
transaction) give notice of such agreement and the material terms thereof to each holder of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock and each such holder shall have the right to elect, by written notice to the Company, to receive, upon consummation of such
transaction (if and when such transaction is consummated), from the Company or the successor of the Company, in redemption and retirement of such 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock, a cash payment per share of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock equal to the higher of
(x) $1,000.00, plus accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date of consummation of such transaction or (y) the Fair Market Value per share of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock, as of the last Business Day (as defined in paragraph (c) of
Section 4 hereof) immediately preceding the date the Business Combination is consummated. No such notice of redemption shall be effective unless given to the Company prior to the close of business on the last Business Day prior to consummation
of such transaction, unless the Company or the successor of the Company shall waive such prior notice, but any notice of redemption so given prior to such time may be withdrawn by notice of withdrawal given to the Company prior to the close of
business on the last Business Day prior to consummation of such transaction.      (d) In the event that a Purchase Offer (as
defined below) shall have been made and shall be continuing, each holder of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have the right to convert shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock at the Conversion Price specified in
Section 4(c)(iii)(C) hereof until the date the Purchase Offer is terminated, including without limitation because the original Purchase Offer is withdrawn or because the Purchase Offer has expired and is not renewed, upon notice of such
conversion given to the Company not later than the close of business on the date the Purchase Offer terminates (the  Purchase Offer Conversion Period ), unless the Company or any successor of the Company shall waive such prior notice, but
any notice of conversion so given may be withdrawn by notice of withdrawal given to the Company prior to the end of the Purchase Offer Conversion Period.      For purposes of this paragraph (d), the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:      (i)  Beneficial Ownership  shall have the meaning ascribed to it in Rule 13d-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ) and  person  shall have the
meanings specified in Sections 3(a)(9) and 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act.      (ii) A  Purchase Offer  shall have
been made when any person (other than the Company or any affiliate of the Company) shall have  commenced  (as   
         16   

such term is defined in Rule 14d-2 under the Exchange Act) a tender offer or exchange offer to purchase shares of Common Stock, such that, upon consummation of such offer, such person would have
Beneficial Ownership (as defined herein) or the right to acquire Beneficial Ownership, of twenty percent (20%) or more of the voting power of the Company.      7.  Liquidation Rights . (a) Upon the dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, the holders of the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive and to be
paid out of the assets of the Company available for distribution to its stockholders, before any payment or distribution shall be made on or set aside for the Common Stock or any other class of stock ranking junior to 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock and
subject to the rights of the holders of the shares of any series or class or classes of stock ranking on parity with or senior to the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock, the amount of $1,000.00 per share, plus a sum equal to all dividends (whether or not
earned or declared) on such shares accrued and unpaid thereon to the date of final distribution.      (b) Neither the sale of
all or substantially all the property and assets of the Company, nor the merger, consolidation or other business combination of the Company into or with any other corporation, nor the merger, consolidation or other business combination of any other
corporation into or with the Company shall be deemed to be a dissolution, liquidation, or winding up, voluntary or involuntary, for the purposes of this Section 7.      (c) After the payment to the holders of the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock of the full preferential amounts provided for in this Section 7, the holders of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock, as
such, shall have no right or claim to any of the remaining assets of the Company.      (d) In the event the assets of the
Company available for distribution to the holders of shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock upon any dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, whether voluntary or involuntary, shall be insufficient to pay in full all amounts to which
such holders are entitled pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 7, no such distribution shall be made on account of any shares of any other series of Preferred Stock or other capital stock of the Company ranking on a parity with the
shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock upon such dissolution, liquidation, or winding up unless proportionate distributive amounts shall be paid on account of the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock, ratably, in proportion to the full distributable
amounts for which holders of all such parity shares are respectively entitled upon such dissolution, liquidation, or winding up.      (e) Subject to the rights of the holders of the shares of any series or class or classes of stock ranking on parity with or prior to the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock upon liquidation,
dissolution, or winding up, upon any liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Company, after payment shall have been made in full to the holders of the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock as provided in this Section 7, but not prior
thereto, any other series or class or classes of stock ranking junior to the shares of 2013   
         17   

ESOP Preferred Stock upon liquidation shall, subject to the respective terms and provisions (if any) applying thereto, be entitled to receive any and all assets remaining to be paid or
distributed, and the holders of the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to share therein.   
  8.  Ranking . For the purposes of these resolutions, any stock of any series or class or classes of the Company shall be
deemed to rank:      (a) prior to the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon liquidation,
dissolution or winding up, if the holders of such series or class or classes shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as the case may be, in preference or
priority to the holders of shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock;      (b) on a parity with shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred
Stock, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, whether or not the dividend rates, dividend payment dates, or redemption or liquidation prices per share, or sinking fund provisions, if any, be different from those of
2013 ESOP Preferred Stock, if the holders of such stock shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as the case may be, in proportion to their respective
dividend rates or liquidation prices, without preference or priority, one over the other, as between the holders of such stock and the holders of shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock; and   
  (c) junior to shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, if such
class shall be Common Stock or if the holders of shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as the case may be, in preference
or priority to the holders of shares of such series or class or classes.      9.  Priority of 2013 ESOP Preferred
Stock . The shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock will rank on a parity, both as to payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, with the Company s 2004 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2005 ESOP
Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2006 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2007 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2008 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2010 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred
Stock, its 2011 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, and its 2012 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock.   
         18   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Certificate of Designation to be signed by
John G. Stumpf, its Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and attested by Jeannine E. Zahn, its Assistant Secretary, on this 9th day of January, 2013.   

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY   

By  
     
    /s/ John G. Stumpf    

John G. Stumpf   

Chairman, President and   

Chief Executive Officer    

Attest:   

/s/ Jeannine E. Zahn    
 
  Jeannine E. Zahn   
 
  Assistant Secretary   
    [As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on January 9, 2013.]   
         19   

</EX-3.(A)>

<EX-10.(A)>
 3
 d450230dex10a.htm
 EX-10.(A)

EX-10.(a) 

Exhibit 10(a)        Form of Performance Share Award Agreement for Grants on or after February 26, 2013       Brackets identify provisions that may vary depending on the particular grant, grant recipient      and/or other relevant factor.       WELLS FARGO   COMPANY    
   LONG-TERM INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN        PERFORMANCE SHARE AWARD AGREEMENT        

Name:   
      
   Grant Date:    

I.D. Number:   
      
   Target Award Number of Performance Shares:    

1.  
   Award.  Wells Fargo   Company (the  Company ) has awarded you Performance Shares to provide an incentive for you to remain in the
Company s employment and provide valuable services to the Company. The target number of Performance Shares ( Target Award Number ) awarded you [ if award agreement posted on plan administrator s website:  is identified as
the  Total Granted  on the acknowledgement screen for your grant on this website] [ if award agreement not posted:  is set forth above]. The Target Award Number is subject to upward and downward adjustments based on Company
performance during the  [performance period]  (the  Performance Period ) as set forth on Exhibit A. The  Final Award Number  is the number of Performance Shares awarded to you under this Award Agreement after adjusting the
Target Award Number in accordance with Exhibit A. This Award Agreement also grants Performance Shares with respect to dividend equivalents as provided in paragraph 4. Each Performance Share entitles you to receive one share of Wells
Fargo   Company common stock ( Common Stock ) contingent upon earning such Performance Share based on the Company performance criteria set forth on Exhibit A, vesting as set forth in paragraph 2 and subject to the other terms and
conditions set forth in the Company s Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan (the  Plan ) and this Award Agreement, including [the performance conditions in paragraph 8], Exhibits A and B hereto and the attached Wells Fargo Agreement
Regarding Trade Secrets, Confidential Information, and Non-Solicitation.         

2.  
   Vesting.  Except as otherwise provided in this Award Agreement, the Final Award Number of Performance Shares will vest in full on the Determination Date as set
forth on Exhibit A ( Determination Date ). Shares of Common Stock will be issued to you or, in case of your death, your Beneficiary determined in accordance with the Plan. You will have no rights as a stockholder of the Company with
respect to your Performance Shares (including any Performance Shares with respect to dividend equivalents as provided below) until settlement. However, you may be entitled to dividend equivalents as set forth in paragraph 4. Except as otherwise
provided in the Plan or this Award Agreement, vested Performance Shares will be settled and distributed in shares of Common Stock on  [applicable date] .     

3.  
   Termination.           

(a)  
  If prior to  [end of Performance Period or other applicable date]  you cease to be an Employee due to your death, the Target Award Number of Performance Shares
under this Award Agreement after giving effect to any Net Operating Loss adjustments determined in accordance with Exhibit A for any years in the Performance Period completed prior to the year in which you die (and any Performance Shares with
respect to dividend equivalents as provided below), and will immediately vest upon the date of your death and will be distributed to your Beneficiary in shares of Common Stock on the January 2 following the year in which you die. If you cease
to be an Employee due to your death on or after  [end of Performance Period or other applicable date]  and prior to the Determination Date, the Final Award Number of Performance Shares under this Award Agreement (and any Performance Shares with
respect to dividend equivalents as provided below) will vest upon the Determination Date and will be distributed to your Beneficiary on  [applicable date] .     

(b)  
    If prior to the Determination Date you have an involuntary Separation from Service other than for Cause due to (i) application of the
Company s Extended Absence Policy (as in effect as of the Grant Date) in      

connection with a Disability, (ii) your displacement and receipt of an immediate lump sum severance benefit, placement on a Salary Continuation Leave of Absence or placement on another leave
of absence associated with your displacement which will result in your receipt of a severance benefit in connection with that leave, or (iii) the Company or an Affiliate entering into a corporate transaction with another company (the
 buyer ) (including a transaction where the buyer acquires all or any portion of the assets, stock or operations of the Company or Affiliate) and pursuant to the terms of the transaction your continuing in employment with the buyer after
completion of the transaction, then the Final Award Number of Performance Shares under this Award Agreement (and any Performance Shares with respect to dividend equivalents as provided below) will vest upon the Determination Date and will be
distributed to you (or your Beneficiary if you have died before such distribution) in shares of Common Stock on  [applicable date] , [subject to the performance conditions in paragraph 8 below]. For purposes of this Award, the term
 Separation from Service  is determined by the Company in accordance with Section 409A (as defined in paragraph 12 below) and in accordance with the definition set forth on Exhibit B to this Award Agreement, which definition is
incorporated by reference herein. For purposes of this Award, the terms  Cause  and  Disability  are defined as set forth on Exhibit B to this Award Agreement, which definitions are incorporated by reference herein.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you die following any such involuntary Separation from Service and prior to  [end of Performance Period or other applicable date] , the Target Award Number of Performance Shares under this Award Agreement after
giving effect to any Net Operating Loss adjustments determined in accordance with Exhibit A for any years in the Performance Period completed prior to the year in which you die (and any Performance Shares with respect to dividend equivalents as
provided below) will immediately vest and will be distributed to your Beneficiary in accordance with paragraph 3(a) above.         

(c)  
  If prior to the Determination Date, the Affiliate that employs you incurs a Change in Control and you do not continue employment with the Company or another Affiliate
immediately after the Change in Control, then the Final Award Number of Performance Shares under this Award Agreement (and any Performance Shares with respect to dividend equivalents as provided below) will continue to vest upon the Determination
Date and will be distributed to you (or your Beneficiary if you have died before such distribution) in shares of Common Stock on  [applicable date] , subject to the conditions and restrictions in paragraphs 7 [and 8] below. For purposes of this
Award, the term  Change in Control  is defined as set forth on Exhibit B to this Award Agreement, which definition is incorporated by reference herein. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you die following such event and prior to
 [end of Performance Period or other applicable date] , the Target Award Number of Performance Shares under this Award Agreement after giving effect to any Net Operating Loss adjustments determined in accordance with Exhibit A for any years in
the Performance Period completed prior to the year in which you die (and any Performance Shares with respect to dividend equivalents as provided below) will immediately vest and will be distributed to your Beneficiary in accordance with paragraph
3(a) above.         

(d)  
    If prior to the Determination Date you have a Separation from Service and you have satisfied the definition of Retirement under the Plan on your
Separation from Service date or following your Separation from Service date you satisfy the definition of Retirement at the end of an approved leave of absence not to exceed six months, the Final Award Number of Performance Shares under this Award
Agreement (and any Performance Shares with respect to dividend equivalents as provided below) will continue to vest upon the Determination Date and will be distributed to you (or your Beneficiary if you have died before such distribution) in shares
of Common Stock on  [applicable date]  subject to the conditions and restrictions in paragraphs 7, [8] and 9 below,  and  provided that beginning immediately after you cease to be an Employee and continuing until the vesting date you
satisfy each of the following conditions ( vesting conditions ): (i) you comply with the terms of the attached Wells Fargo Agreement Regarding Trade Secrets, Confidential Information, and Non-Solicitation, which agreement is
incorporated by reference herein, (ii) you do not express any derogatory or damaging statements about the Company or any Affiliate, the management or the board of directors of the Company or any Affiliate, the products, services or the business
condition of the Company or any Affiliate in any public way or to anyone who could make those statements public, and (iii) you do not perform services as an officer, director, employee, consultant or otherwise for any business which is in
competition with any line of business of the Company or any Affiliate for which you had executive responsibilities while you were employed by the Company or any Affiliate (including predecessors thereof) and which does business in any location in
the geographic footprint of the Company or any Affiliate in which you had executive      
         2   

responsibilities. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you die following your Retirement and prior to  [end of Performance Period or other applicable date]  and have satisfied the vesting
conditions set forth above through your date of death, the Target Award Number of Performance Shares under this Award Agreement after giving effect to any Net Operating Loss adjustments determined in accordance with Exhibit A for any years in the
Performance Period completed prior to the year in which you die (and any Performance Shares with respect to dividend equivalents as provided below) will immediately vest and will be distributed to your Beneficiary in accordance with paragraph 3(a)
above.         

(e)  
  If you incur a Separation from Service other than for a reason described in paragraph 3(a), 3(b), 3(c) or 3(d), or you fail to comply with any applicable vesting
condition (including the vesting conditions set forth in paragraph 3(d)), any then unvested Performance Shares awarded hereby (including any Performance Shares with respect to dividend equivalents as provided below) will immediately terminate
without notice to you and will be forfeited. For avoidance of doubt, a  Separation from Service other than as described in paragraph 3(a), 3(b), 3(c) or 3(d)  includes, without limitation, a voluntary Separation from Service that does not
constitute a Retirement and an involuntary Separation from Service for Cause.         

4.  
   Dividend Equivalents.  [During the period beginning on the Grant Date and ending on the date the Performance Shares vest or are forfeited or cancelled, whichever
occurs first, if the Company pays a dividend on the Common Stock, you will automatically receive, as of the payment date for such dividend, dividend equivalents in the form of additional Performance Shares based on the amount or number of shares
that would have been paid on the Final Award Number of Performance Shares (or the NOL Adjusted Target Award Number of Performance Shares as applicable under paragraphs 3(a), 3(b), 3(c) and 3(d)) had they been issued and outstanding shares of Common
Stock as of the record date and, if a cash dividend, the closing price of the Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange as of the dividend payment date. You will also automatically receive dividend equivalents with respect to such additional
Performance Shares, to be determined in the same manner. Performance Shares granted with respect to dividend equivalents will be subject to the same vesting schedule and other terms and conditions as the underlying Performance Shares, including the
Company s right of recoupment or forfeiture, and will be distributed in shares of Common Stock when, and if, the underlying Performance Shares are settled and distributed.] [During the period beginning on the Grant Date and ending on the date
the Performance Shares vest or are forfeited or cancelled, whichever occurs first, if the Company pays a cash dividend on the Common Stock, you will receive cash payments based on and payable at approximately the same time as the cash dividend that
would have been paid on the  [applicable base amount]  had they been issued and outstanding shares of Common Stock as of the record date for the dividend. Cash payments will be net of federal, state and local withholding taxes.] [During the
period beginning on the Grant Date and ending on the date the Performance Shares vest and are distributed, or are forfeited or cancelled, whichever occurs first, if the Company pays a cash dividend on the Common Stock, you will not be entitled to
receive any dividend equivalents or cash payments in respect of such dividend.]         

5.  
   Tax Withholding.  The Company will withhold from the number of shares of Common Stock otherwise issuable hereunder (including with respect to dividend
equivalents) a number of shares necessary to satisfy any and all applicable federal, state, local and foreign tax withholding obligations and employment-related tax requirements. In addition, the Company may withhold from your compensation any and
all applicable federal, state, local, foreign and employment-related taxes in the event all or a portion of the Performance Shares are treated as taxable prior to or other than on the vesting date set forth in paragraph 2 above and the number of
shares of Common Stock otherwise issuable is insufficient to satisfy such tax withholding obligations and employment-related tax requirements.         

6.  
   Nontransferable.  Unless the Committee provides otherwise, (i) no rights under this Award will be assignable or transferable, and neither you nor your
Beneficiary will have any power to anticipate, alienate, dispose of, pledge or encumber any rights under this Award, and (ii) the rights and the benefits of this Award may be exercised and received during your lifetime only by you or your legal
representative.         

7.  
     Other Restrictions; Amendment.  The issuance of Common Stock hereunder is subject to compliance by the Company and you with all legal
requirements applicable thereto, including tax withholding      
         3   

obligations, and with all applicable regulations of any stock exchange on which the Common Stock may be listed at the time of issuance. Subject to paragraphs 12 and 13 below, the Committee may,
in its sole discretion and without your consent, reduce, delay vesting, modify, revoke, cancel, impose additional conditions and restrictions on or recover all or a portion of this Award if the Committee deems it necessary or advisable to comply
with applicable laws, rules and regulations. This Award is subject to any applicable recoupment or  clawback  policies of the Company, as amended from time to time, and any applicable recoupment or clawback requirements imposed under laws,
rules and regulations.         

8.  
  [ Performance Conditions.  This Award is fully conditioned on and subject to performance adjustments, which include the right of the Committee to cancel all or any
unpaid portion of an Award, if the Committee determines in its sole discretion that:         

You engage in misconduct which has or might reasonably be expected to have reputational or other harm to the Company or any conduct that constitutes Cause;

You engage in misconduct or commit a material error that causes or might reasonably be expected to cause significant financial or reputational harm to the Company or
your business group;     

The Award was based on materially inaccurate performance metrics, whether or not you were responsible for the inaccuracy;     

You improperly or with gross negligence, including in a supervisory capacity, fail to identify, escalate, monitor, or manage, in a timely manner and as reasonably
expected, risks material to the Company or your business group; or     

The Company or your business group suffers a material downturn in its financial performance or suffers a material failure of risk management.     
  The Committee may consider any factors it determines necessary or appropriate for purposes of making a determination whether a performance
adjustment is appropriate and the amount of the adjustment based on the particular facts and circumstances. All determinations by the Committee will be final and binding.]   

9.  
  [ Stock Ownership Provision.  If you are an Executive Officer of the Company or a member of its Operating Committee, as a condition to receiving this Award, you
agree to hold, while employed by the Company or any Affiliate and for a period of one year after your Retirement, shares of Common Stock equal to at least 50% of the after-tax shares of Common Stock (assuming a 50% tax rate) acquired upon vesting
and settlement of this Award. If you are not an Executive Officer or member of the Operating Committee, you are expected to hold that number of shares while employed by the Company or any Affiliate.]    

10.  
   Additional Provisions.  This Award Agreement is subject to the provisions of the Plan. Capitalized terms not defined in this Award Agreement or by reference to
another document are used as defined in the Plan. If the Plan and this Award Agreement conflict, the provisions of the Plan will govern. Interpretations of the Plan and this Award Agreement by the Committee are binding on you and the Company.

11.  
   No Employment Agreement.  Neither the award to you of the Performance Shares nor the delivery to you of this Award Agreement or any other document relating to the
Performance Shares will confer on you the right to continued employment with the Company or any Affiliate. You understand that your employment with the Company or any Affiliate is  at will  and nothing in this document changes, alters or
modifies your  at will  status or your obligation to comply with all policies, procedures and rules of the Company, as they may be adopted or amended from time to time.     

12.  
   Section 409A . This Award is intended to comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the
applicable Treasury regulations or other binding guidance thereunder ( Section 409A ). Accordingly, all provisions included in this Award Agreement, or incorporated by reference, will be interpreted and administered in accordance with that
intent. If any provision of the Plan or this Award Agreement would otherwise conflict with or frustrate this intent, that provision will be interpreted and deemed amended or limited so as to avoid the conflict; provided, however, that the Company
makes no representation that the Award is exempt from or complies with Section 409A and makes no undertaking to preclude Section 409A from applying to the Award.     
         4   

13.  
   Six-month Delay .   Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan or this Award Agreement to the contrary, if, upon your Separation from Service with the Company
for any reason, the Company determines that you are a  Specified Employee  as defined in Section 409A and in accordance with the definition set forth on Exhibit B to this Award Agreement, which definition is incorporated by reference
herein, your Performance Shares, if subject to settlement upon your Separation from Service and if required pursuant to Section 409A, will not settle before the date that is the first business day following the six-month anniversary of such
Separation from Service, or, if earlier, upon your death.         

14.  
   No Fractional Shares.  The number of Performance Shares to be distributed to you under this Award Agreement will be rounded down to the nearest whole share.

15.  
   Severability and Judicial Modification.  If any provision of this Award Agreement is held to be invalid or unenforceable under pertinent state law or otherwise or
Wells Fargo elects not to enforce such restriction, the remaining provisions shall remain in full force and effect and the invalid or unenforceable provision shall be modified only to the extent necessary to render that provision valid and
enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law. If the invalid or unenforceable provision cannot be, or is not, modified, that provision shall be severed from the Award Agreement and all other provisions shall remain valid and enforceable.

16.  
   Applicable Law.  This Award Agreement and the award of Performance Shares evidenced hereby will be governed by, and construed in accordance with the laws of the
state of Delaware (without regard to their choice-of-law provisions), except to the extent Federal law would apply.         

17.  
   Electronic Delivery and Acceptance.  The Company is electronically delivering documents related to current or future participation in the Plan and is requesting
your consent to participate in the Plan by electronic means. You hereby consent to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agree to participate in the Plan through the current plan administrator s on-line system, or any other on-line
system or electronic means that the Company may decide, in its sole discretion, to use in the future.         [Insert
requirement to acknowledge and accept grant terms]    
         5   

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY    
   LONG-TERM INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN        PERFORMANCE SHARE AWARD AGREEMENT         Exhibit A to Performance Share
Award Agreement        This Exhibit A sets forth the manner in which the Final Award Number will be determined.   
   Definitions       Capitalized terms used but
not defined herein (including, but not limited to, Return on Realized Common Equity) shall have the same meanings assigned to them in the Plan and the Award Agreement. In addition, the following terms used in the text of this Exhibit A shall have
the meanings set forth below:       Average Return on Realized Common Equity  means for each of the Financial Performance
Group Companies the sum of such company s Return on Realized Common Equity for each of the 12-month periods ending  [applicable dates during the Performance Period or during other applicable period] , which sum is then divided by
 [applicable divisor] , rounded to two decimals.       Company Return on Realized Common Equity Ranking  means the
rank of the Company s Average Return on Realized Common Equity relative to the Average Return on Realized Common Equity achieved by each of the other Financial Performance Group Companies.   
   Final Award Number Percentage  means the  Final Award Number Percentage  determined in accordance with the
Determination of Final Award Number section of this Exhibit A.       Financial Performance Group Companies  means, in
addition to the Company, the companies listed below provided that any such company for which financial data as of  [end of Performance Period or other applicable date] , is not publicly available shall be eliminated as a Financial Performance
Group Company.       [Financial Performance Peer Group Companies]    
   Net Operating Loss  means for any year in the Performance Period a loss that results from adjusting a net loss as reported in
the Company s consolidated financial statements to eliminate the effect of the following items, each determined based on generally accepted accounting principles: (1) losses resulting from discontinued operations; (2) extraordinary
losses; (3) the cumulative effect of changes in generally accepted accounting principles; and (4) any other unusual or infrequent loss which is separately identified and quantified.        Determination of Final Award Number         Net Operating Loss
Adjustments . If the Company incurs a Net Operating Loss for any year in the Performance Period, the Target Award Number will be reduced by one-third for each such year, effective upon certification by the Committee of a Net Operating Loss for
such year. The Target Award Number after giving effect to each such Net Operating Loss adjustment is referred to herein as the  NOL Adjusted Target Award Number.  If the Company does not incur a Net Operating Loss in any year in the
Performance Period, your NOL Adjusted Target Award Number will be the same as your Target Award Number.       RORCE
Adjustment . The NOL Adjusted Target Award Number will be adjusted upward or downward depending on the Company s Average Return on Realized Common Equity performance over the Performance Period as follows:   

1.  
   Absolute RORCE . If the Company Average Return on Realized Common Equity is equal to or greater than  [applicable %] , your Final Award Number will be
determined by multiplying the NOL Adjusted Target Award Number by  [applicable %] . If the Company Average Return on Realized Common Equity is less than  [applicable %] , your Final Award Number will be  [applicable % or other applicable
number] .     
         6   

2.  
   Relative RORCE . If the Company Average Return on Realized Common Equity is less than  [applicable %]  but equal to or greater than  [applicable %] ,
the Final Award Number will be determined by the Company Return on Realized Common Equity Ranking in accordance with the chart below to calculate your Final Award Number of Performance Shares. The Final Award Number of Performance Shares will be
determined by multiplying (i) the Final Award Number Percentage (rounded to the nearest whole percent) by (ii) your NOL Adjusted Target Award Number. Each Final Award Number Percentage in the chart below will be based on the Company Return
on Realized Common Equity Ranking in each quartile among the Financial Performance Group Companies and apply to the lowest ranking percentile in each quartile that is equal to or greater than the Company Return on Realized Common Equity Ranking
percentile shown.         

Company Return on Realized        Common Equity
Ranking     
      
     Final Award   
   Number  Percentage     
      
     Final Award Number of        Performance Shares      

[applicable ranking]   
      
   [applicable %]   
      
     [applicable
%]  x NOL Adjusted         Target Award Number      
 
   [applicable ranking]   
      
   [applicable %]   
      
     [applicable
%]  x NOL Adjusted         Target Award Number      
 
   [applicable ranking]   
      
   [applicable %]   
      
     [applicable
%]  x NOL Adjusted         Target Award Number      

[applicable %]   
      
     [applicable
%]  x NOL Adjusted         Target Award Number      
    If the Company Return on Realized Common Equity Ranking is  [applicable ranking range] , the Final
Award Number Percentage shall be interpolated on a straight-line basis between  [applicable percentage range]  and the Final Award Number of Performance Shares shall be interpolated on a corresponding straight-line basis between  [applicable
percentage range]  of the NOL Adjusted Target Award Number.      If the Company Return on Realized Common Equity Ranking is
 [applicable ranking range] , the Final Award Number Percentage shall be interpolated on a straight-line basis between  [applicable percentage range]  and the Final Award Number of Performance Shares shall be interpolated on a
corresponding straight-line basis between  [applicable percentage range]  of the NOL Adjusted Target Award Number.      If the
Company does not have the lowest Average Return on Realized Common Equity among the Financial Performance Group Companies and the Company Return on Realized Common Equity Ranking is  [applicable ranking range] , the Final Award Number
Percentage shall be interpolated on a straight-line basis between  [applicable percentage range]  and the Final Award Number of Performance Shares shall be interpolated on a straight-line basis between  [applicable percentage range]  of
the NOL Adjusted Target Award Number.      In no event shall the Final Award Number Percentage be greater than  [applicable percentage]  nor
shall the Final Award Number of Performance Shares be greater than  [applicable percentage]  of the NOL Adjusted Target Award Number.      As
provided in paragraph 4, you will be entitled to receive Performance Shares with respect to dividend equivalents on the Final Award Number (or the Target Award Number, as applicable and as may be adjusted under paragraphs 3(a), 3(b), 3(c) and 3(d))
to determine the total number of Performance Shares that will be distributed to you upon settlement.       [alternative performance criteria
and/or adjustments to determine Final Award Number of Performance Shares]    
         7   

Committee Determination       The Committee shall determine the Final Award Number of Performance Shares after the end of the Performance Period and not later than  [applicable date]  and the date the Committee makes such
determination is referred to in this Award as the  Determination Date.  The Committee shall make all determinations in calculating the Final Award Number of Performance Shares and the Committee s determination shall be binding.
  
         8   

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY    
   LONG-TERM INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN        PERFORMANCE SHARE AWARD AGREEMENT         Exhibit B to Performance Share
Award Agreement         Cause    
   Cause  means your termination of employment by the Company arising from or on or after (1) the continued failure by you to substantially
perform your duties; (2) your conviction of a crime involving dishonesty or breach of trust, conviction of a felony, or commission of any act that makes you ineligible for coverage under Wells Fargo s fidelity bond or otherwise makes you
ineligible for continued employment; or (3) your violation of the Company s policies, including but not limited to Wells Fargo s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, Information Security Policies and Compliance and Risk Management
Accountability Policy.       Change in Control        Change in Control  means a change in the ownership or effective control of the Company or the Affiliate that employs you, or in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of the
Company or the Affiliate that employs you within the meaning of Treas. Reg. section 1.409A-3(i)(5) as determined by the Company.   
   Disability       You will be considered to a
have a  Disability  if you are receiving income replacement benefits for a period of not less than three months under the Company s long-term disability plan as a result of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment that
can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months.       Separation from Service
      A  Separation from Service  occurs upon your death, retirement or other termination of employment or other event that qualifies
as a  separation from service  under Internal Revenue Code Section 409A and the applicable regulations thereunder as in effect from time to time. The Company shall determine in each case when a Separation from Service has occurred,
which determination shall be made in a manner consistent with Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(h). The Company shall determine that a Separation from Service has occurred as of a certain date when the facts and circumstances indicate that
the Company (or an Affiliate, if applicable) and you reasonably anticipate that, after that date, you will render no further services, or your level of bona fide services (either as an employee or independent contractor) will permanently decrease to
a level that is 20% or less than the average level of your bona fide services (either as an employee or independent contractor) previously in effect for you over the immediately preceding 36-month period (or your entire period of service, if you
have been providing services for less than 36 months).      The following presumptions shall also apply to all such determinations:   

(1)  
   Transfers . A Separation from Service has not occurred upon your transfer of employment from the Company to an Affiliate or vice versa, or from an Affiliate to
another Affiliate.         

(2)  
   Medical leave of absence . Where you have a medical leave of absence due to any medically determinable physical or mental impairment that can be expected to
result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than six months, and you have not returned to employment with the Company or an Affiliate, a Separation from Service has occurred on the earlier of: (A) the first
day on which you would not be considered  disabled  under any disability policy of the Company or Affiliate under which you are then receiving a benefit; or (B) the first day on which your medical leave of absence period exceeds 29
months.     
         9   

(3)  
   Military leave of absence . Where you have a military leave of absence, and you have not returned to employment with the Company or an Affiliate, a Separation
from Service has occurred on the day next following the last day on which you are entitled to reemployment rights under USERRA.         

(4)  
   Salary continuation leave . A Separation from Service has occurred on the first day of your salary continuation leave taken under the Company s salary
continuation leave program.         

(5)  
   Other leaves of absence . In the event that you are on a bona fide leave of absence, not otherwise described in this definition, from which you have not returned
to employment with the Company or an Affiliate, your Separation from Service has occurred on the first day on which your leave of absence period exceeds six months or, if earlier, upon your termination of employment (provided that such termination
of employment constitutes a Separation from Service in accordance with the last sentence of the first paragraph of this definition).         

(6)  
   Asset purchase transaction . If, in connection with the sale or other disposition of substantial assets (such as a division or substantially all assets of a trade
or business) of the Company or an Affiliate to an unrelated buyer, you become an employee of the buyer or an affiliate of the buyer upon the closing of or in connection with such transaction, a Separation from Service has not occurred if the Company
and the buyer have specified that such transaction will not, with respect to any individual affected by such transaction who becomes an employee of the buyer or an affiliate, be considered a  separation from service  under Treasury
Regulation Section 1.409A-1(h), and such specification meets the requirements of Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(h)(4).         Specified Employee       A  Specified Employee  means:   

(1)  
  Any Participant who is a  key employee  under Internal Revenue Code Section 416(i)(1)(A)(i), (ii) or (iii) (applied in accordance with the
regulations thereunder and disregarding Internal Revenue Code Section 416(i)(5)) at any time during the 12-month period ending on the specified employee identification date. For purposes of determining  key employee  status under
Internal Revenue Code Section 416(i)(1)(A)(i), except as required under such provision and the regulations thereunder, the term  officer  shall refer to an employee of the Company or an Affiliate with the title Senior Vice President
or above, and         

(2)  
  Any participant who served as a member of the Company s Management Committee at any time during the 12-month period ending on the specified employee identification
date.        For purposes of applying Internal Revenue Code section 409A, the  specified employee identification date  is
each December 31. Any person described in (1) or (2) above on a specified employee effective date shall be treated as a Specified Employee for the entire 12-month period beginning on the following April 1.   
  Notwithstanding the above, in the event of a corporate transaction to which the Company or an Affiliate is a party, the Company may, in its discretion,
establish a method for determining Specified Employees pursuant to Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(i)(6).   
         10   

Wells Fargo Agreement    
   Regarding Trade Secrets, Confidential Information, and Non-Solicitation        I. Introduction       In consideration for the Performance Share Award granted to me by
Wells Fargo   Company on February 26, 2013, on the terms and conditions contained in the Performance Share Award Agreement ( Performance Share Award Agreement ), I acknowledge that the nature of my employment with and
performance of services for Wells Fargo   Company and its affiliates (the  Company ) permits me to have access to certain of its trade secrets and confidential and proprietary information and that such information is, and shall
always remain, the sole property of the Company. Any unauthorized disclosure or use of this information would be wrongful and would cause the Company irreparable harm. Therefore, I agree as follows:   
   II. Trade Secrets and Confidential Information       During the course of my employment I have acquired, and will acquire, knowledge of the Company s Trade Secrets and other proprietary information relating to its business, business methods, personnel,
and customers (collectively referenced as  Confidential Information ).  Trade Secrets  are defined as information, including but not limited to, a formula, pattern, compilation, program, device, method, technique, or process,
that: (1) derives independent economic value, actual or potential, from not being generally known to the public or to other persons who can obtain economic value from its disclosure or use and (2) is the subject of efforts that are
reasonable under the circumstances to maintain its secrecy. The Company s Trade Secrets include, but are not limited to, the following:       

the names, address, and contact information of the Company s customers and prospective customers, as well as any other personal or financial information relating
to any customer or prospect, including, without limitation, account numbers, balances, portfolios, maturity and/or expiration or renewal dates, loans, policies, investment activities, purchasing practices, insurance, annuity policies and objectives;

any information concerning the Company s operations, including without limitation, information related to its methods, services, pricing, costs, margins and
mark-ups, finances, practices, strategies, business plans, agreements, decision-making, systems, technology, policies, procedures, marketing, sales, techniques, agent information and processes;     

any other proprietary and/or confidential information relating to the Company s customers, employees, products, services, sales, technologies, or business affairs.
       I understand that Records of the Company also constitute Confidential Information and that my obligation to maintain the
confidentiality thereof continues at all times during and after my employment.  Records  include, but are not limited to, original, duplicated, computerized, memorized, handwritten or any other form of information, whether contained in
materials provided to me by the Company, or by any institution acquired by the Company, or compiled by me in any form or manner including information in documents or electronic devices, such as software, flowcharts, graphs, spreadsheets, resource
manuals, videotapes, calendars, day timers, planners, rolodexes, or telephone directories maintained in personal computers, laptop computers, personal digital assistants or any other device. These records do not become any less confidential or
proprietary to the Company because I may commit some of them to memory or because I may otherwise maintain them outside of the Company s offices.      I agree that Confidential Information of the Company is to be used by me solely and exclusively for the purpose of conducting business on behalf of the Company. I am expected to keep such Confidential
Information confidential and not to divulge, use or disclose this information except for that purpose. If I resign or am terminated from my employment for any reason, I agree to immediately return to the Company all Records and Confidential
Information, including information maintained by me in my office, personal electronic devices, and/or at home.       III. Non-Solicitation of
Company s Employees and Customers       I agree that for the period beginning on my termination date with the Company through the greater
of (i) the period beginning on my termination date through the Determination Date as defined in the Performance Share Award Agreement or (ii) the one-year period following my termination date ( the Non-Solicitation Period ), I
will not do any of the following, either directly or indirectly or through associates, agents, or employees:   
         11   

a.  
  solicit, recruit or promote the solicitation or recruitment of any employee or consultant of the Company for the purpose of encouraging that employee or consultant to
leave the Company s employ or sever an agreement for services; or         

b.  
  solicit, participate in or promote the solicitation of any of the Company s clients, customers, or prospective customers with whom I had Material Contact and/or
regarding whom I received Confidential Information, for the purpose of providing products or services ( Competitive Products/Services ).  Material Contact  means interaction between me and the customer, client or prospective
customer within one (1) year prior to my Separation of Service (as defined in the Performance Award Agreement) which takes place to manage, service or further the business relationship.     
  This limitation is not intended to limit the Company s right to prevent misappropriation of its Confidential Information beyond the Non-Solicitation
Period.       IV. Assignment of Inventions       I acknowledge and agree that all inventions and all worldwide intellectual property rights that I make, conceive or first reduce to practice (alone or in conjunction with others) during my employment with
the Company are owned by the Company that (1) relate at the time of conception or reduction to practice of the invention to the Company s business, or actual or demonstrably anticipated research or development of the Company whether or not
I made, conceived or first reduced the inventions to practice during normal working hours; and (2) involve the use of any time, material, information, or facility of the Company.       V. Partial Invalidity       If any provision of this Agreement is held to be invalid or
unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect and the invalid or unenforceable provision shall be modified only to the extent necessary to render that provision
valid and enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law. If the invalid or unenforceable provision cannot be modified, that provision shall be severed from the Agreement and all other provisions shall remain valid and enforceable.   
   VI. Choice of Law/Integration/Survival       This Agreement and any dispute, controversy or claim which arises under or relates in any way to it shall be governed by the law of the state where the incident(s) giving rise to the dispute or claim
arose. This Agreement supersedes any prior written or verbal agreements pertaining to the subject matter herein, and is intended to be a final expression of our Agreement with respect only to the terms contained herein; provided, however, that the
employee and customer non-solicitation provisions herein are in addition to, and not in lieu of, any such provisions contained in any prior agreements. There may be no modification of this Agreement except in writing signed by me and an executive
officer of the Company. This Agreement shall survive my employment by the Company, inure to the benefit of successors and assigns of the Company, and is binding upon my heirs and legal representatives.   
   Acknowledgement       I
acknowledge that I have read, understand, and received a copy of this Agreement, and will abide by its terms.       

[Name of Executive]  

Date  

End of Form of Performance Share Award Agreement   
  For Grants on or after February 26, 2013   
         12   

Form of Restricted Share Rights Award Agreement for Grants on or after February 26,
2013       Brackets identify provisions that may vary depending on the particular grant, grant recipient   
  and/or other relevant factor.       WELLS FARGO   COMPANY        LONG-TERM INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN
       RESTRICTED SHARE RIGHTS AWARD AGREEMENT        [table below to be included only if award agreement is not posted on plan administrator s website]        

Name:   
      
   Grant Date:    
 
   I.D. Number:   
      
   Number of RSRs:    

1.  
   Award.  To encourage your continued employment with the Company or any Affiliate and to motivate you to help the Company increase stockholder value over the long
term, Wells Fargo   Company (the  Company ) has awarded you the number of Restricted Share Rights [ if award agreement posted on plan administrator s website : as set forth on the acknowledgement screen for your grant on
this website] [ if not posted : indicated above] (the  Award ). Each Restricted Share Right entitles you to receive one share of Wells Fargo   Company common stock ( Common Stock ) contingent upon vesting and
subject to the other terms and conditions set forth in the Company s Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan (the  Plan ) and this Award Agreement.     

2.  
   Vesting.  Except as otherwise provided in this Award Agreement, and subject to the Company s right to recoup or forfeit all or any portion of this Award and
other conditions as provided in this Award Agreement[, including but not limited to the performance conditions in paragraph 8 below,] the Restricted Share Rights will vest according to the following schedule:     
   [vesting schedule]       Shares of Common Stock in settlement of the RSRs will be issued to you or, in case of your death, your Beneficiary determined in accordance with the Plan. Except for dividend equivalents as provided
below, you will have no rights as a stockholder of the Company with respect to your Restricted Share Rights until settlement. Upon vesting, each Restricted Share Right will be settled and distributed as one share of Common Stock except as otherwise
provided in the Plan or this Award Agreement.       

3.  
   Termination.      

(a)  
  If you cease to be an Employee due to your death, any then unvested Restricted Share Right awarded hereby (including any Restricted Share Rights granted with respect to
dividend equivalents as provided below) will immediately vest upon your date of death and will be settled and distributed to your Beneficiary in shares of Common Stock on the January 2 following the year in which you die or, if January 2
is not a business day, the first business day following that January 2.         

(b)  
  If you have an involuntary Separation from Service for a reason other than for Cause due to:     

(1)  
  application of the Company s Extended Absence Policy in connection with a Disability,     

(2)  
  your displacement and receipt of an immediate lump sum severance benefit, placement on a Salary Continuation Leave of Absence or placement on another leave of absence
associated with your displacement which will result in your receipt of a severance benefit in connection with that leave, or         

(3)  
  the Company or an Affiliate entering into a corporate transaction with another company (the  buyer ) (including a transaction where the buyer acquires all or
any portion of the assets, stock or operations of the Company or Affiliate) and pursuant to the terms of the transaction your continuing in employment with the buyer after completion of the corporate transaction,     
  then any unvested Restricted Share Right awarded hereby (including any Restricted Share Right granted with respect to dividend equivalents
as provided below) will immediately vest and will be settled and distributed to you in shares of Common Stock within 90 days from your Separation from Service[, subject to the performance conditions in paragraph 8 below].   
         13   

The terms  Separation from Service  (which is determined by the Company in
accordance with Section 409A (as defined in paragraph 11 below)),  Disability  and  Cause  are set forth on Exhibit A to this Award Agreement, which definitions are incorporated by reference herein.   

(c)  
  If you have a Separation from Service for a reason other than Cause that is not addressed in paragraph (b) above and you have satisfied the definition of
Retirement under the Plan on your Separation from Service date or following your Separation from Service date you satisfy the definition of Retirement at the end of an approved leave of absence not to exceed six months, any then unvested Restricted
Share Right awarded hereby (including any Restricted Share Right granted with respect to dividend equivalents as provided below) will continue to vest upon the scheduled vesting date as set forth in paragraph 2 above, subject to the conditions and
restrictions in paragraphs 7, [8] and 9 below; provided, however, if you die following Retirement, any then unvested Restricted Share Right will vest immediately upon your date of death and will be settled and distributed to your Beneficiary in
shares of Common Stock on the January 2 following the year in which you die or, if January 2 is not a business day, the first business day following that January 2.     

(d)  
  If the Affiliate that employs you incurs a Change in Control and you do not continue employment with the Company or another Affiliate of the Company immediately after
the Change in Control, any then unvested Restricted Share Right awarded hereby (including any Restricted Share Right granted with respect to dividend equivalents as provided below) will immediately vest and will be settled and distributed to you in
shares of Common Stock no later than March 1 of the year immediately following the year in which the Change in Control occurred, subject to the conditions and restrictions in paragraphs 7, [8] and 9 below. Exhibit A to this Award Agreement sets
forth the definition of the term  Change in Control,  which definition is incorporated in this Award Agreement by reference.         

(e)  
  If you incur a Separation from Service other than for a reason described in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d) above, any then unvested Restricted Share Right
awarded hereby (including any Restricted Share Right granted with respect to dividend equivalents as provided below) will immediately terminate without notice to you and will be forfeited.     
   [alternative Paragraph 3]        

3.  
   Termination.      

(a)  
  If you cease to be an Employee due to your death, any then unvested Restricted Share Right awarded hereby (including any Restricted Share Right granted with respect to
dividend equivalents as provided below) will immediately vest upon your date of death and will be settled and distributed to your Beneficiary in shares of Common Stock no later than March 1 of the year immediately following the year in which
you die.         

(b)  
  If you incur an involuntary termination of employment for a reason other than for Cause due to:     

(1)  
  application of the Company s Extended Absence Policy in connection with a Disability.     

(2)  
  your displacement and receipt of an immediate lump sum severance benefit, placement on a Salary Continuation Leave of Absence or or placement on another leave of
absence associated with your displacement which will result in your receipt of a severance benefit in connection with that leave, or         

(3)  
  the Company or an Affiliate entering into a corporate transaction with another company (the  buyer ) (including a transaction where the buyer acquires all or
any portion of the assets, stock or operations of the Company or Affiliate) and pursuant to the terms of the transaction your continuing in employment with the buyer after completion of the corporate transaction,     
  any then unvested Restricted Share Right awarded hereby (including any Restricted Share Right granted with respect to dividend equivalents
as provided below) will immediately vest and will be settled and distributed to you in shares of Common Stock within 90 days from your termination of employment[, subject to the performance conditions in paragraph 8 below]. For purposes of this
Award, you will be considered to a have a  Disability  if you are receiving income replacement benefits for a period of not less than three months under the Company s long-term disability plan as a result of any medically determinable
physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months. For purposes of this Award,  Cause  means your termination of employment by the Company
arising from or on or after (1) the continued failure by you to substantially perform your duties; (2) your conviction of a crime involving dishonesty or breach of trust, conviction of a felony, or commission of any act that makes you
ineligible for coverage under Wells Fargo s fidelity bond or otherwise makes you ineligible for   
         14   

continued employment; or (3) your violation of the Company s policies, including but not limited to Wells Fargo s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, Information Security Policies
and Compliance and Risk Management Accountability Policy.       

(c)  
  If the Affiliate that employs you incurs a Change in Control and you do not continue employment with the Company or another Affiliate of the Company immediately after
the Change in Control, any then unvested Restricted Share Right awarded hereby (including any Restricted Share Right granted with respect to dividend equivalents as provided below) will immediately vest and will be settled and distributed to you in
shares of Common Stock no later than March 1 of the year immediately following the year in which the Change in Control occurred, subject to the conditions and restrictions in paragraphs 7, [8] and 9 below. For purposes of this Award,
 Change in Control  means a change in the ownership or effective control of the Company or the Affiliate that employs you, or in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of the Company or the Affiliate that employs you within
the meaning of Treas. Reg. section 1.409A-3(i)(5) as determined by the Company.         

(d)  
  If you terminate employment other than for a reason described in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) above, any then unvested Restricted Share Right awarded hereby
(including any Restricted Share Right granted with respect to dividend equivalents as provided below) will immediately terminate without notice to you and will be forfeited.     

4.  
   Dividend Equivalents.  [During the period beginning on the Grant Date and ending on the date the applicable Restricted Share Rights vest and are distributed, or
are forfeited or cancelled, whichever occurs first, if the Company pays a dividend on the Common Stock, you will automatically receive, as of the payment date for such dividend, dividend equivalents in the form of additional Restricted Share Rights
based on the amount or number of shares that would have been paid on the Restricted Share Rights had they been issued and outstanding shares of Common Stock as of the record date and, if a cash dividend, the closing price of the Common Stock on the
New York Stock Exchange as of the dividend payment date. You will also automatically receive dividend equivalents with respect to such additional Restricted Share Rights, to be granted in the same manner. Restricted Share Rights granted with respect
to dividend equivalents will be subject to the same vesting schedule and other terms and conditions as the underlying Restricted Share Rights, including the Company s right of recoupment or forfeiture, and will be distributed in shares of
Common Stock when, and if, the underlying Restricted Share Rights are settled and distributed.][ [During the period beginning on the Grant Date and ending on the date the applicable Restricted Share Rights vest and are distributed, or are forfeited
or cancelled, whichever occurs first, if the Company pays a cash dividend on the Common Stock, you will receive cash payments based on and payable at approximately the same time as the cash dividend that would have been paid on the Restricted Share
Rights had they been issued and outstanding shares of Common Stock as of the record date for the dividend. Cash payments will be net of federal, state and local withholding taxes.] [During the period beginning on the Grant Date and ending on the
date the Restricted Share Rights vest and are distributed, or are forfeited or cancelled, whichever occurs first, if the Company pays a cash dividend on the Common Stock, you will not be entitled to receive any dividend equivalents or cash payments
in respect of such dividend.]         

5.  
   Tax Withholding.  The Company will withhold from the number of shares of Common Stock otherwise issuable hereunder (including with respect to dividend
equivalents) a number of shares necessary to satisfy any and all applicable federal, state, local and foreign tax withholding obligations and employment-related tax requirements. In addition, the Company may withhold from your compensation any and
all applicable federal, state, local, foreign and employment-related taxes in the event all or a portion of the Restricted Share Rights are treated as taxable prior to or other than on the vesting dates set forth in paragraph 2 above and the number
of shares of Common Stock otherwise issuable is insufficient to satisfy such tax withholding obligations and employment-related tax requirements.         

6.  
   Nontransferable.  Unless the Committee provides otherwise, (i) no rights under this Award will be assignable or transferable, and neither you nor your
Beneficiary will have any power to anticipate, alienate, dispose of, pledge or encumber any rights under this Award, and (ii) the rights and the benefits of this Award may be exercised and received during your lifetime only by you or your legal
representative.         

7.  
     Other Restrictions; Amendment.  The issuance of Common Stock hereunder is subject to compliance by the Company and you with all applicable legal
requirements applicable thereto, including tax withholding obligations, and with all applicable regulations of any stock exchange on which the Common Stock may be listed at the time of issuance. Subject to paragraphs 11 and 12 below, the Committee
may, in its sole discretion and without your      
         15   

consent, reduce, delay vesting, modify, revoke, cancel, impose additional conditions and restrictions on or recover all or a portion of this Award if the Committee deems it necessary or advisable
to comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations. This Award is subject to any applicable recoupment or  clawback  policies of the Company, as amended from time to time, and any applicable recoupment or clawback requirements imposed
under laws, rules and regulations.         

8.  
  [ Performance Conditions.  The Award is fully conditioned on and subject to performance adjustments, which include the right of the Committee to cancel all or any
unpaid portion of an Award, if the Committee determines in its sole discretion that:         

You engage in misconduct which has or might reasonably be expected to have reputational or other harm to the Company or any conduct that constitutes Cause;

You engage in misconduct or commit a material error that causes or might reasonably be expected to cause significant financial or reputational harm to the Company or
your business group;     

The Award was based on materially inaccurate performance metrics, whether or not you were responsible for the inaccuracy;     

You improperly or with gross negligence, including in a supervisory capacity, fail to identify, escalate, monitor, or manage, in a timely manner and as reasonably
expected, risks material to the Company or your business group; or     

The Company or your business group suffers a material downturn in its financial performance or suffers a material failure of risk management.     
  The Committee may consider any factors it determines necessary or appropriate for purposes of making a determination whether a performance
adjustment is appropriate and the amount of the adjustment based on the particular facts and circumstances. All determinations by the Committee will be final and binding.]   

9.  
  [ Restrictive Covenants.  In consideration of the terms of this Award and your access to Confidential Information, you agree to the restrictive covenants and
associated remedies as set forth below, which exist independently of and in addition to any obligation to which you are subject under the terms of the Wells Fargo Agreement Regarding Trade Secrets, Confidential Information, Non-Solicitation, And
Assignment Of Inventions (the  TSA ):         

(a)  
   Trade Secrets and Confidential Information.  During the course of your employment, you will acquire knowledge of the Company s and/or any Affiliate s
(collectively  WFC ) Trade Secrets and other proprietary information relating to its business, business methods, personnel, and customers (collectively,  Confidential Information ).  Trade Secrets  means WFC s
confidential information, which has an economic value in being secret and which WFC has taken steps to keep secret and you understand and agree that Trade Secrets include, but are not limited to confidentially maintained client and customer lists
and information, and confidentially maintained prospective client and customer lists and information. You agree that Confidential Information of WFC is to be used solely and exclusively for the purpose of conducting business on behalf of WFC. You
agree to keep such Confidential Information confidential and will not divulge, use or disclose this information except for that purpose. In addition, you agree that, both during and after your employment, you will not remove, share, disseminate or
otherwise use WFC s Trade Secrets to directly or indirectly solicit, participate in or promote the solicitation of any of WFC s clients, customers, or prospective customers for the purpose of providing products or services that are in
competition with WFC s products or services.         

(b)  
   Assignment of Inventions.  You acknowledge and agree that all inventions and all worldwide intellectual property rights that you make, conceive or first reduce to
practice (alone or in conjunction with others) during your employment with WFC are owned by WFC that (1) relate at the time of conception or reduction to practice of the invention to WFC s business, or actual or demonstrably anticipated
research or development of WFC whether or not you made, conceived or first reduced the inventions to practice during normal working hours; and (2) involve the use of any time, material, information, or facility of WFC.     

(c)  
   Non-solicitation.  If you are currently subject to a TSA, you shall continue to be bound by the terms of the TSA. If you are not currently subject to a TSA, you
agree to the following:        For a period of one (1) year immediately following termination of your employment
for any reason, you will not do any of the following, either directly or indirectly or through associates, agents, or employees:   
         16   

i.  
  solicit, recruit or promote the solicitation or recruitment of any employee or consultant of WFC for the purpose of encouraging that employee or consultant to leave
WFC s employ or sever an agreement for services; or         

ii.  
  to the fullest extent enforceable under the applicable state law, solicit, participate in or promote the solicitation of any of WFC s clients, customers, or
prospective customers with whom you had Material Contact and/or regarding whom you received Confidential Information, for the purpose of providing products or services that are in competition with WFC s products or services.  Material
Contact  means interaction between you and the customer, client or prospective customer within one (1) year prior to your last day as a team member which takes place to manage, service or further the business relationship.
       The one-year limitation is not intended to limit WFC s right to prevent misappropriation of its
Confidential Information beyond the one-year period.       

(d)  
   Violation of TSA or Restrictive Covenants.  If you breach any of the terms of a TSA and/or the restrictive covenants above, all unvested Restricted Share Rights
shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited. For any Restricted Share Rights that vested within one (1) year prior to the termination of your employment with WFC or at any time after your termination, you shall be required to repay or
otherwise reimburse WFC an amount having a value equal to the aggregate fair market value (determined as of the date of vesting) of such vested shares. This paragraph does not constitute the Company s exclusive remedy for violation of your
restrictive covenant obligations, and WFC may seek any additional legal or equitable remedy, including injunctive relief, for any such violation.]         

10.  
   No Employment Agreement.  Neither the award to you of the Restricted Share Rights nor the delivery to you of this Award Agreement or any other document relating
to the Restricted Share Rights will confer on you the right to continued employment with the Company or any Affiliate. You understand that your employment with the Company or any Affiliate is  at will  and nothing in this document changes,
alters or modifies your  at will  status or your obligation to comply with all policies, procedures and rules of the Company, as they may be adopted or amended from time to time.     

11.  
  [ Section 409A . This Award is intended to comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the applicable
Treasury Regulations or other binding guidance thereunder ( Section 409A ). Accordingly, all provisions included in this Award, or incorporated by reference, will be interpreted and administered in accordance with that intent. If any
provision of the Plan or this Award Agreement would otherwise conflict with or frustrate this intent, that provision will be interpreted and deemed amended or limited so as to avoid the conflict; provided, however, that the Company makes no
representation that the Award is exempt from or complies with Section 409A and makes no undertaking to preclude Section 409A from applying to the Award.]     

12.  
   Six-month Delay .   Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan or this Award Agreement to the contrary, if, upon your Separation from Service with the Company
for any reason, the Company determines that you are a  Specified Employee  as defined in Section 409A and in accordance with the definition set forth on Exhibit A to this Award Agreement, which definition is incorporated by
reference herein, your Restricted Share Rights, if subject to settlement upon your Separation from Service and if required pursuant to Section 409A, will not settle before the date that is the first business day following the six-month
anniversary of such Separation from Service, or, if earlier, upon your death.         

13.  
  [ Stock Ownership Provision.  If you are an Executive Officer of the Company or a member of its Operating Committee, as a condition to receiving this Award, you
agree to hold, while employed by the Company or any Affiliate and for a period of one year after your Retirement, shares of Common Stock equal to at least 50% of the after-tax shares of Common Stock (assuming a 50% tax rate) acquired upon vesting
and settlement of this Award. If you are not an Executive Officer or member of the Operating Committee, you are expected to hold that number of shares while employed by the Company or any Affiliate.]     

14.  
   Severability and Judicial Modification.  If any provision of this Award Agreement is held to be invalid or unenforceable under pertinent state law or otherwise or
Wells Fargo elects not to enforce such restriction, including but not limited to paragraph 9(c)ii, the remaining provisions shall remain in full force and effect and the invalid or unenforceable provision shall be modified only to the extent
necessary to render that provision valid and enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law. If the invalid or unenforceable provision cannot be, or is not, modified, that provision shall be severed from the Award Agreement and all other
provisions shall remain valid and enforceable.     
         17   

15.  
   Additional Provisions.  This Award Agreement is subject to the provisions of the Plan. Capitalized terms not defined in this Award Agreement are used as defined
in the Plan. If the Plan and this Award Agreement are inconsistent, the provisions of the Plan will govern. Interpretations of the Plan and this Award Agreement by the Committee are binding on you and the Company.     

16.  
   Applicable Law.  This Award Agreement and the award of Restricted Share Rights evidenced hereby will be governed by, and construed in accordance with the laws of
the state of Delaware (without regard to their choice-of-law provisions), except to the extent Federal law would apply.         

17.  
   Electronic Delivery and Acceptance.  The Company is electronically delivering documents related to current or future participation in the Plan and is requesting
your consent to participate in the Plan by electronic means. You hereby consent to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agree to participate in the Plan through the current plan administrator s on-line system, or any other on-line
system or electronic means that the Company may decide, in its sole discretion, to use in the future.         [Insert
requirement to acknowledge and accept grant terms]    
         18   

Exhibit A     
   [ Certain Definitions     
   Separation from Service       A
Participant s  Separation from Service  occurs upon his or her death, retirement or other termination of employment or other event that qualifies as a  separation from service  under Internal Revenue Code Section 409A
and the applicable regulations thereunder as in effect from time to time. The Company shall determine in each case when a Participant s Separation from Service has occurred, which determination shall be made in a manner consistent with Treasury
Regulation Section 1.409A-1(h). The Company shall determine that a Separation from Service has occurred as of a certain date when the facts and circumstances indicate that the Company (or an Affiliate, if applicable) and the Participant
reasonably anticipate that, after that date, the Participant will render no further services, or the Participant s level of bona fide services (either as an employee or independent contractor) will permanently decrease to a level that is 20% or
less than the average level of the Participant s bona fide services (either as an employee or independent contractor) previously in effect for such Participant over the immediately preceding 36-month period (or the Participant s entire
period of service, if the Participant has been providing services for less than 36 months).      The following presumptions shall also apply to
all such determinations:       

(1)  
   Transfers . A Separation from Service has not occurred upon the Participant s transfer of employment from the Company to an Affiliate or vice versa, or from
an Affiliate to another Affiliate.         

(2)  
   Medical leave of absence . Where the Participant has a medical leave of absence due to any medically determinable physical or mental impairment that can be
expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than six months, and he or she has not returned to employment with the Company or an Affiliate, a Separation from Service has occurred on the earlier of:
(A) the first day on which the Participant would not be considered  disabled  under any disability policy of the Company or Affiliate under which the Participant is then receiving a benefit; or (B) the first day on which the
Participant s medical leave of absence period exceeds 29 months.         

(3)  
   Military leave of absence . Where the Participant has a military leave of absence, and he or she has not returned to employment with the Company or an Affiliate,
a Separation from Service has occurred on the day next following the last day on which the Participant is entitled to reemployment rights under USERRA.         

(4)  
   Salary continuation leave . A Separation from Service has occurred on the first day of the Participant s salary continuation leave taken under the
Company s salary continuation leave program.         

(5)  
   Other leaves of absence . In the event that the Participant is on a bona fide leave of absence, not otherwise described in this definition, from which he or she
has not returned to employment with the Company or an Affiliate, the Participant s Separation from Service has occurred on the first day on which the Participant s leave of absence period exceeds six months or, if earlier, upon the
Participant s termination of employment (provided that such termination of employment constitutes a Separation from Service in accordance with the last sentence of the first paragraph of this definition).     

(6)  
   Asset purchase transaction . If, in connection with the sale or other disposition of substantial assets (such as a division or substantially all assets of a trade
or business) of the Company or an Affiliate to an unrelated buyer, the Participant becomes an employee of the buyer or an affiliate of the buyer upon the closing of or in connection with such transaction, a Separation from Service has not occurred
if the Company and the buyer have specified that such transaction will not, with respect to any individual affected by such transaction who becomes an employee of the buyer or an affiliate, be considered a  separation from service  under
Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(h), and such specification meets the requirements of Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(h)(4).     
         19   

Specified Employee       A  Specified Employee  means:       

(1)  
  Any Participant who is a  key employee  under Internal Revenue Code Section 416(i)(1)(A)(i), (ii) or (iii) (applied in accordance with the
regulations thereunder and disregarding Internal Revenue Code Section 416(i)(5)) at any time during the 12-month period ending on the specified employee identification date. For purposes of determining  key employee  status under
Internal Revenue Code Section 416(i)(1)(A)(i), except as required under such provision and the regulations thereunder, the term  officer  shall refer to an employee of the Company or an Affiliate with the title Senior Vice President
or above, and         

(2)  
  Any participant who served as a member of the Company s Management Committee at any time during the 12-month period ending on the specified employee identification
date.        For purposes of applying Internal Revenue Code section 409A, the  specified employee identification date  is
each December 31. Any person described in (1) or (2) above on a specified employee effective date shall be treated as a Specified Employee for the entire 12-month period beginning on the following April 1.   
  Notwithstanding the above, in the event of a corporate transaction to which the Company or an Affiliate is a party, the Company may, in its discretion,
establish a method for determining Specified Employees pursuant to Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(i)(6).       Disability
      You will be considered to have a  Disability  if you are receiving income replacement benefits for a period of not less than
three months under the Company s long-term disability plan as a result of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12
months.       Cause    
   Cause  means your termination of employment by the Company arising from or on or after (1) the continued failure by you to substantially
perform your duties; (2) your conviction of a crime involving dishonesty or breach of trust, conviction of a felony, or commission of any act that makes you ineligible for coverage under Wells Fargo s fidelity bond or otherwise makes you
ineligible for continued employment; or (3) your violation of the Company s policies, including but not limited to Wells Fargo s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, Information Security Policies and Compliance and Risk Management
Accountability Policy.       Change in Control        Change in Control  means a change in the ownership or effective control of the Company or the Affiliate that employs you, or in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of the
Company or the Affiliate that employs you within the meaning of Treas. Reg. section 1.409A-3(i)(5) as determined by the Company.]      End of Form of Restricted Share Rights Award Agreement      For Grants on or after
February 26, 2013   
         20   

</EX-10.(A)>

<EX-10.(E)>
 4
 d450230dex10e.htm
 EX-10.(E)

EX-10.(e) 

Exhibit 10(e)       Amendment to the        Wells Fargo   Company Deferred Compensation
Plan        (As Amended and Restated Effective as of January 1, 2008)    
  The Wells Fargo   Company Deferred Compensation Plan (the  Plan ) is amended effective January 1, 2013 as
follows:      1. The opening paragraph to the definition of Compensation contained in Section 2(F) is amended to read in full as follows:
      The following amounts earned by an Eligible Employee during a Deferral Year for services rendered to the Company or its
Affiliates and payable (if not deferred) no later than March 15 of the Plan Year following the Deferral Year subject to any limitations on the amount or type as determined by the Plan Administrator for a Deferral Year: base salary, incentives,
commissions and bonuses; provided, however, that Compensation shall not include:       2. Section 9(G) of the Plan is amended in its
entirety to read in full as follows:      (G)  Withdrawals Due to Unforeseeable Emergency . Notwithstanding any provision of
this Section 9 to the contrary, a Participant may withdraw all or a portion of the balance of his or her Deferral Accounts established for Deferral Years commencing on or after January 1, 2013 (the  eligible Deferral Accounts )
due to unforeseeable emergency, subject to the following:       

(a)  
  For purposes of this section,  unforeseeable emergency  means a severe financial hardship resulting from (i) illness or accident of the Participant or
his or her spouse, beneficiary or dependent, (ii) loss of the Participant s home or property due to casualty, or (iii) other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances beyond the control of the Participant. For example,
needs such as the following may constitute unforeseeable emergencies: (1) imminent foreclosure of or eviction from the Participant s primary residence; (2) funeral expenses for the Participant s spouse, beneficiary or dependent;
or (3) uninsured medical expenses of the Participant or his or her spouse, beneficiary or dependent.         

(b)  
  Withdrawals are available both before and after a Participant s Separation from Service.     

(c)  
  Withdrawals under this Section are not permitted to the extent the Participant s hardship is or may be relieved through reimbursement or compensation from
insurance or otherwise, by liquidation of the Participant s assets (to the extent liquidation would not cause a severe financial hardship), or by cessation of deferrals under the Plan. For this purpose, any additional compensation that is
available from a qualified employer plan (including any loan) or that, due to the unforeseeable emergency, is available under another nonqualified deferred compensation plan may be disregarded.     

(d)  
  If a Participant takes a withdrawal under this section, his or her Deferral Election for the Deferral Year in which the withdrawal occurs (if any) will be terminated
and no eligible Compensation will be deferred under Section 5 for the remainder of that Deferral Year.         

(e)  
  The amount withdrawn shall not exceed the amount reasonably necessary to satisfy the unforeseeable emergency (which may include amounts necessary to pay any Federal,
state, or local income taxes or penalties reasonably anticipated to result from the withdrawal).         

(f)  
  Withdrawal requests must be made in writing and are subject to approval by the Plan Administrator. The Plan Administrator has discretionary authority to determine the
extent to which a payment available under this Section 8(G) will be made. The Participant must supply any financial or other information the Plan Administrator determines is necessary to determine whether to permit the withdrawal.

(g)  
  The Participant s eligible Deferral Account balance will be reduced by the amounts withdrawn. If the Participant has more than one eligible Deferral Account, the
Plan Administrator will designate how the withdrawal amount is allocated among those eligible Deferral Accounts at the time the withdrawal is paid.     
         2   

</EX-10.(E)>

<EX-12.(A)>
 5
 d450230dex12a.htm
 EX-12.(A)

EX-12.(a) 

EXHIBIT 12(a)        WELLS FARGO   COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES        COMPUTATION OF RATIOS OF
EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES            

(2)  
  These computations are included herein in compliance with Securities and Exchange Commission regulations. However, management believes that fixed charge ratios are not
meaningful measures for the business of the Company because of two factors. First, even if there was no change in net income, the ratios would decline with an increase in the proportion of income which is tax-exempt or, conversely, they would
increase with a decrease in the proportion of income which is tax-exempt. Second, even if there was no change in net income, the ratios would decline if interest income and interest expense increase by the same amount due to an increase in the level
of interest rates or, conversely, they would increase if interest income and interest expense decrease by the same amount due to a decrease in the level of interest rates.     

</EX-12.(A)>

<EX-12.(B)>
 6
 d450230dex12b.htm
 EX-12.(B)

EX-12.(b) 

EXHIBIT 12(b)        WELLS FARGO   COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES        COMPUTATION OF RATIOS OF
EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES        AND PREFERRED DIVIDENDS    

(2)  
  The preferred dividends, including accretion, were increased to amounts representing the pre-tax earnings that would be required to cover such dividend and accretion
requirements.     

(3)  
  These computations are included herein in compliance with Securities and Exchange Commission regulations. However, management believes that fixed charge ratios are not meaningful
measures for the business of the Company because of two factors. First, even if there was no change in net income, the ratios would decline with an increase in the proportion of income which is tax-exempt or, conversely, they would increase with a
decrease in the proportion of income which is tax-exempt. Second, even if there was no change in net income, the ratios would decline if interest income and interest expense increase by the same amount due to an increase in the level of interest
rates or, conversely, they would increase if interest income and interest expense decrease by the same amount due to a decrease in the level of interest rates.     

</EX-12.(B)>

<EX-13>
 7
 d450230dex13.htm
 EX-13

EX-13 

EXHIBIT 13    

Financial Review      

30  

Overview     

34  

Earnings Performance     

45  

Balance Sheet Analysis     

48  

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements     

50  

Risk Management     

89  

Capital Management     

93  

Regulatory Reform     

96  

Critical Accounting Policies     

102  

Current Accounting Developments     

103  

Forward-Looking Statements     

104  

Risk Factors     

Controls and Procedures      

119  

Disclosure Controls and Procedures     

119  

Internal Control over Financial Reporting     

119  

Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting     

120  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm     

Financial Statements     

121  

Consolidated Statement of Income     

122  

Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income     

123  

Consolidated Balance Sheet     

124  

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity     

128  

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows     

Notes to Financial Statements      

129  

1      Summary of Significant Accounting Policies     

141  

2      Business
Combinations      

29   

This Annual Report, including the Financial Review and the Financial Statements and related Notes,
contains forward-looking statements, which may include forecasts of our financial results and condition, expectations for our operations and business, and our assumptions for those forecasts and expectations. Do not unduly rely on forward-looking
statements. Actual results may differ materially from our forward-looking statements due to several factors. Factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements are described in this Report, including
in the  Forward-Looking Statements  and  Risk Factors  sections in this Report, and in the  Regulation and Supervision  section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012 (2012 Form
10-K).        When we refer to  Wells Fargo,   the Company,   we,   our  or  us  in
this Report, we mean Wells Fargo   Company and Subsidiaries (consolidated). When we refer to the  Parent,  we mean Wells Fargo   Company. When we refer to  legacy Wells Fargo,  we mean
Wells Fargo excluding Wachovia Corporation (Wachovia). See the Glossary of Acronyms at the end of this Report for terms used throughout this Report.          Financial Review          Overview

Wells Fargo   Company is a nationwide, diversified, community-based financial services
company with $1.4 trillion in assets. Founded in 1852 and headquartered in San Francisco, we provide banking, insurance, investments, mortgage, and consumer and commercial finance through more than 9,000 stores, 12,000 ATMs and the
Internet (wellsfargo.com), and we have offices in more than 35 countries to support our customers who conduct business in the global economy. With more than 265,000 active, full-time equivalent team members, we serve one in three households in the
United States and ranked No. 26 on  Fortune s  2012 rankings of America s largest corporations. We ranked fourth in assets and first in the market value of our common stock among all U.S. banks at December 31, 2012.
     Our vision is to satisfy all our customers  financial needs, help them succeed financially, be recognized as the
premier financial services company in our markets and be one of America s great companies. Our primary strategy to achieve this vision is to increase the number of our products our customers utilize and to offer them all of the financial
products that fulfill their needs. Our cross-sell strategy, diversified business model and the breadth of our geographic reach facilitate growth in both strong and weak economic cycles, as we can grow by expanding the number of products our current
customers have with us, gain new customers in our extended markets, and increase market share in many businesses.       Financial Performance
      We generated strong financial results in 2012 even with regulatory changes and an uncertain economic and political environment. We had
higher net income and revenue, solid loan and deposit growth, an improved efficiency ratio and improved credit quality in 2012 compared with 2011. Our 2012 results reflected our resolution of mortgage origination, servicing, and foreclosure matters
with various regulators and government entities; Super Storm Sandy, which impacted many of our customers in the northeast; and new regulatory guidance that affected our credit metrics. Our return on average assets of 1.41% was up 16 basis points
from 2011, the highest it has been in five

years, and our return on equity increased to 12.95%, up 102 basis points from 11.93% for 2011.      Wells Fargo net income was $18.9 billion and our diluted earnings per common share was $3.36 for 2012, each up 19% from 2011. Our earnings per share have grown for 12 consecutive quarters through the
end of 2012. The increase in our net income for 2012 over 2011 was driven by a 6% increase in total revenue and the benefit of improving our efficiency ratio to 58.5% from 61.0% in 2011.   
  Our total revenue increased to $86.1 billion in 2012, up $5.1 billion, or 6%, from 2011. The 6% revenue increase predominantly
reflected the diversity of our business model and included:   

$3.8 billion increase in mortgage banking income as discussed below;      

$693 million increase in net gains from trading activities, a major portion resulting from customer accommodations; and      

$586 million increase in trust and investment fee income due to growth in assets under management reflecting higher market values and net asset inflows
as well as transaction activity on volume-driven fees.         Mortgage banking income increased due to higher
net gains on higher mortgage loan origination/sales activities reflecting increased margins and a lower interest rate environment for 2012 compared with 2011. Our mortgage loan originations in 2012 totaled $524 billion (of which we retained $19.4
billion in conforming loans on balance sheet), compared with $357 billion in 2011. Our unclosed mortgage loan pipeline was $81 billion at December 31, 2012, up 13% from $72 billion at the end of 2011.   
  Noninterest expense totaled $50.4 billion in 2012, up from $49.4 billion in 2011. The increase from 2011 reflected elevated operating
losses and other costs due to mortgage servicing regulatory consent orders, a $175 million settlement with the Department of Justice that resolved claims related to mortgage lending practices, a $766 million accrual for the Independent Foreclosure
Review (IFR) settlement and other remediation-related costs, and a $250 million contribution to the Wells Fargo Foundation. In addition, our expenses in 2012 were also driven

30   

Overview    (continued)              
   
by additional revenue opportunities from mortgage banking volume and other revenue generating activities. Because pursuing revenue opportunities can increase expenses, we believe our efficiency
ratio, which measures our noninterest expense as a percentage of total revenue, is an appropriate measure of our expense management efforts. We improved our efficiency ratio by 250 basis points to 58.5% for 2012 compared to 61.0% for 2011. While we
have made progress on improving our efficiency, we believe our expenses are still too high and we will continue to focus on opportunities to reduce expenses that do not impact our ability to grow revenue. We have targeted an efficiency ratio of 55
to 59%, and our efficiency ratio of 58.5% in 2012 was within this target range. Although our quarterly efficiency ratio may vary due to cyclical or seasonal factors, we believe we are well positioned to remain within our targeted range in 2013.
     Our total assets grew 8% in 2012 to $1.4 trillion, funded largely by strong deposit growth. Our core deposits grew $73.1
billion ($67.2 billion on average) or 8% in 2012. The predominant areas of asset growth were in short-term investments, which increased $92.9 billion, and loans, which increased $29.9 billion. Our loan growth represented core loan growth of $47.7
billion (including retention of $19.4 billion of 1-4 family conforming first mortgage production on the balance sheet), partially offset by the planned runoff in our non- strategic/liquidating loan portfolio of $17.8 billion. We also increased
securities available for sale by $12.6 billion in 2012 as rates rose and yields became more attractive.       Credit Quality    
  Credit quality continued to improve during 2012 as the overall financial condition of businesses and consumers strengthened and the housing market in many
areas of the nation improved. The improvement in our credit portfolio was also due in part to the continued decline in balances in our non-strategic/liquidating loan portfolios, which have declined $96.3 billion since the beginning of 2009, and
totaled $94.6 billion at December 31, 2012.      Our reported credit metrics in 2012 improved even though they
were adversely affected by guidance issued by bank regulators in first quarter 2012 relating to junior lien mortgages (Interagency guidance) and guidance issued by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) in third quarter 2012 relating to
loans discharged in bankruptcy (OCC guidance). The Interagency guidance requires junior lien mortgages to be placed on nonaccrual status if the related first lien mortgage is nonaccruing. The OCC guidance requires consumer loans discharged in
bankruptcy to be written down to net realizable collateral value (fair value of collateral less estimated costs to sell) and classified as nonaccrual troubled debt restructurings (TDRs), regardless of their delinquency status. The Interagency
guidance increased our nonperforming assets by $960 million as of December 31, 2012. The OCC guidance increased nonperforming assets by $1.8 billion as of December 31, 2012, and increased loan charge-offs by $888 million for 2012.
Including the combined adverse effect of the new junior lien and bankruptcy regulatory guidance:

Our $7.2 billion provision for credit losses
in 2012, which was $682 million less than 2011, incorporated an estimate for losses attributable to Super Storm Sandy, which occurred during the last week of October 2012. The provision for 2012 was $1.8 billion lower than net loan charge-offs
due to continued strong credit performance.       Capital       Total equity increased $17.2 billion in 2012 to $158.9 billion and our Tier I common equity totaled $109.0 billion under Basel I, or 10.12% of risk-weighted assets. Our other capital ratios also
remained strong with a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 11.75%, total risk-based capital ratio of 14.63% and Tier 1 leverage ratio of 9.47% at December 31, 2012, compared with 11.33%, 14.76% and 9.03%, respectively, at December 31, 2011.
     We increased our common stock dividend by 83%, and for 2012, paid dividends of $0.88 per common share and repurchased
approximately 120 million shares of common stock. During fourth quarter 2012 we also entered into a $200 million private forward repurchase contract to repurchase approximately 6 million shares that is expected to settle in first
quarter 2013.   

31   

Table 1: Six-Year Summary of Selected Financial Data (1)    

(1)  
  The Company acquired Wachovia Corporation (Wachovia) on December 31, 2008. Because the acquisition was completed on December 31, 2008, Wachovia s results are
included in the income statement, average balances and related metrics beginning in 2009. Wachovia s assets and liabilities are included in the consolidated balance sheet beginning on December 31, 2008.     

(2)  
  Core deposits are noninterest-bearing deposits, interest-bearing checking, savings certificates, certain market rate and other savings, and certain foreign deposits (Eurodollar
sweep balances).     
         32   

Overview    (continued)                 Table 2: Ratios and Per Common Share Data    

(1)  
  The efficiency ratio is noninterest expense divided by total revenue (net interest income and noninterest income).     

(2)  
  See Note 26 (Regulatory and Agency Capital Requirements) to Financial Statements in this Report for additional information.     

(3)  
  See the  Capital Management  section in this Report for additional information.     

(4)  
  Dividends declared per common share as a percentage of earnings per common share.     

(5)  
  Based on daily prices reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transaction Reporting System.     
         33   

Earnings Performance    

Wells Fargo net income for 2012 was $18.9 billion ($3.36 diluted earnings per common share), compared with
$15.9 billion ($2.82 diluted per share) for 2011 and $12.4 billion ($2.21 diluted per share) for 2010. Our 2012 earnings reflected strong execution of our business strategy and growth in many of our businesses. The key drivers of our financial
performance in 2012 were net interest and fee income growth, diversified sources of fee income, a diversified loan portfolio and strong underlying credit performance.      Revenue, the sum of net interest income and noninterest income, was $86.1 billion in 2012, compared with $80.9 billion in 2011 and $85.2 billion in 2010. In 2012, net interest income of
$43.2 billion represented 50% of revenue, compared with $42.8 billion (53%) in 2011 and $44.8 billion (53%) in 2010. The increase in revenue for 2012 was due to strong growth in noninterest income, predominantly from mortgage banking.
     Noninterest income was $42.9 billion in 2012, representing 50% of revenue, compared with $38.2 billion (47%) in 2011
and $40.5 billion (47%) in 2010. The increase in 2012 was driven predominantly by a 49% increase in mortgage banking income due to increased net gains on mortgage loan origination/sales activities, but also included higher trust and investment
and other fees on higher retail brokerage asset-based fees and strong investment banking activity. Mortgage loan originations were $524 billion in 2012, up from $357 billion a year ago.

Noninterest expense was $50.4 billion in 2012, compared with $49.4 billion in 2011 and
$50.5 billion in 2010. Noninterest expense as a percentage of revenue (efficiency ratio) was 58.5% in 2012, 61.0% in 2011 and 59.2% in 2010, reflecting our expense management efforts and revenue growth in 2012. The increase in noninterest expense
from the prior year was due to increased revenue generating activities and elevated operating losses and other costs associated with mortgage servicing regulatory consent orders, the IFR settlement, additional remediation-related costs and the
contribution to the Wells Fargo Foundation.      Table 3 presents the components of revenue and noninterest expense as a
percentage of revenue for year-over-year results.   

34   

Earnings Performance    (continued)       
         Table 3: Net Interest Income, Noninterest Income and Noninterest Expense
as a Percentage of Revenue        

(1)  
  See Table 7   Noninterest Income in this Report for additional detail.     

(2)  
  See Table 8   Noninterest Expense in this Report for additional detail.     
         35   

Net Interest Income       Net interest income is the interest earned on debt securities, loans (including yield-related loan fees) and other interest-earning assets minus the interest paid for deposits, short-term borrowings and
long-term debt. The net interest margin is the average yield on earning assets minus the average interest rate paid for deposits and our other sources of funding. Net interest income and the net interest margin are presented on a taxable-equivalent
basis in Table 5 to consistently reflect income from taxable and tax-exempt loans and securities based on a 35% federal statutory tax rate.      While the Company believes that it has the ability to increase net interest income over time, net interest income and the net interest margin in any one period can be significantly affected by a variety
of factors including the mix and overall size of our earning asset portfolio and the cost of funding those assets. In addition, some variable sources of interest income, such as resolutions from purchased credit-impaired (PCI) loans, loan prepayment
fees and collection of interest on nonaccrual loans, can vary from period to period.      Net interest income on a
taxable-equivalent basis was $43.9 billion in 2012, compared with $43.5 billion in 2011, and $45.4 billion in 2010. The net interest margin was 3.76% in 2012, down 18 basis points from 3.94% in 2011 and down 50 basis points from 4.26% in
2010. The increase in net interest income for 2012 compared with 2011, was largely driven by growth in loans and available-for-sale securities, disciplined deposit pricing, debt maturities and redemptions of higher yielding trust preferred
securities, which partially offset the impact of higher yielding loan and investment securities runoff. The decline in net interest margin in 2012 compared with a year ago, was largely driven by strong deposit growth, which elevated short-term
investment balances, and the continued runoff of higher yielding assets.      Table 4 presents the components of earning assets
and funding sources as a percentage of earning assets to provide a more meaningful analysis of year-over-year changes that influenced net interest income.      Average earning assets increased $67.4 billion in 2012 from a year ago, as average securities available for sale increased $39.4 billion and average mortgages held for sale increased
$11.7 billion for the same period, respectively. In addition, the increase in commercial and industrial loans contributed $16.3 billion to higher average loans in 2012 compared with a year ago. These increases in average securities
available for sale, mortgages held for sale and average loans were partially offset by a $3.1 billion decline in average short-term investments.

Core deposits are an important low-cost source of funding and affect both net interest
income and the net interest margin. Core deposits include noninterest-bearing deposits, interest-bearing checking, savings certificates, market rate and other savings, and certain foreign deposits (Eurodollar sweep balances). Average core deposits
rose to $893.9 billion in 2012 compared with $826.7 billion in 2011 and funded 115% of average loans compared with 109% a year ago. Average core deposits increased to 76% of average earning assets in 2012, compared with 75% a year ago. The cost of
these deposits has continued to decline due to a sustained low interest rate environment and a shift in our deposit mix from higher cost certificates of deposit to lower yielding checking and savings products. About 94% of our average core deposits
are in checking and savings deposits, one of the highest industry percentages.      Table 5 presents the individual components of
net interest income and the net interest margin. The effect on interest income and costs of earning asset and funding mix changes described above, combined with rate changes during 2012, are analyzed in Table 6.

36   

Earnings Performance    (continued)       
         Table 4: Average Earning Assets and Funding Sources as a Percentage of
Average Earning Assets        

(1)  
  Nonaccrual loans are included in their respective loan categories.     
         37   

Table 5: Average Balances, Yields and Rates Paid (Taxable-Equivalent Basis) (1)(2)(3)    

(1)  
  Because the Wachovia acquisition was completed at the end of 2008, Wachovia s assets and liabilities are included in average balances, and Wachovia s results are
reflected in interest income/expense beginning in 2009.     

(3)  
  Yield/rates and amounts include the effects of hedge and risk management activities associated with the respective asset and liability categories.     

(4)  
  Interest income/expense for trading assets represents interest and dividend income earned on trading securities.     
         38   

Earnings Performance    (continued)       

(5)  
  The average balance amounts represent amortized cost for the periods presented.     

(6)  
  Nonaccrual loans and related income are included in their respective loan categories.     
 
         39   

Table 6 allocates the changes in net interest income on a taxable-equivalent basis to
changes in either average balances or average rates for both interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. Because of the numerous simultaneous volume and rate changes during any period, it is

not possible to precisely allocate such changes between volume and rate. For this table, changes that are not solely due to either volume or rate are allocated to these categories on a pro-rata
basis based on the absolute value of the change due to average volume and average rate.   

Table 6: Analysis of Changes in
Net Interest Income        
 
         40   

Earnings Performance    (continued)       

Noninterest Income        Table 7: Noninterest Income    
    Noninterest income of $42.9 billion represented 50% of revenue for 2012 compared with $38.2 billion, or 47%, for 2011 and
$40.5 billion, or 47%, for 2010. The increase in noninterest income from 2011 was primarily due to higher net gains on higher mortgage loan origination/sales activities reflecting increased margins and a lower interest rate environment in 2012.
     Our service charges on deposit accounts increased in 2012 by $403 million, or 9%, from 2011, predominantly due to product
and account changes including changes to service charges and fewer fee waivers, continued customer adoption of overdraft services and customer account growth. The decrease in service charges in 2011 from 2010 was predominantly due to changes
implemented in third quarter 2010 mandated by Regulation E (which limited certain overdraft fees) and related overdraft policy changes.      We receive brokerage advisory, commissions and other fees for providing services to full-service and discount brokerage customers. Brokerage advisory, commissions and other fees increased to $6.4 billion
in 2012 from $6.2 billion in 2011 and

$5.9 billion in 2010, and includes transactional commissions based on the number of transactions executed at the customer s direction, and asset-based fees, which are based on the market
value of the customer s assets. Brokerage client assets totaled $1.2 trillion at December 31, 2012, up 8% from $1.1 trillion at December 31, 2011, due to growth in assets under management and higher market values.   
  We earn trust, investment and IRA (Individual Retirement Account) fees from managing and administering assets, including mutual funds,
corporate trust, personal trust, employee benefit trust and agency assets. At December 31, 2012, these assets totaled $2.2 trillion, up 3% from December 31, 2011, due to growth in assets under management and higher market values.
Trust, investment and IRA fees are largely based on a tiered scale relative to the market value of the assets under management or administration. These fees increased to $4.2 billion in 2012 from $4.1 billion in 2011, which increased from $4.0
billion in 2010.      We earn investment banking fees from underwriting debt and equity securities, loan syndications, and
performing other related advisory services. Investment banking fees increased to $1.3 billion in 2012 from $964 million in 2011 and $966 million in 2010 due to increased volume.   
  Card fees were $2.8 billion in 2012, compared with $3.7 billion in both 2011 and 2010. Card fees decreased because of lower debit
card interchange rates resulting from the Federal Reserve Board (FRB) rules implementing the debit interchange provision of the Dodd-Frank Act, which became effective in fourth quarter 2011. The reduction in debit card interchange income was
partially offset by growth in purchase volume and new accounts.      Mortgage banking noninterest income, consisting of net
servicing income and net gains on loan origination/sales activities, totaled $11.6 billion in 2012, compared with $7.8 billion in 2011 and $9.7 billion in 2010. The increase in mortgage banking noninterest income from 2011 was
predominantly driven by an increase in net gains on higher mortgage loan origination volumes and margins reflecting the impact of limited industry capacity in a lower interest rate environment and various other factors, while the decline in 2011
from 2010 was primarily driven by a decline in net gains on mortgage loan originations reflecting lower volume and margins.   
  Net mortgage loan servicing income includes amortization of commercial mortgage servicing rights (MSRs), changes in the fair value of
residential MSRs during the period, as well as changes in the value of derivatives (economic hedges) used to hedge the residential MSRs. Net servicing income for 2012 included a $681 million net MSR valuation gain ($2.9 billion decrease in the
fair value of the MSRs offset by a $3.6 billion hedge gain) and for 2011 included a $1.6 billion net MSR valuation gain ($3.7 billion decrease in the fair value of MSRs offset by a $5.3 billion hedge gain). The 2012 MSRs valuation
included a $677 million reduction reflecting the additional costs associated with implementation of the servicing standards developed in connection with our settlement with the Department of Justice (DOJ) and other state and federal agencies
relating to our mortgage servicing and foreclosure practices, as well as higher foreclosure costs. Our portfolio of

41   

loans serviced for others was $1.91 trillion at December 31, 2012, and $1.85 trillion at December 31, 2011. At December 31, 2012, the ratio of MSRs to related loans serviced
for others was 0.67%, compared with 0.76% at December 31, 2011. See the  Risk Management   Mortgage Banking Interest Rate and Market Risk  section of this Report for additional information regarding our MSRs risks and hedging
approach and the  Risk Management   Credit Risk Management   Risks Relating to Servicing Activities  section in this Report for information on the DOJ settlement and the regulatory consent orders that we entered into relating to
our mortgages servicing and foreclosure practices.      Net gains on mortgage loan origination/sale activities were
$10.3 billion in 2012, compared with $4.6 billion in 2011 and $6.4 billion in 2010. The increase in 2012 was driven by higher loan origination volume and margins while the decrease in 2011 was the result of lower origination volume and margins
on loan originations. Mortgage loan originations were $524 billion in 2012, compared with $357 billion a year ago. During 2012 we retained for investment $19.4 billion of 1-4 family conforming first mortgage loans, forgoing approximately $575
million of fee revenue that could have been generated had the loans been originated for sale along with other agency conforming loan production. While retaining these mortgage loans on our balance sheet reduced mortgage revenue, we expect to
generate spread income in future quarters from mortgage loans with higher yields than mortgage-backed securities we could have purchased in the market. While we do not currently plan to hold additional conforming mortgages on balance sheet (other
than $3.3 billion from our unclosed pipeline at December 31, 2012), we have a large mortgage business and strong capital that provides us with the flexibility to make such choices in the future to benefit our long-term results. Mortgage
applications were $736 billion in 2012, compared with $537 billion in 2011. The 1-4 family first mortgage unclosed pipeline was $81 billion at December 31, 2012, and $72 billion at December 31, 2011. For additional information
about our mortgage banking activities and results, see the  Risk Management   Mortgage Banking Interest Rate and Market Risk  section and Note 9 (Mortgage Banking Activities) and Note 17 (Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities) to
Financial Statements in this Report.      Net gains on mortgage loan origination/sales activities include the cost of additions
to the mortgage repurchase liability. Mortgage loans are repurchased from third parties based on standard representations and warranties, and early payment default clauses in mortgage sale contracts. Additions to the mortgage repurchase liability
that were charged against net gains on mortgage loan origination/sales activities during 2012 totaled $1.9 billion (compared with $1.3 billion for 2011), of which $1.7 billion ($1.2 billion for 2011) was for subsequent increases in
estimated losses on prior period loan sales. For additional information about mortgage loan repurchases, see the  Risk Management   Credit Risk Management   Liability for Mortgage Loan Repurchase Losses  section and Note 9
(Mortgage Banking Activities) to Financial Statements in this Report.      We engage in trading activities primarily to
accommodate the investment activities of our customers, execute economic

hedging to manage certain of our balance sheet risks and for a very limited amount of proprietary trading for our own account. Net gains (losses) from trading activities, which reflect unrealized
changes in fair value of our trading positions and realized gains and losses, were $1.7 billion in 2012, $1.0 billion in 2011 and $1.6 billion in 2010. The year-over-year increase in trading activities in 2012 was driven by gains on customer
accommodation trading activities and economic hedging gains, which included higher gains on deferred compensation plan investments based on participant elections (offset entirely in employee benefits expense). Net gains (losses) from trading
activities do not include interest and dividend income on trading securities. Those amounts are reported within net interest income from trading assets. Proprietary trading generated $15 million of net gains in 2012, compared with a $14 million
net loss in 2011. Proprietary trading results also included interest and fees reported in their corresponding income statement line items. Proprietary trading activities are not significant to our client-focused business model.   
  Net gains on debt and equity securities totaled $1.4 billion for 2012, $1.5 billion for 2011 and $455 million for 2010, after
other-than-temporary impairment (OTTI) write-downs of $416 million, $711 million and $940 million, respectively, for the same periods.

42   

Earnings Performance    (continued)       

Noninterest Expense        Table 8: Noninterest Expense    
    Noninterest expense was $50.4 billion in 2012, up 2% from $49.4 billion in 2011, which was down 2% from $50.5 billion in
2010. The increase was driven predominantly by higher personnel expense ($28.8 billion, up from $27.7 billion in 2011) and higher operating losses ($2.2 billion, up from $1.3 billion in 2011), partially offset by lower merger integration costs ($218
million in 2012, down from $1.7 billion in 2011). The decrease in 2011 from 2010 was driven by lower merger integration costs, decreases in equipment expense, contract services expense and foreclosed assets expense.   
  Personnel expenses were up $1.1 billion, or 4%, in 2012 compared with 2011, due to higher revenue-based compensation and a $263 million
increase in employee benefits due primarily to higher deferred compensation expense which was offset in trading income, and increased staffing, primarily to support strong mortgage banking activities. For 2011 these expenses were up 2% compared with
2010, also due to higher revenue-based compensation as well as severance expense related to our expense reduction initiative.   
  Outside professional services were elevated for 2012 and 2011 reflecting investments by our businesses in their service delivery systems
and higher costs associated with regulatory driven mortgage servicing and foreclosure matters.      The completion of Wachovia
integration activities in first quarter 2012 significantly contributed to year-over-year reductions in equipment, occupancy, contract services, and postage, stationery and supplies. Equipment expense in 2012 also declined due to lower annual
software license fees and savings in equipment purchases and maintenance.      Foreclosed assets expense was down $293 million,
or 22%, in 2012 compared with 2011, mainly due to lower write-downs and gains on sale of foreclosed properties.

Operating losses were up $974 million, or 77%, in 2012 compared with the prior year,
predominantly due to additional mortgage servicing and foreclosure-related matters, including the Attorneys General settlement announced in February 2012, our $175 million settlement in July 2012 with the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ), which
resolved alleged claims related to our mortgage lending practices, a $766 million accrual for the IFR settlement and additional remediation-related costs. See  Risk Management   Credit Risk Management   Other Mortgage Matters 
and Note 15 (Legal Actions) to Financial Statements in this Report for additional information regarding these items.      All
other expenses of $2.4 billion in 2012 were up from $2.1 billion in 2011, primarily due to a $250 million charitable contribution to the Wells Fargo Foundation.       Income Tax Expense       The 2012 annual effective tax rate was 32.5% compared with 31.9% in
2011 and 33.9% in 2010. The lower effective tax rates for 2012 and 2011, compared with 2010, were primarily due to the realization, for tax purposes, of tax benefits on previously written down investments. For 2012 this includes a $332 million tax
benefit resulting from the surrender of previously written-down Wachovia life insurance investments. In addition, the 2011 effective tax rate was lower than the 2010 effective tax rate due to a decrease in tax expense associated with leveraged
leases, as well as tax benefits related to charitable donations of appreciated securities.   

43   

Operating Segment Results       We are organized for management reporting purposes into three operating segments: Community Banking; Wholesale Banking; and Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement. These segments are defined by product type and
customer segment and their results are based on our management accounting process, for which there is no comprehensive, authoritative financial accounting guidance equivalent to generally accepted accounting principles

(GAAP). In first quarter 2012, we modified internal funds transfer rates and the allocation of funding. The prior periods have been revised to reflect these changes. Table 9 and the following
discussion present our results by operating segment. For a more complete description of our operating segments, including additional financial information and the underlying management accounting process, see Note 24 (Operating Segments) to
Financial Statements in this Report.   

Table 9: Operating Segment Results
  Highlights    

Community Banking  offers a complete line of diversified financial products and services for
consumers and small businesses. These products include investment, insurance and trust services in 39 states and D.C., and mortgage and home equity loans in all 50 states and D.C. through its Regional Banking and Wells Fargo Home Lending business
units. Cross-sell of our products is an important part of our strategy to achieve our vision to satisfy all our customers  financial needs. Our retail bank household cross-sell was 6.05 products per household in fourth quarter 2012,
up from 5.93 a year ago. We believe there is more opportunity for cross-sell as we continue to earn more business from our customers. Our goal is eight products per customer, which is approximately half of our estimate of potential demand for an
average U.S. household. In fourth quarter 2012, one of every four of our retail banking households had eight or more of our products.      Community Banking reported net income of $10.5 billion in 2012, up $1.4 billion, or 15%, from 2011. Revenue was $53.4 billion for 2012, an increase of $2.6 billion, or 5%, compared with 2011, as a result
of higher mortgage banking revenue and growth in deposit service charges, partially offset by lower debit card revenue due to regulatory changes enacted in October 2011, and lower net interest income. Average core deposits increased $35 billion, or
6%, from a year ago. Noninterest expense increased $1.6 billion, or 5%, from 2011, largely the result of higher mortgage volume-related expenses, costs associated with settling mortgage servicing and foreclosure-related matters, including the DOJ
and the IFR settlements, and a $250 million contribution to the Wells Fargo Foundation. The provision for credit losses was $1.1 billion, or 14%, lower than 2011 due to improved portfolio performance.   
   Wholesale Banking  provides financial solutions to businesses across the United States and globally with annual sales generally in excess of $20
million. Products and business segments include Middle Market Commercial Banking, Government and Institutional Banking, Corporate Banking, Commercial Real Estate, Treasury Management, Wells Fargo Capital Finance, Insurance, International, Real
Estate Capital Markets,

Commercial Mortgage Servicing, Corporate Trust, Equipment Finance, Wells Fargo Securities, Principal Investments, Asset Backed Finance, and Asset Management.   
  Wholesale Banking reported net income of $7.8 billion in 2012, up $787 million, or 11%, from $7.0 billion in 2011. The year over year
increase in net income was the result of strong revenue growth partially offset by increased noninterest expense and a higher provision for loan losses.      Revenue in 2012 of $24.1 billion increased $2.5 billion, or 12%, from 2011, due to broad-based business growth as well as growth from acquisitions. Net interest income of $12.6 billion increased $1.0
billion or 9% driven by strong loan and deposit growth. Average loans of $273.8 billion increased $24.7 billion, or 10%, driven by strong customer demand and acquisitions. Average core deposits of $227.0 billion in 2012 increased $24.9 billion, or
12%, from 2011 reflecting continued strong customer liquidity. Noninterest income of $11.4 billion increased $1.5 billion, or 15%, due to strong growth in asset backed finance, commercial banking, commercial real estate, investment banking, real
estate capital markets and sales   trading.      Total noninterest expense in 2012 increased $905 million, or 8%,
compared with 2011 due to higher personnel expenses related to revenue growth and higher non-personnel expenses related to growth initiatives and compliance and regulatory requirements as well as increased operating losses. The provision for credit
losses increased $396 million from 2011, as a $319 million decline in loan losses was more than offset by a provision for increase in loans, particularly from acquisitions.   
   Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement  provides a full range of financial advisory services to clients using a planning approach to
meet each client s needs. Wealth Management provides affluent and high net worth clients with a complete range of wealth management solutions, including financial planning, private banking, credit, investment management and trust. Abbot
Downing, a Wells Fargo business, provides comprehensive wealth management services to ultra high net worth families and individuals as well as their endowments and foundations. Brokerage serves customers  advisory, brokerage

44   

Earnings Performance    (continued)       

and financial needs as part of one of the largest full-service brokerage firms in the United States. Retirement is a national leader in providing institutional retirement and trust services
(including 401(k) and pension plan record keeping) for businesses, retail retirement solutions for individuals, and reinsurance services for the life insurance industry.      Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement reported net income of $1.3 billion in 2012, up $47 million, or 4%, from 2011. The prior year results include the H.D. Vest Financial Services business that was sold in
fourth quarter 2011 at a gain of $153 million. Revenue of $12.2 billion decreased $17 million from 2011. Net interest income decreased due to lower interest rates on the loan

and investment portfolios partially offset by the impact of growth in low-cost core deposits. Average core deposits of $137.5 billion in 2012 increased 6% from 2011. Noninterest income increased
year over year due to higher asset-based fees and gains on deferred compensation plan investments (offset in expense). The increase was partially offset by the 2011 gain on the sale of H.D. Vest, lower transaction revenue and reduced securities
gains in the brokerage business. Noninterest expense was flat, including the impact of deferred compensation plan expense (offset in revenue), for 2012 compared with 2011. The provision for credit losses decreased $45 million, or 26%, from 2011, due
to improved credit quality and lower net charge-offs.   

Balance
Sheet Analysis            

Our total assets grew 8% in 2012 to $1.4 trillion, funded predominantly by strong deposit growth. Our core
deposits grew $73.1 billion ($67.2 billion on average) or 8% in 2012. The predominant areas of asset growth were in short-term investments, which increased $92.9 billion, and loans, which increased $29.9 billion. The strong loan growth represents
core loan growth of $47.7 billion (including retention of $19.4 billion of 1-4 family conforming first mortgage production on the balance sheet), partially offset by the runoff in our non strategic/liquidating loan portfolio of $17.8 billion.
We also increased securities available for sale by $12.6 billion in 2012. The strength of our business model produced record earnings and continued internal capital generation as reflected in our

capital ratios, substantially all of which improved from December 31, 2011. Tier 1 capital as a percentage of total risk-weighted assets increased to 11.75%, total capital decreased to
14.63%, Tier 1 leverage increased to 9.47%, and Tier 1 common equity increased to 10.12% at December 31, 2012, compared with 11.33%, 14.76%, 9.03%, and 9.46%, respectively, at December 31, 2011.   
  The following discussion provides additional information about the major components of our balance sheet. Information regarding our
capital and changes in our asset mix is included in the  Earnings Performance   Net Interest Income  and  Capital Management  sections and Note 26 (Regulatory and Agency Capital Requirements) to Financial Statements in this
Report.   

Securities Available for Sale
       Table 10: Securities Available for Sale   Summary    

Table 10 presents a summary of our securities
available-for-sale portfolio, which consists of both debt and marketable equity securities. The total net unrealized gains on securities available for sale were $11.9 billion at December 31, 2012, up from net unrealized gains of
$7.0 billion at December 31, 2011, due mostly to a decline in long-term yields and tightening of credit spreads.   
  The size and composition of the available-for-sale portfolio is largely dependent upon the Company s liquidity and interest rate
risk management objectives. Our business generates assets and liabilities, such as loans, deposits and long-term debt, which have different maturities, yields, re-pricing, prepayment characteristics and other provisions that expose us to
interest rate and liquidity risk. The available-for-sale securities portfolio consists primarily of liquid, high quality federal agency debt, privately issued mortgage-backed securities (MBS), securities issued by U.S. states and political
subdivisions and corporate

debt securities. Due to its highly liquid nature, the available-for-sale portfolio can be used to meet funding needs that arise in the normal course of business or due to market
stress. Changes in our interest rate risk profile may occur due to changes in overall economic or market conditions that could influence drivers such as loan origination demand, prepayment speeds, or deposit balances and mix. In response,
the available-for-sale securities portfolio can be rebalanced to meet the Company s interest rate risk management objectives. In addition to meeting liquidity and interest rate risk management objectives, the available-for-sale securities
portfolio may provide yield enhancement over other short-term assets. See the  Risk Management   Asset/Liability Management  section of this Report for more information on liquidity and interest rate risk.   
  We analyze securities for OTTI quarterly or more often if a potential loss-triggering event occurs. Of the $416 million in

45   

OTTI write-downs recognized in 2012, $240 million related to debt securities. There was $16 million in OTTI write-downs for marketable equity securities and $160 million in OTTI
write-downs related to nonmarketable equity investments. For a discussion of our OTTI accounting policies and underlying considerations and analysis see Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies   Investments) and Note 5
(Securities Available for Sale) to Financial Statements in this Report.      At December 31, 2012, debt securities available
for sale included $38.7 billion of municipal bonds, of which 82% were rated  A-  or better based predominantly on external and, in some cases, internal ratings. Additionally, some of the securities in our total municipal bond
portfolio are guaranteed against loss by bond insurers. These guaranteed bonds are predominantly investment grade and were generally underwritten in accordance with our own investment standards prior to the determination to purchase, without relying
on the bond insurer s guarantee in making the investment decision. Our municipal bond holdings are monitored as part of our ongoing impairment analysis of our securities available for sale.   
  The weighted-average expected maturity of debt securities available for sale was 5.5 years at December 31, 2012. Because 57% of
this portfolio is MBS, the expected remaining maturity is shorter than the remaining contractual maturity because borrowers generally have the right to prepay obligations before the underlying mortgages mature. The estimated effect of a 200 basis
point increase or decrease in interest rates on the fair value and the expected remaining maturity of the MBS available for sale are shown in Table 11.       Table 11: Mortgage-Backed Securities    
    See Note 5 (Securities Available for Sale) to Financial Statements in this Report for securities
available for sale by security type.   

46   

Balance Sheet Analysis    (continued)       

Loan Portfolio       Total loans were $799.6 billion at December 31, 2012, up $29.9 billion from December 31, 2011. Table 12 provides a summary of total outstanding loans for our commercial and consumer loan
portfolios. Excluding the runoff in the non-strategic/liquidating portfolios of $17.8 billion, loans in the core portfolio grew $47.7 billion during 2012. Our core loan growth in 2012 included:   

an $18.3 billion increase in the commercial segment, mostly due to growth in commercial and industrial loans, which included:

$6.9 billion from our second quarter 2012 acquisitions of BNP Paribas  North American energy lending business and WestLB s subscription
finance loan portfolio; and      

$858 million of commercial asset-based loans acquired with the acquisition of Burdale Financial Holdings Limited (Burdale) and the portfolio of
Burdale Capital Finance Inc. in first quarter 2012; and      

a $29.4 billion increase in consumer loans with growth in first mortgage (including the retention of $19.4 billion of 1-4 family conforming first
mortgages), auto, credit card and private student lending.         Additional information on the non-strategic and
liquidating loan portfolios is included in Table 17 in the  Credit Risk Management  section of this Report.   

Table 12: Loan Portfolios

A discussion of average loan balances and a comparative detail of average loan balances
is included in Table 5 under  Earnings Performance   Net Interest Income  earlier in this Report. Year-end balances and other loan related information are in Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in
this Report.   
 
   Table 13 shows contractual loan maturities for selected loan categories and sensitivities
of those loans to changes in interest rates.   

Table 13: Maturities for Selected
Loan Categories    
 
         47   

Deposits       Deposits totaled $1.0 trillion at December 31, 2012, compared with $920.1 billion at December 31, 2011. Table 14 provides additional information regarding deposits. Information
regarding the impact of deposits on net interest income and a comparison of average deposit balances is provided in

Earnings Performance   Net Interest Income  and Table 5 earlier in this Report. Total core deposits were $945.7 billion at December 31, 2012, up $73.1 billion
from $872.6 billion at December 31, 2011.   

Table 14: Deposits    

(1)  
  Reflects Eurodollar sweep balances included in core deposits.           Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements        

In the ordinary course of business, we engage in financial transactions that are not recorded in the
balance sheet, or may be recorded in the balance sheet in amounts that are different from the full contract or notional amount of the transaction. These transactions are designed to (1) meet the financial needs of customers, (2) manage our
credit, market or liquidity risks, (3) diversify our funding sources, and/or (4) optimize capital.       Off-Balance Sheet
Transactions with Unconsolidated Entities       We routinely enter into various types of on- and off-balance sheet transactions with special
purpose entities (SPEs), which are corporations, trusts or partnerships that are established for a limited purpose. Generally, SPEs are formed in connection with securitization transactions. For more information on securitizations, including sales
proceeds and cash flows from securitizations, see Note 8 (Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities) to Financial Statements in this Report.

Guarantees and Certain Contingent Arrangements    
  Guarantees are contracts that contingently require us to make payments to a guaranteed party based on an event or a change in an underlying asset,
liability, rate or index. Guarantees are generally in the form of standby letters of credit, securities lending and other indemnifications, liquidity agreements, written put options, recourse obligations, residual value guarantees and contingent
consideration.      For more information on guarantees and certain contingent arrangements, see Note 14 (Guarantees, Pledged
Assets and Collateral) to Financial Statements in this Report.   

48   

Contractual Cash Obligations       In addition to the contractual commitments and arrangements previously described, which, depending on the nature of the obligation, may or may not require use of our resources, we enter into other
contractual obligations that may require future cash payments in the ordinary course of business, including debt issuances for the funding of operations and leases for premises and equipment.

Table 15 summarizes these contractual obligations as of December 31, 2012, excluding
the projected cash payments for obligations for short-term borrowing arrangements and pension and postretirement benefit plans. More information on those obligations is in Note 12 (Short-Term Borrowings) and Note 20 (Employee Benefits and Other
Expenses) to Financial Statements in this Report.   

Table 15: Contractual Cash
Obligations    

(1)  
  Includes interest-bearing and noninterest-bearing checking, and market rate and other savings accounts.     

(2)  
  Balances are presented net of unamortized debt discounts and premiums and purchase accounting adjustments.     

(3)  
  Represents the future interest obligations related to interest-bearing time deposits and long-term debt in the normal course of business including a net reduction of $17 billion
related to hedges used to manage interest rate risk. These interest obligations assume no early debt redemption. We estimated variable interest rate payments using December, 31 2012 rates, which we held constant until maturity. We have excluded
interest related to structured notes where our payment obligation is contingent on the performance of certain benchmarks.     

(4)  
  Represents agreements to purchase goods or services.     

We are subject to the income tax laws of the U.S., its states and municipalities, and
those of the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate. We have various unrecognized tax obligations related to these operations that may require future cash tax payments to various taxing authorities. Because of their uncertain nature, the expected
timing and amounts of these payments generally are not reasonably estimable or determinable. We attempt to estimate the amount payable in the next 12 months based on the status of our tax examinations and settlement discussions. See Note 21 (Income
Taxes) to Financial Statements in this Report for more information.      We enter into derivatives, which create contractual
obligations, as part of our interest rate risk management process for our customers or for other trading activities. See the  Risk Management   Asset/Liability  section and Note 16 (Derivatives) to Financial Statements in this Report
for more information.       Transactions with Related Parties       The Related Party Disclosures topic of the Codification requires disclosure of material related party transactions, other than compensation arrangements, expense allowances and other similar items in the
ordinary course of business. We had no related party transactions required to be reported for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010.

49   

Risk Management    

All financial institutions must manage and control a variety of business risks that can significantly
affect their financial performance. Among the key risks that we must manage are credit risks, asset/liability interest rate and market risks, and operational risks. Our Board of Directors (Board) and executive management have overall and ultimate
responsibility for management of these risks, which they carry out through committees with specific and well-defined risk management functions. For example, the Board s Credit Committee oversees the annual credit quality plan and lending
policies, credit trends, the allowance for credit loss policy, and high risk portfolios and concentrations. The Finance Committee oversees the Company s major financial risks, including market, interest rate, and liquidity and funding risks, as
well as equity exposure and fixed income investments, and also oversees the Company s capital management and planning processes. The Audit and Examination Committee oversees operational, legal and compliance risk, in addition to the policies
and management activities relating to the Company s financial reporting. The Risk Committee oversees the Company s enterprise-wide risk management framework, including the strategies, policies, processes and systems used to identify,
assess, measure and manage the major risks facing the Company. The Risk Committee does not duplicate the risk oversight of the Board s other committees, but rather helps ensure end-to-end ownership of oversight of all risk issues in one Board
committee and enhances the Board s and management s understanding of the Company s aggregate enterprise-wide risk appetite.      The Board and its committees work closely with management in overseeing risk. Each Board committee receives reports and information regarding risk issues directly from management and, in some cases,
management committees have been established to inform the risk management framework and provide governance and advice regarding risk management functions. These management committees include the Company s Operating Committee, which consists of
the Company s senior executives who report to the CEO and who meet weekly to, among other things, discuss strategic, operational and risk issues at the enterprise level, and the Enterprise Risk Management Committee, which is chaired by the
Company s Chief Risk Officer and includes other senior executives responsible for managing risk across the Company. Management s corporate risk organization is headed by the Chief Risk Officer who, among other things, oversees the
Company s credit, market and operational risks. The Chief Risk Officer and the Chief Credit, Market and Operational Risk Officers, who report to the Chief Risk Officer, work closely with the Board s Risk, Credit and Audit and Examination
Committees and frequently provide reports to these and other Board committees and update the committee chairs and other Board members on risk issues outside of regular committee meetings, as appropriate. The full Board receives reports at each of
its meetings from the committee chairs about committee activities, including risk oversight matters, and receives a quarterly report from the Enterprise

Risk Management Committee regarding current or emerging risk issues.       Operating Risk
Management       Effective management of operational risks, which include risks relating to management information systems, security systems,
and information security, is also an important focus for financial institutions such as Wells Fargo. Wells Fargo and reportedly other financial institutions have been the target of various denial-of-service or other cyber attacks as part of what
appears to be a coordinated effort to disrupt the operations of financial institutions and potentially test their cybersecurity in advance of future and more advanced cyber attacks. To date Wells Fargo has not experienced any material losses
relating to these or other cyber attacks. Cybersecurity and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and systems to protect our networks, computers, software, and data from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a
priority for Wells Fargo. See the  Risk Factors  section of this Report for additional information regarding the risks associated with a failure or breach of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, including as a result of
cyber attacks.       Credit Risk Management       Loans represent the largest component of assets on our balance sheet and their related credit risk is among the most significant risks we manage. We define credit risk as the risk of loss associated with
a borrower or counterparty default (failure to meet obligations in accordance with agreed upon terms). Table 16 presents our total loans outstanding by portfolio segment and class of financing receivable.   
   Table 16: Total Loans Outstanding by Portfolio Segment and Class of Financing Receivable    

(1)  
  Substantially all of our foreign loan portfolio is commercial loans. Loans are classified as foreign if the borrower s primary address is outside of the United States.

50   

Risk Management   Credit Risk Management    (continued)       

We manage our credit risk by establishing what we believe are sound credit policies for
underwriting new business, while monitoring and reviewing the performance of our existing loan portfolios. We employ various credit risk management and monitoring activities to mitigate risks associated with multiple risk factors affecting loans we
hold, could acquire or originate including:   

Loan concentrations and related credit quality      

Counterparty credit risk      

Economic and market conditions      

Legislative or regulatory mandates      

Changes in interest rates      

Merger and acquisition activities      

Reputation risk         Our credit risk management oversight process is governed centrally, but provides for decentralized management and accountability by our lines of business. Our overall credit process includes comprehensive
credit policies, disciplined credit underwriting, frequent and detailed risk measurement and modeling, extensive credit training programs, and a continual loan review and audit process.   
  A key to our credit risk management is adherence to a well controlled underwriting process, which we believe is

appropriate for the needs of our customers as well as investors who purchase the loans or securities collateralized by the loans.        Non-Strategic and Liquidating Loan Portfolios   We continually evaluate and modify our credit policies to address appropriate levels of risk. We may designate certain portfolios and loan
products as non-strategic or liquidating to cease their continued origination as we actively work to limit losses and reduce our exposures.      Table 17 identifies our non-strategic and liquidating loan portfolios. They consist primarily of the Pick-a-Pay mortgage portfolio and PCI loans acquired from Wachovia, certain portfolios from legacy
Wells Fargo Home Equity and Wells Fargo Financial, and our education finance government guaranteed loan portfolio. The total balance of our non-strategic and liquidating loan portfolios has decreased 50% since the merger with Wachovia at
December 31, 2008, and decreased 16% from the end of 2011.      The home equity portfolio of loans generated through third
party channels is designated as liquidating. Additional information regarding this portfolio, as well as the liquidating PCI and Pick-a-Pay loan portfolios, is provided in the discussion of loan portfolios that follows.

Table 17: Non-Strategic and
Liquidating Loan Portfolios    

(1)  
  Net of purchase accounting adjustments related to PCI loans.     

PURCHASED CREDIT-IMPAIRED (PCI) Loans  Loans acquired with evidence of credit deterioration since
their origination and where it is probable that we will not collect all contractually required principal and interest payments are PCI loans. PCI loans are recorded at fair value at the date of acquisition, and the historical allowance for credit
losses related to these loans is not carried over. Such loans are considered to be accruing due to the existence of the accretable yield and not based on consideration given to contractual interest payments. Substantially all of our PCI loans were
acquired in the Wachovia acquisition on December 31, 2008.      A nonaccretable difference is established for PCI loans to
absorb losses expected on those loans at the date of acquisition. Amounts absorbed by the nonaccretable difference do not affect the income statement or the allowance for credit losses.

Substantially all commercial and industrial, CRE and foreign PCI loans are accounted for
as individual loans. Conversely, Pick-a-Pay and other consumer PCI loans have been aggregated into pools based on common risk characteristics. Each pool is accounted for as a single asset with a single composite interest rate and an aggregate
expectation of cash flows.      Resolutions of loans may include sales to third parties, receipt of payments in settlement with
the borrower, or foreclosure of the collateral. Our policy is to remove an individual PCI loan from a pool based on comparing the amount received from its resolution with its contractual amount. Any difference between these amounts is absorbed by
the nonaccretable difference. This removal method assumes that the amount received from resolution approximates pool performance expectations. The accretable yield percentage is

51   

unaffected by the resolution and any changes in the effective yield for the remaining loans in the pool are addressed by our quarterly cash flow evaluation process for each pool. For loans that
are resolved by payment in full, there is no release of the nonaccretable difference for the pool because there is no difference between the amount received at resolution and the contractual amount of the loan. Modified PCI loans are not removed
from a pool even if those loans would otherwise be deemed TDRs. Modified PCI loans that are accounted for individually are TDRs, and removed from PCI accounting, if there has been a concession granted in excess of the original nonaccretable
difference. We include these TDRs in our impaired loans.   
 
   During 2012, we recognized as income $85 million released from the nonaccretable
difference related to commercial PCI loans due to payoffs and other resolutions. We also transferred $1.1 billion from the nonaccretable difference to the accretable yield for PCI loans with improving credit-related cash flows and absorbed $2.5
billion of losses in the nonaccretable difference from loan resolutions and write-downs. Our cash flows expected to be collected have been favorably affected by lower expected defaults and losses as a result of observed economic strengthening,
particularly in housing prices, and our loan modification efforts. See the  Real Estate 1-4 Family First and Junior Lien Mortgage Loans  section in this Report for additional information. These factors led to the reduction in expected
losses on PCI loans, primarily Pick-a-Pay, which resulted in a reclassification from nonaccretable difference to accretable yield in 2012, which has also occurred in prior years. Table 18 provides an analysis of changes in the nonaccretable
difference.   

52   

Risk Management   Credit Risk Management    (continued)       
     
    Table 18: Changes in Nonaccretable Difference for PCI Loans    

(1)  
  Release of the nonaccretable difference for settlement with borrower, on individually accounted PCI loans, increases interest income in the period of settlement. Pick-a-Pay and
Other consumer PCI loans do not reflect nonaccretable difference releases for settlements with borrowers due to pool accounting for those loans, which assumes that the amount received approximates the pool performance expectations.

(2)  
  Release of the nonaccretable difference as a result of sales to third parties increases noninterest income in the period of the sale.     

(3)  
  Reclassification of nonaccretable difference to accretable yield for loans with increased cash flow estimates will result in increased interest income as a prospective yield
adjustment over the remaining life of the loan or pool of loans.     

(4)  
  Write-downs to net realizable value of PCI loans are absorbed by the nonaccretable difference when severe delinquency (normally 180 days) or other indications of severe borrower
financial stress exist that indicate there will be a loss of contractually due amounts upon final resolution of the loan.     

(5)  
  The year ended December 31, 2012, includes $462 million resulting from the OCC guidance issued in third quarter 2012, which requires consumer loans discharged in bankruptcy
to be written down to net realizable collateral value, regardless of their delinquency status.     
         53   

Since December 31, 2008, we have released $7.2 billion in nonaccretable difference,
including $5.4 billion transferred from the nonaccretable difference to the accretable yield and $1.8 billion released to income through loan resolutions. Also, we have provided $1.8 billion for losses on certain PCI loans or pools of PCI
loans that have had credit-related decreases to cash flows expected to be collected. The net result is a $5.4 billion reduction from December 31, 2008, through December 31, 2012, in our initial projected losses of $41.0 billion on all PCI
loans.   
 
   At December 31, 2012, the allowance for credit losses on certain PCI loans was $117
million. The allowance is necessary to absorb credit-related decreases in cash flows expected to be collected and primarily relates to individual PCI commercial loans. Table 19 analyzes the actual and projected loss results on PCI loans since
acquisition through December 31, 2012.      For additional information on PCI loans, see Note 1 (Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies   Loans) and Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report.

Table 19: Actual and Projected
Loss Results on PCI Loans Since Acquisition of Wachovia    

(1)  
  Release of the nonaccretable difference for settlement with borrower, on individually accounted PCI loans, increases interest income in the period of settlement. Pick-a-Pay and
Other consumer PCI loans do not reflect nonaccretable difference releases for settlements with borrowers due to pool accounting for those loans, which assumes that the amount received approximates the pool performance expectations.

(2)  
  Release of the nonaccretable difference as a result of sales to third parties increases noninterest income in the period of the sale.     

(3)  
  Reclassification of nonaccretable difference to accretable yield for loans with increased cash flow estimates will result in increased interest income as a prospective yield
adjustment over the remaining life of the loan or pool of loans.     

(4)  
  Provision for additional losses is recorded as a charge to income when it is estimated that the cash flows expected to be collected for a PCI loan or pool of loans may not
support full realization of the carrying value.     

Significant Portfolio Reviews   Measuring and monitoring our credit risk is an ongoing process
that tracks delinquencies, collateral values, FICO scores, economic trends by geographic areas, loan-level risk grading for certain portfolios (typically commercial) and other indications of credit risk. Our credit risk monitoring process is
designed to enable early identification of developing risk and to support our determination of an appropriate allowance for credit losses. The following discussion provides additional characteristics and analysis of our significant portfolios. See
Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report for more analysis and credit metric information.   
   COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL LOANS AND LEASE FINANCING  For purposes of portfolio risk management, we aggregate commercial and industrial loans and
lease financing according to market segmentation and standard industry codes. Table 20 summarizes commercial and industrial loans and lease financing by industry with the related nonaccrual totals. We generally subject commercial
and industrial loans and lease financing to individual risk assessment using our internal borrower and collateral quality ratings. Our ratings are aligned to pass and criticized categories with our criticized categories aligned to special mention,
substandard and doubtful categories as defined by bank regulatory agencies.      Across our non-PCI commercial loans and leases,
the commercial and industrial loans and lease financing portfolio generally experienced credit improvement in 2012. Of the total commercial and industrial loans and lease financing non-PCI portfolio, 0.02% was 90 days or more past due and still
accruing

at December 31, 2012, compared with 0.09% at December 31, 2011, 0.72% (1.22% at December 31, 2011) was nonaccruing and 9.43% (12.5% at December 31, 2011) was criticized. The
net charge-off rate for this portfolio declined to 0.46% in 2012 from 0.70% for 2011.      A majority of our commercial and
industrial loans and lease financing portfolio is secured by short-term assets, such as accounts receivable, inventory and securities, as well as long-lived assets, such as equipment and other business assets. Generally, the collateral securing this
portfolio represents a secondary source of repayment. See Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report for additional credit metric information.

54   

Risk Management   Credit Risk Management    (continued)       

Table 20: Commercial and Industrial Loans and Lease Financing by Industry    

(1)  
  For PCI loans, amounts represent carrying value. PCI loans are considered to be accruing due to the existence of the accretable yield and not based on consideration given to
contractual interest payments.     

(2)  
  No other single category had loans in excess of $11.4 million.     

(3)  
  No other single category had loans in excess of $4.7 billion.        During the current credit cycle, we have experienced an increase in loans requiring risk mitigation activities including the restructuring of loan terms and requests for extensions of commercial and
industrial and CRE loans. All actions are based on a re-underwriting of the loan and our assessment of the borrower s ability to perform under the agreed-upon terms. Extension terms generally range from six to thirty-six months and may
require that the borrower provide additional economic support in the form of partial repayment, or additional collateral or guarantees. In cases where the value of collateral or financial condition of the borrower is insufficient to repay our loan,
we may rely upon the support of an outside repayment guarantee in providing the extension.      Our ability to seek performance
under a guarantee is directly related to the guarantor s creditworthiness, capacity and willingness to perform, which is evaluated on an annual basis, or more frequently as warranted. Our evaluation is based on the most current financial
information available and is focused on various key financial metrics, including net worth, leverage, and current and future liquidity. We consider the guarantor s reputation, creditworthiness, and willingness to work with us based on our
analysis as well as other lenders  experience with the guarantor. Our assessment of the guarantor s credit strength

is reflected in our loan risk ratings for such loans. The loan risk rating and accruing status are important factors in our allowance methodology for commercial and industrial and CRE loans.
     In considering the accrual status of the loan, we evaluate the collateral and future cash flows as well as the anticipated
support of any repayment guarantor. In many cases the strength of the guarantor provides sufficient assurance that full repayment of the loan is expected. When full and timely collection of the loan becomes uncertain, including the performance of
the guarantor, we place the loan on nonaccrual status. As appropriate, we also charge the loan down in accordance with our charge-off policies, generally to the net realizable value of the collateral securing the loan, if any.   
  At the time of restructuring, we evaluate whether the loan should be classified as a TDR, and account for it accordingly. For more
information on TDRs, see  Troubled Debt Restructurings  later in this section and Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report.       COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE (CRE)  The CRE portfolio, consisting of both CRE mortgage loans and CRE construction loans, totaled $123.2 billion, or 15%, of total loans at December 31, 2012. CRE
construction loans totaled $16.9 billion and CRE mortgage loans totaled $106.3 billion at December 31, 2012. Table 21 summarizes CRE loans by state and property type with the related nonaccrual totals. CRE nonaccrual loans totaled 4% of the
non-PCI CRE outstanding balance at December 31, 2012 compared with 5% at December 31, 2011. The portfolio is diversified both geographically and by property type. The largest geographic concentrations of combined CRE loans are in
California and Florida, which represented 27% and 9% of the total CRE portfolio, respectively. By property type, the largest concentrations are office buildings at 26% and industrial/warehouse at 10% of the portfolio. At December 31, 2012, we
had $17.2 billion of criticized non-PCI CRE mortgage loans, a decrease of 24% from December 31, 2011, and $3.8 billion of criticized non-PCI CRE construction loans, a decrease of 44% from December 31, 2011. See Note 6 (Loans and
Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report for additional information on criticized loans.      At
December 31, 2012, the recorded investment in PCI CRE loans totaled $2.8 billion, down from $12.3 billion when acquired at December 31, 2008, reflecting the reduction resulting from principal payments, loan resolutions and
write-downs.   

55   

Table 21: CRE Loans by State and Property Type    

(1)  
  For PCI loans, amounts represent carrying value. PCI loans are considered to be accruing due to the existence of the accretable yield and not based on consideration given to
contractual interest payments.     

(3)  
  Includes 40 states; no state had loans in excess of $2.9 billion.     
         56   

Risk Management   Credit Risk Management    (continued)       

FOREIGN LOANS AND EUROPEAN EXPOSURE  We classify loans as foreign if the borrower s primary
address is outside of the United States. At December 31, 2012, foreign loans totaled $37.8 billion, representing approximately 5% of our total consolidated loans outstanding and approximately 3% of our total assets.   
  Our foreign country risk monitoring process incorporates frequent dialogue with our foreign financial institution customers,
counterparties and with regulatory agencies, enhanced by centralized monitoring of macroeconomic and capital markets conditions. We establish exposure limits for each country through a centralized oversight process based on the needs of our
customers, and in consideration of relevant economic, political, social, legal, and transfer risks. We monitor exposures closely and adjust our limits in response to changing conditions.   
  We evaluate our individual country risk exposure on an ultimate country of risk basis which is normally based on the country of
residence of the guarantor or collateral location. Our largest foreign country exposure on an ultimate risk basis was the United Kingdom, which amounted to approximately $15.9 billion, or 1% of our total assets, and included $2.3 billion of
sovereign claims. Our United Kingdom sovereign claims arise primarily from deposits we have placed with the Bank of England pursuant to regulatory requirements in support of our London branch.

At December 31, 2012, our Eurozone exposure, including cross-border claims on an
ultimate risk basis, and foreign exchange and derivative products, aggregated approximately $10.5 billion, including $232 million of sovereign claims, compared with approximately $11.4 billion at December 31, 2011, which included $364 million
of sovereign claims. Our Eurozone exposure is relatively small compared to our overall credit risk exposure and is diverse by country, type, and counterparty.      We conduct periodic stress tests of our significant country risk exposures, analyzing the direct and indirect impacts on the risk of loss from various macroeconomic and capital markets scenarios. We do
not have significant exposure to foreign country risks because our foreign portfolio is relatively small. However, we have identified exposure to increased loss from U.S. borrowers associated with the potential impact of a European downturn on the
U.S. economy. We mitigate these potential impacts on the risk of loss through our normal risk management processes which include active monitoring and, if necessary, the application of aggressive loss mitigation strategies.   
  Table 22 provides information regarding our exposures to European sovereign entities and institutions located within such countries,
including cross-border claims on an ultimate risk basis, and foreign exchange and derivative products.   

Table 22: European Exposure

(1)  
  Lending exposure includes funded loans and unfunded commitments, leveraged leases, and money market placements presented on a gross basis prior to the deduction of impairment
allowance and collateral received under the terms of the credit agreements.     

(2)  
  Includes $871 million in PCI loans, largely to customers in Germany and United Kingdom territories, and $2.4 billion in defeased leases secured predominantly by U.S. Treasury and
government agency securities, or government guaranteed.     

(3)  
  Represents issuer exposure on cross-border debt and equity securities, held in trading or available-for-sale portfolio, at fair value.     

(4)  
  Represents counterparty exposure on foreign exchange and derivative contracts, and securities resale and lending agreements. This exposure is presented net of counterparty
netting adjustments and reduced by the amount of cash collateral. It includes credit default swaps (CDS) predominantly used to manage our U.S. and London-based cash credit trading businesses, which sometimes results in selling and purchasing
protection on the identical reference entity. Generally, we do not use market instruments such as CDS to hedge the credit risk of our investment or loan positions, although we do use them to manage risk in our trading businesses. At
December 31, 2012, the gross notional amount of our CDS sold that reference assets domiciled in Europe was $7.5 billion, which was offset by the notional amount of CDS purchased of $7.6 billion. We did not have any CDS purchased or sold where
the reference asset was solely the sovereign debt of a European country. Certain CDS purchased or sold reference pools of assets that contain sovereign debt, however the amount of referenced sovereign European debt was insignificant at
December 31, 2012.     

(5)  
  Total non-sovereign exposure comprises $13.1 billion exposure to financial institutions and $15.5 billion to non-financial corporations at December 31, 2012.

(6)  
  Includes non-sovereign exposure to Greece and Portugal in the amount of $6 million and $30 million, respectively. We had no sovereign debt exposure to these countries at
December 31, 2012.     
         57   

REAL ESTATE 1-4 FAMILY FIRST AND JUNIOR LIEN   MORTGAGE LOANS  Our real estate 1-4 family first
and junior lien mortgage loans primarily include loans we have made to customers and retained as part of our asset liability management strategy. These loans also include the Pick-a-Pay portfolio acquired from Wachovia and the home equity portfolio,
which are discussed later in this Report. In addition, these loans include other purchased loans and loans included on our balance sheet due to the adoption of consolidation accounting guidance related to variable interest entities (VIEs).
     Our underwriting and periodic review of loans collateralized by residential real property includes appraisals or estimates
from automated valuation models (AVMs) to support property values. AVMs are computer-based tools used to estimate the market value of homes. AVMs are a lower-cost alternative to appraisals and support valuations of large numbers of properties in a
short period of time using market comparables and price trends for local market areas. The primary risk associated with the use of AVMs is that the value of an individual property may vary significantly from the average for the market area. We have
processes to periodically validate AVMs and specific risk management guidelines addressing the circumstances when AVMs may be used. AVMs are generally used in underwriting to support property values on loan originations only where the loan amount is
under $250,000. We generally require property visitation appraisals by a qualified independent appraiser for larger residential property loans.      Some of our real estate 1-4 family first and junior lien mortgage loans include an interest-only feature as part of the loan terms. These interest-only loans were approximately 18% of total loans at
December 31, 2012, compared with 21% at December 31, 2011.      We believe we have manageable adjustable-rate mortgage
(ARM) reset risk across our owned mortgage loan portfolios. We do not offer option ARM products, nor do we offer variable-rate mortgage products with fixed payment amounts, commonly referred to within the financial services industry as negative
amortizing mortgage loans. Our liquidating option ARM portfolio was acquired from Wachovia. Since our acquisition of the Pick-a-Pay loan portfolio at the end of 2008, we have reduced the option payment portion of the portfolio, from 86% to 49% of
the portfolio at December 31, 2012. For more information, see the  Pick-a-Pay Portfolio  section in this Report.      We continue to modify real estate 1-4 family mortgage loans to assist homeowners and other borrowers in the current difficult economic cycle. Loans are underwritten at the time of the modification in
accordance with underwriting guidelines established for governmental and proprietary loan modification programs. As a participant in the U.S. Treasury s Making Home Affordable (MHA) programs, we are focused on helping customers stay in their
homes. The MHA programs create a standardization of modification terms including incentives paid to borrowers, servicers, and investors. MHA includes the Home Affordable Modification Program (HAMP) for first lien loans and the Second Lien
Modification Program (2MP) for junior lien loans. Under both our proprietary programs and the MHA programs, we may provide concessions such as interest rate

reductions, forbearance of principal, and in some cases, principal forgiveness. These programs generally include trial payment periods of three to four months, and after successful completion and
compliance with terms during this period, the loan is permanently modified. During both the trial payment period and/or permanent modification period, the loan is accounted for as a TDR loan. As announced in February 2012, we reached a settlement
regarding our mortgage servicing and foreclosure practices with the DOJ and other federal and state government entities, which became effective on April 5, 2012, where we committed to provide relief to borrowers with real estate 1-4 family
first and junior lien mortgage loans. Also, in January 2013, we announced the IFR settlement under which, we will provide foreclosure prevention actions that may include modifications for borrowers. See the  Risk Management   Credit Risk
Management   Risks Relating to Servicing Activities  section in this Report for more details. In addition, as announced in October 2010, we entered into agreements with certain state attorneys general whereby we agreed to offer loan
modifications to eligible Pick-a-Pay customers through June 2013. These Pick-a-Pay specific agreements cover the majority of our option payment loan portfolio and require that we offer modifications (both HAMP and proprietary) to eligible customers
with the option payment loan product. See Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies) to Financial Statements in this Report for discussion on how we determine the allowance attributable to our modified residential real estate portfolios.
     Real estate 1-4 family first and junior lien mortgage loans by state are presented in Table 23. Our real estate 1-4 family
mortgage loans to borrowers in California represented approximately 13% of total loans (2% of this amount were PCI loans from Wachovia) at December 31, 2012, located mostly within the larger metropolitan areas, with no single California
metropolitan area consisting of more than 3% of total loans. We monitor changes in real estate values and underlying economic or market conditions for all geographic areas of our real estate 1-4 family mortgage portfolio as part of our credit
risk management process.      Part of our credit monitoring includes tracking delinquency, FICO scores and collateral values
(LTV/CLTV) on the entire real estate 1-4 family mortgage loan portfolio. These credit risk indicators, which exclude government insured/guaranteed loans, continued to improve in 2012 on the non-PCI mortgage portfolio. Loans 30 days or more
delinquent at December 31, 2012, totaled $15.5 billion, or 5%, of total non-PCI mortgages, compared with $18.4 billion, or 6%, at December 31, 2011. Loans with FICO scores lower than 640 totaled $37.7 billion at December 31, 2012, or
13% of total non-PCI mortgages, compared with $44.1 billion, or 15%, at December 31, 2011. Mortgages with a LTV/CLTV greater than 100% totaled $58.7 billion at December 31, 2012, or 20% of total non-PCI mortgages, compared with $74.2
billion, or 26%, at December 31, 2011. Information regarding credit risk indicators can be found in Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report.   
  We monitor the credit performance of our junior lien mortgage portfolio for trends and factors that influence the

58   

Risk Management   Credit Risk Management    (continued)       

frequency and severity of loss. In first quarter 2012, in accordance with  Interagency Supervisory Guidance on Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses Estimation Practices for Loans and Lines of
Credit Secured by Junior Liens on 1-4 Family Residential Properties  issued by bank regulators on January 31, 2012 (Interagency Guidance), we aligned our nonaccrual reporting so that a junior lien is reported as a nonaccrual loan if the
related first lien is 120 days past due or is in the process of foreclosure regardless of the junior lien delinquency status. This action had minimal financial impact as the expected loss content of these loans was already considered in the
allowance for loan losses. At December 31, 2012, $960 million of performing junior liens subordinate to delinquent senior liens were classified as nonaccrual. For additional information, see Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting
Policies) to Financial Statements in this Report.      In addition, credit metrics for 2012 were affected by the guidance in the
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) update to the Bank Accounting Advisory Series (OCC guidance) issued in third quarter 2012, which requires consumer loans discharged in bankruptcy to be written down to net realizable collateral value
and classified as nonaccrual TDRs, regardless of their delinquency status. At December 31, 2012, $1.8 billion of the loans affected were classified as nonaccrual and $5.2 billion were reported as TDRs. The OCC guidance also increased
charge-offs by $888 million in 2012. Loans affected were predominantly real estate 1-4 family mortgage loans.

See the  Risk Management   Credit Risk Management   Nonperforming
Assets  section in this Report for more information.       Table 23: Real Estate 1-4 Family First and Junior Lien Mortgage Loans by State

(2)  
  Consists of 41 states; no state had loans in excess of $7.0 billion.     

(3)  
  Represents loans whose repayments are predominantly insured by the FHA or guaranteed by the VA.

59   

Pick-a-Pay Portfolio  The Pick-a-Pay portfolio was one of the consumer residential first mortgage
portfolios we acquired from Wachovia and a majority of the portfolio was identified as PCI loans.      The Pick-a-Pay portfolio
includes loans that offer payment options (Pick-a-Pay option payment loans), and also includes loans that were originated without the option payment feature, loans that no longer offer the option feature as a result of our modification efforts since
the acquisition, and loans where the customer voluntarily converted to a fixed-rate product. The Pick-a-Pay portfolio is included in the consumer real estate 1-4 family first mortgage class of loans throughout this Report. Real estate

1-4 family junior lien mortgages and lines of credit associated with Pick-a-Pay loans are reported in the home equity portfolio. Table 24 provides balances by types of loans as of
December 31, 2012, as a result of modification efforts, compared to the types of loans included in the portfolio at acquisition. Total PCI Pick-a-Pay loans were $32.0 billion at December 31, 2012, compared with $61.0 billion at
acquisition. Modification efforts have predominantly involved option payment PCI loans, which have declined to 20% of the Pick-a-Pay portfolio at December 31, 2012, compared with 51% at acquisition.

Table 24: Pick-a-Pay Portfolio -
Comparison to Acquisition Date    

(1)  
  Reflects $477 million in write-downs resulting from OCC guidance issued in 2012, which requires consumer loans discharged in bankruptcy to be written down to net realizable
collateral value, regardless of their delinquency status.     

(2)  
  Adjusted unpaid principal balance includes write-downs taken on loans where severe delinquency (normally 180 days) or other indications of severe borrower financial stress exist
that indicate there will be a loss of contractually due amounts upon final resolution of the loan.     

(3)  
  Includes loans refinanced under the Consumer Relief Refinance Program     

Pick-a-Pay loans may have fixed or adjustable rates with payment options that include a
minimum payment, an interest-only payment or fully amortizing payment (both 15 and 30 year options). Total interest deferred due to negative amortization on Pick-a-Pay loans was $1.4 billion at December 31, 2012, and $2.0 billion at
December 31, 2011. Approximately 90% of the Pick-a-Pay customers making a minimum payment in December 2012 did not defer interest, compared with 83% in December 2011.      Deferral of interest on a Pick-a-Pay loan may continue as long as the loan balance remains below a pre-defined principal cap, which is based on the percentage that the current loan balance represents to
the original loan balance. Substantially all the Pick-a-Pay portfolio has a cap of 125% of the original loan balance. Most of the Pick-a-Pay loans on which there is a deferred interest balance re-amortize (the monthly payment amount is reset or
 recast ) on the earlier of the date when the loan balance reaches its principal cap, or generally the 10-year anniversary of the loan. After a recast, the customers  new payment terms are reset to the amount necessary to repay the
balance over the rest of the original loan term.   
 
   Due to the terms of the Pick-a-Pay portfolio, there is little recast risk in the near
term. Based on assumptions of a flat rate environment, if all eligible customers elect the minimum payment option 100% of the time and no balances prepay, we would expect the following balances of loans to recast based on reaching the principal cap:
$21 million in 2013, $58 million in 2014 and $109 million in 2015. In addition, in a flat rate environment, we would expect the following balances of loans to start fully amortizing due to reaching their recast anniversary date:
$101 million in 2013, $332 million in 2014 and $951 million in 2015. In 2012, the amount of loans reaching their recast anniversary date and also having a payment change over the annual 7.5% reset was $12 million.   
  Table 25 reflects the geographic distribution of the Pick-a-Pay portfolio broken out between PCI loans and all other loans. The LTV
ratio is a useful metric in predicting future real estate 1-4 family first mortgage loan performance, including potential charge-offs. Because PCI loans were initially recorded at fair value, including write-downs for expected credit losses, the
ratio of the carrying value to the current collateral value will be lower compared with the LTV based on the adjusted unpaid principal balance. For informational purposes, we have included both ratios for PCI loans in the following table.

60   

Risk Management   Credit Risk Management    (continued)       
     
    Table 25: Pick-a-Pay Portfolio (1)    

(1)  
  The individual states shown in this table represent the top five states based on the total net carrying value of the Pick-a-Pay loans at the beginning of 2012.

(2)  
  Adjusted unpaid principal balance includes write-downs taken on loans where severe delinquency (normally 180 days) or other indications of severe borrower financial stress exist
that indicate there will be a loss of contractually due amounts upon final resolution of the loan.     

(3)  
  The current LTV ratio is calculated as the adjusted unpaid principal balance divided by the collateral value. Collateral values are generally determined using automated valuation
models (AVM) and are updated quarterly. AVMs are computer-based tools used to estimate market values of homes based on processing large volumes of market data including market comparables and price trends for local market areas.

(4)  
  Carrying value, which does not reflect the allowance for loan losses, includes remaining purchase accounting adjustments, which, for PCI loans may include the nonaccretable
difference and the accretable yield and, for all other loans, an adjustment to mark the loans to a market yield at date of merger less any subsequent charge-offs.     

(5)  
  The ratio of carrying value to current value is calculated as the carrying value divided by the collateral value.     

To maximize return and allow flexibility for customers to avoid foreclosure, we have in
place several loss mitigation strategies for our Pick-a-Pay loan portfolio. We contact customers who are experiencing financial difficulty and may in certain cases modify the terms of a loan based on a customer s documented income and other
circumstances.      We also have taken steps to work with customers to refinance or restructure their Pick-a-Pay loans into other
loan products. For customers at risk, we offer combinations of term extensions of up to 40 years (from 30 years), interest rate reductions, forbearance of principal, and, in geographies with substantial property value declines, we may offer
permanent principal forgiveness.      In 2012, we completed more than 11,800 proprietary and HAMP Pick-a-Pay loan modifications.
We have completed more than 111,000 modifications since the Wachovia acquisition, resulting in $5.1 billion of principal forgiveness to our Pick-a-Pay customers as well as an additional $427 million of conditional forgiveness that can be earned by
borrowers through performance over the next three years.      Due to better than expected performance observed on the Pick-a-Pay
PCI portfolio compared with the original acquisition estimates, we have reclassified $3.0 billion from the nonaccretable difference to the accretable yield since acquisition including $648 million in 2012. Our cash flows expected to be collected
have been favorably affected by lower expected defaults and losses as a result of observed and forecasted economic strengthening, particularly in housing prices, and our loan modification efforts. These factors are expected to reduce the frequency
and severity of defaults and keep these loans performing for a longer period, thus increasing future principal and interest cash flows. The resulting increase in the accretable yield will be realized over the remaining life of the portfolio, which
is estimated to have a weighted-average remaining life of approximately 12.5 years at December 31, 2012. The
weighted-  

average remaining life increased 1.5 years in 2012 due to estimated lower loan defaults, which extended the average life of the portfolio. The accretable yield percentage at December 31,
2012, was 4.70%, up from 4.45% at the end of 2011. Fluctuations in the accretable yield are driven by changes in interest rate indices for variable rate PCI loans, prepayment assumptions, and expected principal and interest payments over the
estimated life of the portfolio, which will be affected by the pace and degree of improvements in the U.S. economy and housing markets and projected lifetime performance resulting from loan modification activity. Changes in the projected timing of
cash flow events, including loan liquidations, modifications and short sales, can also affect the accretable yield rate and the estimated weighted-average life of the portfolio.   
  The Pick-a-Pay portfolio is a significant portion of our PCI loans. For further information on the judgment involved in estimating
expected cash flows for PCI loans, please see  Critical Accounting Policies   Purchased Credit-Impaired Loans  in Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies) to Financial Statements in this Report.

61   

HOME EQUITY PORTFOLIOS  Our home equity portfolios consist of real estate 1-4 family junior lien
mortgages and first and junior lines of credit secured by real estate. Our first lien lines of credit represent 21% of our home equity portfolio and are included in real estate 1-4 family first mortgages. The majority of our junior lien loan
products are amortizing payment loans with fixed interest rates and repayment periods between 5 to 30 years. Junior lien loans with balloon payments at the end of the repayment term represent a small portion of our junior lien loans.   
  Our first and junior lien lines of credit products generally have a draw period of 10 years with variable interest rates and payment
options during the draw period of (1) interest only or (2) 1.5% of total outstanding balance. During the draw period, the borrower has the option of converting all or a portion of the line from a variable interest rate to a fixed rate with
terms including interest-only payments for a fixed period between three to seven years or a fully amortizing payment with a fixed period between five to 30 years. At the end of the draw period, a line of credit generally converts to an amortizing
payment loan with repayment terms of up to 30 years based on the balance at time of conversion. At December 31, 2012, our lines of credit portfolio had an outstanding balance of $84.6 billion, of which $2.1 billion (2% of our total outstanding
balance) is in its amortization period, another $8.2 billion (10%) will reach their end of draw period during 2013 through 2014, $29.4 billion (35%) during 2015 through 2017, and $44.9 billion (53%) will convert in subsequent
years. This portfolio had unfunded credit commitments of $77.8 billion at December 31, 2012. The lines that enter their amortization period may experience higher delinquencies and higher loss rates than the ones in their draw period. At
December 31, 2012, $223 million, or 11% of outstanding lines of credit that are amortizing, primarily due to reaching the end of draw period, were 30 or more days past due, compared with $1.9 billion, or 2% for lines in their draw period.

In anticipation of our customers reaching their contractual end of draw we have created a process to help borrowers effectively make the transition from interest-only to fully-amortizing
payments.      We continuously monitor the credit performance of our junior lien mortgage portfolio for trends and factors that
influence the frequency and severity of loss. We have observed that the severity of loss for junior lien mortgages is high and generally not affected by whether we or a third party own or service the related first mortgage, but that the frequency of
loss has historically been lower when we own or service the first mortgage. In general, we have limited information available on the delinquency status of the third party owned or serviced senior lien where we also hold a junior lien. To capture
this inherent loss content, we use the experience of our junior lien mortgages behind delinquent first liens that are owned or serviced by us adjusted for observed higher delinquency rates associated with junior lien mortgages behind third party
first mortgages. We incorporate this inherent loss content into our allowance for loan losses. Our allowance process for junior liens ensures appropriate consideration of the relative difference in loss experience for junior liens behind first lien
mortgage loans we own or service, compared with those behind first lien mortgage loans owned or serviced by third parties. In addition, our allowance process for junior liens that are current, but are in their revolving period, appropriately
reflects the inherent loss where the borrower is delinquent on the corresponding first lien mortgage loans.      Table 26
summarizes delinquency and loss rates by the holder of the lien. For additional information regarding current junior liens behind delinquent first lien loans, see the  Risk Management   Credit Risk Management   Real Estate 1-4 Family
First and Junior Lien Mortgage Loans  section in this Report.   

Table 26: Home Equity Portfolios
Performance by Holder of 1st Lien (1)    

(1)  
  Excludes PCI loans and real estate 1-4 family first lien line reverse mortgages added to the consumer portfolio in fourth quarter 2011 as a result of consolidating reverse
mortgage loans previously sold. These reverse mortgage loans are predominantly insured by the FHA.     

(3)  
  Reflects the OCC guidance issued in third quarter 2012, which requires consumer loans discharged in bankruptcy to be written down to net realizable collateral value, regardless
of their delinquency status. The junior lien loss rates for third quarter 2012 reflect losses based on estimates of collateral value to implement the OCC guidance, which were then adjusted in the fourth quarter to reflect actual appraisals. Fourth
quarter 2012 losses on the junior liens where Wells Fargo own or services first lien remained elevated primarily due to the OCC guidance.     
         62   

Risk Management   Credit Risk Management    (continued)       

We monitor the number of borrowers paying the minimum amount due on a monthly basis. In
December 2012, approximately 44% of our borrowers with a home equity outstanding balance paid only the minimum amount due; 93% paid the minimum or more.      The home equity liquidating portfolio includes home equity loans generated through third party channels, including correspondent loans. This liquidating portfolio represents less than 1% of our total
loans outstanding at December 31, 2012, and contains some of the highest risk in our home equity portfolio, with a loss rate of 9.03% compared with 3.03% for the core (non-liquidating) home equity portfolio at December 31, 2012.
     Table 27 shows the credit attributes of the core and liquidating home equity portfolios and lists the top five states by

outstanding balance. California loans represent the largest state concentration in each of these portfolios. The decrease in outstanding balances primarily reflects loan paydowns and charge-offs.
As of December 31, 2012, 34% of the outstanding balance of the core home equity portfolio was associated with loans that had a combined loan to value (CLTV) ratio in excess of 100%. CLTV means the ratio of the total loan balance of first
mortgages and junior lien mortgages (including unused line amounts for credit line products) to property collateral value. The unsecured portion of the outstanding balances of these loans (the outstanding amount that was in excess of the most
recent property collateral value) totaled 15% of the core home equity portfolio at December 31, 2012.   

Table 27: Home Equity Portfolios
(1)    

(1)  
  Consists predominantly of real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgages and first and junior lines of credit secured by real estate, but excludes PCI loans because their losses
are generally covered by PCI accounting adjustment at the date of acquisition, and excludes real estate 1-4 family first lien open-ended line reverse mortgages because they do not have scheduled payments. These reverse mortgage loans are
predominantly insured by the FHA.     

(2)  
  Reflects the OCC guidance issued in third quarter 2012, which requires consumer loans discharged in bankruptcy to be written down to net realizable collateral value, regardless
of their delinquency status. Excluding the impact of OCC guidance, total core and liquidating portfolio loss rate at December 31, 2012 was 2.76%. We believe that the presentation of certain information in this Report excluding the impact of the
OCC guidance provides useful disclosure regarding the underlying credit quality of the Company s loan portfolios.     

CREDIT CARDS  Our credit card portfolio totaled $24.6 billion at December 31, 2012, which
represented 3% of our total outstanding loans. The net charge-off rate for our credit card loans was 4.02% for 2012, compared with 5.58% for 2011.       OTHER REVOLVING CREDIT AND INSTALLMENT  Other revolving credit and installment loans totaled $88.4 billion at December 31, 2012, and predominantly include automobile, student and security-based
margin loans. The loss rate for other revolving credit and installment loans was 1.00% for 2012, compared with 1.22% for 2011. Excluding government guaranteed student loans, the loss rates were 1.15% and 1.46% for 2012 and 2011, respectively. Our
automobile portfolio, predominantly composed of indirect loans, totaled $46.0 billion and $43.5 billion at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and had a loss rate of 0.64% and 0.82% in 2012 and 2011, respectively.

63   

NONPERFORMING ASSETS (NONACCRUAL LOANS AND FORECLOSED ASSETS)  Table 28 summarizes nonperforming
assets (NPAs) for each of the last five years. We generally place loans on nonaccrual status when:   

the full and timely collection of interest or principal becomes uncertain (generally based on an assessment of the borrower s financial condition
and the adequacy of collateral, if any);      

they are 90 days (120 days with respect to real estate 1-4 family first and junior lien mortgages) past due for interest or principal, unless both
well-secured and in the process of collection;      

part of the principal balance has been charged off;      

effective first quarter 2012, for junior lien mortgages, we have evidence that the related first lien mortgage may be 120 days past due or in the
process of foreclosure regardless of the junior lien delinquency status; or

effective third quarter 2012, performing consumer loans are discharged in bankruptcy, regardless of their delinquency status.
        In first quarter 2012, we implemented the Interagency Guidance, which requires us to place junior liens
on nonaccrual status if the related first lien is nonaccruing. At December 31, 2012, $960 million of such junior liens were classified as nonaccrual.      In third quarter 2012, we implemented the OCC guidance related to loans discharged in bankruptcy, which increased nonperforming assets by $1.8 billion as of December 31, 2012, and increased loan
charge-offs by $888 million for 2012.      Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies   Loans) to Financial
Statements in this Report describes our accounting policy for nonaccrual and impaired loans.   

Table 28: Nonperforming Assets
(Nonaccrual Loans and Foreclosed Assets)    

(3)  
  Includes $960 million at December 31, 2012, resulting from the Interagency Guidance issued in 2012 which requires performing junior liens to be classified as nonaccrual if
the related first mortgage is nonaccruing.     

(4)  
  Includes $1.8 billion at December 31, 2012 consisting of $1.4 billion of first mortgages, $205 million of junior liens and $140 million of auto and other loans, resulting
from the OCC guidance issued in third quarter 2012, which requires performing consumer loans discharged in bankruptcy to be placed on nonaccrual status and written down to net realizable collateral value, regardless of their delinquency status.

(5)  
  Excludes PCI loans because they continue to earn interest income from accretable yield, independent of performance in accordance with their contractual terms.

(6)  
  Real estate 1-4 family mortgage loans predominantly insured by the FHA or guaranteed by the VA and student loans predominantly guaranteed by agencies on behalf of the U.S.
Department of Education under the Federal Family Education Loan Program are not placed on nonaccrual status because they are insured or guaranteed.     

(7)  
  See Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report for further information on impaired loans.     

(8)  
  Consistent with regulatory reporting requirements, foreclosed real estate securing government insured/guaranteed loans are classified as nonperforming. Both principal and
interest for government insured/guaranteed loans secured by the foreclosed real estate are collectible because the loans are predominantly insured by the FHA or guaranteed by the VA.     
         64   

Risk Management   Credit Risk Management    (continued)       
     
    Table 29: Nonperforming Assets During 2012    

Total NPAs were $24.5 billion (3.07% of total loans) at December 31, 2012, and
included $20.5 billion of nonaccrual loans and $4.0 billion of foreclosed assets. Nonaccrual loans decreased $818 million in 2012; however, apart from the increase of $960 million resulting from the Interagency Guidance and $1.8 billion from the OCC
guidance, total nonaccrual loans declined during the year by $3.6 billion. Table 30 provides an analysis of the changes in nonaccrual loans.

65   

Table 30: Analysis of Changes in Nonaccrual Loans    

(1)  
  Other outflows include the effects of VIE deconsolidations and adjustments for loans carried at fair value.     

(2)  
  Quarter ended September 30, 2012, includes $1.4 billion of performing loans moved to nonaccrual status as a result of OCC guidance issued in third quarter 2012, which
requires consumer loans discharged in bankruptcy to be placed on nonaccrual status and written down to net realizable collateral value, regardless of their delinquency status. Quarter ended March 31, 2012, includes $1.7 billion moved to
nonaccrual status as a result of implementing Interagency Guidance issued January 31, 2012.     

Typically, changes to nonaccrual loans period-over-period represent inflows for loans
that are placed on nonaccrual status in accordance with our policy, offset by reductions for loans that are paid down, charged off, sold, transferred to foreclosed properties, or are no longer classified as nonaccrual as a result of continued
performance and an improvement in the borrower s financial condition and loan repayment capabilities. Also, reductions can come from borrower repayments even if the loan stays on nonaccrual.   
  While nonaccrual loans are not free of loss content, we believe exposure to loss is significantly mitigated by five factors. First, 97%
of the $5.8 billion of commercial nonaccrual loans and 99% of the $14.7 billion of consumer nonaccrual loans are secured at December 31, 2012. Of the consumer nonaccrual loans, 98% are secured by real estate and 45% have a combined LTV (CLTV)
ratio of 80% or below. Second, losses of $1.8 billion and $4.9 billion have already been recognized on 41% of commercial nonaccrual loans and 50% of consumer nonaccrual loans, respectively. Generally, when a consumer real estate loan is 120 days
past due (except when required earlier by the Interagency or OCC guidance), we transfer it to nonaccrual status. When the loan reaches 180 days past due, or is discharged in bankruptcy, it is our policy to write these loans down to net realizable
value (fair value of collateral less estimated costs to sell), except for modifications in their trial period that are not written down as long as trial payments are made on time. Thereafter, we reevaluate each loan regularly and recognize
additional write-downs if needed. Third, as of December 31, 2012, 63% of commercial nonaccrual loans were

current on interest. Fourth, the risk of loss for all nonaccrual loans has been considered and we believe is appropriately covered by the allowance for loan losses. And fifth, $2.8 billion of the
consumer loans classified as nonaccrual at December 31, 2012, by the Interagency and OCC guidance are performing loans.   
  Under both our proprietary modification programs and the MHA programs, customers may be required to provide updated documentation, and
some programs require completion of trial payment periods to demonstrate sustained performance before the loan can be removed from nonaccrual status. In addition, for loans in foreclosure, some states, including California and New Jersey, have
enacted legislation or the courts have changed the foreclosure process in ways that significantly increases the time to complete the foreclosure process, meaning that loans will remain in nonaccrual status for longer periods. In certain other
states, including New York and Florida, the foreclosure timeline has been significantly increased due to backlogs in an already complex process.      If interest due on all nonaccrual loans (including loans that were, but are no longer on nonaccrual at year end) had been accrued under the original terms, approximately $938 million of interest would
have been recorded as income on these loans, compared with $406 million actually recorded as interest income in 2012 versus $1.1 billion and $344 million, respectively, in 2011.   
  Table 31 provides a summary of foreclosed assets and an analysis of changes in foreclosed assets.

66   

Risk Management   Credit Risk Management    (continued)       
     
    Table 31: Foreclosed Assets    

(1)  
  Consistent with regulatory reporting requirements, foreclosed real estate securing government insured/guaranteed loans are classified as nonperforming. Both principal and
interest for government insured/guaranteed loans secured by the foreclosed real estate are collectible because the loans are predominantly insured by the FHA or guaranteed by the VA.     

(2)  
  Foreclosed government insured/guaranteed loans are temporarily transferred to and held by us as servicer, until reimbursement is received from FHA or VA. The net change in
government insured/guaranteed foreclosed assets is made up of inflows from mortgages held for investment and MHFS, and outflows when we are reimbursed by FHA/VA.     

(3)  
  Predominantly include loans moved into foreclosure from nonaccrual status, PCI loans transitioned directly to foreclosed assets and repossessed automobiles.

Foreclosed assets at December 31, 2012, included $1.5 billion of foreclosed
real estate that is FHA insured or VA guaranteed and expected to have little to no loss content. The remaining balance of $2.5 billion of foreclosed assets has been written down to estimated net realizable value. Foreclosed assets were down $638
million, or 14%, at December 31, 2012, compared with December 31, 2011. At December 31, 2012, 68% of our foreclosed assets of $4.0 billion have been in the foreclosed assets portfolio one year or less.   
  Given our real estate-secured loan concentrations and current economic conditions, we anticipate we will continue to hold an elevated
level of NPAs on our balance sheet.   

67   

TROUBLED DEBT RESTRUCTURINGS (TDRs)        Table 32: Troubled Debt Restructurings (TDRs) (1)    

(1)  
  Based on clarifying guidance from the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) received in December 2011, we classify trial modifications as TDRs at the beginning of the trial
period. For many of our consumer real estate modification programs, we may require a borrower to make trial payments generally for a period of three to four months. Prior to the SEC clarification, we classified trial modifications as TDRs once a
borrower successfully completed the trial period in accordance with the terms.     

(2)  
  December 31, 2012, includes $5.2 billion of loans, consisting of $4.5 billion of first mortgages, $506 million of junior liens and $140 million of auto and other loans,
resulting from the OCC guidance issued in third quarter 2012, which requires consumer loans discharged in bankruptcy to be classified as TDRs, as well as written down to net realizable collateral value.     
   Table 33: TDRs Balance by Quarter During 2012    
 
         68   

Risk Management   Credit Risk Management    (continued)       

Table 32 and Table 33 provide information regarding the recorded investment of loans
modified in TDRs. The allowance for loan losses for TDRs was $5.0 billion and $5.2 billion at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. See Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report for
additional information regarding TDRs. In those situations where principal is forgiven, the entire amount of such principal forgiveness is immediately charged off to the extent not done so prior to the modification. We sometimes delay the timing on
the repayment of a portion of principal (principal forbearance) and charge off the amount of forbearance if that amount is not considered fully collectible.      Our nonaccrual policies are generally the same for all loan types when a restructuring is involved. We re-underwrite loans at the time of restructuring to determine whether there is sufficient evidence of
sustained repayment capacity based on the borrower s documented income, debt to income ratios, and other

factors. Loans lacking sufficient evidence of sustained repayment capacity at the time of modification are charged down to the fair value of the collateral, if applicable. For an accruing loan
that has been modified, if the borrower has demonstrated performance under the previous terms and the underwriting process shows the capacity to continue to perform under the restructured terms, the loan will generally remain in accruing status.
Otherwise, the loan will be placed in nonaccrual status until the borrower demonstrates a sustained period of performance, generally six consecutive months of payments, or equivalent, inclusive of consecutive payments made prior to modification.
Loans will also be placed on nonaccrual, and a corresponding charge-off is recorded to the loan balance, if we believe that principal and interest contractually due under the modified agreement will not be collectible.   
  Table 34 provides an analysis of the changes in TDRs.

Table 34: Analysis of Changes in
TDRs    

(1)  
  Other outflows include normal amortization/accretion of loan basis adjustments and loans transferred to held-for-sale.     

(2)  
  Quarter ended September 30, 2012, includes $4.3 billion of loans, resulting from the implementation of OCC guidance issued in third quarter 2012, which requires consumer
loans discharged in bankruptcy to be classified as TDRs, as well as written down to net realizable collateral value. Fourth quarter 2012 inflows remain elevated primarily due to the OCC guidance.     

(3)  
  Fourth quarter 2012 outflows reflect the impact of loans discharged in bankruptcy being reported as TDRs in accordance with the OCC guidance starting in third quarter 2012.

(4)  
  Net change in trial modifications includes: inflows of new TDRs entering the trial payment period, net of outflows for modifications that either (i) successfully perform and
enter into a permanent modification, or (ii) did not successfully perform according to the terms of the trial period plan and are subsequently charged-off, foreclosed upon or otherwise resolved. Our recent experience is that most of the
mortgages that enter a trial payment period program are successful in completing the program requirements.     
         69   

LOANS 90 DAYS OR MORE PAST DUE AND STILL ACCRUING  Loans 90 days or more past due as to interest or
principal are still accruing if they are (1) well-secured and in the process of collection or (2) real estate 1-4 family mortgage loans or consumer loans exempt under regulatory rules from being classified as nonaccrual until later
delinquency, usually 120 days past due. PCI loans of $6.0 billion, $8.7 billion, $11.6 billion and $16.1 billion, at December 31, 2012, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, are not included in these past due and still accruing loans even though
they are 90 days or more contractually past due. These PCI loans are considered to be accruing due to the existence of the accretable yield and not based on consideration given to contractual interest payments.   
  Excluding insured/guaranteed loans, loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing at December 31, 2012, were down $613 million,
or 30%, from December 31, 2011, due to loss

mitigation activities including modifications, decline in non-strategic and liquidating portfolios, and credit stabilization.   
  Loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing whose repayments are predominantly insured by the Federal Housing Administration (FHA)
or guaranteed by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) for mortgages and the U.S. Department of Education for student loans under the Federal Family Education Loan Program (FFELP) were $21.8 billion, $20.5 billion, $15.8 billion, $16.3 billion,
and $9.0 billion at December 31, 2012, 2011, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.      Table 35 reflects non-PCI loans 90 days
or more past due and still accruing by class for loans not government insured/guaranteed. For additional information on delinquencies by loan class, see Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report.

Table 35: Loans 90 Days or More
Past Due and Still Accruing    

(1)  
  Represents loans whose repayments are predominantly insured by the FHA or guaranteed by the VA.     

(2)  
  Includes MHFS 90 days or more past due and still accruing.     

(3)  
  Represents loans whose repayments are predominantly guaranteed by agencies on behalf of the U.S. Department of Education under the FFELP.     

(4)  
  The balance at December 31, 2012, includes the impact from the transfer of certain 1-4 family junior lien mortgages to nonaccrual loans in accordance with the Interagency
Guidance issued on January 31, 2012.     
         70   

Risk Management   Credit Risk Management    (continued)       
     
    NET CHARGE-OFFS        Table 36: Net Charge-offs    

(1)  
  Quarterly net charge-offs as a percentage of average loans are annualized.     

(2)  
  The year ended December 31, 2012, includes $888 million resulting from the OCC guidance issued in third quarter 2012, which requires consumer loans discharged in bankruptcy
to be placed on nonaccrual status and written down to net realizable collateral value, regardless of their delinquency status. Upon initial implementation of the OCC guidance in third quarter 2012, $567 million was charged off.
    
         71   

Table 36 presents net charge-offs for the four quarters and full year of 2012 and 2011.
Net charge-offs in 2012 were $9.0 billion (1.17% of average total loans outstanding) compared with $11.3 billion (1.49%) in 2011. Net charge-offs in 2012 included $888 million resulting from the OCC guidance issued in third quarter
2012. Excluding the impact of this guidance, net charge-offs in 2012 were $8.1 billion (1.05% of average total loans outstanding), and total net charge-offs as a percentage of average loans decreased in each of the four quarters of the year, as we
saw signs of stabilization in the housing market although the economic recovery remained uneven.      Net charge-offs in the real
estate 1-4 family first mortgage portfolio totaled $2.9 billion in 2012, compared with $3.5 billion a year ago.      Net
charge-offs in the real estate 1-4 family junior lien portfolio decreased $367 million to $3.2 billion in 2012. More information about the home equity portfolio, which includes substantially all of our real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgage
loans, is available in Table 27 of this Report and the related discussion.      Credit card net charge-offs decreased $282
million to $916 million in 2012.      Commercial net charge-offs were $1.2 billion in 2012 compared with $2.0 billion in
2011, as market liquidity and improving market conditions helped stabilize performance results.

ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES  The allowance for credit losses, which consists of the allowance for
loan losses and the allowance for unfunded credit commitments, is management s estimate of credit losses inherent in the loan portfolio and unfunded credit commitments at the balance sheet date, excluding loans carried at fair value. The detail
of the changes in the allowance for credit losses by portfolio segment (including charge-offs and recoveries by loan class) is in Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report.   
  We employ a disciplined process and methodology to establish our allowance for credit losses each quarter. This process takes into
consideration many factors, including historical and forecasted loss trends, loan-level credit quality ratings and loan grade-specific loss factors. The process involves subjective and complex judgments. In addition, we review a variety of credit
metrics and trends. These credit metrics and trends, however, do not solely determine the amount of the allowance as we use several analytical tools. For additional information on our allowance for credit losses, see the  Critical Accounting
Policies   Allowance for Credit Losses  section, Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies) and Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report.   
  Table 37 presents an analysis of the allowance for credit losses by loan segments and classes for the last five years.

72   

Risk Management   Credit Risk Management    (continued)       
     
    Table 37: Allocation of the Allowance for Credit Losses (ACL)    
 
         73   

In addition to the allowance for credit losses there was $7.0 billion, $10.7 billion
and $13.4 billion of nonaccretable difference at December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 respectively, to absorb losses for PCI loans. The allowance for credit losses is lower than otherwise would have been required without PCI loan accounting. As a
result of PCI loans, certain ratios of the Company may not be directly comparable with periods prior to the Wachovia merger and credit-related metrics for other financial institutions. For additional information on PCI loans, see the  Risk
Management   Credit Risk Management   Purchased Credit-Impaired Loans  section, Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies) and Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report.   
  The ratio of the allowance for credit losses to total nonaccrual loans may fluctuate significantly from period to period due to such
factors as the mix of loan types in the portfolio, borrower credit strength and the value and marketability of collateral. Over half of nonaccrual loans were home mortgages at December 31, 2012.   
  The 2012 provision of $7.2 billion was $1.8 billion less than net charge-offs as a result of continued strong credit performance. The
provision incorporated estimated losses attributable to Super Storm Sandy, which caused destruction along the northeast coast of the U.S. in late October 2012 and affected primarily our consumer real estate loan portfolios. Based on available damage
assessments, the extent of insurance coverage, the availability of government assistance for our borrowers, and our estimate of the potential impact on borrowers  ability and willingness to repay their loans, we estimated the increase in net
charge-offs attributable to Super Storm Sandy to be between $200 million and $800 million. After considering various factors, including our estimate of the probabilities associated with various outcomes, we incorporated $425 million into our
provision for 2012. The OCC guidance issued in 2012 requires consumer loans discharged in bankruptcy to be placed on nonaccrual status and written down to net realizable collateral value, regardless of their delinquency status. While the impact of
the OCC guidance accelerated charge-offs of performing consumer loans discharged in bankruptcy in 2012, the allowance had coverage for these charge-offs. Total provision for credit losses was $7.2 billion in 2012, $7.9 billion in 2011 and $15.8
billion in 2010.      The 2011 provision of $7.9 billion was $3.4 billion less than net charge-offs. Primary drivers of the 2011
allowance release were decreased net charge-offs and continued improvement in the credit quality of the commercial and consumer portfolios and related loss estimates as seen in declining delinquency and nonperforming loan levels.   
  In 2010, the provision of $15.8 billion was $2.0 billion less than net charge-offs. The allowance release was primarily due to continued
improvement in the consumer portfolios and related loss estimates and improvement in economic conditions. These drivers were partially offset by an increase in impaired loans and related allowance primarily associated with increased consumer loan
modification efforts and a $693 million addition to the allowance due to adoption of consolidation accounting guidance on January 1, 2010.

In determining the appropriate allowance attributable to our residential real estate
portfolios, our process considers the associated credit cost, including re-defaults of modified loans and projected loss severity for loan modifications that occur or are probable to occur. In addition, our process incorporates the estimated
allowance associated with recent events including our settlements announced in February 2012 and January 2013 with federal and state government entities relating to our mortgage servicing and foreclosure practices and high risk portfolios defined in
the Interagency Guidance relating to junior lien mortgages.      Changes in the allowance reflect changes in statistically
derived loss estimates, historical loss experience, current trends in borrower risk and/or general economic activity on portfolio performance, and management s estimate for imprecision and uncertainty.   
  We believe the allowance for credit losses of $17.5 billion at December 31, 2012, was appropriate to cover credit losses inherent
in the loan portfolio, including unfunded credit commitments, at that date. The allowance for credit losses is subject to change and reflects existing factors as of the date of determination, including economic or market conditions and ongoing
internal and external examination processes. Due to the sensitivity of the allowance for credit losses to changes in the economy and business environment, it is possible that we will incur incremental credit losses not anticipated as of the balance
sheet date. Absent significant deterioration in the economy, we continue to expect future allowance releases in 2013, but at a lower level than 2012. Our process for determining the allowance for credit losses is discussed in the  Critical
Accounting Policies   Allowance for Credit Losses  section and Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies) to Financial Statements in this Report.       LIABILITY FOR MORTGAGE LOAN REPURCHASE LOSSES  We sell residential mortgage loans to various parties, including (1) government-sponsored entities Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae (GSEs) who include
the mortgage loans in GSE-guaranteed mortgage securitizations, (2) SPEs that issue private label MBS, and (3) other financial institutions that purchase mortgage loans for investment or private label securitization. In addition, we pool
FHA-insured and VA-guaranteed mortgage loans that back securities guaranteed by the Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA). We may be required to repurchase these mortgage loans, indemnify the securitization trust, investor or insurer, or
reimburse the securitization trust, investor or insurer for credit losses incurred on loans (collectively, repurchase) in the event of a breach of contractual representations or warranties that is not remedied within a period (usually 90 days or
less) after we receive notice of the breach.      We have established a mortgage repurchase liability related to various
representations and warranties that reflect management s estimate of probable losses for loans for which we have a repurchase obligation, whether or not we currently service those loans, based on a combination of factors. Our mortgage
repurchase liability estimation process also incorporates a forecast of repurchase demands associated with mortgage insurance rescission activity. Our mortgage

74   

Risk Management   Credit Risk Management    (continued)       

repurchase liability considers all vintages, however, repurchase demands have predominantly related to 2006 through 2008 vintages and to GSE-guaranteed MBS.   
  During 2012, we continued to experience elevated levels of repurchase activity measured by the number of investor repurchase demands. We
repurchased or reimbursed investors for incurred losses on mortgage loans with original balances of $2.5 billion in 2012, compared with $2.8 billion in 2011. Additionally, we negotiated settlements on pools of mortgage loans with original sold
balances of $341 million in 2011, to eliminate the risk of repurchase on these loans. We had no such settlements in 2012. We incurred net losses on repurchased loans and investor reimbursements totalling $1.1 billion in 2012, compared with $1.2
billion in 2011.      Table 38 provides the number of unresolved repurchase demands and mortgage insurance rescissions. We do not
typically receive repurchase requests from GNMA, FHA and the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) or VA.

As an originator of an FHA-insured or VA-guaranteed loan, we are responsible for obtaining the insurance with FHA or the guarantee with the VA. To the extent we are not able to obtain the
insurance or the guarantee we must request permission to repurchase the loan from the GNMA pool. Such repurchases from GNMA pools typically represent a self-initiated process upon discovery of the uninsurable loan (usually within 180 days from
funding of the loan). Alternatively, in lieu of repurchasing loans from GNMA pools, we may be asked by the FHA/HUD or the VA to indemnify them (as applicable) for defects found in the Post Endorsement Technical Review process or audits performed by
FHA/HUD or the VA. The Post Endorsement Technical Review is a process whereby the HUD performs underwriting audits of closed/insured FHA loans for potential deficiencies. Our liability for mortgage loan repurchase losses incorporates probable losses
associated with such indemnification.   

Table 38: Unresolved Repurchase
Demands and Mortgage Insurance Rescissions    

(2)  
  As part of our representations and warranties in our loan sales contracts, we typically represent to GSEs and private investors that certain loans have mortgage insurance to the
extent there are loans that have loan to value ratios in excess of 80% that require mortgage insurance. To the extent the mortgage insurance is rescinded by the mortgage insurer due to a claim of breach of a contractual representation or warranty,
the lack of insurance may result in a repurchase demand from an investor. Similar to repurchase demands, we evaluate mortgage insurance rescission notices for validity and appeal for reinstatement if the rescission was not based on a contractual
breach. When investor demands are received due to lack of mortgage insurance, they are reported as unresolved repurchase demands based on the applicable investor category for the loan (GSE or private). Over the last year, approximately 20% of our
repurchase demands from GSEs had mortgage insurance rescission as one of the reasons for the repurchase demand. Of all the mortgage insurance rescission notices received in 2011, approximately 80% have resulted in repurchase demands through December
2012. Not all mortgage insurance rescissions received as far back as 2011 have been completed through the appeals process with the mortgage insurer and, upon successful appeal, we work with the investor to rescind the repurchase demand.

(3)  
  While the original loan balances related to these demands are presented above, the establishment of the repurchase liability is based on a combination of factors, such as our
appeals success rates, reimbursement by correspondent and other third party originators, and projected loss severity, which is driven by the difference between the current loan balance and the estimated collateral value less costs to sell the
property.     

The overall level of unresolved repurchase demands and mortgage insurance rescissions
outstanding at December 31, 2012, was down from a year ago in both number of outstanding loans and in total dollar balances as we continued to work through the new demands and mortgage insurance rescissions. Customary with industry practice, we
have the right of recourse against correspondent lenders from whom we have purchased loans with respect to representations and warranties. Of total repurchase demands and mortgage insurance recissions outstanding as of December 31, 2012,
presented in Table 38, approximately 25% relate to loans purchased from correspondent lenders. Due primarily to the financial difficulties

of some correspondent lenders, we are currently recovering on average approximately 45% of losses from these lenders. Historical recovery rates as well as projected lender performance are
incorporated in the establishment of our mortgage repurchase liability.      We believe we have a high quality residential
mortgage loan servicing portfolio. Of the $1.9 trillion in the residential mortgage loan servicing portfolio at December 31, 2012, 93% was current, less than 2% was subprime at origination, and less than 1% was home equity securitizations. Our
combined delinquency and foreclosure rate on this portfolio was 7.04% at December 31, 2012, compared with 7.96% at December 31, 2011.

75   

Four percent of this portfolio is private label securitizations for which we originated the loans and therefore have some repurchase risk. Although we have observed an increase in outstanding
demands, compared to December 31, 2011, associated with our private label securitizations as some investors have reviewed defaulted loans for potential breaches of our loan sale representations and warranties, we continue to believe the risk of
repurchase in our private label securitizations is substantially reduced, relative to other private label securitizations, because approximately one-half of this portfolio of private label securitizations do not contain representations and
warranties regarding borrower or other third party misrepresentations related to the mortgage loan, general compliance with underwriting guidelines, or property valuation, which are commonly asserted bases for repurchase. For this 4% private label
securitization segment of our residential mortgage loan servicing portfolio (weighted average age of 86 months), 58% are loans from 2005 vintages or earlier; 78% were prime at origination; and approximately 64% are jumbo loans. The weighted-average
LTV as of December 31, 2012 for this private

securitization segment was 75%. We believe the highest risk segment of these private label securitizations is the subprime loans originated in 2006 and 2007. These subprime loans have seller
representations and warranties and currently have LTVs close to or exceeding 100%, and represent 9% of the private label securitization portion of the residential mortgage servicing portfolio. We had $180 million of repurchases related to private
label securitizations in 2012 compared with $110 million in 2011.      Of the servicing portfolio, 4% is non-agency acquired
servicing and 1% is private whole loan sales. We did not underwrite and securitize the non-agency acquired servicing and therefore we have no obligation on that portion of our servicing portfolio to the investor for any repurchase demands arising
from origination practices. For the private whole loan segment, while we do have repurchase risk on these loans, less than 2% were subprime at origination and loans that were sold and subsequently securitized are included in the private label
securitization segment discussed above.      Table 39 summarizes the changes in our mortgage repurchase liability.

Table 39: Changes in Mortgage
Repurchase Liability    

(1)  
  Results from changes in investor demand and mortgage insurer practices, credit deterioration and changes in the financial stability of correspondent lenders.

The mortgage repurchase liability of $2.2 billion at December 31, 2012, represents
our best estimate of the probable loss that we expect to incur for various representations and warranties in the contractual provisions of our sales of mortgage loans. The mortgage repurchase liability estimation process requires management to make
difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain, including demand expectations, economic factors, and the specific characteristics of the loans subject to repurchase. Our evaluation considers all vintages and
the collective actions of the GSEs and their regulator, the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA), mortgage insurers and our correspondent lenders. We maintain regular contact with the GSEs, the FHFA, and other significant investors to monitor their
repurchase demand practices and issues as part of our process to update our repurchase liability estimate as new information becomes available.      Our liability for mortgage repurchases, included in  Accrued expenses and other liabilities  in our consolidated balance sheet, was $2.2 billion at December 31, 2012, and $1.3 billion
at December 31, 2011. In 2012, we provided $1.9 billion, which reduced net gains on mortgage loan origination/sales activities, compared with a provision of $1.3 billion for 2011 and

$1.6 billion for 2010. Our provision in 2012 reflected an increase in projections of future GSE repurchase demands, net of appeals, for the pre-2009 vintages to incorporate the impact of
recent trends in file requests and repurchase demand activity (comprising approximately 58% of the 2012 provision), an increase in probable loss estimates for mortgage insurance rescissions (approximately 10%), new loan sales (approximately 14%), an
increase in probable loss estimates for non-agency risk (approximately 9%), and various other observed trends affecting our repurchase liability including higher than anticipated loss severity (approximately 9%). The increase in projected future GSE
repurchase demands in 2012 was predominantly a result of an increase in the expected file reviews by the GSEs as well as an increase in observed demand rates on these file reviews based on our most recent experience with them.   
  Because of the uncertainty in the various estimates underlying the mortgage repurchase liability, there is a range of losses in excess
of the recorded mortgage repurchase liability that are reasonably possible. The estimate of the range of possible loss for representations and warranties does not represent a probable loss, and is based on currently available information,
significant judgment, and a number of assumptions that are subject to change. The high end of this range of

76   

Risk Management   Credit Risk Management    (continued)       

reasonably possible losses in excess of our recorded liability was $2.4 billion at December 31, 2012, and was determined based upon modifying the assumptions (particularly to assume
significant changes in investor repurchase demand practices) utilized in our best estimate of probable loss to reflect what we believe to be the high end of reasonably possible adverse assumptions. For additional information on our repurchase
liability, see the  Critical Accounting Policies   Liability for Mortgage Loan Repurchase Losses  section and Note 9 (Mortgage Banking Activities) to Financial Statements in this Report.   
   Table 40: Mortgage Repurchase Liability   Sensitivity/Assumptions    

(1)  
  Represents total estimated average loss rate on repurchased loans, net of recovery from third party originators, based on historical experience and current economic conditions.
The average loss rate includes the impact of repurchased loans for which no loss is expected to be realized.     

(2)  
  Represents the combination of the estimated investor audit/file review rate, the investor demand rate on those audited loans, and the unsuccessful appeal rate on those demands.
As such, the repurchase rate can be significantly impacted by changes in investor behavior if they decide to review/audit more loans or demand more repurchases on the loans they audit. These behavior changes drive a significant component of our
estimated high end of the range of reasonably possible losses in excess of our recorded repurchase liability, which includes adverse assumptions in excess of the sensitivity ranges presented in this table.     
  To the extent that economic conditions and the housing market do not continue to stabilize or future investor repurchase demands and
appeals success rates differ from past experience, we could continue to have increased demands and increased loss severity on repurchases, causing future additions to the repurchase liability. However, some of the underwriting standards that were
permitted by the GSEs on the 2006 through 2008 vintages, which significantly contributed to the recent levels of repurchase demands, were tightened starting in mid to late 2008. Accordingly, we have not experienced and we do not expect a similar
rate of repurchase requests from the pre-2006 and the 2009 and later vintages.       RISKS RELATING TO SERVICING ACTIVITIES  In addition to
servicing loans in our portfolio, we act as servicer and/or master servicer of residential mortgage loans included in GSE-guaranteed mortgage securitizations, GNMA-guaranteed mortgage securitizations of FHA-insured/VA-guaranteed mortgages and
private label mortgage securitizations, as well as for unsecuritized loans owned by institutional investors. The following discussion summarizes the primary duties and requirements of servicing and related industry developments.

General Servicing Duties and Requirements       The loans we service were originated by us or by other mortgage loan originators. As servicer, our primary duties are typically to (1) collect payments due from borrowers, (2) advance certain
delinquent payments of principal and interest, (3) maintain and administer any hazard, title or primary mortgage insurance policies relating to the mortgage loans, (4) maintain any required escrow accounts for payment of taxes and
insurance and administer escrow payments, (5) foreclose on defaulted mortgage loans or, to the extent consistent with the documents governing a securitization, consider alternatives to foreclosure, such as loan modifications or short sales, and
(6) for loans sold into private label securitizations, manage the foreclosed property through liquidation. As master servicer, our primary duties are typically to (1) supervise, monitor and oversee the servicing of the mortgage loans by
the servicer, (2) consult with each servicer and use reasonable efforts to cause the servicer to observe its servicing obligations, (3) prepare monthly distribution statements to security holders and, if required by the securitization
documents, certain periodic reports required to be filed with the SEC, (4) if required by the securitization documents, calculate distributions and loss allocations on the mortgage-backed securities, (5) prepare tax and information returns
of the securitization trust, and (6) advance amounts required by non-affiliated servicers who fail to perform their advancing obligations.      Each agreement under which we act as servicer or master servicer generally specifies a standard of responsibility for actions we take in such capacity and provides protection against expenses and
liabilities we incur when acting in compliance with the specified standard. For example, most private label securitization agreements under which we act as servicer or master servicer typically provide that the servicer and the master servicer are
entitled to indemnification by the securitization trust for taking action or refraining from taking action in good faith or for errors in judgment. However, we are not indemnified, but rather are required to indemnify the securitization trustee,
against any failure by us, as servicer or master servicer, to perform our servicing obligations or against any of our acts or omissions that involve wilful misfeasance, bad faith or gross negligence in the performance of, or reckless disregard of,
our duties. In addition, if we commit a material breach of our obligations as servicer or master servicer, we may be subject to termination if the breach is not cured within a specified period following notice, which can generally be given by the
securitization trustee or a specified percentage of security holders. Whole loan sale contracts under which we act as servicer generally include similar provisions with respect to our actions as servicer. The standards governing servicing in
GSE-guaranteed securitizations, and the possible remedies for violations of such standards, vary, and those standards and remedies are determined by servicing guides maintained by the GSEs, contracts between the GSEs and individual servicers and
topical guides published by the GSEs from time to time. Such remedies could include indemnification or repurchase of an affected mortgage loan.

77   

Consent Orders and Settlement Agreements for Mortgage Servicing and Foreclosure Practices
      In April 2011, the FRB and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) issued Consent Orders that require us to correct
deficiencies in our residential mortgage loan servicing and foreclosure practices that were identified by federal banking regulators in their fourth quarter 2010 review. The Consent Orders also require that we improve our servicing and foreclosure
practices. We have implemented all of the operational changes that resulted from the expanded servicing responsibilities outlined in the Consent Orders.      On February 9, 2012, a federal/state settlement was announced among the DOJ, HUD, the Department of the Treasury, the Department of Veterans Affairs, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), the Executive
Office of the U.S. Trustee, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, a task force of Attorneys General representing 49 states, Wells Fargo, and four other servicers related to investigations of mortgage industry servicing and foreclosure practices.
While Oklahoma did not participate in the larger settlement, it settled separately with the five servicers under a simplified agreement. Under the terms of the larger settlement, which will remain in effect for three and a half years (subject to a
trailing review period) we have agreed to the following programmatic commitments, consisting of three components totaling approximately $5.3 billion:   

Consumer Relief Program commitment of $3.4 billion      

Refinance Program commitment of $900 million      

Foreclosure Assistance Program of $1 billion         Additionally and simultaneously, the OCC and FRB announced the imposition of civil money penalties of $83 million and $87 million, respectively, pursuant to the Consent Orders. While still subject to
FRB confirmation, Wells Fargo believes the civil money obligations were satisfied through payments made under the Foreclosure Assistance Program to the federal government and participating states for their use to address the impact of foreclosure
challenges as they determine and which may include direct payments to consumers.      We are in the process of successfully
executing activities under both the Consumer Relief and the Refinance Programs in accordance with the terms of our commitments. In our February 14, 2013, submission to the Monitor of the National Mortgage Settlement, we reported $1.9 billion of
earned credits toward our Consumer Relief commitment and $1.1 billion of earned credits toward our Refinance Program commitment. Refinance Program earned credits in excess of our required commitment of $900 million can be applied towards our
Consumer Relief commitment obligations, subject to a limit of $343 million of earned credits. Our earned credits are subject to review and approval by the Monitor.       Consumer Relief Program       We began conducting creditable activities towards satisfaction of
the requirements of the Consumer Relief Program on March 1, 2012. We can also receive an additional 25% credit for first or second lien principal reduction taken within one year from March 1, 2012. Because we will not receive
dollar-for-dollar credit for the relief provided in some circumstances, the actual

relief we provide to borrowers will likely exceed our commitment. The terms also require that we satisfy 75% of the commitments under the Consumer Relief Program within two years from
March 1, 2012. If we do not meet this two-year requirement and also do not meet the entire commitment within three years, we are required to pay an amount equal to 140% of the unmet commitment amount. If we meet the two-year commitment target,
but do not meet the entire commitment amount within the three years, we are required to pay an amount equal to 125% of the unmet commitment amount. We expect that we will be able to meet our commitment (and state-level sub-commitments) on the
Consumer Relief Program within the required timeframes, primarily through our first and second lien modification and short sale and other deficiency balance waiver programs. Given the types of relief provided, we consider these loan modifications to
be TDRs. We have evaluated our commitment along with the menu of credits and believe that fulfilling our commitment under the Consumer Relief Program has been appropriately considered in our estimation for the allowance for loan losses as well as
our cash flow projections to evaluate the nonaccretable difference for our PCI portfolios at December 31, 2012.       Refinance Program
      We have started receiving credit under the Refinance Program for activities taken on or after March 1, 2012. The Refinance Program
allows for an additional 25% credit for all refinance credits earned in the first 12 months of the program. As of December 31, 2012, subject to the Monitor of the National Mortgage Settlement review and approval, we have completed the number of
refinances necessary to satisfy our commitment under the Refinance Program. Upon completion of the Refinance Program we estimate our total calculated credit will be approximately $1.7 billion to $1.9 billion, although we can only receive earned
credits for this program of $1.2 billion due to certain limits within the agreement.      Including refinances that are still in
the process of completion, we expect that we will refinance approximately 31,000 to 34,000 borrowers with an unpaid principal balance of approximately $6.7 billion to $7.4 billion under the Refinance Program. Based on the mix of loans we have
refinanced and are in the process of completion, we estimate their weighted average note rate will be reduced by approximately 260 basis points and that their weighted average estimated remaining life will be approximately 10 years. The impact of
fulfilling our commitment under the Refinance Program will be recognized over a period of years in the form of lower interest income as qualified borrowers benefit from reduced interest rates on loans refinanced under the Refinance Program. We
expect the future reduction in interest income to be approximately $1.7 billion to $1.9 billion or $173 million to $191 million annually. As a result of refinancings under the Refinance Program, we will be forgoing interest that we may not otherwise
have agreed to forgo. No loss was recognized in our consolidated financial statements for this estimated forgone interest income at the time of the settlement as the impact will be recognized over a period of years in the form of lower interest
income as qualified borrowers benefit from reduced interest rates on loans refinanced under the

78   

Risk Management   Credit Risk Management    (continued)       

Refinance Program. The impact of this forgone interest income on our future net interest margin is anticipated to be modestly adverse and will be influenced by the overall mortgage interest rate
environment. The Refinance Program also affects our fair value for these loans. The estimated reduction of the fair value of our loans for the Refinance Program is approximately $1.0 billion to $1.2 billion, based upon the range of loans we
estimate will be refinanced.      The expectations discussed above about the volume of loans that we are refinancing, the
resulting reduction in our lifetime and annual interest income, and the reductions in fair value of loans for the Refinance Program exceed the amounts that would result from just meeting our minimum commitments under the Program due to the
significantly higher than expected response we have received from our customers, which was partially driven by product changes and the decision to hold interest rates consistent with the prevailing market environment.   
  Although the Refinance Program relates to borrowers in good standing as to their payment history who are not experiencing financial
difficulty, we evaluate each borrower to confirm their ability to repay their mortgage obligation. This evaluation includes reviewing key credit and underwriting policy metrics to validate that these borrowers are not experiencing financial
difficulty and therefore, actions taken under the Refinance Program are not generally be considered a TDR. To the extent we determine that an eligible borrower is experiencing financial difficulty, we generally consider alternative modification
programs that are intended for loans that may be classified and accounted for as a TDR.       Independent Foreclosure Review (IFR) Settlement
      On January 7, 2013, we announced that, along with nine other mortgage servicers, we entered into term sheets with the OCC and the FRB
that provide the parties will enter into amendments to the Consent Orders, which would end our IFR programs created by Article VII of an April 2011 Interagency Consent Order and replace it with an accelerated remediation process. The amendments to
the Consent Orders have not yet been entered into with the OCC or FRB.      In aggregate, the servicers have agreed to make
direct, cash payments of $3.3 billion and to provide $5.2 billion in additional assistance, such as loan modifications, to consumers. Our portion of the cash settlement is $766 million, which is based on the proportionate share of Wells
Fargo-serviced loans in the overall IFR population. We fully accrued the cash portion of the settlement in 2012, along with other remediation-related costs. We also committed to foreclosure prevention actions which include first and second lien
modifications and short sales/deeds-in-lieu of foreclosure on $1.2 billion of loans. We anticipate meeting this commitment primarily through first lien modification and short sale activities. We are required to meet this commitment within two years
of signing the agreement and we anticipate that we will be able to meet our commitment within the required timelines. This commitment did not result in any charge as we believe that this commitment is covered through the existing allowance for
credit losses and the nonaccretable difference relating to the purchased credit-impaired loan portfolios. With this settlement, after incurring

some trailing expenses in the first quarter of 2013, we will no longer incur costs associated with the independent foreclosure reviews, which approximated $125 million per quarter during 2012 for
external consultants and additional staffing.   

79   

Asset/Liability Management       Asset/liability management involves evaluating, monitoring and managing of interest rate risk, market risk, liquidity and funding. The Corporate Asset/Liability Management Committee (Corporate ALCO),
which oversees these risks and reports periodically to the Board s Finance Committee, consists of senior financial and business executives. Each of our principal business groups has its own asset/liability management committee and process
linked to the Corporate ALCO process.       INTEREST RATE RISK     Interest rate risk, which potentially can have a
significant earnings impact, is an integral part of being a financial intermediary. We are subject to interest rate risk because:   

assets and liabilities may mature or reprice at different times (for example, if assets reprice faster than liabilities and interest rates are
generally falling, earnings will initially decline);      

assets and liabilities may reprice at the same time but by different amounts (for example, when the general level of interest rates is falling, we may
reduce rates paid on checking and savings deposit accounts by an amount that is less than the general decline in market interest rates);      

short-term and long-term market interest rates may change by different amounts (for example, the shape of the yield curve may affect new loan yields
and funding costs differently);      

the remaining maturity of various assets or liabilities may shorten or lengthen as interest rates change (for example, if long-term mortgage interest
rates decline sharply, MBS held in the securities available-for-sale portfolio may prepay significantly earlier than anticipated, which could reduce portfolio income); or      

interest rates may also have a direct or indirect effect on loan demand, credit losses, mortgage origination volume, the fair value of MSRs and other
financial instruments, the value of the pension liability and other items affecting earnings.         We assess
interest rate risk by comparing outcomes under various earnings simulations using many interest rate scenarios that differ in the direction of interest rate changes, the degree of change over time, the speed of change and the projected shape of the
yield curve. These simulations require assumptions regarding how changes in interest rates and related market conditions could influence drivers of earnings and balance sheet composition such as loan origination demand, prepayment speeds, deposit
balances and mix, as well as pricing strategies.      Our risk measures include both net interest income sensitivity and interest
rate sensitive noninterest income and expense impacts. We refer to the combination of these exposures as interest rate sensitive earnings. In general, the Company is positioned to benefit from higher interest rates. Currently, our profile is such
that net interest income will benefit from higher interest rates as our assets reprice faster and to a greater degree than our liabilities, and, in response to lower market rates, our assets will reprice downward and to a greater degree than our
liabilities. Our interest rate sensitive noninterest income and

expense is largely driven by mortgage activity, and tends to move in the opposite direction of our net interest income. So, in response to higher interest rates, mortgage activity, primarily
refinancing activity, generally declines. And in response to lower rates, mortgage activity generally increases. Mortgage results are also impacted by the valuation of MSRs and related hedge positions. See the  Risk Management   Mortgage
Banking Interest Rate and Market Risk  section in this Report for more information.      The degree to which these
sensitivities offset each other is dependent upon the timing and magnitude of changes in interest rates, and the slope of the yield curve. During a transition to a higher interest rate environment, a slowdown in interest sensitive earnings from the
mortgage banking business could occur quickly, while the benefit from balance sheet repricing may take more time to develop. For example, our  slightly strong  scenario measures the impact of such a transition involving an increase in
long-term market rates while short-term rates remain relatively low. If on the other hand rates decline further, we would expect a near-term increase in interest sensitive earnings from mortgage banking activity, while pressure on net interest
income would take place over a longer period as the balance sheet reprices as described above.      As of December 31, 2012,
our most recent simulations estimate earnings at risk over the next 24 months under a range of both lower and higher interest rates. The results of the simulations are summarized in Table 41, indicating cumulative net income after tax earnings
sensitivity relative to the most likely earnings plan over the 24 month horizon (a positive range indicates a beneficial earnings sensitivity measurement relative to the most likely earnings plan).   
   Table 41: Earnings Sensitivity Over 24 Month Horizon Relative to Most Likely Earnings Plan    

(1)  
    U.S. Constant Maturity Treasury Rate         We use the available-for-sale securities portfolio and exchange-traded and over-the-counter (OTC) interest rate derivatives to hedge our interest rate exposures. See the  Balance Sheet Analysis
  Securities Available for Sale  section of this Report for more information on the use of the available-for-sale securities portfolio. The notional or contractual amount, credit risk amount and estimated net fair value of the derivatives
used to hedge our interest rate risk exposures as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, are presented in Note 16 (Derivatives) to Financial Statements in this Report. We use derivatives for asset/liability management in three main ways:   

to convert a major portion of our long-term fixed-rate debt, which we issue to finance the Company, from fixed-rate payments to floating-rate payments
by entering into receive-fixed swaps;      

80   

Risk Management   Asset/Liability Management    (continued)       

to convert the cash flows from selected asset and/or liability instruments/portfolios from fixed-rate payments to floating-rate payments or vice versa;
and      

to economically hedge our mortgage origination pipeline, funded mortgage loans and MSRs using interest rate swaps, swaptions, futures, forwards and
options.            MORTGAGE BANKING INTEREST RATE AND MARKET RISK     We originate, fund and service
mortgage loans, which subjects us to various risks, including credit, liquidity and interest rate risks. Based on market conditions and other factors, we reduce credit and liquidity risks by selling or securitizing some or all of the long-term
fixed-rate mortgage loans we originate and most of the ARMs we originate. On the other hand, we may hold originated ARMs and fixed-rate mortgage loans in our loan portfolio as an investment for our growing base of core deposits. We determine whether
the loans will be held for investment or held for sale at the time of commitment. We may subsequently change our intent to hold loans for investment and sell some or all of our ARMs or fixed-rate mortgages as part of our corporate asset/liability
management. We may also acquire and add to our securities available for sale a portion of the securities issued at the time we securitize MHFS.      Notwithstanding the continued downturn in the housing sector, and the continued lack of liquidity in the nonconforming secondary markets, our mortgage banking revenue remained strong, reflecting the
complementary origination and servicing strengths of the business. The secondary market for agency-conforming mortgages functioned well during 2012.      Interest rate and market risk can be substantial in the mortgage business. Changes in interest rates may potentially reduce total origination and servicing fees, the value of our residential MSRs measured
at fair value, the value of MHFS and the associated income and loss reflected in mortgage banking noninterest income, the income and expense associated with instruments (economic hedges) used to hedge changes in the fair value of MSRs and MHFS, and
the value of derivative loan commitments (interest rate  locks ) extended to mortgage applicants.      Interest rates
affect the amount and timing of origination and servicing fees because consumer demand for new mortgages and the level of refinancing activity are sensitive to changes in mortgage interest rates. Typically, a decline in mortgage interest rates will
lead to an increase in mortgage originations and fees and may also lead to an increase in servicing fee income, depending on the level of new loans added to the servicing portfolio and prepayments. Given the time it takes for consumer behavior to
fully react to interest rate changes, as well as the time required for processing a new application, providing the commitment, and securitizing and selling the loan, interest rate changes will affect origination and servicing fees with a lag. The
amount and timing of the impact on origination and servicing fees will depend on the magnitude, speed and duration of the change in interest rates.      We measure MHFS at fair value for prime MHFS originations for which an active secondary market and readily available market prices exist to reliably support fair value pricing models used for these loans.
Loan origination fees on these loans

are recorded when earned, and related direct loan origination costs are recognized when incurred. We also measure at fair value certain of our other interests held related to residential
loan sales and securitizations. We believe fair value measurement for prime MHFS and other interests held, which we hedge with free-standing derivatives (economic hedges) along with our MSRs measured at fair value, reduces certain timing differences
and better matches changes in the value of these assets with changes in the value of derivatives used as economic hedges for these assets. During 2012 and 2011, in response to continued secondary market illiquidity, we continued to originate certain
prime non-agency loans to be held for investment for the foreseeable future rather than to be held for sale. In addition, in 2012 and 2011, we originated certain prime agency-eligible loans to be held for investment as part of our asset/liability
management strategy.      We initially measure all of our MSRs at fair value and carry substantially all of them at fair value
depending on our strategy for managing interest rate risk. Under this method, the MSRs are recorded at fair value at the time we sell or securitize the related mortgage loans. The carrying value of MSRs carried at fair value reflects changes in fair
value at the end of each quarter and changes are included in net servicing income, a component of mortgage banking noninterest income. If the fair value of the MSRs increases, income is recognized; if the fair value of the MSRs decreases, a loss is
recognized. We use a dynamic and sophisticated model to estimate the fair value of our MSRs and periodically benchmark our estimates to independent appraisals. The valuation of MSRs can be highly subjective and involve complex judgments by
management about matters that are inherently unpredictable. See  Critical Accounting Policies   Valuation of Residential Mortgage Servicing Rights  section of this Report for additional information. Changes in interest rates influence
a variety of significant assumptions included in the periodic valuation of MSRs, including prepayment speeds, expected returns and potential risks on the servicing asset portfolio, the value of escrow balances and other servicing valuation elements.
     A decline in interest rates generally increases the propensity for refinancing, reduces the expected duration of the
servicing portfolio and therefore reduces the estimated fair value of MSRs. This reduction in fair value causes a charge to income for MSRs carried at fair value, net of any gains on free-standing derivatives (economic hedges) used to hedge MSRs. We
may choose not to fully hedge all the potential decline in the value of our MSRs resulting from a decline in interest rates because the potential increase in origination/servicing fees in that scenario provides a partial  natural business
hedge.  An increase in interest rates generally reduces the propensity for refinancing, extends the expected duration of the servicing portfolio and therefore increases the estimated fair value of the MSRs. However, an increase in interest
rates can also reduce mortgage loan demand and therefore reduce origination income.      The price risk associated with our MSRs
is economically hedged with a combination of highly liquid interest rate forward instruments including mortgage forward contracts, interest rate swaps and interest rate options. All of the instruments included in the hedge are marked to market
daily. Because the hedging   

81   

instruments are traded in highly liquid markets, their prices are readily observable and are fully reflected in each quarter s mark to market. Quarterly MSR hedging results include a
combination of directional gain or loss due to market changes as well as any carry income generated. If the economic hedge is effective, its overall directional hedge gain or loss will offset the change in the valuation of the underlying MSR asset.
Gains or losses associated with these economic hedges are included in mortgage banking noninterest income. Consistent with our longstanding approach to hedging interest rate risk in the mortgage business, the size of the hedge and the particular
combination of forward hedging instruments at any point in time is designed to reduce the volatility of the mortgage business s earnings over various time frames within a range of mortgage interest rates. Because market factors, the composition
of the mortgage servicing portfolio and the relationship between the origination and servicing sides of our mortgage business change continually, the types of instruments used in our hedging are reviewed daily and rebalanced based on our evaluation
of current market factors and the interest rate risk inherent in our MSRs portfolio. Throughout 2012, our economic hedging strategy generally used forward mortgage purchase contracts that were effective at offsetting the impact of interest rates on
the value of the MSR asset.      Mortgage forward contracts are designed to pass the full economics of the underlying reference
mortgage securities to the holder of the contract, including both the directional gain and loss from the forward delivery of the reference securities and the corresponding carry income. Carry income represents the contract s price accretion
from the forward delivery price to the spot price including both the yield earned on the reference securities and the market implied cost of financing during the period. The actual amount of carry income earned on the hedge each quarter will depend
on the amount of the underlying asset that is hedged and the particular instruments included in the hedge. The level of carry income is driven by the slope of the yield curve and other market driven supply and demand factors affecting the specific
reference securities. A steep yield curve generally produces higher carry income while a flat or inverted yield curve can result in lower or potentially negative carry income. The level of carry income is also affected by the type of instrument
used. In general, mortgage forward contracts tend to produce higher carry income than interest rate swap contracts. Carry income is recognized over the life of the mortgage forward as a component of the contract s mark to market gain or loss.
     Hedging the various sources of interest rate risk in mortgage banking is a complex process that requires sophisticated
modeling and constant monitoring. While we attempt to balance these various aspects of the mortgage business, there are several potential risks to earnings:   

Valuation changes for MSRs associated with interest rate changes are recorded in earnings immediately within the accounting period in which those
interest rate changes occur, whereas the impact of those same changes in interest rates on origination and servicing fees occur with a lag and over time. Thus, the mortgage business could be protected from adverse changes in interest rates over a

period of time on a cumulative basis but still display large variations in income from one accounting period to the next.      

The degree to which the  natural business hedge  offsets valuation changes for MSRs is imperfect, varies at different points in the interest
rate cycle, and depends not just on the direction of interest rates but on the pattern of quarterly interest rate changes.      

Origination volumes, the valuation of MSRs and hedging results and associated costs are also affected by many factors. Such factors include the mix of
new business between ARMs and fixed-rate mortgages, the relationship between short-term and long-term interest rates, the degree of volatility in interest rates, the relationship between mortgage interest rates and other interest rate markets, and
other interest rate factors. Additional factors that can impact the valuation of the MSRs include changes in servicing and foreclosure costs due to changes in investor or regulatory guidelines and changes in discount rates due to market participants
requiring a higher return due to updated market expectations on costs and risks associated with investing in MSRs. Many of these factors are hard to predict and we may not be able to directly or perfectly hedge their effect.

While our hedging activities are designed to balance our mortgage banking interest rate risks, the financial instruments we use may not perfectly
correlate with the values and income being hedged. For example, the change in the value of ARM production held for sale from changes in mortgage interest rates may or may not be fully offset by Treasury and LIBOR index-based financial instruments
used as economic hedges for such ARMs. Additionally, hedge-carry income we earn on our economic hedges for the MSRs may not continue if the spread between short-term and long-term rates decreases, we shift composition of the hedge to more interest
rate swaps, or there are other changes in the market for mortgage forwards that affect the implied carry.      
  The total carrying value of our residential and commercial MSRs was $12.7 billion and $14.0 billion at December 31, 2012 and
2011, respectively. The weighted-average note rate on our portfolio of loans serviced for others was 4.77% and 5.14% at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The carrying value of our total MSRs represented 0.67% and 0.76% of mortgage loans
serviced for others at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.      As part of our mortgage banking activities, we enter
into commitments to fund residential mortgage loans at specified times in the future. A mortgage loan commitment is an interest rate lock that binds us to lend funds to a potential borrower at a specified interest rate and within a specified period
of time, generally up to 60 days after inception of the rate lock. These loan commitments are derivative loan commitments if the loans that will result from the exercise of the commitments will be held for sale. These derivative loan commitments are
recognized at fair value in the balance sheet with changes in their fair values recorded as part of mortgage banking noninterest income. The fair value of these commitments include, at inception and during the life of the loan commitment, the
expected net future cash   

82   

Risk Management   Asset/Liability Management    (continued)       

flows related to the associated servicing of the loan as part of the fair value measurement of derivative loan commitments. Changes subsequent to inception are based on changes in fair value of
the underlying loan resulting from the exercise of the commitment and changes in the probability that the loan will not fund within the terms of the commitment, referred to as a fall-out factor. The value of the underlying loan commitment is
affected primarily by changes in interest rates and the passage of time.      Outstanding derivative loan commitments expose us
to the risk that the price of the mortgage loans underlying the commitments might decline due to increases in mortgage interest rates from inception of the rate lock to the funding of the loan. To minimize this risk, we employ forwards and options,
Eurodollar futures and options, and Treasury futures, forwards and options contracts as economic hedges against the potential decreases in the values of the loans. We expect that these derivative financial instruments will experience changes in fair
value that will either fully or partially offset the changes in fair value of the derivative loan commitments. However, changes in investor demand, such as concerns about credit risk, can also cause changes in the spread relationships between
underlying loan value and the derivative financial instruments that cannot be hedged.       MARKET RISK   TRADING ACTIVITIES  We engage
in trading activities primarily to accommodate the investment and risk management activities of our customers, execute economic hedging to manage certain of our balance sheet risks and for a very limited amount of proprietary trading for our own
account. These activities primarily occur within our trading businesses and include entering into transactions with our customers that are recorded as trading assets and liabilities on our balance sheet. All of our trading assets and liabilities,
including securities, foreign exchange transactions, commodity transactions and derivatives are carried at fair value. Income earned related to these trading activities include net interest income and changes in fair value related to trading assets
and liabilities. Net interest income earned on trading assets and liabilities is reflected in the interest income and interest expense components of our income statement. Changes in fair value of trading assets and liabilities are reflected in net
gains (losses) on trading activities, a component of noninterest income in our income statement.      From a market risk
perspective, our net income is exposed to changes in the fair value of trading assets and liabilities due to changes in interest rates, credit spreads, foreign exchange rates, equity and commodity prices. Our Market Risk Committee, which is a
sub-committee of Corporate ALCO, provides governance and oversight over market risk-taking activities across the Company and establishes and monitors risk limits.

Table 42 presents total revenue from trading activities.   
   Table 42: Income from Trading Activities    

(1)  
  Represents interest and dividend income earned on trading securities.     

(2)  
  Represents interest and dividend expense incurred on trading securities we have sold but have not yet purchased.     

(3)  
  Represents realized gains (losses) from our trading activity and unrealized gains (losses) due to changes in fair value of our trading positions, attributable to the type of
business activity.        For further information regarding the fair value of our trading assets and liabilities,
refer to Note 16 (Derivatives) and Note 17 (Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities) to Financial Statements in this Report.       Customer
accommodation  Customer accommodation activities are conducted to help customers manage their investment needs and risk management and hedging activities. We engage in market-making activities or act as an intermediary to purchase or sell
financial instruments in anticipation or in response to customer needs. This category also includes positions we use to manage our exposure to such transactions.      For the majority of our customer accommodation trading, we serve as intermediary between buyer and seller. For example, we may purchase or sell a derivative to a customer who wants to manage interest rate
risk exposure. We typically enter into offsetting derivative(s) or security positions with a separate counterparty or exchange to manage our exposure to the derivative with our customer. We earn income on this activity based on the transaction price
difference between the customer and offsetting derivative or security positions, which is reflected in the fair value changes of the positions recorded in net gains (losses) on trading activities.   
  Customer accommodation trading also includes net gains related to market-making activities in which we take positions to facilitate
customer order flow. For example, we may own securities recorded as trading assets (long positions) or sold securities we have not yet purchased, recorded as trading liabilities (short positions), typically on a short-term basis, to facilitate
anticipated buying and selling demand from our customers. As market-maker in these securities, we earn income due (1) to the difference between the price paid or received for the purchase and sale of the security (bid-ask spread) and
(2) the net interest income and change in fair value of the long or short positions during the short-term period held on our balance

83   

sheet. Additionally, we may enter into separate derivative or security positions to manage our exposure related to our long or short security positions. Collectively, income earned on this type
of market-making activity is reflected in the fair value changes of these positions recorded in net gain (losses) on trading activities.   
   Economic hedges and other  Economic hedges in trading are not designated in a hedge accounting relationship and exclude economic hedging related to
our asset/liability risk management and substantially all mortgage banking risk management activities. Economic hedging activities include the use of trading securities to economically hedge risk exposures related to non-trading activities or
derivatives to hedge risk exposures related to trading assets or trading liabilities. Economic hedges are unrelated to our customer accommodation activities. Other activities include financial assets held for investment purposes that we elected to
carry at fair value with changes in fair value recorded to earnings in order to mitigate accounting measurement mismatches or avoid embedded derivative accounting complexities.       Proprietary trading  Proprietary trading consists of security or derivative positions executed for our own account based upon market expectations or to benefit from price differences between
financial instruments and markets. Proprietary trading activity is expected to be restricted by the Dodd-Frank Act prohibitions known as the  Volcker Rule,  which has not yet been finalized. On October 11, 2011, federal banking
agencies and the SEC issued proposed regulations to implement the Volcker Rule. We believe our definition of proprietary trading is consistent with the proposed regulations. However, given that final rule-making is required by various governmental
regulatory agencies to define proprietary trading within the context of the final Volcker Rule, our definition of proprietary trading may change. We have reduced or exited certain business activities in anticipation of the final Volcker Rule. As
discussed within this section and the noninterest income section of our financial results, proprietary trading activity is not significant to our business or financial results.       Risk Measurement  Value-at-Risk (VaR) is a standardized approach for monitoring and reporting market risk. We use VaR metrics complemented with sensitivity analysis and stress testing in managing
and measuring the risk associated with trading activities.       Value-at-Risk    VaR is a statistical risk measure used to estimate the
potential loss from adverse market moves on trading and other positions carried at fair value. VaR is determined using a historical simulation approach and measures the worst expected loss over a given time interval and within a given confidence
interval. We measure and report daily VaR at a 99% confidence interval based on actual changes in rates and prices over each trading day in the previous year.      The historical simulation approach is used to identify the critical risk driver of each trading position with respect to interest rates, credit spreads, foreign exchange rates, and equity and commodity
prices. The risk drivers for each position are updated on a daily basis. The historical simulation approach

employs historical scenarios of the risk factors from each trading day in the previous year, and estimates the value of the portfolio on the scenarios to obtain a daily net trading revenue
distribution.      The Company calculates VaR for management purposes as well as for regulatory purposes. The management view of
VaR is used for trading limits and is a wider view of risk compared to Total Regulatory VaR. Total Regulatory VaR is calculated according to regulatory rules and is used to calculate market risk regulatory capital. It includes both General VaR and
Specific Risk VaR. Regulatory General VaR is the risk of loss due to broad market movements such as movements in interest rates, equity prices or foreign exchange rates. Specific Risk VaR is the risk of loss on a position that could result from
factors other than broad market movements and includes event risk, default risk and idiosyncratic risk.      Table 43 below shows
the results of the Company s Regulatory General VaR measures for 2012.       Table 43: Regulatory General Value-at-Risk (VaR)

(1)  
  The period-end VaR and average VaR were less than the sum of the VaR components described above, which is due to portfolio diversification. The diversification effect arises
because the risks are not perfectly correlated causing a portfolio of positions to usually be less risky than the sum of the risks of the positions alone.

84   

Risk Management   Asset/Liability Management    (continued)       

Table 44 presents the frequency distribution of our daily net trading revenue included in
backtesting of Regulatory VaR (described below) for 2012. These net revenues represent net interest income and net gains (losses) from trading activities related only to trading positions that meet the regulatory definition of a covered position.
Net trading revenues related to

trading positions that do not meet this definition include activity related to long-term positions held for economic hedging purposes, credit adjustments and other activity not representative of
daily price changes driven by market risk factors.   

Table 44: Distribution of Daily
Net Trading Revenue Used for Backtesting of Regulatory VaR: Year Ended December 31, 2012      

VaR Backtesting  Backtesting is one form of validation of the VaR model. Backtesting compares the
daily VaR number to the actual net trading revenue for each of the trading days in the preceding year. Because our confidence interval is 99 percent, statistically, losses will exceed VaR on average, one out of 100 trading days or two to three times
per year. Any observed loss in

excess of the VaR number is taken as an exception. No backtesting exceptions occurred in 2012. The number of actual backtesting exceptions is dependent on current market performance relative to
historic market volatility. Table 45 shows daily net trading revenue and Total Regulatory VaR for 2012.   

Table 45: Daily Net Trading Revenue and Total Regulatory VaR: Year Ended December 31, 2012        

85   

Stress Testing  While VaR captures the risk of loss due to adverse changes in markets using recent
historical data, stress testing captures the Company s exposure to extreme events. Stress testing measures the impacts from extreme, but low probability market movements. Stress scenarios estimate the risk of losses based on management s
assumptions of abnormal but severe market movements such as severe credit spread widening or a large decline in equity prices. These scenarios also assume that the market moves happen instantaneously and no repositioning or hedging activity takes
place to mitigate losses as events unfold. The stress scenarios are updated with recent market trends and are reviewed on a daily basis by senior management. The stress scenarios are used for desk level monitoring as well as overall company-wide
estimates.       Sensitivities  Sensitivity analysis is the estimated risk of loss for a single measure such as a 1 basis point increase in
rates or a 1 percent decrease in equity prices. We conduct and monitor sensitivity on interest rates, credit spreads, volatility, equity, commodity, and foreign exchange. Because VaR is based upon previous moves in market risk factors over recent
periods, it may not provide accurate predictions of future market moves. Sensitivity analysis complements VaR as it provides an indication of risk relative to each factor irrespective of historical market moves. Sensitivities are monitored at both
the desk level and at an aggregated level by senior management on a daily basis. Our corporate market risk management function aggregates all Company exposures to monitor the risk sensitivities are within established tolerances. Changes to the
Company s sensitivities are analyzed and reported on a daily basis. The Company monitors risk exposure from a variety of perspectives, which include line of business, product, risk type and legal entity.   
   MARKET RISK   EQUITY INVESTMENTS     We are directly and indirectly affected by changes in the equity markets. We make and
manage direct equity investments in start-up businesses, emerging growth companies, management buy-outs, acquisitions and corporate recapitalizations. We also invest in non-affiliated funds that make similar private equity investments. These private
equity investments are made within capital allocations approved by management and the Board. The Board s policy is to review business developments, key risks and historical returns for the private equity investment portfolio at least annually.
Management reviews the valuations of these investments at least quarterly and assesses them for possible OTTI. For nonmarketable investments, the analysis is based on facts and circumstances of each individual investment and the expectations for
that investment s cash flows and capital needs, the viability of its business model and our exit strategy. Nonmarketable investments include private equity investments accounted for under the cost method and equity method. Private equity
investments are subject to OTTI.      As part of our business to support our customers, we trade public equities, listed/OTC
equity derivatives and convertible bonds. We have parameters that govern these activities. We also have marketable equity securities in the securities
available-for-  

sale portfolio, including securities relating to our venture capital activities. We manage these investments within capital risk limits approved by management and the Board and monitored by
Corporate ALCO. Gains and losses on these securities are recognized in net income when realized and periodically include OTTI charges.      Changes in equity market prices may also indirectly affect our net income by (1) the value of third party assets under management and, hence, fee income, (2) particular borrowers, whose ability
to repay principal and/or interest may be affected by the stock market, or (3) brokerage activity, related commission income and other business activities. Each business line monitors and manages these indirect risks.   
  Table 46 provides information regarding our marketable and nonmarketable equity investments.   
   Table 46: Nonmarketable and Marketable Equity Investments    

(1)  
  Represents low income housing tax credit investments.     

(2)  
  Included in other assets on the balance sheet. See Note 7 (Premises, Equipment, Lease Commitments and Other Assets) to Financial Statements in this Report for additional
information.     

(3)  
  Included in securities available for sale. See Note 5 (Securities Available for Sale) to Financial Statements in this Report for additional information.     
   LIQUIDITY AND FUNDING     The objective of effective liquidity management is to ensure that we can meet customer loan requests,
customer deposit maturities/withdrawals and other cash commitments efficiently under both normal operating conditions and under unpredictable circumstances of industry or market stress. To achieve this objective, the Corporate ALCO establishes and
monitors liquidity guidelines that require sufficient asset-based liquidity to cover potential funding requirements and to avoid over-dependence on volatile, less reliable funding markets. We set these guidelines for both the consolidated balance
sheet and for the Parent to ensure that the Parent is a source of strength for its regulated, deposit-taking banking subsidiaries.      Unencumbered debt and equity securities in the securities available-for-sale portfolio provide asset liquidity, in addition to the immediately liquid resources of cash and due from banks and federal funds
sold, securities purchased under resale   

86   

Risk Management   Asset/Liability Management    (continued)       

agreements and other short-term investments. The weighted-average expected remaining maturity of the debt
securities within this portfolio was 5.5 years at December 31, 2012. Of the $220.9 billion (cost basis) of debt securities in this portfolio at December 31, 2012, $48.0 billion (22%) is expected to mature or be prepaid
in 2013 and an additional $44.4 billion (20%) in 2014. Asset liquidity is further enhanced by our ability to sell or securitize loans in secondary markets and to pledge loans to access secured borrowing facilities through the Federal Home
Loan Banks (FHLB) and the FRB. In 2012, we sold mortgage loans of $483.5 billion. The amount of mortgage loans and other consumer loans available to be sold, securitized or pledged was approximately $211.1 billion at December 31,
2012.      Core customer deposits have historically provided a sizeable source of relatively stable and low-cost funds. At
December 31, 2012, core deposits were 118% of total loans compared with 113% a year ago. Additional funding is provided by long-term debt, other foreign deposits, and short-term borrowings. Long-term debt averaged $127.5 billion in 2012
and $141.1 billion in 2011. Short-term borrowings averaged $51.2 billion in 2012 and $51.8 billion in 2011.      We
anticipate making capital expenditures of approximately $1.4 billion in 2013 for our stores, relocation and remodeling of our facilities, and routine replacement of furniture, equipment and servers. We fund expenditures from various sources,
including liquid assets and borrowings.      We access domestic and international capital markets for long-term funding
(generally greater than one year) through

issuances of registered debt securities, private placements and asset-backed secured funding. Investors in the long-term capital markets, as well as other market participants, generally will
consider, among other factors, a company s debt rating in making investment decisions. Rating agencies base their ratings on many quantitative and qualitative factors, including capital adequacy, liquidity, asset quality, business mix, the
level and quality of earnings, and rating agency assumptions regarding the probability and extent of Federal financial assistance or support for certain large financial institutions. Adverse changes in these factors could result in a reduction of
our credit rating; however, a reduction in credit rating would not cause us to violate any of our debt covenants.      Generally,
rating agencies review a firm s ratings at least annually. During 2012, our ratings were affirmed by Moody s, Standard   Poor s and Fitch Ratings, and confirmed by DBRS. There were no changes to our credit ratings in 2012.
See the  Risk Management   Asset/Liability Management  and  Risk Factors  sections of this Report for additional information regarding our credit ratings as of December 31, 2012, and the potential impact a credit
rating downgrade would have on our liquidity and operations, as well as Note 16 (Derivatives) to Financial Statements in this Report for information regarding additional collateral and funding obligations required for certain derivative instruments
in the event our credit ratings were to fall below investment grade.      The credit ratings of the Parent and Wells Fargo Bank,
N.A. as of December 31, 2012, are presented in Table 47.   

Table 47: Credit Ratings

Wells Fargo   Company  

Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.  

Senior debt  

Short-term borrowings  

Long-term deposits  

Short-term borrowings  

Moody s   

A2  

P-1  

Aa3  

P-1  

S P   

A+  

A-1  

AA-  

A-1+  

Fitch Ratings   

AA-  

F1+  

AA  

F1+  

DBRS   

AA  

R-1  
  *   

AA  
  **   

R-1  
  **    

*  
  middle    **high     

On December 20, 2011, the FRB proposed enhanced liquidity risk management
rules. On January 6, 2013, the BCBS endorsed a revised liquidity framework for banks. These rules have not yet been adopted and finalized by the FRB. The proposed rules would require modifications to our existing liquidity risk management
processes. This includes increased frequency of liquidity reporting and stress testing, maintenance of a 30-day liquidity buffer comprised of highly-liquid assets and additional corporate governance requirements. We will continue to analyze the
proposed rules and other regulatory   proposals that may affect liquidity risk management, including Basel III, to determine the level of operational or compliance impact to Wells Fargo. For additional information see the  Capital
Management  and  Regulatory Reform  sections in this Report.         Parent  Under SEC rules, our Parent is classified as
a  well-known seasoned issuer,  which allows it to file a registration statement that does not have a limit on issuance capacity. In

April 2012, the Parent filed a registration statement with the SEC for the issuance of senior and subordinated notes, preferred stock and other securities. The Parent s
ability to issue debt and other securities under this registration statement is limited by the debt issuance authority granted by the Board. The Parent is currently authorized by the Board to issue $60 billion in outstanding short-term
debt and $170 billion in outstanding long-term debt. During 2012, the Parent issued $17.0 billion of senior notes, of which $12.1 billion were registered with the SEC. In January 2013, the Parent issued an additional $1.1 billion of senior notes, of
which $100 million were registered with the SEC. In addition, in February 2013, the Parent issued $2.0 billion of registered subordinated medium-term notes and $100 million of senior notes.   
  The Parent s proceeds from securities issued in 2012 and January and February 2013 were used for general corporate purposes, and,
unless otherwise specified in the applicable prospectus or prospectus supplement, we expect the proceeds

87   

from securities issued in the future will be used for the same purposes. Depending on market conditions, we may purchase our outstanding debt securities from time to time in privately negotiated
or open market transactions, by tender offer, or otherwise.      Table 48 provides information regarding the Parent s
medium-term note (MTN) programs. The Parent may issue senior and subordinated debt securities under Series L   M, and the European and Australian programmes. Under Series K, the Parent may issue senior debt securities linked to one or more
indices or bearing interest at a fixed or floating rate.       Table 48: Medium-Term Note (MTN) Programs    

(1)  
  SEC registered.     

(2)  
  Not registered with the SEC. May not be offered in the United States without applicable exemptions from registration.     

Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.  Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. is authorized by its board of directors to issue $100 billion in outstanding
short-term debt and $125 billion in outstanding long-term debt. At December 31, 2012, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. had available $100 billion in short-term debt issuance authority and $102.3 billion in long-term debt issuance authority. In March
2012, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. established a $100 billion bank note program under which, subject to any other debt outstanding under the limits described above, it may issue $50 billion in outstanding short-term senior notes and $50 billion in
outstanding long-term senior or subordinated notes. During 2012, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. issued $4.6 billion of senior notes.

At December 31, 2012, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. had remaining issuance capacity under the bank note program of $50 billion in short-term senior notes and $45.4 billion in long-term senior or
subordinated notes. In February 2013, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. issued $3.0 billion of senior floating-rate extendible notes.   
   Wells Fargo Canada Corporation  In January 2012, Wells Fargo Canada Corporation (WFCC, formerly known as Wells Fargo Financial Canada
Corporation), an indirect wholly owned Canadian subsidiary of the Parent, qualified with the Canadian provincial securities commissions a base shelf prospectus for the distribution from time to time in Canada of up to CAD $7.0 billion in medium-term
notes. During 2012, WFCC issued CAD $3.0 billion in medium-term notes. At December 31, 2012, CAD $4.0 billion remained available for future issuance. In January 2013, WFCC issued an additional CAD $500 million in senior medium-term notes. All
medium-term notes issued by WFCC are unconditionally guaranteed by the Parent.       FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK MEMBERSHIP    We are a
member of the Federal Home Loan Banks based in Dallas, Des Moines and San Francisco (collectively, the FHLBs). Each member of the FHLBs is required to maintain a minimum investment in capital stock of the applicable FHLB. The board of directors
of each FHLB can increase the minimum investment requirements in the event it has concluded that additional capital is required to allow it to meet its own regulatory capital requirements. Any increase in the minimum investment requirements outside
of specified ranges requires the approval of the Federal Housing Finance Board. Because the extent of any obligation to increase our investment in any of the FHLBs depends entirely upon the occurrence of a future event, potential future payments to
the FHLBs are not determinable.        The FHLBs are a group of cooperatives that lending institutions use to finance
housing and economic development in local communities. About 80% of U.S. lending institutions, including Wells Fargo, rely on the FHLBs for low-cost funds. We use the funds to support home mortgage lending and other community investments. 

88   

Capital Management    

We have an active program for managing stockholders  equity and regulatory
capital, and maintain a comprehensive process for assessing the Company s overall capital adequacy. We generate capital primarily through the retention of earnings net of dividends. Our objective is to maintain capital at an amount commensurate
with our risk profile and risk tolerance objectives, and to meet both regulatory and market expectations. Our potential sources of stockholders  equity include retained earnings and issuances of common and preferred stock. Retained earnings
increased $13.3 billion from December 31, 2011, predominantly from Wells Fargo net income of $18.9 billion, less common and preferred stock dividends of $5.6 billion. During 2012, we issued approximately 123 million
shares of common stock, substantially all of which related to employee benefit plans. In August 2012, we issued 30 million Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1,000   th    interest in a share of the Company s newly issued Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series
N, for an aggregate public offering price of $750 million. In November 2012, we issued 26 million Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1,000   th    interest in a share of the Company s newly issued Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series
O, for an aggregate public offering price of $650 million. During 2012, we repurchased approximately 84 million shares of common stock in open market transactions and from employee benefit plans, at a net cost of $2.7 billion, and approximately
36 million shares of common stock at a net cost of $1.2 billion from the settlement of forward purchase contracts. During fourth quarter 2012, the Company entered into a forward purchase contract at a net cost of $200 million that is expected
to settle in first quarter 2013 for an estimated 6 million shares. For additional information about our forward repurchase agreements see Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies) to Financial Statements in this Report.   
   Regulatory Capital Guidelines       The
Company and each of our subsidiary banks are subject to various regulatory capital adequacy requirements administered by the FRB and the OCC. Risk-based capital (RBC) guidelines establish a risk-adjusted ratio relating capital to different
categories of assets and off-balance sheet exposures. At December 31, 2012, the Company and each of our subsidiary banks were  well-capitalized  under applicable regulatory capital adequacy guidelines. See Note 26 (Regulatory and
Agency Capital Requirements) to Financial Statements in this Report for additional information.      Current regulatory RBC rules
are based primarily on broad credit-risk considerations and limited market-related risks, but do not take into account other types of risk facing a financial services company. Our capital adequacy assessment process contemplates a wide range of
risks that the Company is exposed to and also takes into consideration our performance under a variety of stressed economic conditions, as well as regulatory expectations and guidance, rating agency viewpoints and the view of capital markets
participants.   
 
   In 2007, U.S. bank regulators approved a final rule adopting international guidelines for
determining regulatory capital known as  Basel II.  Basel II incorporates three pillars that address (a) capital adequacy, (b) supervisory review, which relates to the computation of capital and internal assessment processes, and
(c) market discipline, through increased disclosure requirements. We entered the  parallel run phase  of Basel II in July 2012. During the  parallel run phase,  banks must successfully complete at least a four quarter
evaluation period under supervision from regulatory agencies in order to be compliant with the Basel II final rule.      In
December 2010, the Basel Committee on Bank Supervision (BCBS) finalized a set of international guidelines for determining regulatory capital known as  Basel III.  These guidelines were developed in response to the financial crisis of 2008
and 2009 and were intended to address many of the weaknesses identified in the banking sector as contributing to the crisis including excessive leverage, inadequate and low quality capital and insufficient liquidity buffers. The guidelines, among
other things, increase minimum capital requirements and when fully phased in require bank holding companies to maintain a minimum ratio of Tier 1 common equity to risk-weighted assets of at least 7.0% consisting of a minimum ratio of 4.5% plus a
2.5% capital conservation buffer.      The BCBS has also proposed additional Tier 1 common equity surcharge requirements for
global systemically important banks (G-SIBs). The surcharge ranges from 1.0% to 3.5% of risk-weighted assets depending on the bank s systemic importance, which is determined under an indicator-based approach that would consider five broad
categories: cross-jurisdictional activity; size; inter-connectedness; substitutability/financial institution infrastructure and complexity. These additional capital requirements for G-SIBs, which would be phased in beginning in January 2016 and
become fully effective on January 1, 2019, would be in addition to the minimum Basel III 7.0% Tier 1 common equity requirement finalized in December 2010. The Financial Stability Board (FSB), in an updated list published in November 2012 based
on year-end 2011 data, identified the Company as one of the 28 G-SIBs and provisionally determined that the Company s surcharge would be 1.0%. The FSB may revise the list of G-SIBs and their required surcharges prior to implementation based on
additional or future data.      U.S. regulatory authorities have been considering the BCBS capital guidelines and proposals, and
in June 2012, the U.S. banking regulators jointly issued three notices of proposed rulemaking that are essentially intended to implement the BCBS capital guidelines for U.S. banks. Together these notices of proposed rulemaking would, among other
things:   

implement in the United States the Basel III regulatory capital reforms including those that revise the definition of capital, increase minimum capital
ratios, and introduce a minimum Tier 1 common equity ratio of 4.5% and a capital conservation buffer of 2.5% (for a total minimum Tier 1 common equity ratio of 7.0%) and a potential countercyclical buffer of up to 2.5%, which would be

89   

imposed by regulators at their discretion if it is determined that a period of excessive credit growth is contributing to an increase in systemic risk;      

revise  Basel I  rules for calculating risk-weighted assets to enhance risk sensitivity;      

modify the existing Basel II advanced approaches rules for calculating risk-weighted assets to implement Basel III; and      

comply with the Dodd-Frank Act provision prohibiting the reliance on external credit ratings.      
  Although the proposals contemplated an effective date of January 1, 2013, with phased in compliance requirements, the rules have
not yet been finalized by the U.S. banking regulators due to the volume of comments received and concerns expressed during the comment period. The notices of proposed rulemaking did not address the BCBS capital surcharge proposals for G-SIBs or the
proposed Basel III liquidity standards. U.S. regulatory authorities have indicated that these proposals will be addressed at a later date. The U.S. banking regulators have approved a final rule to implement changes to the market risk capital rule,
which requires banking organizations with significant trading activities to adjust their capital requirements to better account for the market risks of those activities.      Although uncertainty exists regarding final capital rules, we evaluate the impact of Basel III on our capital ratios based on our interpretation of the proposed capital requirements and we estimate that
our Tier 1 common equity ratio under the Basel III capital proposals exceeded the fully phased-in minimum of 7.0% by 119 basis points at December 31, 2012. The proposed Basel III capital rules and interpretations and assumptions used in
estimating our Basel III calculations are subject to change depending on final promulgation of Basel III capital rulemaking.   
  In October 2012, the FRB issued final rules regarding stress testing requirements as required under the Dodd-Frank Act provision
imposing enhanced prudential standards on large bank holding companies (BHCs) such as Wells Fargo. The OCC issued and finalized similar rules during 2012 for stress testing of large national banks. These stress testing rules, which became effective
for Wells Fargo on November 15, 2012, set forth the timing and type of stress test activities large BHCs and banks must undertake as well as rules governing testing controls, oversight and disclosure requirements.   
    Table 49 and Table 50, which appear at the end of this Capital Management section, provide information regarding our Tier 1
common equity calculations under Basel I and as estimated under Basel III, respectively.         Capital Planning    
  In late 2011, the FRB finalized rules to require large BHCs to submit capital plans annually for review to determine if the FRB had any objections before
making any capital distributions. The rule requires updates to capital plans in the event of material changes in a BHC s risk profile, including as a result of any significant acquisitions.   
  On March 13, 2012, the FRB notified us that it did not object to our 2012 capital plan included in the 2012 Comprehensive Capital

Analysis and Review (CCAR). Since the FRB notification, the Company took several capital actions during 2012, including increasing its quarterly common stock dividend rate to $0.22 per share,
completing the redemption of $2.7 billion of trust preferred securities that will no longer count as Tier 1 capital under the Dodd-Frank Act and the proposed Basel III capital standards, repurchasing shares of our common stock, and purchasing
an aggregate of $2.2 billion of our subordinated debt with an effective yield of 2.02% in tender offers for such securities. In January 2013, the Company increased its dividend to $0.25 per share and submitted for redemption an
additional $2.8 billion of trust preferred securities. Each of these actions was contemplated by the capital plan included in the 2012 CCAR.      Under the FRB s capital plan rule, our 2013 CCAR included a comprehensive capital plan supported by an assessment of expected uses and sources of capital over a given planning horizon under a range
of expected and stress scenarios, similar to the process the FRB used to conduct a CCAR in 2012. As part of the 2013 CCAR, the FRB also generated a supervisory stress test driven by a sharp decline in the economy and significant decline in asset
pricing using the information provided by the Company to estimate performance. The FRB is expected to review the supervisory stress results both as required under the Dodd-Frank Act using a common set of capital actions for all large BHCs and by
taking into account the Company s proposed capital actions. We submitted our board approved 2013 capital plan to the FRB on January 4, 2013. The FRB has indicated that it will publish its supervisory stress test results as required under
the Dodd-Frank Act on March 7, 2013, and the related CCAR results taking into account the Company s proposed capital actions on March 14, 2013.       Securities Repurchases       From time to time the Board authorizes the Company to repurchase
shares of our common stock. Although we announce when the Board authorizes share repurchases, we typically do not give any public notice before we repurchase our shares. Future stock repurchases may be private or open-market repurchases, including
block transactions, accelerated or delayed block transactions, forward transactions, and similar transactions. Additionally, we may enter into plans to purchase stock that satisfy the conditions of Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Various factors determine the amount and timing of our share repurchases, including our capital requirements, the number of shares we expect to issue for employee benefit plans and acquisitions, market conditions (including the trading price of our
stock), and regulatory and legal considerations, including the FRB s response to our capital plan and to changes in our risk profile.      In first quarter 2011, the Board authorized the repurchase of 200 million shares of our common stock, which was completed in 2012. In October 2012, the Board authorized the repurchase of an
additional 200 million shares. At December 31, 2012, we had remaining authority under this authorization to purchase approximately 198 million shares, subject to regulatory and legal conditions. For more information about share
repurchases during 2012, see Part II, Item 5 of our 2012 Form 10-K.      Historically, our policy has been to repurchase
shares under the  safe harbor  conditions of Rule 10b-18 of the Securities

90   

Capital Management    (continued)       

Exchange Act of 1934 including a limitation on the daily volume of repurchases. Rule 10b-18 imposes an additional daily volume limitation on share repurchases during a pending merger or
acquisition in which shares of our stock will constitute some or all of the consideration. Our management may determine that during a pending stock merger or acquisition when the safe harbor would otherwise be available, it is in our best interest
to repurchase shares in excess of this additional daily volume limitation. In such cases, we intend to repurchase shares in compliance with the other conditions of the safe harbor, including the standing daily volume limitation that applies whether
or not there is a pending stock merger or acquisition.      In connection with our participation in the Capital Purchase Program
(CPP), a part of the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP), we issued to the U.S. Treasury Department warrants to purchase 110,261,688 shares of our common stock with an exercise price of $34.01 per share expiring on October 28, 2018. The Board
authorized the repurchase by the Company of up to $1 billion of the warrants. On May 26, 2010, in an auction by the U.S. Treasury, we purchased 70,165,963 of the warrants at a price of $7.70 per warrant. We have purchased an additional
986,426 warrants, all on the open market, since the U.S. Treasury auction. At December 31, 2012, there were 39,109,299 warrants outstanding and exercisable and $452 million of unused warrant repurchase authority. Depending on
market conditions, we may purchase from time to time additional warrants in privately negotiated or open market transactions, by tender offer or otherwise.

91   

Table 49: Tier 1 Common Equity Under Basel I (1)    

(1)  
  Tier 1 common equity is a non-GAAP financial measure that is used by investors, analysts and bank regulatory agencies to assess the capital position of financial services
companies. Management reviews Tier 1 common equity along with other measures of capital as part of its financial analyses and has included this non-GAAP financial information, and the corresponding reconciliation to total equity, because of current
interest in such information on the part of market participants.     

(2)  
  Under the regulatory guidelines for risk-based capital, on-balance sheet assets and credit equivalent amounts of derivatives and off-balance sheet items are assigned to one of
several broad risk categories according to the obligor or, if relevant, the guarantor or the nature of any collateral. The aggregate dollar amount in each risk category is then multiplied by the risk weight associated with that category. The
resulting weighted values from each of the risk categories are aggregated for determining total risk-weighted assets. Effective September 30, 2012, the Company refined its determination of the risk weighting of certain unused lending
commitments that provide for the ability to issue standby letters of credit and commitments to issue standby letters of credit under syndication arrangements where the Company has an obligation to issue in a lead agent or similar capacity beyond its
contractual participation level.         Table 50: Tier 1 Common Equity Under Basel III (Estimated) (1) (2)    

(in billions)  

December 31, 2012  

Tier 1 common equity under Basel I   

$  
  109.0  

Adjustments from Basel I to Basel III (3) (5):   

Cumulative other comprehensive income related to AFS securities and defined benefit pension plans   

5.3  

Other   

0.4  

Total adjustments from Basel I to Basel III   

5.7  

Threshold deductions, as defined under Basel III (4) (5)   

(0.9  
  )    

Tier 1 common equity anticipated under Basel III   

(C  
  )   
     
  $  
  113.8  

Total risk-weighted assets anticipated under Basel III (6)   

(D  
  )   
     
  $  
          1,389.2  

Tier 1 common equity to total risk-weighted assets anticipated under Basel III   

(C  
  )/(D)   

8.19  
  %    

(1)  
  Tier 1 common equity is a non-GAAP financial measure that is used by investors, analysts and bank regulatory agencies to assess the capital position of financial services
companies. Management reviews Tier 1 common equity along with other measures of capital as part of its financial analyses and has included this non-GAAP financial information, and the corresponding reconciliation to total equity, because of current
interest in such information on the part of market participants.     

(2)  
  The Basel III Tier 1 common equity and risk-weighted assets are calculated based on management s current interpretation of the Basel III capital rules proposed by federal
banking agencies in notices of proposed rulemaking announced in June 2012. The proposed rules and interpretations and assumptions used in estimating Basel III calculations are subject to change depending on final promulgations of Basel III capital
rules.     

(3)  
  Adjustments from Basel I to Basel III represent reconciling adjustments, primarily certain components of cumulative other comprehensive income deducted for Basel I purposes, to
derive Tier 1 common equity under Basel III.     

(4)  
  Threshold deductions, as defined under Basel III, include individual and aggregate limitations, as a percentage of Tier 1 common equity, with respect to MSRs, deferred tax assets
and investments in unconsolidated financial companies.     

(5)  
  Volatility in interest rates can have a significant impact on the valuation of cumulative other comprehensive income and MSRs and therefore, may impact adjustments from Basel I
to Basel III, and MSRs subject to threshold deductions, as defined under Basel III, in future reporting periods.     

(6)  
  Under current Basel proposals, risk-weighted assets incorporate different classifications of assets, with certain risk weights based on a borrower s credit rating or Wells
Fargo s own risk models, along with adjustments to address a combination of credit/counterparty, operational and market risks, and other Basel III elements. The amount of risk-weighted assets anticipated under Basel III is preliminary and
subject to change depending on final promulgation of Basel III capital rulemaking and interpretations thereof by regulatory authorities.     
         92   

Regulatory Reform    

The past three years have witnessed a significant increase in regulation and regulatory oversight
initiatives that may substantially change how most U.S. financial services companies conduct business. The following highlights the more significant regulations and regulatory oversight initiatives that have affected or may affect our business. For
additional information about the regulatory reform matters discussed below and other regulations and regulatory oversight matters, see Part I, Item 1  Regulation and Supervision  of our 2012 Form 10-K, and the  Capital
Management,   Forward-Looking Statements  and  Risk Factors  sections and Note 26 (Regulatory and Agency Capital Requirements) to Financial Statements in this Report.       Dodd-Frank Act       The Dodd-Frank Act is the most significant financial reform legislation
since the 1930s and is driving much of the current U.S. regulatory reform efforts. The Dodd-Frank Act and many of its provisions became effective in July 2010 and July 2011. However, a number of its provisions still require extensive rulemaking,
guidance, and interpretation by regulatory authorities, and many of the rules that have been proposed to implement its requirements either remain open for public comment or have not otherwise been finalized. Where possible, the Company may, from
time to time, estimate the impact to the Company s financial results or business operations as a result of particular Dodd-Frank Act regulations. However, due to the uncertainty of pending regulations, the Company may be unable to make any such
estimates. Accordingly, in many respects the ultimate impact of the Dodd-Frank Act and its effects on the U.S. financial system and the Company remain uncertain. The following provides additional information on the Dodd-Frank Act, including the
current status of certain of its rulemaking initiatives.       

Regulation of swaps and other derivatives activities . The Dodd-Frank Act establishes a comprehensive framework for regulating over-the-counter
derivatives. Included in this framework are certain  push-out  provisions affecting U.S. banks acting as dealers in commodity swaps, equity swaps and certain credit default swaps, which will require that these activities be conducted
through an affiliate. The  push-out  provision has an effective date of July 21, 2013, but the Dodd-Frank Act granted the OCC the discretion to provide a transition period of up to two years for banks to come into compliance with the
requirements. On January 3, 2013, the OCC issued guidance that it would consider transition period requests and favorably act on such requests subject to the requesting bank meeting specified requirements. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. prepared and
filed a transition period request with the OCC on January 31, 2013.         The Dodd-Frank
Act authorizes the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) and SEC (collectively, the  Commissions ) to regulate swaps and security-based swaps, respectively. The Commissions jointly adopted new rules and interpretations that
established the compliance

dates for many of the Commissions  rules implementing the new regulatory framework for the regulation of swaps and other derivative activities, including provisional registration of Wells
Fargo Bank as a swap dealer, which occurred at the end of 2012.   

Volcker Rule.  The Volcker Rule will substantially restrict banking entities from engaging in proprietary trading or owning any interest in or
sponsoring a hedge fund or a private equity fund. In October 2011, federal banking agencies and the SEC issued for public comment proposed regulations to implement the Volcker Rule. The Volcker Rule became effective in July 2012, but the proposed
implementing regulations have not yet been finalized. Although the Volcker Rule is now effective, it provides banking entities with a two year period from its effective date to come into compliance, with the possibility of limited further extensions
of the compliance period by the FRB. In April 2012, the FRB issued guidance confirming that banking entities will have the full two-year compliance period to conform fully their activities and investments. The FRB s guidance also states
that banking entities are expected to engage in  good-faith  planning efforts, appropriate for their activities and investments, to enable them to conform all of their activities and investments by no later than the end of the compliance
period. Although proprietary trading is not significant to our financial results, and we have reduced or exited certain businesses in anticipation of the effective date of the Volcker Rule, at this time and in the absence of final implementing
regulations, the Company cannot predict the ultimate impact of the Volcker Rule on our trading and investment activities or financial results.      

Changes to asset-backed securities markets.  The Dodd-Frank Act will generally require sponsors of asset-backed securities (ABS) to hold at least
a 5% ownership stake in the ABS. Exemptions from the requirement include qualified residential mortgages and FHA/VA loans. Federal regulatory authorities proposed joint rules in 2011 to implement this credit risk retention requirement, which
included an exemption for the GSE s mortgage-backed securities. The proposed rules have been subject to extensive public comment, and the agencies have yet to issue final rules. As a result, the Company cannot predict the financial impact of
the credit risk retention requirement on our business.      

The Collins Amendment.  This provision of the Dodd-Frank Act will phase out the benefit of issuing trust preferred securities by eliminating them
from Tier 1 capital over three years beginning January 2013. For additional information see the  Capital Management  section of this Report.      

Enhanced supervision and regulation of systemically significant firms . The Dodd-Frank Act grants broad authority to banking regulators to
establish enhanced supervisory and regulatory requirements for systemically important firms. In December 2011, the FRB published

93   

proposed rules that would establish enhanced risk-based capital requirements and leverage limits, liquidity requirements, counterparty credit exposure limits, risk management requirements, stress
testing requirements, debt-to-equity limits, and early remediation requirements for large BHCs like Wells Fargo. During 2012, the FRB and OCC issued final rules related to stress testing requirements for large bank holding companies (BHCs) and
banks. For additional information, see the  Capital Management  section of this Report. The FRB has not issued final rules implementing the remaining December 2011 proposals. The Dodd-Frank Act also establishes the Financial Services
Oversight Council (FSOC) and the Office of Financial Research, which may recommend new systemic risk management requirements and require new reporting of systemic risks.      

Regulation of consumer financial products.  The Dodd-Frank Act established the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) to ensure consumers
receive clear and accurate disclosures regarding financial products and to protect them from hidden fees and unfair or abusive practices. In January 2013, the CFPB issued eight final rules, which are generally effective in January 2014. The
Ability-to-Repay and Qualified Mortgage Standards Rule implements the Dodd-Frank Act requirement that creditors originating residential mortgage loans make a reasonable and good faith determination that each applicant has a reasonable ability to
repay. The rule also establishes a definition of a  qualified mortgage,  which appears to support a broad access to credit for consumers coupled with legal protections for lenders and secondary market purchasers, particularly for prime
Qualified Mortgage loans. The second major set of rules, Mortgage Servicing Standards under the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (RESPA) and the Truth in Lending Act (TILA), address a number of requirements, including the obligation of
servicers to correct errors identified by borrowers, to provide information in response to certain borrower requests, and to provide protections to borrowers in case of force-placed insurance. Other provisions in the rules address policy and
procedural requirements, information requirements on loss mitigation options for delinquent borrowers, and requirements to evaluate borrower applications for loss mitigation options. In addition, the rules establish a number of customer notice or
statement requirements, disclosure requirements to customers regarding certain interest rate adjustments, and requirements in responding to customer payoff requests. We are currently analyzing the rules to consider the similarities between the rules
and the national servicing settlement requirements that Wells Fargo has already implemented. Additional rules recently issued by the CFPB address loan originator compensation restrictions, high-cost mortgage requirements, appraisal delivery
requirements, appraisals for higher-priced mortgages, and escrow standards for higher-priced mortgages. We are currently analyzing the requirements of all the final rules, but at this time the Company cannot predict the long-term impact of

these final rules on our mortgage origination and servicing activities or on our financial results. In addition to these recently proposed rules, the CFPB has indicated that in the coming months
it expects to release a rule integrating disclosures required of lenders and settlement agents under TILA and RESPA and to propose regulations expanding the scope of information lenders must report in connection with mortgage and other
housing-related loan applications.         In addition to these rulemaking activities, the CFPB
is continuing its on-going examination activities with respect to a number of consumer businesses and products, including an examination of our mortgage origination and related compliance management activities. We also expect the CFPB will examine
our residential mortgage servicing activities. At this time, the Company cannot predict the full impact of the CFPB s rulemaking and supervisory authority on our business practices or financial results.   

Enhanced regulation of money market mutual funds.  In November 2012, the FSOC proposed new regulations to address the perceived risks that money
market mutual funds may pose to the financial stability of the United States. These proposals include implementation of floating net asset value requirements, redemption holdback provisions, and capital buffer requirements and would be in addition
to regulatory changes made by the SEC to the market in January 2010. The proposals were subject to public comment. Once the FSOC adopts final recommendations, the SEC must either implement the recommendations or explain in writing the reasons the
recommendations were not adopted. The Company will monitor any final recommendations and the SEC s response to determine the impact to our business. In addition, members of the SEC have recently made public statements indicating that the SEC is
working on its own reform proposals independent of the FSOC s rulemaking process and that the SEC could issue its own proposals in the coming months.          Regulatory Capital Guidelines and Capital Plans       In December 2010, the BCBS finalized the
Basel III standards for determining regulatory capital. When fully phased in by 2019, the Basel III standards will require BHCs to maintain a minimum ratio of Tier 1 common equity to risk-weighted assets of at least 7.0%. In November 2011, the BCBS
released its final rule for a common equity surcharge on certain designated global systemically important banks (G-SIBs). The Financial Stability Board (FSB), in an updated list published in November 2012 based on year-end 2011 data, identified the
Company as one of the 28 G-SIBs and provisionally determined that our surcharge would be 1.0%. The FSB may revise the list of G-SIBs and their required surcharge prior to implementation based on additional or future data.   
  In June 2012, the federal banking regulators jointly published three notices of proposed rulemaking that will substantially amend the
risk-based capital rules for banks. The proposed rules are intended to implement the Basel III

94   

Regulatory Reform    (continued)       

regulatory capital reforms in the U.S., comply with changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act, and replace the existing Basel I-based capital requirements. Although the proposals contemplated an
effective date of January 1, 2013, with phased in compliance requirements, the rules have not yet been finalized by the U.S. banking regulators due to the volume of comments received and concerns expressed during the comment period. These
proposals did not address the BCBS capital surcharge for G-SIBs, although the FRB has indicated it expects to adopt regulations implementing the G-SIB surcharge in 2014 and that the surcharge would be imposed on a phased-in basis from 2016-2019. In
late 2011, the FRB finalized rules to require BHCs with $50 billion or more of consolidated assets to submit capital plans annually and to obtain regulatory approval before making capital distributions. The rule also requires a capital adequacy
assessment under a range of expected and stress scenarios. For additional information, see the  Capital Management  section of this Report.   

Living Will  Requirements       In late 2011 the FRB and the FDIC approved final resolution-plan regulations as mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act. These regulations will require large financial institutions, including Wells Fargo, to
prepare and periodically revise plans that would facilitate their resolution in the event of material distress or failure. As contemplated by the Dodd-Frank Act, resolution plans are to provide for a rapid and orderly resolution   liquidation
or orderly restructuring   under the Bankruptcy Code and other insolvency statutes applicable to particular types of regulated entities (such as securities broker-dealers or insurance companies). Under the regulations, resolution plans must
contain detailed strategic analyses of how a distressed or failing institution could be resolved in a way that does not pose systemic risks to the U.S. financial system. Under the rules, Wells Fargo is required to submit its resolution plan to the
FRB and FDIC on or before July 1, 2013.   

95   

Critical Accounting Policies    

Our significant accounting policies (see Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies) to Financial
Statements in this Report) are fundamental to understanding our results of operations and financial condition because they require that we use estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of our assets or liabilities and financial results.
Six of these policies are critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because it is likely that materially different amounts would be reported under
different conditions or using different assumptions. These policies govern:   

the allowance for credit losses;      

PCI loans;      

the valuation of residential MSRs;      

liability for mortgage loan repurchase losses;      

the fair valuation of financial instruments; and      

income taxes.         Management has reviewed and approved these critical accounting policies and has discussed these policies with the Board s Audit and Examination Committee.   
   Allowance for Credit Losses       The
allowance for credit losses, which consists of the allowance for loan losses and the allowance for unfunded credit commitments, is management s estimate of credit losses inherent in the loan portfolio at the balance sheet date, excluding loans
carried at fair value. We develop and document our allowance methodology at the portfolio segment level. Our loan portfolio consists of a commercial loan portfolio segment and a consumer loan portfolio segment.   
  We employ a disciplined process and methodology to establish our allowance for credit losses. The total allowance for credit losses
considers both impaired and unimpaired loans. While our methodology attributes portions of the allowance to specific portfolio segments, the entire allowance for credit losses      is available to absorb credit losses inherent in the total loan portfolio and unfunded credit commitments. No single statistic or measurement determines the appropriateness of the allowance for credit
losses.       COMMERCIAL PORTFOLIO SEGMENT  The allowance for credit losses for unimpaired commercial loans is estimated through the
application of loss factors to loans based on credit risk ratings for each loan. In addition, the allowance for credit losses for unfunded commitments, including letters of credit, is estimated by applying these loss factors to loan equivalent
exposures. The loss factors reflect the estimated default probability and quality of the underlying collateral. The loss factors used are statistically derived through the observation of historical losses incurred for loans within each credit risk
rating over a relevant specified period of time. We apply our judgment to adjust or supplement these loss factors and estimates to reflect other risks that may be identified from current conditions and developments in selected portfolios. These risk
ratings are subject to review by an internal team of credit specialists.

The allowance also includes an amount for estimated credit losses on impaired loans such
as nonaccrual loans and loans that have been modified in a TDR, whether on accrual or nonaccrual status.       CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SEGMENT 
Loans are pooled generally by product type with similar risk characteristics. Losses are estimated using forecasted losses to represent our best estimate of inherent loss based on historical experience, quantitative and other mathematical techniques
over the loss emergence period. Each business group exercises significant judgment in the determination of the credit loss estimation model that fits the credit risk characteristics of its portfolio. We use both internally developed and vendor
supplied models in this process. We often use roll rate or net flow models for near-term loss projections, and vintage-based models, behavior score models, and time series or statistical trend models for longer-term projections. Management must use
judgment in establishing additional input metrics for the modeling processes, considering further stratification into sub-product, origination channel, vintage, loss type, geographic location and other predictive characteristics. In addition, we
establish an allowance for consumer loans modified in a TDR, whether on accrual or nonaccrual status.      The models used to
determine the allowance are validated by an independent internal model validation group operating in accordance with Company policies.   
   OTHER ACL MATTERS  The allowance for credit losses for both portfolio segments includes an amount for imprecision or uncertainty that may change
from period to period. This amount represents management s judgment of risks inherent in the processes and assumptions used in establishing the allowance. This imprecision considers economic environmental factors, modeling assumptions and
performance, process risk, and other subjective factors, including industry trends and risk assessments for our commitments to regulatory and government agencies regarding settlements of mortgage foreclosure-related matters.   
  Impaired loans, which predominantly include nonaccrual commercial loans and any loans that have been modified in a TDR have an estimated
allowance calculated as the difference, if any, between the impaired value of the loan and the recorded investment in the loan. The impaired value of the loan is generally calculated as the present value of expected future cash flows from principal
and interest, which incorporates expected lifetime losses, discounted at the loan s effective interest rate. The development of these expectations requires significant management review and judgment. The allowance for an unimpaired loan is
based solely on principal losses without consideration for timing of those losses. The allowance for an impaired loan that was modified in a TDR may be lower than the previously established allowance for that loan due to benefits received through
modification, such as lower probability of default and/or severity of loss, and the impact of prior charge-offs or charge-offs at the time of the modification that may reduce or eliminate the need for an allowance.

96   

Critical Accounting Policies    (continued)       

Commercial and consumer PCI loans may require an allowance subsequent to their
acquisition. This allowance requirement is due to probable decreases in expected principal and interest cash flows (other than due to decreases in interest rate indices and changes in prepayment assumptions).   
   SENSITIVITY TO CHANGES  Changes in the allowance for credit losses and, therefore, in the related provision for credit losses can materially affect
net income. In applying the review and judgment required related to determining the allowance for credit losses, management considers changes in economic conditions, customer behavior, and collateral value, among other influences. From time to time,
economic factors or business decisions, such as the addition or liquidation of a loan product or business unit, may affect the loan portfolio, causing management to provide or release amounts from the allowance for credit losses.   
  The allowance for credit losses for commercial loans, including unfunded credit commitments (individually risk weighted) is sensitive to
credit risk ratings assigned to each credit exposure. Commercial loan risk ratings are evaluated based on each situation by experienced senior credit officers and are subject to periodic review by an internal team of credit specialists.   
  The allowance for credit losses for consumer loans (statistically modeled) is sensitive to economic assumptions and delinquency trends.
Forecasted losses are modeled using a range of economic scenarios.      Assuming a one risk rating downgrade throughout our
commercial portfolio segment, a more pessimistic economic outlook for modeled losses on our consumer portfolio segment and incremental deterioration in our PCI portfolio could imply an additional allowance requirement of approximately $8.0 billion.
     Assuming a one risk rating upgrade throughout our commercial portfolio segment and a more optimistic economic outlook for
modeled losses on our consumer portfolio segment could imply a reduced allowance requirement of approximately $2.4 billion.   
  The sensitivity analyses provided are hypothetical scenarios and are not considered probable. They do not represent management s
view of inherent losses in the portfolio as of the balance sheet date. Because significant judgment is used, it is possible that others performing similar analyses could reach different conclusions.   
  See the  Risk Management   Credit Risk Management  section and Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to
Financial Statements in this Report for further discussion of our allowance.       Purchased Credit-Impaired (PCI) Loans    
  Loans acquired with evidence of credit deterioration since their origination and where it is probable that we will not collect all contractually required
principal and interest payments are PCI loans. PCI loans are recorded at fair value at the date of acquisition, and the historical allowance for credit losses related to these loans is not carried over. Such loans are considered to be accruing due
to the existence of the accretable yield and not based on consideration given

to contractual interest payments. Substantially all of our PCI loans were acquired in the Wachovia acquisition on December 31, 2008.   
  Management evaluates whether there is evidence of credit quality deterioration as of the purchase date using indicators such as past due
and nonaccrual status, commercial risk ratings, recent borrower credit scores and recent loan-to-value percentages.      The fair
value at acquisition is based on an estimate of cash flows, both principal and interest, expected to be collected, discounted at the prevailing market rate of interest. We estimate the cash flows expected to be collected at acquisition using our
internal credit risk, interest rate risk and prepayment risk models, which incorporates our best estimate of current key assumptions, such as property values, default rates, loss severity and prepayment speeds.   
  Substantially all commercial and industrial, CRE and foreign PCI loans are accounted for as individual loans. Conversely, Pick-a-Pay and
other consumer PCI loans have been aggregated into pools based on common risk characteristics. Each pool is accounted for as a single asset with a single composite interest rate and an aggregate expectation of cash flows.   
  The excess of cash flows expected to be collected over the carrying value (estimated fair value at acquisition date) is referred to as
the accretable yield and is recognized in interest income using an effective yield method over the remaining life of the loan, or pool of loans, in situations where there is a reasonable expectation about the timing and amount of cash flows expected
to be collected. The difference between the contractually required payments and the cash flows expected to be collected at acquisition, considering the impact of prepayments, is referred to as the nonaccretable difference.   
  Subsequent to acquisition, we regularly evaluate our estimates of cash flows expected to be collected. These evaluations, performed
quarterly, require the continued usage of key assumptions and estimates, similar to our initial estimate of fair value. We must apply judgment to develop our estimates of cash flows for PCI loans given the impact of home price and property value
changes, changing loss severities, modification activity, and prepayment speeds.      If we have probable decreases in cash flows
expected to be collected (other than due to decreases in interest rate indices and changes in prepayment assumptions), we charge the provision for credit losses, resulting in an increase to the allowance for loan losses. If we have probable and
significant increases in cash flows expected to be collected, we first reverse any previously established allowance for loan losses and then increase interest income as a prospective yield adjustment over the remaining life of the loan, or pool of
loans. Estimates of cash flows are impacted by changes in interest rate indices for variable rate loans and prepayment assumptions, both of which are treated as prospective yield adjustments included in interest income.   
  The amount of cash flows expected to be collected and, accordingly, the appropriateness of the allowance for loan loss due to certain
decreases in cash flows expected to be collected, is particularly sensitive to changes in loan credit quality. The sensitivity of the overall allowance for credit losses, including

97   

PCI loans, is presented in the preceding section,  Critical Accounting Policies   Allowance for Credit Losses.    
  See the  Risk Management   Credit Risk Management  section and Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to
Financial Statements in this Report for further discussion of PCI loans.       Valuation of Residential Mortgage Servicing Rights
      MSRs are assets that represent the rights to service mortgage loans for others. We recognize MSRs when we purchase servicing rights from
third parties, or retain servicing rights in connection with the sale or securitization of loans we originate (asset transfers). We also have MSRs acquired in the past under co-issuer agreements that provide for us to service loans that were
originated and securitized by third-party correspondents. We initially measure and carry our MSRs related to residential mortgage loans at fair value.      At the end of each quarter, we determine the fair value of MSRs using a valuation model that calculates the present value of estimated future net servicing income. The model incorporates assumptions that
market participants use in estimating future net servicing income, including estimates of prepayment speeds (including housing price volatility), discount rates, default rates, cost to service (including delinquency and foreclosure costs), escrow
account earnings, contractual servicing fee income, ancillary income and late fees.      Net servicing income, a component
of mortgage banking noninterest income, includes the changes from period to period in fair value of both our residential MSRs and the free-standing derivatives (economic hedges) used to hedge our residential MSRs. Changes in the fair value of
residential MSRs result from (1) changes in the valuation model inputs or assumptions and (2) other changes, representing changes due to collection/realization of expected cash flows. Changes in fair value due to changes in significant
model inputs and assumptions include prepayment speeds (which are influenced by changes in mortgage interest rates and borrower behavior, including estimates for borrower default), discount rates, and servicing and foreclosure costs.   
  We use a dynamic and sophisticated model to estimate the value of our MSRs. The model is validated by an internal model validation group
operating in accordance with Company policies. Senior management reviews all significant assumptions quarterly. Mortgage loan prepayment speed   a key assumption in the model   is the annual rate at which borrowers are forecasted to repay
their mortgage loan principal including estimates for borrower default. The discount rate used to determine the present value of estimated future net servicing income   another key assumption in the model   is the required rate of return
investors in the market would expect for an asset with similar risk. To determine the discount rate, we consider the risk premium for uncertainties from servicing operations (e.g., possible changes in future servicing costs, ancillary income and
earnings on escrow accounts). Both assumptions can, and generally will, change quarterly as market conditions and interest rates change. For example, an increase in either the prepayment speed or discount rate assumption results in a decrease in the
fair value of the MSRs, while a decrease in either assumption would result in an increase in the fair value of the MSRs. In recent years, there have been significant market-driven fluctuations in loan

prepayment speeds and the discount rate. These fluctuations can be rapid and may be significant in the future. Therefore, estimating prepayment speeds within a range that market participants
would use in determining the fair value of MSRs requires significant management judgment. Additionally, in recent years, we have made significant adjustments to the assumptions for servicing and foreclosure costs as a result of an increase in the
number of defaulted loans as well as changes in servicing processes associated with default and foreclosure management. While our current valuation reflects our best estimate of these costs, future regulatory changes in servicing standards may have
an impact on these assumptions and our MSR valuation in future periods.      The valuation and sensitivity of MSRs is discussed
further in Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies), Note 8 (Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities), Note 9 (Mortgage Banking Activities) and Note 17 (Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities) to Financial Statements in this Report.
      Liability for Mortgage Loan Repurchase Losses       We sell residential mortgage loans to various parties, including (1) GSEs, which include the mortgage loans in GSE-guaranteed mortgage securitizations, (2) special purpose entities that issue
private label MBS, and (3) other financial institutions that purchase mortgage loans for investment or private label securitization. In addition, we pool FHA-insured and VA-guaranteed mortgage loans, which back securities guaranteed by GNMA.
The agreements under which we sell mortgage loans and the insurance or guaranty agreements with FHA and VA contain provisions that include various representations and warranties regarding the origination and characteristics of the mortgage loans.
Although the specific representations and warranties vary among different sales, insurance or guarantee agreements, they typically cover ownership of the loan, compliance with loan criteria set forth in the applicable agreement, validity of the lien
securing the loan, absence of delinquent taxes or liens against the property securing the loan, compliance with applicable origination laws, and other matters. For more information about these loan sales and the related risks that may result in
liability see the  Risk Management   Credit Risk Management   Liability for Mortgage Loan Repurchase Losses  section in this Report.      We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans, indemnify the securitization trust, investor or insurer, or reimburse the securitization trust, investor or insurer for credit losses incurred on loans
(collectively  repurchase ) in the event of a breach of contractual representations or warranties that is not remedied within a period (usually 90 days or less) after we receive notice of the breach. Our loan sale contracts to private
investors (non-GSE) typically contain an additional provision where we would only be required to repurchase loans if any such breach is deemed to have a material and adverse effect on the value of the mortgage loan or to the interests of the
investors or interests of security holders in the mortgage loan. The time periods specified in our mortgage loan sales contracts to respond to repurchase requests vary, but are generally 90 days or less. While many contracts do not include specific
remedies if the applicable time period for a response is not met, contracts for mortgage loan

98   

Critical Accounting Policies    (continued)       

sales to the GSEs include various types of specific remedies and penalties that could be applied to inadequate responses to repurchase requests. Similarly, the agreements under which we sell
mortgage loans require us to deliver various documents to the securitization trust or investor, and we may be obligated to repurchase any mortgage loan for which the required documents are not delivered or are defective. In addition, as part of our
representations and warranties in our loan sales contracts, we typically represent to GSEs and private investors that certain loans have mortgage insurance to the extent there are loans that have loan to value ratios in excess of 80% that require
mortgage insurance. To the extent the mortgage insurance is rescinded by the mortgage insurer due to a claim of breach of a contractual representation or warranty, the lack of insurance may result in a repurchase demand from an investor. Upon
receipt of a repurchase request or a mortgage insurance rescission, we work with securitization trusts, investors or insurers to arrive at a mutually agreeable resolution. Repurchase demands are typically reviewed on an individual loan by loan basis
to validate the claims made by the securitization trust, investor or insurer, and to determine whether a contractually required repurchase event occurred. Occasionally, in lieu of conducting a loan level evaluation, we may negotiate global
settlements in order to resolve a pipeline of demands in lieu of repurchasing the loans. We manage the risk associated with potential repurchases or other forms of settlement through our underwriting and quality assurance practices and by servicing
mortgage loans to meet investor and secondary market standards.      We establish mortgage repurchase liabilities related to
various representations and warranties that reflect management s estimate of losses for loans for which we could have a repurchase obligation, whether or not we currently service those loans, based on a combination of factors. Such factors
include default expectations, expected investor repurchase demands (influenced by current and expected mortgage loan file requests and mortgage insurance rescission notices, as well as estimated demand to default and file request relationships) and
appeals success rates (where the investor rescinds the demand based on a cure of the defect or acknowledges that the loan satisfies the investor s applicable representations and warranties), reimbursement by correspondent and other third party
originators, and projected loss severity. We establish a liability at the time loans are sold and continually update our liability estimate during the remaining life of such loans. Although activity can vary by investor, investors may demand
repurchase at any time and there is often a lag from the date of default to the time we receive a repurchase demand. This lag has lengthened as some investor audit reviews, particularly by the GSEs, have changed to reopen or expand reviews on
previously defaulted populations. Accordingly, the majority of repurchase demands continue to be on loans that default in the first 24 to 36 months following origination of the mortgage loan. The most significant portion of our repurchases under our
representation and warranty provisions are attributable to borrower misrepresentations and appraisals obtained at origination that investors believe do not fully comply with applicable industry standards.

To date, repurchase demands from private label MBS have been more limited than
GSE-guaranteed securities; however, it is possible that requests to repurchase mortgage loans in private label securitizations may increase in frequency as investors explore every possible avenue to recover losses on their securities. We evaluate
the validity and materiality of any claim of breach of representations and warranties in private label MBS that is brought to our attention and work with securitization trustees to resolve any repurchase requests. Nevertheless, we may be subject to
legal and other expenses if private label securitization trustees or investors choose to commence legal proceedings in the event of disagreements.      The mortgage loan repurchase liability at December 31, 2012, represents our best estimate of the probable loss that we may incur for various representations and warranties in the contractual
provisions of our sales of mortgage loans. Because the level of mortgage loan repurchase losses are dependent on economic factors, investor demand strategies and other external conditions that may change over the life of the underlying loans, the
level of the liability for mortgage loan repurchase losses is difficult to estimate and requires considerable management judgment. We maintain regular contact with the GSEs and other significant investors to monitor and address their repurchase
demand practices and concerns. For additional information on our repurchase liability, including an adverse impact analysis, see the  Risk Management   Credit Risk Management   Liability for Mortgage Loan Repurchase Losses 
section and Note 9 (Mortgage Banking Activities) to Financial Statements in this Report.       Fair Value of Financial Instruments
      We use fair value measurements to record fair value adjustments to certain financial instruments and to determine fair value disclosures.
Trading assets, securities available for sale, derivatives, substantially all residential MHFS, certain loans held for investment, securities sold but not yet purchased (short sale liabilities) and certain long-term debt instruments are recorded at
fair value on a recurring basis. Additionally, from time to time, we may be required to record at fair value other assets on a nonrecurring basis, such as certain MHFS and LHFS, loans held for investment and certain other assets. These nonrecurring
fair value adjustments typically involve application of lower-of-cost-or-market accounting or write-downs of individual assets. Additionally, for certain financial instruments not recorded at fair value we disclose the estimate of their fair value.
     Fair value represents the price that would be received to sell the financial asset or paid to transfer the financial
liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.      The accounting provisions for fair
value measurements include a three-level hierarchy for disclosure of assets and liabilities recorded at fair value. The classification of assets and liabilities within the hierarchy is based on whether the inputs to the valuation methodology used
for measurement are observable or unobservable. Observable inputs reflect market-derived or market-based information obtained from independent sources, while unobservable inputs reflect our estimates about market data.

99   

Level 1   Valuation is based upon quoted prices for identical instruments traded in active markets. Level 1 instruments include securities traded
on active exchange markets, such as the New York Stock Exchange, as well as U.S. Treasury and other U.S. government securities that are traded by dealers or brokers in active OTC markets.      

Level 2   Valuation is based upon quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in
markets that are not active, and model-based valuation techniques, such as matrix pricing, for which all significant assumptions are observable in the market. Level 2 instruments include securities traded in functioning dealer or broker markets,
plain-vanilla interest rate derivatives and MHFS that are valued based on prices for other mortgage whole loans with similar characteristics.      

Level 3   Valuation is generated primarily from techniques that use significant assumptions not observable in the market. These unobservable
assumptions reflect our own estimates of assumptions market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. Valuation techniques include use of option pricing models, discounted cash flow models and similar techniques.
        When developing fair value measurements, we maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of
unobservable inputs. When available, we use quoted prices in active markets to measure fair value. If quoted prices in active markets are not available, fair value measurement is based upon models that use primarily market-based or independently
sourced market parameters, including interest rate yield curves, prepayment speeds, option volatilities and currency rates. However, in certain cases, when market observable inputs for model-based valuation techniques are not readily available, we
are required to make judgments about assumptions market participants would use to estimate fair value.      The degree of
management judgment involved in determining the fair value of a financial instrument is dependent upon the availability of quoted prices in active markets or observable market parameters. For financial instruments with quoted market prices or
observable market parameters in active markets, there is minimal subjectivity involved in measuring fair value. When quoted prices and observable data in active markets are not fully available, management judgment is necessary to estimate fair
value. Changes in the market conditions, such as reduced liquidity in the capital markets or changes in secondary market activities, may reduce the availability and reliability of quoted prices or observable data used to determine fair value. When
significant adjustments are required to price quotes or inputs, it may be appropriate to utilize an estimate based primarily on unobservable inputs. When an active market for a financial instrument does not exist, the use of management estimates
that incorporate current market participant expectations of future cash flows, adjusted for an appropriate risk premium, is acceptable.      When markets for our financial assets and liabilities become inactive because the level and volume of activity has declined significantly relative to normal conditions, it may be appropriate to

adjust quoted prices. The methodology we use to adjust the quoted prices generally involves weighting the quoted prices and results of internal pricing techniques, such as the net present value
of future expected cash flows (with observable inputs, where available) discounted at a rate of return market participants require to arrive at the fair value. The more active and orderly markets for particular security classes are determined to be,
the more weighting we assign to quoted prices. The less active and orderly markets are determined to be, the less weighting we assign to quoted prices.      We may use third party pricing services and brokers (collectively,  pricing vendors ) to obtain fair values ( vendor prices ) which are used to either record the price of an instrument
or to corroborate internally developed prices. We have processes in place to approve such vendors to ensure information obtained and valuation techniques used are appropriate. Once these vendors are approved to provide pricing information, we
monitor and review the results to ensure the fair values are reasonable and in line with market experience with similar asset classes. For certain securities, we may use internal traders to price instruments. Where vendor prices are utilized for
recording the price of an instrument, we determine the most appropriate and relevant pricing vendor for each security class and obtain a price from that particular pricing vendor for each security.   
  Determination of the fair value of financial instruments using either vendor prices or internally developed prices are subject to our
internal price validation procedures, which include, but are not limited to, one or a combination of the following procedures:   

comparison to pricing vendors (for internally developed prices) or to other pricing vendors (for vendor developed prices);

variance analysis of prices;      

corroboration of pricing by reference to other independent market data such as secondary broker quotes and relevant benchmark indices;

review of pricing by Company personnel familiar with market liquidity and other market-related conditions; and      

investigation of prices on a specific instrument-by-instrument basis.      
  For instruments where we utilize vendor prices to record the price of an instrument, we perform additional procedures. We evaluate
pricing vendors by comparing prices from one vendor to prices of other vendors for identical or similar instruments and evaluate the consistency of prices to known market transactions when determining the level of reliance to be placed on a
particular pricing vendor. Methodologies employed and inputs used by third party pricing vendors are subject to additional review when such services are provided. This review may consist of, in part, obtaining and evaluating control reports issued
and pricing methodology materials distributed.      Significant judgment is required to determine whether certain assets measured
at fair value are included in Level 2 or Level 3. When making this judgment, we consider available information, including observable market data, indications of market liquidity and orderliness, and our understanding of the valuation techniques and
significant inputs used. For securities in inactive markets, we use a predetermined percentage to evaluate the impact of fair value adjustments derived from

100   

Critical Accounting Policies    (continued)       

weighting both external and internal indications of value to determine if the instrument is classified as Level 2 or Level 3. Otherwise, the classification of Level 2 or Level 3 is based upon the
specific facts and circumstances of each instrument or instrument category and judgments are made regarding the significance of the Level 3 inputs to the instruments  fair value measurement in its entirety. If Level 3 inputs are considered
significant, the instrument is classified as Level 3.      Our financial assets valued using Level 3 measurements consist of
certain collateralized debt obligations (CDOs), collateralized loan obligations (CLOs), asset-backed securities, including those collateralized by auto leases or loans, cash reserves, and other asset-backed securities, auction-rate securities,
certain derivative contracts such as credit default swaps related to collateralized mortgage obligation (CMO), CDO and CLO exposures and certain MHFS, certain loans, and MSRs. For additional information on how we value MSRs refer to the discussion
earlier in this section.      Table 51 presents the summary of the fair value of financial instruments recorded at fair value on
a recurring basis, and the amounts measured using significant Level 3 inputs (before derivative netting adjustments). The fair value of the remaining assets and liabilities were measured using valuation methodologies involving market-based or
market-derived information (collectively Level 1 and 2 measurements).       Table 51: Fair Value Level 3 Summary    

(1)  
  Before derivative netting adjustments.     
  See Note 17 (Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities) to Financial Statements in this Report for a complete discussion on our fair
valuation of financial instruments, our related measurement techniques and the impact to our financial statements.       Income Taxes
      We are subject to the income tax laws of the U.S., its states and municipalities and those of the foreign jurisdictions in which we

operate. Our income tax expense consists of current and deferred income tax expense. Current income tax expense represents our estimated taxes to be paid or refunded for the current
period and includes income tax expense related to our uncertain tax positions. We determine deferred income taxes using the balance sheet method. Under this method, the net deferred tax asset or liability is based on the tax effects of the
differences between the book and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and recognizes enacted changes in tax rates and laws in the period in which they occur. Deferred income tax expense results from changes in deferred tax assets and
liabilities between periods. Deferred tax assets are recognized subject to management s judgment that realization is  more likely than not.  Uncertain tax positions that meet the more likely than not recognition threshold are
measured to determine the amount of benefit to recognize. An uncertain tax position is measured at the largest amount of benefit that management believes has a greater than 50% likelihood of realization upon settlement. Tax benefits not
meeting our realization criteria represent unrecognized tax benefits. Our unrecognized tax benefits on uncertain tax positions are reflected in Note 21 (Income Taxes) to Financial Statements in this Report. Foreign taxes paid are generally applied
as credits to reduce federal income taxes payable. We account for interest and penalties as a component of income tax expense.      The income tax laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate are complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and the relevant government taxing authorities. In
establishing a provision for income tax expense, we must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these inherently complex tax laws. We must also make estimates about when in the future certain items will affect taxable income in
the various tax jurisdictions by the government taxing authorities, both domestic and foreign. Our interpretations may be subjected to review during examination by taxing authorities and disputes may arise over the respective tax
positions. We attempt to resolve these disputes during the tax examination and audit process and ultimately through the court systems when applicable.      We monitor relevant tax authorities and revise our estimate of accrued income taxes due to changes in income tax laws and their interpretation by the courts and regulatory authorities on a quarterly
basis. Revisions of our estimate of accrued income taxes also may result from our own income tax planning and from the resolution of income tax controversies. Such revisions in our estimates may be material to our operating results for any given
quarter.      See Note 21 (Income Taxes) to Financial Statements in this Report for a further description of our provision for
income taxes and related income tax assets and liabilities.   

101   

Current Accounting Developments    

The following accounting pronouncements have been issued by the FASB but are not yet effective:   

Accounting Standards Update (ASU or Update) 2011-11,  Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities;       

ASU 2013-01 , Clarifying the Scope of Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities;  and      

ASU 2013-02,  Reporting of Amounts Reclassified Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income .      
   ASU 2011-11  expands the disclosure requirements for certain financial instruments and derivatives that are subject to enforceable master netting
agreements or similar arrangements. The disclosures are required regardless of whether the instruments have been offset (or netted) in the statement of financial position. Under ASU 2011-11, companies must describe the nature of offsetting
arrangements and provide quantitative information about those agreements, including the gross and net amounts of financial instruments that are recognized in the statement of financial position. In January 2013, the FASB issued  ASU 2013-01 ,
which clarifies the scope of ASU 2011-11 by limiting the disclosures to derivatives, repurchase agreements, and securities lending transactions to the extent they are subject to an enforceable master netting or similar arrangement. These changes are
effective for us in first quarter 2013 with retrospective application. The Updates will not affect our consolidated financial results since they amend only the disclosure requirements for offsetting financial instruments.   
   ASU 2013-02  requires companies to disclose the effect on net income line items from significant amounts reclassified out of accumulated other
comprehensive income and entirely into net income. However, for those reclassifications that are partially or entirely capitalized on the balance sheet, then companies must provide a cross-reference to disclosures that provide information about the
effect of the reclassifications. This guidance is effective for us in Q1 2013 with prospective application. The Update will not affect our consolidated financial results as it amends only the disclosure requirements for accumulated other
comprehensive income.   

102   

Forward-Looking Statements    

This Report contains  forward-looking statements  within the meaning of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements can be identified by words such as  anticipates,   intends,   plans,   seeks,   believes,   estimates,   expects, 
 target,   projects,   outlook,   forecast,   will,   may,   could,   should,   can  and similar references to future periods. Examples of forward-looking
statements in this Report include, but are not limited to, statements we make about: (i) future results of the Company, including the potential effect of recent strong loan and deposit growth on future financial performance; (ii) our
targeted efficiency ratio range as part of our expense management initiatives; (iii) future credit quality and expectations regarding future loan losses in our loan portfolios and life-of-loan estimates; our foreign loan exposure; the level and
loss content of NPAs and nonaccrual loans; the appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses, including our current expectation of future allowance releases in 2013; and the reduction or mitigation of risk in our loan portfolios and the effects
of loan modification programs; (iv) future capital levels and our estimate regarding our Tier 1 common equity ratio under proposed Basel III capital standards as of December 31, 2012; (v) the quality of our residential mortgage loan
servicing portfolio, our mortgage repurchase exposure and exposure relating to our mortgage foreclosure practices; (vi) our expectations regarding the satisfaction of our obligations under our settlement in principle with the Department of
Justice and other federal and state government entities related to our mortgage servicing and foreclosure practices, including our estimates of the impact of the settlement on our future financial results; (vii) the expected outcome and impact
of legal, regulatory and legislative developments, including the Dodd-Frank Act; and (viii) the Company s plans, objectives and strategies, including our belief that we have more opportunity to increase cross-sell of our products.
     Forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and assumptions regarding our business, the economy and
other future conditions. Because forward-looking statements relate to the future, they are subject to inherent uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Our actual results may differ materially from those
contemplated by the forward-looking statements. We caution you, therefore, against relying on any of these forward-looking statements. They are neither statements of historical fact nor guarantees or assurances of future performance. While there is
no assurance that any list of risks and uncertainties or risk factors is complete, important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include the following, without limitation:

current and future economic and market conditions, including the effects of declines in housing prices, high unemployment rates, U. S. fiscal debt,
budget and tax matters, the sovereign debt crisis and economic difficulties in Europe, and the overall slowdown in global economic growth;

our capital and liquidity requirements (including under regulatory capital standards, such as the proposed Basel III capital standards, as determined
and interpreted by applicable regulatory authorities) and our ability to generate capital internally or raise capital on favorable terms;      

financial services reform and other current, pending or future legislation or regulation that could have a negative effect on our revenue and
businesses, including the Dodd-Frank Act and other legislation and regulation relating to bank products and services, as well as the extent of our ability to mitigate the loss of revenue and income from financial services reform and other
legislation and regulation;      

the extent of our success in our loan modification efforts, as well as the effects of regulatory requirements or guidance regarding loan modifications
or changes in such requirements or guidance;      

the amount of mortgage loan repurchase demands that we receive and our ability to satisfy any such demands without having to repurchase loans related
thereto or otherwise indemnify or reimburse third parties, and the credit quality of or losses on such repurchased mortgage loans;      

negative effects relating to our mortgage servicing and foreclosure practices, including our ability to meet our obligations under the settlement in
principle with the Department of Justice and other federal and state government entities, as well as changes in our procedures or practices and/or industry standards or practices, regulatory or judicial requirements, penalties or fines, increased
servicing and other costs or obligations, including loan modification requirements, or delays or moratoriums on foreclosures;      

our ability to realize our efficiency ratio target as part of our expense management initiatives when and in the range targeted, including as a result
of business and economic cyclicality, seasonality, changes in our business composition and operating environment, growth in our businesses and/or acquisitions, and unexpected expenses relating to, among other things, litigation and regulatory
matters;      

losses relating to Super Storm Sandy, including the result of damage or loss to our collateral for loans in our consumer and commercial loan
portfolios, the extent of insurance coverage, or the level of government assistance for our borrowers;      

the effect of the current low interest rate environment or changes in interest rates on our net interest margin and our mortgage originations, MSRs and
MHFS;      

hedging gains or losses;      

a recurrence of significant turbulence or disruption in the capital or financial markets, which could result in, among other things, reduced investor
demand for mortgage loans, a reduction in the availability of funding or increased funding costs, and declines in asset values and/or recognition of OTTI on securities held in our available-for-sale portfolio due to volatility or changes in interest
rates, foreign exchange rates and/or debt, equity and commodity prices;      

103   

our ability to sell more products to our existing customers through our cross-selling efforts;      

the effect of a fall in stock market prices on our investment banking business and our fee income from our brokerage, asset and wealth management
businesses;      

changes in the value of our venture capital investments;      

changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards or in how accounting standards are to be applied or interpreted;

mergers, acquisitions and divestitures;      

changes in the Company s credit ratings and changes in the credit quality of the Company s customers or counterparties;

reputational damage from negative publicity, protests, fines, penalties and other negative consequences from regulatory violations and legal actions;

a failure in or breach of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of our third party vendors and other service providers,
including as a result of cyber attacks;      

the loss of checking and savings account deposits to other investments such as the stock market, and the resulting

increase in our funding costs and impact on our net interest margin;      

fiscal and monetary policies of the FRB; and      

the other risk factors and uncertainties described under  Risk Factors  in this Report.      
  In addition to the above factors, we also caution that there is no assurance that our allowance for credit losses will be appropriate
to cover future credit losses, especially if housing prices decline and unemployment worsens. Increases in loan charge-offs or in the allowance for credit losses and related provision expense could materially adversely affect our financial results
and condition.      Any forward-looking statement made by us in this Report speaks only as of the date on which it is made.
Factors or events that could cause our actual results to differ may emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict all of them. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of
new information, future developments or otherwise, except as may be required by law.   

Risk Factors    

An investment in the Company involves risk, including the possibility that the value of the investment
could fall substantially and that dividends or other distributions on the investment could be reduced or eliminated. We discuss below risk factors that could adversely affect our financial results and condition, and the value of, and return on, an
investment in the Company.       RISKS RELATED TO THE ECONOMY, FINANCIAL MARKETS, INTEREST RATES AND LIQUIDITY    
   As one of the largest lenders in the U.S. and a provider of financial products and services to consumers and businesses across the U.S. and
internationally, our financial results have been, and will continue to be, materially affected by general economic conditions, particularly unemployment levels and home prices in the U.S., and a deterioration in economic conditions or in the
financial markets may materially adversely affect our lending and other businesses and our financial results and condition.  We generate revenue from the interest and fees we charge on the loans and other products and services we sell, and a
substantial amount of our revenue and earnings comes from the net interest income and fee income that we earn from our consumer and commercial lending and banking businesses, including our mortgage banking business where we currently are the largest
mortgage originator in the U.S. These businesses have been, and will continue to be, materially affected by the state of the U.S. economy, particularly unemployment levels and home prices. Although the U.S. economy has continued to gradually improve
from the depressed levels of 2008 and early 2009, economic growth has been slow and uneven. In addition, the negative effects and continued uncertainty stemming from the sovereign debt crisis and

economic difficulties in Europe, the slowdown in growth in Asia and certain other emerging growth markets, and U. S. fiscal and political matters, including concerns about deficit levels, taxes
and U.S. debt ratings, have impacted and may continue to impact the continuing global economic recovery. A prolonged period of slow growth in the global economy, particularly in the U.S., or any deterioration in general economic conditions and/or
the financial markets resulting from the above matters or any other events or factors that may disrupt or dampen the global economic recovery ,  could materially adversely affect our financial results and condition.   
  Despite the improved U.S. economy the housing market continues a slow recovery, the unemployment rate remains high and nonperforming
asset levels, which have adversely affected our credit performance, financial results and condition remain higher than normal. If unemployment levels worsen or if home prices fall we would expect to incur elevated charge-offs and provision expense
from increases in our allowance for credit losses. These conditions may adversely affect not only consumer loan performance but also commercial and CRE loans, especially for those business borrowers that rely on the health of industries that may
experience deteriorating economic conditions. The ability of these and other borrowers to repay their loans may deteriorate, causing us, as one of the largest commercial lenders and the largest CRE lender in the U.S., to incur significantly higher
credit losses. In addition, weak or deteriorating economic conditions make it more challenging for us to increase our consumer and commercial loan portfolios by making loans to creditworthy borrowers at attractive yields. Although we have
significant capacity to add loans to our balance sheet, loan demand, especially consumer loan demand, has been soft resulting in our retaining a much higher amount of lower yielding liquid assets on our balance sheet. If economic conditions do not
continue to improve or if the economy worsens   

104   

Risk Factors    (continued)       

and unemployment rises, which also would likely result in a decrease in consumer and business confidence and spending, the demand for our credit products, including our mortgages, may fall,
reducing our interest and noninterest income and our earnings.      A deterioration in business and economic conditions, which
may erode consumer and investor confidence levels, and/or increased volatility of financial markets, also could adversely affect financial results for our fee-based businesses, including our investment advisory, mutual fund, securities brokerage,
wealth management, and investment banking businesses. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 22% of our revenue was fee income, which included trust and investment fees, card fees and other fees. We earn fee income from managing assets for
others and providing brokerage and other investment advisory and wealth management services. Because investment management fees are often based on the value of assets under management, a fall in the market prices of those assets could reduce our fee
income. Changes in stock market prices could affect the trading activity of investors, reducing commissions and other fees we earn from our brokerage business. Poor economic conditions and volatile or unstable financial markets also can negatively
affect our debt and equity underwriting and advisory businesses, as well as our trading and venture capital businesses. Any deterioration in global financial markets and economies, including as a result of Europe s sovereign debt crisis or any
international political unrest or disturbances, may adversely affect the revenues and earnings of our international operations, particularly our global financial institution and correspondent banking services.   
  For more information, refer to the  Risk Management   Asset/Liability Management  and    Credit Risk
Management  sections in this Report.       Changes in interest rates and financial market values could reduce our net interest income and
earnings, including as a result of recognizing losses or OTTI on the securities that we hold in our portfolio or trade for our customers.  Our net interest income is the interest we earn on loans, debt securities and other assets we hold less the
interest we pay on our deposits, long-term and short-term debt, and other liabilities. Net interest income is a measure of both our net interest margin   the difference between the yield we earn on our assets and the interest rate we pay for
deposits and our other sources of funding   and the amount of earning assets we hold. Changes in either our net interest margin or the amount or mix of earning assets we hold could affect our net interest income and our earnings. Changes in
interest rates can affect our net interest margin. Although the yield we earn on our assets and our funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response to changes in interest rates, one can rise or fall faster than the other, causing our
net interest margin to expand or contract. Our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, so they may adjust faster in response to changes in interest rates. When interest rates rise, our funding costs may rise faster than the yield
we earn on our assets, causing our net interest margin to contract until the asset yield increases.

The amount and type of earning assets we hold can affect our yield and net interest
margin. We hold earning assets in the form of loans and investment securities, among other assets. As noted above, if the economy worsens we may see lower demand for loans by creditworthy customers, reducing our net interest income and yield. In
addition, our net interest income and net interest margin can be negatively affected by a prolonged low interest rate environment, which as noted below is currently being experienced as a result of economic conditions and FRB monetary policies, as
it may result in us holding short-term lower yielding loans and securities on our balance sheet, particularly if we are unable to replace the maturing higher yielding assets, including the loans in our non-strategic and liquidating loan portfolio,
with similar higher yielding assets. Increases in interest rates, however, may negatively affect loan demand and could result in higher credit losses as borrowers may have more difficulty making higher interest payments. As described below, changes
in interest rates also affect our mortgage business, including the value of our MSRs.      Changes in the slope of the
 yield curve    or the spread between short-term and long-term interest rates   could also reduce our net interest margin. Normally, the yield curve is upward sloping, meaning short-term rates are lower than long-term rates.
Because our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, when the yield curve flattens, as is the case in the current interest rate environment, or even inverts, our net interest margin could decrease as our cost of funds increases
relative to the yield we can earn on our assets.      The interest we earn on our loans may be tied to U.S.-denominated interest
rates such as the federal funds rate while the interest we pay on our debt may be based on international rates such as LIBOR. If the federal funds rate were to fall without a corresponding decrease in LIBOR, we might earn less on our loans without
any offsetting decrease in our funding costs. This could lower our net interest margin and our net interest income.      We
assess our interest rate risk by estimating the effect on our earnings under various scenarios that differ based on assumptions about the direction, magnitude and speed of interest rate changes and the slope of the yield curve. We hedge some of that
interest rate risk with interest rate derivatives. We also rely on the  natural hedge  that our mortgage loan originations and servicing rights can provide.      We generally do not hedge all of our interest rate risk. There is always the risk that changes in interest rates could reduce our net interest income and our earnings in material amounts, especially if
actual conditions turn out to be materially different than what we assumed. For example, if interest rates rise or fall faster than we assumed or the slope of the yield curve changes, we may incur significant losses on debt securities we hold as
investments. To reduce our interest rate risk, we may rebalance our investment and loan portfolios, refinance our debt and take other strategic actions. We may incur losses when we take such actions.   
  We hold securities in our available-for-sale portfolio, including U.S. Treasury and federal agency securities and federal agency MBS,
securities of U.S. states and political subdivisions, residential and commercial MBS, corporate debt securities, and marketable equity securities, including securities relating to our

105   

venture capital activities. We analyze securities held in our available-for-sale portfolio for OTTI on at least a quarterly basis. The process for determining whether impairment is other than
temporary usually requires difficult, subjective judgments about the future financial performance of the issuer and any collateral underlying the security in order to assess the probability of receiving contractual principal and interest payments on
the security. Because of changing economic and market conditions, as well as credit ratings, affecting issuers and the performance of the underlying collateral, we may be required to recognize OTTI in future periods. Our net income also is exposed
to changes in interest rates, credit spreads, foreign exchange rates, equity and commodity prices in connection with our trading activities, which are conducted primarily to accommodate our customers in the management of their market price risk, as
well as when we take positions based on market expectations or to benefit from differences between financial instruments and markets. The securities held in these activities are carried at fair value with realized and unrealized gains and losses
recorded in noninterest income. As part of our business to support our customers, we trade public securities and these securities also are subject to market fluctuations with gains and losses recognized in net income when realized and periodically
include OTTI charges. Although we have processes in place to measure and monitor the risks associated with our trading activities, including stress testing and hedging strategies, there can be no assurance that our processes and strategies will be
effective in avoiding losses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.      The value of our public and
private equity investments can fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Certain of these investments are carried under the cost or equity method, while others are carried at fair value with unrealized gains and losses reflected in earnings. Earnings
from our equity investments may be volatile and hard to predict, and may have a significant effect on our earnings from period to period. When, and if, we recognize gains may depend on a number of factors, including general economic and market
conditions, the prospects of the companies in which we invest, when a company goes public, the size of our position relative to the public float, and whether we are subject to any resale restrictions.   
  Our venture capital investments could result in significant OTTI losses for those investments carried under the cost or equity method.
Our assessment for OTTI is based on a number of factors, including the then current market value of each investment compared with its carrying value. If we determine there is OTTI for an investment, we write-down the carrying value of the
investment, resulting in a charge to earnings. The amount of this charge could be significant.      For more information, refer
to the  Risk Management   Asset/Liability Management   Interest Rate Risk ,    Market Risk   Equity Markets , and    Market Risk   Trading Activities  and the  Balance Sheet Analysis
  Securities Available for Sale  sections in this Report and Note 5 (Securities Available for Sale) to Financial Statements in this Report.

Effective liquidity management, which ensures that we can meet customer loan requests, customer deposit
maturities/withdrawals and other cash commitments,   including principal and interest payments on our debt, efficiently under both normal operating conditions and other unpredictable circumstances of industry or financial market stress, is
essential for the operation of our business, and our financial results and condition could be materially adversely affected if we do not effectively manage our liquidity.  Our liquidity is essential for the operation of our business. We primarily
rely on bank deposits to be a low cost and stable source of funding for the loans we make and the operation of our business. Core customer deposits, which include noninterest-bearing deposits, interest-bearing checking, savings certificates, certain
market rate and other savings, and certain foreign deposits, have historically provided us with a sizeable source of relatively stable and low-cost funds. In addition to customer deposits, our sources of liquidity include investments in our
securities portfolio, our ability to sell or securitize loans in secondary markets and to pledge loans to access secured borrowing facilities through the FHLB and the FRB, and our ability to raise funds in domestic and international money and
capital markets.      Our liquidity and our ability to fund and run our business could be materially adversely affected by a
variety of conditions and factors, including financial and credit market disruption and volatility or a lack of market or customer confidence in financial markets in general similar to what occurred during the financial crisis in 2008 and early
2009, which may result in a loss of customer deposits or outflows of cash or collateral and/or our inability to access capital markets on favorable terms. Market disruption and volatility could impact our credit spreads, which are the amount in
excess of the interest rate of U.S. Treasury securities, or other benchmark securities, of the same maturity that we need to pay to our funding providers. Increases in interest rates and our credit spreads could significantly increase our funding
costs. Other conditions and factors that could materially adversely affect our liquidity and funding include a lack of market or customer confidence in the Company or negative news about the Company or the financial services industry generally which
also may result in a loss of deposits and/or negatively affect our ability to access the capital markets; our inability to sell or securitize loans or other assets, and, as described below, reductions in one or more of our credit ratings. Many of
the above conditions and factors may be caused by events over which we have little or no control. While market conditions have continued to improve since the financial crisis, there can be no assurance that significant disruption and volatility in
the financial markets will not occur in the future. For example, in the summer of 2011 concerns regarding the potential failure to raise the U.S. government debt limit and the eventual downgrade of U.S. government debt ratings and the so called
 fiscal cliff  concerns in the second half of 2012 associated with the possibility of U.S. spending cuts and tax increases, which were scheduled to go into effect on January 1, 2013, caused uncertainty and some volatility in financial
markets. A failure to raise the U.S. debt limit in the future and/or additional downgrades of the sovereign debt ratings of the U.S. government or the debt ratings of related institutions, agencies or instrumentalities, as well as other fiscal or
political events could, in addition to causing economic and financial market

106   

Risk Factors    (continued)       

disruptions, materially adversely affect the market value of the U.S. government securities that we hold, the availability of those securities as collateral for borrowing, and our ability to
access capital markets on favorable terms, as well as have other material adverse effects on the operation of our business and our financial results and condition.      As noted above, we rely heavily on bank deposits for our funding and liquidity. We compete with banks and other financial services companies for deposits. If our competitors raise the rates they pay on
deposits our funding costs may increase, either because we raise our rates to avoid losing deposits or because we lose deposits and must rely on more expensive sources of funding. Higher funding costs reduce our net interest margin and net interest
income. Checking and savings account balances and other forms of customer deposits may decrease when customers perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market, as providing a better risk/return tradeoff. When customers move money out of
bank deposits and into other investments, we may lose a relatively low cost source of funds, increasing our funding costs and negatively affecting our liquidity.      If we are unable to continue to fund our assets through customer bank deposits or access capital markets on favorable terms or if we suffer an increase in our borrowing costs or otherwise fail to manage
our liquidity effectively, our liquidity, net interest margin, financial results and condition may be materially adversely affected. As we did during the financial crisis, we may also need, or be required by our regulators, to raise additional
capital through the issuance of common stock, which could dilute the ownership of existing stockholders, or reduce or even eliminate our common stock dividend to preserve capital or in order to raise additional capital.   
  For more information, refer to the  Risk Management   Asset/Liability Management  section in this Report.   
   Adverse changes in our credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, cash flows, financial results and condition.  Our
borrowing costs and ability to obtain funding are influenced by our credit ratings. Reductions in one or more of our credit ratings could adversely affect our ability to borrow funds and raise the costs of our borrowings substantially and could
cause creditors and business counterparties to raise collateral requirements or take other actions that could adversely affect our ability to raise funding. Credit ratings and credit ratings agencies  outlooks are based on the ratings
agencies  analysis of many quantitative and qualitative factors, such as our capital adequacy, the level and quality of our earnings, rating agency assumptions regarding the probability and extent of federal financial assistance or support, and
other rating agency specific criteria. In addition to credit ratings, our borrowing costs are affected by various other external factors, including market volatility and concerns or perceptions about the financial services industry generally.
     On June 1, 2012, DBRS confirmed both the Parent s and Wells Fargo Bank s long-term and short-term debt
ratings, including the stable trend. On June 22, 2012, Moody s affirmed both the Parent s and Wells Fargo Bank s long-term and short-term debt ratings and changed the outlook on Wells Fargo Bank

to stable from negative while affirming the negative outlook for the Parent. The different outlooks reflect Moody s view on the likely regulatory approach to the resolution of large
financial institutions, specifically the contrasting likelihood of support for creditors of holding companies as compared to support for creditors of banks. On September 12, 2012, S P affirmed both the Parent s and Wells Fargo
Bank s long-term and short-term debt ratings, including the negative outlook, which outlook reflects S P s outlook on the U.S. sovereign ratings and the one notch of support factored into our ratings. On October 30, 2012, Fitch
Ratings affirmed both the Parent s and Wells Fargo Bank s long-term and short-term debt ratings and maintained a stable outlook on those ratings. There can be no assurance, however, that we will maintain our credit ratings and outlooks and
that credit ratings downgrades in the future would not materially affect our ability to borrow funds and borrowing costs.   
  Downgrades in our credit ratings also may trigger additional collateral or funding obligations which could negatively affect our
liquidity, including as a result of credit-related contingent features in certain of our derivative contracts. Although a one or two notch downgrade in our current credit ratings would not be expected to trigger a material increase in our collateral
or funding obligations, a more severe credit rating downgrade of our long-term and short-term credit ratings could increase our collateral or funding obligations and the effect on our liquidity could be material. For information regarding additional
collateral and funding obligations required of certain derivative instruments in the event our credit ratings were to fall below investment grade, see Note 16 (Derivatives) to Financial Statements in this Report.   
   We rely on dividends from our subsidiaries for liquidity, and federal and state law can limit those dividends.  Wells Fargo   Company, the
parent holding company, is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. It receives a significant portion of its funding and liquidity from dividends and other distributions from its subsidiaries. We generally use these dividends and
distributions, among other things, to pay dividends on our common and preferred stock and interest and principal on our debt. Federal and state laws limit the amount of dividends and distributions that our bank and some of our nonbank subsidiaries,
including our broker-dealer subsidiaries, may pay to our parent holding company. Also, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the
subsidiary s creditors.      For more information, refer to the  Regulation and Supervision   Dividend
Restrictions  and    Holding Company Structure  sections in our 2012 Form 10-K and to Note 3 (Cash, Loan and Dividend Restrictions) and Note 26 (Regulatory and Agency Capital Requirements) to Financial Statements in this Report.
      RISKS RELATED TO FINANCIAL REGULATORY REFORM AND OTHER LEGISLATION AND REGULATIONS    
   Enacted legislation and regulation, including the Dodd-Frank Act, as well as future legislation and/or

107   

regulation, could require us to change certain of our business practices, reduce our revenue and earnings, impose additional costs on us or otherwise adversely affect our business operations
and/or competitive position.  Our parent company, our subsidiary banks and many of our nonbank subsidiaries such as those related to our retail brokerage and mutual fund businesses, are subject to significant regulation under state and federal
laws in the U.S., as well as the applicable laws of the various jurisdictions outside of the U.S. where we conduct business. These regulations protect depositors, federal deposit insurance funds, consumers, investors and the banking and financial
system as a whole, not necessarily our stockholders. Economic, market and political conditions during the past few years have led to a significant amount of new legislation and regulation in the U.S. and abroad. These laws and regulations may affect
the manner in which we do business and the products and services that we provide, affect or restrict our ability to compete in our current businesses or our ability to enter into or acquire new businesses, reduce or limit our revenue in businesses
or impose additional fees, assessments or taxes on us, intensify the regulatory supervision of us and the financial services industry, and adversely affect our business operations or have other negative consequences.   
  On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act, the most significant financial reform legislation since the 1930s, became law. The Dodd-Frank
Act, among other things, (i) established the Financial Stability Oversight Council to monitor systemic risk posed by financial firms and imposes additional and enhanced FRB regulations, including capital and liquidity requirements, on certain
large, interconnected bank holding companies such as Wells Fargo and systemically significant nonbanking firms intended to promote financial stability; (ii) creates a liquidation framework for the resolution of covered financial companies, the
costs of which would be paid through assessments on surviving covered financial companies; (iii) makes significant changes to the structure of bank and bank holding company regulation and activities in a variety of areas, including prohibiting
proprietary trading and private fund investment activities, subject to certain exceptions; (iv) creates a new framework for the regulation of over-the-counter derivatives and new regulations for the securitization market and strengthens the
regulatory oversight of securities and capital markets by the SEC; (v) established the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) within the FRB, which has sweeping powers to administer and enforce a new federal regulatory framework of
consumer financial regulation; (vi) may limit the existing pre-emption of state laws with respect to the application of such laws to national banks, makes federal pre-emption no longer applicable to operating subsidiaries of national banks, and
gives state authorities, under certain circumstances, the ability to enforce state laws and federal consumer regulations against national banks; (vii) provides for increased regulation of residential mortgage activities; (viii) revised the
FDIC s assessment base for deposit insurance by changing from an assessment base defined by deposit liabilities to a risk-based system based on total assets; (ix) phases out over three years beginning January 2013 the Tier 1 capital
treatment of trust preferred securities; (x) permitted banks to pay interest on business checking accounts beginning on July 1, 2011; (xi)

authorized the FRB under the Durbin Amendment to adopt regulations that limit debit card interchange fees received by debit card issuers; and (xii) includes several corporate governance and
executive compensation provisions and requirements, including mandating an advisory stockholder vote on executive compensation.      The Dodd-Frank Act and many of its provisions became effective in July 2010 and July 2011. However, a number of its provisions still require extensive rulemaking, guidance, and interpretation by
regulatory authorities. Accordingly, in many respects the ultimate impact of the Dodd-Frank Act and its effects on the U.S. financial system and the Company still remain uncertain. Nevertheless, the Dodd-Frank Act, including current and future rules
implementing its provisions and the interpretation of those rules, could result in a loss of revenue, require us to change certain of our business practices, limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities, increase our capital
requirements and impose additional assessments and costs on us and otherwise adversely affect our business operations and have other negative consequences.      Our consumer businesses, including our mortgage, credit card and other consumer lending and non-lending businesses, may be negatively affected by the activities of the CFPB, which has broad rulemaking
powers and supervisory authority over consumer financial products and services. Although the full impact of the CFPB on our businesses is uncertain, the CFPB s activities may increase our compliance costs and require changes in our business
practices as a result of new regulations and requirements which could limit or negatively affect the products and services that we currently offer our customers. As a result of greater regulatory scrutiny of our consumer businesses, we also may
become subject to more or expanded regulatory examinations and/or investigations, which also could result in increased costs and harm to our reputation in the event of a failure to comply with the increased regulatory requirements.   
  The Dodd-Frank Act s proposed prohibitions or limitations on proprietary trading and private fund investment activities, known as
the  Volcker Rule,  also may reduce our revenue and earnings, although proprietary trading has not been significant to our financial results. Although rules to implement the requirements of the Volcker Rule were proposed in 2011, final
rules have not yet been issued, and the ultimate impact of the Volcker Rule on our investment activities, including our venture capital business, is uncertain.      Money market mutual fund reform is also currently being evaluated. The Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC) proposed new regulations to address the perceived risks that money market mutual funds
may pose to the financial stability of the United States. These proposals include implementation of floating net asset value requirements, redemption holdback provisions, and capital buffer requirements and would be in addition to regulatory changes
made by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to the market in January 2010. Once the FSOC adopts final recommendations, the SEC must either implement the recommendations or explain in writing the reasons the recommendations were not adopted.
The SEC has publicly stated that it is working on its own reform proposals independent of the FSOC s rulemaking process. Until final

108   

Risk Factors    (continued)       

regulations are adopted, the ultimate effect on our business and financial results remains uncertain.      Other future regulatory initiatives that could significantly affect our business include proposals to reform the housing finance market in the United States. These proposals, among other things, consider
winding down the GSEs and reducing or eliminating over time the role of the GSEs in guaranteeing mortgages and providing funding for mortgage loans, as well as the implementation of reforms relating to borrowers, lenders, and investors in the
mortgage market, including reducing the maximum size of a loan that the GSEs can guarantee, phasing in a minimum down payment requirement for borrowers, improving underwriting standards, and increasing accountability and transparency in the
securitization process. Congress also may consider the adoption of legislation to reform the mortgage financing market in an effort to assist borrowers experiencing difficulty in making mortgage payments or refinancing their mortgages. The extent
and timing of any regulatory reform or the adoption of any legislation regarding the GSEs and/or the home mortgage market, as well as any effect on the Company s business and financial results, are uncertain.   
  Any other future legislation and/or regulation, if adopted, also could significantly change our regulatory environment and increase our
cost of doing business, limit the activities we may pursue or affect the competitive balance among banks, savings associations, credit unions, and other financial services companies, and have a material adverse effect on our financial results and
condition.      For more information, refer to the  Regulatory Reform  section in this Report and the  Regulation
and Supervision  section in our 2012 Form 10-K.       Bank regulations, including Basel capital and liquidity standards and FRB guidelines
and rules, may require higher capital and liquidity levels, limiting our ability to pay common stock dividends, repurchase our common stock, invest in our business or provide loans to our customers. Federal banking regulators continually monitor the
capital position of banks and bank holding companies.  In December 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS) finalized a set of international guidelines for determining regulatory capital known as Basel III. These guidelines are
designed to address many of the weaknesses identified in the banking sector as contributing to the financial crisis of 2008 and 2009 by, among other things, increasing minimum capital requirements, increasing the quality of capital, increasing the
risk coverage of the capital framework, and increasing standards for the supervisory review process and public disclosure. When fully phased in, the Basel III guidelines require bank holding companies to maintain a minimum ratio of Tier 1 common
equity to risk-weighted assets of at least 7.0%. The BCBS has also proposed certain liquidity coverage and funding ratios. The BCBS liquidity framework was initially proposed in 2010 and included a liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) to measure the stock
of high-quality liquid assets to total net cash outflows over the next 30 calendar day period. The BCBS recently

published revisions to the LCR, including revisions to the definitions of high quality liquid assets and net cash outflows. As originally proposed, the LCR would be introduced on January 1,
2015, but the revisions provided for phased-in implementation over a four year period beginning January 1, 2015, with full phase-in on January 1, 2019.      In June 2011, the BCBS proposed additional Tier 1 common equity surcharge requirements for global systemically important banks (G-SIBs) ranging from 1.0% to 3.5% depending on the bank s systemic
importance to be determined based on certain factors. This new capital surcharge, which would be phased in beginning in January 2016 and become fully effective on January 1, 2019, would be in addition to the Basel III 7.0% Tier 1 common equity
requirement proposed in December 2010. The Financial Stability Board (FSB), in an updated list published in November 2012 based on year-end 2011 data, identified the Company as one of 28 G-SIBs and provisionally determined that the Company s
surcharge would be 1%. The FSB may revise the list of G-SIBs and their required surcharges prior to implementation based on additional or future data.      U.S. regulatory authorities have been considering the BCBS capital guidelines and related proposals, and in June 2012, the U.S. banking regulators jointly issued three notices of proposed rulemaking that
are essentially intended to implement the BCBS capital guidelines for U.S. banks. Together these notices of proposed rulemaking would, among other things:   

implement in the United States the Basel III regulatory capital reforms including those that revise the definition of capital, increase minimum capital
ratios, and introduce a minimum Tier 1 common equity ratio of 4.5% and a capital conservation buffer of 2.5% (for a total minimum Tier 1 common equity ratio of 7.0%) and a potential countercyclical buffer of up to 2.5%, which would be imposed by
regulators at their discretion if it is determined that a period of excessive credit growth is contributing to an increase in systemic risk;      

revise  Basel I  rules for calculating risk-weighted assets to enhance risk sensitivity;      

modify the existing Basel II advanced approaches rules for calculating risk-weighted assets to implement Basel III; and      

comply with the Dodd-Frank Act provision prohibiting the reliance on external credit ratings.      
  The notices of proposed rulemaking did not implement the capital surcharge proposals for G-SIBs or the proposed Basel III liquidity
standards. U.S. regulatory authorities have indicated that these proposals will be addressed at a later date. The ultimate impact of all of these proposals on our capital and liquidity will depend on final rulemaking and regulatory interpretation of
the rules as we, along with our regulatory authorities, apply the final rules during the implementation process.      As part of
its obligation to impose enhanced capital and risk-management standards on large financial firms pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the FRB issued a final capital plan rule that became effective December 30, 2011. The final capital plan rule
requires top-tier U.S. bank holding companies, including the Company, to submit annual capital plans for review and to obtain regulatory approval before making capital distributions. There can be no assurance that the FRB would respond favorably to
the Company s future capital plans. In December 2011, the   

FRB proposed rules under the Dodd-Frank Act that will impose enhanced prudential standards on large bank holding companies such as the Company, including enhanced capital, stress testing, and
liquidity requirements and early remediation requirements that would impose capital distribution restrictions upon the occurrence of capital, stress test, risk management, or liquidity risk management triggers. Although the stress testing
requirements were finalized in October 2012, the remaining requirements of the December 2011 FRB proposals have not been finalized.      The Basel standards and FRB regulatory capital and liquidity requirements may limit or otherwise restrict how we utilize our capital, including common stock dividends and stock repurchases, and may
require us to increase our capital and/or liquidity. Any requirement that we increase our regulatory capital, regulatory capital ratios or liquidity could require us to liquidate assets or otherwise change our business and/or investment plans, which
may negatively affect our financial results. Although not currently anticipated, the proposed Basel capital requirements and/or our regulators may require us to raise additional capital in the future. Issuing additional common stock may dilute the
ownership of existing stockholders.      For more information, refer to the  Capital Management  and  Regulatory
Reform  sections in this Report and the  Regulation and Supervision  section of our 2012 Form 10-K.       FRB policies, including
policies on interest rates, can significantly affect business and economic conditions and our financial results and condition.  The FRB regulates the supply of money in the United States. Its policies determine in large part our cost of funds for
lending and investing and the return we earn on those loans and investments, both of which affect our net interest income and net interest margin. The FRB s interest rate policies also can materially affect the value of financial instruments we
hold, such as debt securities and MSRs. In addition, its policies can affect our borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. Changes in FRB policies are beyond our control and can be hard to predict. As a
result of the FRB s concerns regarding, among other things, continued slow economic growth, the FRB recently indicated that it intends to keep the target range for the federal funds rate near zero until the unemployment rate falls to at least
6.5%. The FRB also may continue to increase its purchases of U.S. government and mortgage-backed securities or take other actions in an effort to reduce or maintain low long-term interest rates. As noted above, a declining or low interest rate
environment and a flattening yield curve which may result from the FRB s actions could negatively affect our net interest income and net interest margin as it may result in us holding lower yielding loans and investment securities on our
balance sheet.       RISKS RELATED TO CREDIT AND OUR MORTGAGE BUSINESS        As one of the largest lenders in the U.S., increased credit risk, including as a result of a deterioration in economic conditions, could require us to increase our provision for credit losses and
allowance for credit   losses and could have 

a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.  When we loan money or commit to loan money we incur credit risk, or the risk of losses if our borrowers do
not repay their loans. As one of the largest lenders in the U.S., the credit performance of our loan portfolios significantly affects our financial results and condition. As noted above, if the current economic environment were to deteriorate, more
of our customers may have difficulty in repaying their loans or other obligations which could result in a higher level of credit losses and provision for credit losses. We reserve for credit losses by establishing an allowance through a charge to
earnings. The amount of this allowance is based on our assessment of credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio (including unfunded credit commitments). The process for determining the amount of the allowance is critical to our financial results
and condition. It requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments about the future, including forecasts of economic or market conditions that might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. We might increase the allowance
because of changing economic conditions, including falling home prices and higher unemployment, or other factors. For example, the regulatory environment or external factors, such as Super Storm Sandy, also can influence recognition of credit losses
in the portfolio and our allowance for credit losses.      Reflecting the continued improved credit performance in our loan
portfolios, our provision for credit losses was $1.8 billion and $3.4 billion less than net charge-offs in 2012 and 2011, respectively, which had a positive effect on our earnings. Absent significant deterioration in the economy, we expect
future allowance releases in 2013, although at more modest levels. While we believe that our allowance for credit losses was appropriate at December 31, 2012, there is no assurance that it will be sufficient to cover future credit losses,
especially if housing and employment conditions worsen. In the event of significant deterioration in economic conditions, we may be required to build reserves in future periods, which would reduce our earnings.   
  For more information, refer to the  Risk Management   Credit Risk Management  and  Critical Accounting Policies
  Allowance for Credit Losses  sections in this Report.       We may have more credit risk and higher credit losses to the extent our
loans are concentrated by loan type, industry segment, borrower type, or location of the borrower or collateral.  Our credit risk and credit losses can increase if our loans are concentrated to borrowers engaged in the same or similar activities
or to borrowers who as a group may be uniquely or disproportionately affected by economic or market conditions. We experienced the effect of concentration risk in 2009 and 2010 when we incurred greater than expected losses in our residential real
estate loan portfolio due to a housing slowdown and greater than expected deterioration in residential real estate values in many markets, including the Central Valley California market and several Southern California metropolitan statistical areas.
As California is our largest banking state in terms of loans and deposits, deterioration in real estate values and underlying economic conditions in those markets or elsewhere in California could result in materially

110   

Risk Factors    (continued)       

higher credit losses. In addition, deterioration in macro-economic conditions generally across the country could result in materially higher credit losses, including for our residential real
estate loan portfolio. We may experience higher delinquencies and higher loss rates as our consumer real estate secured lines of credit reach their contractual end of draw period and begin to amortize.   
  We are currently the largest CRE lender in the U.S. A deterioration in economic conditions that negatively affects the business
performance of our CRE borrowers, including increases in interest rates and/or declines in commercial property values, could result in materially higher credit losses and have a material adverse effect on our financial results and condition.
     The European debt crisis, which has resulted in deteriorating economic conditions in Europe and ratings agency downgrades of
the sovereign debt ratings of several European countries, has increased foreign credit risk. Although our foreign loan exposure represented only approximately 5% of our total consolidated outstanding loans and 3% of our total assets at
December 31, 2012, continued European economic difficulties could indirectly have a material adverse effect on our credit performance and results of operations and financial condition to the extent it negatively affects the U.S. economy
and/or our borrowers who have foreign operations.      For more information, refer to the  Risk Management   Credit
Risk Management  section and Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report.       We may incur
losses on loans, securities and other acquired assets of Wachovia that are materially greater than reflected in our fair value adjustments.  We accounted for the Wachovia merger under the purchase method of accounting, recording the acquired
assets and liabilities of Wachovia at fair value. All PCI loans acquired in the merger were recorded at fair value based on the present value of their expected cash flows. We estimated cash flows using internal credit, interest rate and prepayment
risk models using assumptions about matters that are inherently uncertain. We may not realize the estimated cash flows or fair value of these loans. In addition, although the difference between the pre-merger carrying value of the credit-impaired
loans and their expected cash flows   the  nonaccretable difference    is available to absorb future charge-offs, we may be required to increase our allowance for credit losses and related provision expense because of subsequent
additional credit deterioration in these loans.      For more information, refer to the  Critical Accounting Policies  
Purchased Credit-Impaired (PCI) Loans  and  Risk Management   Credit Risk Management  sections in this Report.       Our
mortgage banking revenue can be volatile from quarter to quarter, including as a result of changes in interest rates and the value of our MSRs and MHFS, and we rely on the GSEs to purchase our conforming loans to reduce our credit risk and provide
liquidity to fund new mortgage loans.  We were the largest mortgage originator and residential mortgage servicer in the U.S. as of December 31, 2012, and we earn revenue from fees we receive for originating mortgage loans and for servicing
mortgage loans. As a result of our mortgage servicing business, we have a sizeable

portfolio of MSRs. An MSR is the right to service a mortgage loan   collect principal, interest and escrow amounts   for a fee. We acquire MSRs when we keep the servicing rights after
we sell or securitize the loans we have originated or when we purchase the servicing rights to mortgage loans originated by other lenders. We initially measure and carry all our residential MSRs using the fair value measurement method. Fair value is
the present value of estimated future net servicing income, calculated based on a number of variables, including assumptions about the likelihood of prepayment by borrowers. Changes in interest rates can affect prepayment assumptions and thus fair
value. When interest rates fall, borrowers are usually more likely to prepay their mortgage loans by refinancing them at a lower rate. As the likelihood of prepayment increases, the fair value of our MSRs can decrease. Each quarter we evaluate the
fair value of our MSRs, and any decrease in fair value reduces earnings in the period in which the decrease occurs. We also measure at fair value prime MHFS for which an active secondary market and readily available market prices exist. In addition,
we measure at fair value certain other interests we hold related to residential loan sales and securitizations. Similar to other interest-bearing securities, the value of these MHFS and other interests may be negatively affected by changes in
interest rates. For example, if market interest rates increase relative to the yield on these MHFS and other interests, their fair value may fall.      When rates rise, the demand for mortgage loans usually tends to fall, reducing the revenue we receive from loan originations. Under the same conditions, revenue from our MSRs can increase through
increases in fair value. When rates fall, mortgage originations usually tend to increase and the value of our MSRs usually tends to decline, also with some offsetting revenue effect. Even though they can act as a  natural hedge,  the hedge
is not perfect, either in amount or timing. For example, the negative effect on revenue from a decrease in the fair value of residential MSRs is generally immediate, but any offsetting revenue benefit from more originations and the MSRs relating to
the new loans would generally accrue over time. It is also possible that, because of economic conditions and/or a weak or deteriorating housing market similar to current market conditions, even if interest rates were to fall or remain low, mortgage
originations may also fall or any increase in mortgage originations may not be enough to offset the decrease in the MSRs value caused by the lower rates.      We typically use derivatives and other instruments to hedge our mortgage banking interest rate risk. We generally do not hedge all of our risk, and we may not be successful in hedging any of the risk.
Hedging is a complex process, requiring sophisticated models and constant monitoring, and is not a perfect science. We may use hedging instruments tied to U.S. Treasury rates, LIBOR or Eurodollars that may not perfectly correlate with the value or
income being hedged. We could incur significant losses from our hedging activities. There may be periods where we elect not to use derivatives and other instruments to hedge mortgage banking interest rate risk.   
  We rely on GSEs to purchase mortgage loans that meet their conforming loan requirements and on other capital markets investors to
purchase loans that do not meet those requirements   referred to as  nonconforming  loans. During the past few

111   

years investor demand for nonconforming loans has fallen sharply, increasing credit spreads and reducing the liquidity for those loans. In response to the reduced liquidity in the capital
markets, we may retain more nonconforming loans. When we retain a loan not only do we forgo fee revenue and keep the credit risk of the loan but we also do not receive any sale proceeds that could be used to generate new loans. Continued lack of
liquidity could limit our ability to fund   and thus originate   new mortgage loans, reducing the fees we earn from originating and servicing loans. In addition, we cannot assure that GSEs will not materially limit their purchases of
conforming loans, including because of capital constraints, or change their criteria for conforming loans (e.g., maximum loan amount or borrower eligibility). Each of the GSEs is currently in conservatorship, with its primary regulator, the Federal
Housing Agency acting as conservator. We cannot predict if, when or how the conservatorship will end, or any associated changes to the GSEs business structure and operations that could result. As noted above, there are various proposals to reform
the housing finance market in the U.S., including the role of the GSEs in the housing finance market. The extent and timing of any such regulatory reform regarding the housing finance market and the GSEs, including whether the GSEs will continue to
exist in their current form, as well as any effect on the Company s business and financial results, are uncertain.      For
more information, refer to the  Risk Management   Asset/Liability Management   Mortgage Banking Interest Rate and Market Risk  and  Critical Accounting Policies  sections in this Report.   
   We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or reimburse investors and others as a result of breaches in contractual representations and
warranties.  We sell residential mortgage loans to various parties, including GSEs, SPEs that issue private label MBS, and other financial institutions that purchase mortgage loans for investment or private label securitization. We may also pool
FHA-insured and VA-guaranteed mortgage loans which back securities guaranteed by GNMA. The agreements under which we sell mortgage loans and the insurance or guaranty agreements with the FHA and VA contain various representations and warranties
regarding the origination and characteristics of the mortgage loans, including ownership of the loan, compliance with loan criteria set forth in the applicable agreement, validity of the lien securing the loan, absence of delinquent taxes or liens
against the property securing the loan, and compliance with applicable origination laws. We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans, indemnify the securitization trust, investor or insurer, or reimburse the securitization trust, investor or
insurer for credit losses incurred on loans in the event of a breach of contractual representations or warranties that is not remedied within a period (usually 90 days or less) after we receive notice of the breach. Contracts for mortgage loan
sales to the GSEs include various types of specific remedies and penalties that could be applied to inadequate responses to repurchase requests. Similarly, the agreements under which we sell mortgage loans require us to deliver various documents to
the securitization trust or investor, and we may be obligated to repurchase any

mortgage loan as to which the required documents are not delivered or are defective. We may negotiate global settlements in order to resolve a pipeline of demands in lieu of repurchasing the
loans. We establish a mortgage repurchase liability related to the various representations and warranties that reflect management s estimate of losses for loans which we have a repurchase obligation. Our mortgage repurchase liability represents
management s best estimate of the probable loss that we may expect to incur for the representations and warranties in the contractual provisions of our sales of mortgage loans. Because the level of mortgage loan repurchase losses depends upon
economic factors, investor demand strategies and other external conditions that may change over the life of the underlying loans, the level of the liability for mortgage loan repurchase losses is difficult to estimate and requires considerable
management judgment. As a result of the uncertainty in the various estimates underlying the mortgage repurchase liability, there is a range of losses in excess of the recorded mortgage repurchase liability that are reasonably possible. The estimate
of the range of possible loss for representations and warranties does not represent a probable loss, and is based on currently available information, significant judgment, and a number of assumptions that are subject to change. If economic
conditions and the housing market do not continue to improve or future investor repurchase demand and our success at appealing repurchase requests differ from past experience, we could continue to have increased repurchase obligations and increased
loss severity on repurchases, requiring material additions to the repurchase liability.      For more information, refer to the
 Risk Management   Credit Risk Management   Liability for Mortgage Loan Repurchase Losses  section in this Report.       We
may be terminated as a servicer or master servicer, be required to repurchase a mortgage loan or reimburse investors for credit losses on a mortgage loan, or incur costs, liabilities, fines and other sanctions if we fail to satisfy our servicing
obligations, including our obligations with respect to mortgage loan foreclosure actions.  We act as servicer and/or master servicer for mortgage loans included in securitizations and for unsecuritized mortgage loans owned by investors. As a
servicer or master servicer for those loans we have certain contractual obligations to the securitization trusts, investors or other third parties, including, in our capacity as a servicer, foreclosing on defaulted mortgage loans or, to the extent
consistent with the applicable securitization or other investor agreement, considering alternatives to foreclosure such as loan modifications or short sales and, in our capacity as a master servicer, overseeing the servicing of mortgage loans by the
servicer. If we commit a material breach of our obligations as servicer or master servicer, we may be subject to termination if the breach is not cured within a specified period of time following notice, which can generally be given by the
securitization trustee or a specified percentage of security holders, causing us to lose servicing income. In addition, we may be required to indemnify the securitization trustee against losses from any failure by us, as a servicer or master
servicer, to   

112   

Risk Factors    (continued)       

perform our servicing obligations or any act or omission on our part that involves wilful misfeasance, bad faith or gross negligence. For certain investors and/or certain transactions, we may be
contractually obligated to repurchase a mortgage loan or reimburse the investor for credit losses incurred on the loan as a remedy for servicing errors with respect to the loan. If we have increased repurchase obligations because of claims that we
did not satisfy our obligations as a servicer or master servicer, or increased loss severity on such repurchases, we may have a significant reduction to net servicing income within mortgage banking noninterest income.   
  We may incur costs if we are required to, or if we elect to, re-execute or re-file documents or take other action in our capacity as a
servicer in connection with pending or completed foreclosures. We may incur litigation costs if the validity of a foreclosure action is challenged by a borrower. If a court were to overturn a foreclosure because of errors or deficiencies in the
foreclosure process, we may have liability to the borrower and/or to any title insurer of the property sold in foreclosure if the required process was not followed. These costs and liabilities may not be legally or otherwise reimbursable to us,
particularly to the extent they relate to securitized mortgage loans. In addition, if certain documents required for a foreclosure action are missing or defective, we could be obligated to cure the defect or repurchase the loan. We may incur
liability to securitization investors relating to delays or deficiencies in our processing of mortgage assignments or other documents necessary to comply with state law governing foreclosures. The fair value of our MSRs may be negatively affected to
the extent our servicing costs increase because of higher foreclosure costs. We may be subject to fines and other sanctions imposed by Federal or state regulators as a result of actual or perceived deficiencies in our foreclosure practices or in the
foreclosure practices of other mortgage loan servicers. Any of these actions may harm our reputation or negatively affect our residential mortgage origination or servicing business. In April 2011, we entered into consent orders with the OCC and the
FRB following a joint interagency horizontal examination of foreclosure processing at large mortgage servicers, including the Company. These orders incorporate remedial requirements for identified deficiencies and require the Company to, among other
things, take certain actions with respect to our mortgage servicing and foreclosure operations, including submitting various action plans to ensure that our mortgage servicing and foreclosure operations comply with legal requirements, regulatory
guidance and the consent orders. As noted above, any increase in our servicing costs from changes in our foreclosure and other servicing practices, including resulting from the consent orders, negatively affects the fair value of our MSRs.
     On February 9, 2012, a federal/state settlement was announced among the DOJ, Department of Housing and Urban
Development (HUD), the Department of the Treasury, the Department of Veterans Affairs, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), the Executive Office of the U.S. Trustee, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, a task force of Attorneys General
representing 49 states, Wells Fargo, and four other servicers related to investigations of mortgage industry servicing and foreclosure practices. While Oklahoma did not participate in the

larger settlement, it settled separately with the five servicers under a simplified agreement. Under the terms of the larger settlement, which will remain in effect for three and a half years
(subject to a trailing review period) we have agreed to the following programmatic commitments, consisting of three components totaling approximately $5.3 billion:   

Consumer Relief Program commitment of $3.4 billion      

Refinance Program commitment of $900 million      

Foreclosure Assistance Program of $1 billion         Additionally and simultaneously, the OCC and FRB announced the imposition of civil money penalties of $83 million and $87 million, respectively, pursuant to the Consent Orders. While still subject to
FRB confirmation, we believe the civil money obligations were satisfied through payments made under the Foreclosure Assistance Program to the federal government and participating states for their use to address the impact of foreclosure challenges
as they determine and which may include direct payments to consumers.      As part of the settlement, the Company was released
from claims and allegations relating to servicing, modification and foreclosure practices; however, the settlement does not release the Company from any claims arising out of securitization activities, including representations made to investors
respecting mortgage-backed securities; criminal claims; repurchase demands from the GSEs; and inquiries into MERS, among other items. Any investigations or litigation relating to any of the Company s mortgage servicing and foreclosure practices
that are not covered or released by the settlement could result in material fines, penalties, equitable remedies, or other enforcement actions.      For more information, refer to the  Risk Management   Liability for Mortgage Loan Repurchase Losses  and    Risks Relating to Servicing Activities,  and  Critical
Accounting Policies   Valuation of Residential Mortgage Servicing Rights  sections and Note 14 (Guarantees, Pledged Assets and Collateral) and Note 15 (Legal Actions) to Financial Statements in this Report.   
   Financial difficulties or credit downgrades of mortgage and bond insurers may negatively affect our servicing and investment portfolios.  Our
servicing portfolio includes certain mortgage loans that carry some level of insurance from one or more mortgage insurance companies. To the extent that any of these companies experience financial difficulties or credit downgrades, we may be
required, as servicer of the insured loan on behalf of the investor, to obtain replacement coverage with another provider, possibly at a higher cost than the coverage we would replace. We may be responsible for some or all of the incremental cost of
the new coverage for certain loans depending on the terms of our servicing agreement with the investor and other circumstances, although we do not have an additional risk of repurchase loss associated with claim amounts for loans sold to third-party
investors. Similarly, some of the mortgage loans we hold for investment or for sale carry mortgage insurance. If a mortgage insurer is unable to meet its credit obligations with respect to an insured loan, we might incur higher credit losses if
replacement coverage is not obtained. For example, in October 2011, PMI Mortgage Insurance Co. (PMI), one of our providers of

113   

mortgage insurance, was seized by its regulator. We previously utilized PMI to provide mortgage insurance on certain loans originated and held in our portfolio and on loans originated and sold to
third-party investors. We also hold a small amount of residential MBS, which are backed by mortgages with a limited amount of insurance provided by PMI. PMI has announced that it will pay 50% of insurance claim amounts in cash with the rest
deferred. Although we do not expect PMI s situation to have a material adverse effect on our financial results because of the limited amount of loans and securities held in our portfolios with PMI insurance support, we cannot be certain that
any such future events involving one of our other mortgage insurance company providers will not materially adversely affect our mortgage business and/or financial results. We also have investments in municipal bonds that are guaranteed against loss
by bond insurers. The value of these bonds and the payment of principal and interest on them may be negatively affected by financial difficulties or credit downgrades experienced by the bond insurers.   
  For more information, refer to the  Earnings Performance   Balance Sheet Analysis   Securities Available for Sale 
and  Risk Management   Credit Risk Management  Liability for Mortgage Loan Repurchase Losses  sections in this Report.   
   OPERATIONAL AND LEGAL RISK        A failure
in or breach of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of our third party vendors and other service providers, including as a result of cyber attacks, could disrupt our businesses, result in the disclosure or misuse of
confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause losses.  As a large financial institution that serves over 70 million customers through over 9,000 stores, 12,000 ATMs, the Internet and other
distribution channels across the U.S. and internationally, we depend on our ability to process, record and monitor a large number of customer transactions on a continuous basis. As our customer base and locations have expanded throughout the U.S.
and internationally, and as customer, public, legislative and regulatory expectations regarding operational and information security have increased, our operational systems and infrastructure must continue to be safeguarded and monitored for
potential failures, disruptions and breakdowns. Our business, financial, accounting, data processing systems or other operating systems and facilities may stop operating properly or become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors
including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control. For example, there could be sudden increases in customer transaction volume; electrical or telecommunications outages; degradation or loss of public internet domain; natural disasters
such as earthquakes, tornados, and hurricanes; disease pandemics; events arising from local or larger scale political or social matters, including terrorist acts; and, as described below, cyber attacks. Although we have business continuity plans and
other safeguards in place, our business operations may be adversely affected by significant and widespread disruption to our physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and customers.

Information security risks for large financial institutions such as Wells Fargo have
generally increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the Internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized
crime, hackers, terrorists, activists, and other external parties, including foreign state-sponsored parties. Those parties also may attempt to fraudulently induce employees, customers, or other users of our systems to disclose confidential
information in order to gain access to our data or that of our customers. As noted above, our operations rely on the secure processing, transmission and storage of confidential information in our computer systems and networks. Our banking,
brokerage, investment advisory, and capital markets businesses rely on our digital technologies, computer and email systems, software, and networks to conduct their operations. In addition, to access our products and services, our customers may use
personal smartphones, tablet PC s, and other mobile devices that are beyond our control systems. Although we believe we have robust information security procedures and controls, our technologies, systems, networks, and our customers 
devices may become the target of cyber attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of Wells Fargo s or our customers  confidential, proprietary
and other information, or otherwise disrupt Wells Fargo s or its customers  or other third parties  business operations.      Third parties with which we do business or that facilitate our business activities, including exchanges, clearing houses, financial intermediaries or vendors that provide services or security solutions
for our operations, could also be sources of operational and information security risk to us, including from breakdowns or failures of their own systems or capacity constraints.   
  To date we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber attacks or other information security breaches, but there can be
no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future. Our risk and exposure to these matters remains heightened because of, among other things, the evolving nature of these threats, the prominent size and scale of Wells Fargo and its role
in the financial services industry, our plans to continue to implement our Internet banking and mobile banking channel strategies and develop additional remote connectivity solutions to serve our customers when and how they want to be served, our
expanded geographic footprint and international presence, the outsourcing of some of our business operations, and the current global economic and political environment. For example, Wells Fargo and reportedly other financial institutions have been
the target of various denial-of-service or other cyber attacks as part of what appears to be a coordinated effort to disrupt the operations of financial institutions and potentially test their cybersecurity in advance of future and more advanced
cyber attacks. As a result, cybersecurity and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and practices designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access

114   

Risk Factors    (continued)       

remain a priority for Wells Fargo. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or
to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities.      Disruptions or failures in the physical
infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and customers, or cyber attacks or security breaches of the networks, systems or devices that our customers use to access our products and services could result in customer attrition,
financial losses, the inability of our customers to transact business with us, violations of applicable privacy and other laws, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensation costs, and/or
additional compliance costs, any of which could materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.       Our
framework for managing risks may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss to us.  Our risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and loss to us. We have established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, report
and analyze the types of risk to which we are subject, including liquidity risk, credit risk, market risk, interest rate risk, operational risk, legal and compliance risk, and reputational risk, among others. However, as with any risk management
framework, there are inherent limitations to our risk management strategies as there may exist, or develop in the future, risks that we have not appropriately anticipated or identified. The recent financial and credit crisis and resulting regulatory
reform highlighted both the importance and some of the limitations of managing unanticipated risks, and our regulators remain focused on ensuring that financial institutions build and maintain robust risk management policies. If our risk management
framework proves ineffective, we could suffer unexpected losses which could materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.         We may incur fines, penalties and other negative consequences from regulatory violations, possibly even inadvertent or unintentional violations.  We maintain systems and procedures designed to
ensure that we comply with applicable laws and regulations. However, some legal/regulatory frameworks provide for the imposition of fines or penalties for noncompliance even though the noncompliance was inadvertent or unintentional and even though
there was in place at the time systems and procedures designed to ensure compliance. For example, we are subject to regulations issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) that prohibit financial institutions from participating in the
transfer of property belonging to the governments of certain foreign countries and designated nationals of those countries. OFAC may impose penalties for inadvertent or unintentional violations even if reasonable processes are in place to prevent
the violations. There may be other negative consequences resulting from a finding of noncompliance, including restrictions on certain activities. Such a finding may also damage our reputation as described below and could restrict the ability of
institutional investment managers to invest in our securities.

Under the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012, we are required to
make certain disclosures in our periodic reports filed with the SEC relating to certain activities that we or our worldwide affiliates knowingly engaged in involving Iran during the quarterly period covered by the report. If we or an affiliate were
to engage in a reportable transaction, we must also file a separate notice regarding the activity with the SEC, which the SEC will make publicly available on its website. The SEC will be required to forward the report to the President, the Senate
Committees on Foreign Relations and Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs, and the House of Representatives Committees on Foreign Affairs and Financial Services. The President will then be required to initiate an investigation into the reported
activity and within 180 days make a determination as to whether to impose sanctions on us. The scope of the reporting requirement is broad and covers any domestic or foreign entity or person that may be deemed to be an affiliate of ours. The
potential sanctions and reputational harm for engaging in a reportable activity may be significant.       Negative publicity, including as a
result of protests, could damage our reputation and business.  Reputation risk, or the risk to our business, earnings and capital from negative public opinion, is inherent in our business and has increased substantially because of the financial
crisis and our size and profile in the financial services industry. The reputation of the financial services industry in general has been damaged as a result of the financial crisis and other matters affecting the financial services industry, and
negative public opinion about the financial services industry generally or Wells Fargo specifically could adversely affect our ability to keep and attract customers. Negative public opinion could result from our actual or alleged conduct in any
number of activities, including mortgage lending practices, servicing and foreclosure activities, corporate governance, regulatory compliance, mergers and acquisitions, and disclosure, sharing or inadequate protection of customer information, and
from actions taken by government regulators and community or other organizations in response to that conduct. Because we conduct most of our businesses under the  Wells Fargo  brand, negative public opinion about one business could affect
our other businesses and also could negatively affect our  cross-sell  strategy. The proliferation of social media websites utilized by Wells Fargo and other third parties, as well as the personal use of social media by our team members
and others, including personal blogs and social network profiles, also may increase the risk that negative, inappropriate or unauthorized information may be posted or released publicly that could harm our reputation or have other negative
consequences, including as a result of our team members interacting with our customers in an unauthorized manner in various social media outlets.      As a result of the financial crisis, Wells Fargo and other financial institutions have been targeted from time to time by protests and demonstrations, which have included disrupting the operation of our
retail banking stores and have resulted in negative public commentary about financial institutions, including the fees charged for various products and services. There can be no assurance that continued protests and negative

115   

publicity for the Company or large financial institutions generally will not harm our reputation and adversely affect our business and financial results.   
   Risks Relating to Legal Proceedings.  Wells Fargo and some of its subsidiaries are involved in judicial, regulatory and arbitration proceedings or
investigations concerning matters arising from our business activities. Although we believe we have a meritorious defense in all material significant litigation pending against us, there can be no assurance as to the ultimate outcome. We establish
reserves for legal claims when payments associated with the claims become probable and the costs can be reasonably estimated. We may still incur legal costs for a matter even if we have not established a reserve. In addition, the actual cost of
resolving a legal claim may be substantially higher than any amounts reserved for that matter. The ultimate resolution of a pending legal proceeding, depending on the remedy sought and granted, could materially adversely affect our results of
operations and financial condition.      For more information, refer to Note 15 (Legal Actions) to Financial Statements in this
Report.       RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY S COMPETITIVE OPERATING ENVIRONMENT    
   We face significant and increasing competition in the rapidly evolving financial services industry.  We compete with other financial institutions in
a highly competitive industry that is undergoing significant changes as a result of financial regulatory reform and increased public scrutiny stemming from the financial crisis and continued challenging economic conditions. Wells Fargo generally
competes on the basis of the quality of our customer service, the wide variety of products and services that we can offer our customers and the ability of those products and services to satisfy our customers  needs, the pricing of our products
and services, the extensive distribution channels available for our customers, our innovation, and our reputation. Continued and increased competition in any one or all of these areas may negatively affect our market share and results of operations
and/or cause us to increase our capital investment in our businesses in order to remain competitive. Given the current economic, regulatory, and political environment for large financial institutions such as Wells Fargo, and possible public backlash
to bank fees, there is increased competitive pressure to provide products and services at current or lower prices. Consequently, our ability to reposition or reprice our products and services from time to time may be limited and could be influenced
significantly by the actions of our competitors who may or may not charge similar fees for their products and services. Any changes in the types of products and services that we offer our customers and/or the pricing for those products and services
could result in a loss of customers and market share and could materially adversely affect our results of operations.   
  Continued technological advances and the growth of e-commerce have made it possible for non-depository institutions to offer products
and services that traditionally were banking products, and for financial institutions and other companies to provide electronic and internet-based financial solutions,

including electronic payment solutions. We may not respond effectively to these competitive threats from existing and new competitors and may be forced to increase our investment in our business
to modify or adapt our existing products and services or develop new products and services to respond to our customers  needs.       Our
 cross-selling  efforts to increase the number of products our customers buy from us and offer them all of the financial products that fulfill their needs is a key part of our growth strategy, and our failure to execute this strategy
effectively could have a material adverse effect on our revenue growth and financial results.  Selling more products to our customers    cross-selling    is very important to our business model and key to our ability to grow
revenue and earnings especially during the current environment of slow economic growth and regulatory reform initiatives. Many of our competitors also focus on cross-selling, especially in retail banking and mortgage lending. This can limit our
ability to sell more products to our customers or influence us to sell our products at lower prices, reducing our net interest income and revenue from our fee-based products. It could also affect our ability to keep existing customers. New
technologies could require us to spend more to modify or adapt our products to attract and retain customers. Our cross-sell strategy also is dependent on earning more business from our Wachovia customers, and increasing our cross-sell ratio  
or the average number of products sold to existing customers   may become more challenging and we might not attain our goal of selling an average of eight products to each customer.      
   Our ability to attract and retain qualified team members is critical to the success of our business and failure to do so could adversely affect our
business performance, competitive position and future prospects.  The success of Wells Fargo is heavily dependent on the talents and efforts of our team members, and in many areas of our business, including the commercial banking, brokerage,
investment advisory, and capital markets businesses, the competition for highly qualified personnel is intense. In order to attract and retain highly qualified team members, we must provide competitive compensation. As a large financial institution
we may be subject to limitations on compensation by our regulators that may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain these qualified team members. Some of our competitors may not be subject to these same compensation limitations, which may
further negatively affect our ability to attract and retain highly qualified team members.       RISKS RELATED TO OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
       Changes in accounting policies or accounting standards, and changes in how accounting standards are interpreted or applied, could
materially affect how we report our financial results and condition.  Our accounting policies are fundamental to determining and understanding our financial results and condition. As described below, some of these policies require use of
estimates and   

116   

Risk Factors    (continued)       

assumptions that may affect the value of our assets or liabilities and financial results. Any changes in our accounting policies could materially affect our financial statements.   
  From time to time the FASB and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our
external financial statements. In addition, accounting standard setters and those who interpret the accounting standards (such as the FASB, SEC, banking regulators and our outside auditors) may change or even reverse their previous interpretations
or positions on how these standards should be applied. Changes in financial accounting and reporting standards and changes in current interpretations may be beyond our control, can be hard to predict and could materially affect how we report our
financial results and condition. We may be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively or apply an existing standard differently, also retroactively, in each case potentially resulting in our restating prior period financial statements
in material amounts.       Our financial statements are based in part on assumptions and estimates which, if wrong, could cause unexpected
losses in the future, and our financial statements depend on our internal controls over financial reporting.  Pursuant to U.S. GAAP, we are required to use certain assumptions and estimates in preparing our financial statements, including in
determining credit loss reserves, reserves for mortgage repurchases, reserves related to litigation and the fair value of certain assets and liabilities, among other items. Several of our accounting policies are critical because they require
management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because it is likely that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. For a
description of these policies, refer to the  Critical Accounting Policies  section in this Report. If assumptions or estimates underlying our financial statements are incorrect, we may experience material losses.   
  Certain of our financial instruments, including trading assets and liabilities, available-for-sale securities, certain loans, MSRs,
private equity investments, structured notes and certain repurchase and resale agreements, among other items, require a determination of their fair value in order to prepare our financial statements. Where quoted market prices are not available, we
may make fair value determinations based on internally developed models or other means which ultimately rely to some degree on management judgment, and there is no assurance that our models will capture or appropriately reflect all relevant inputs
required to accurately determine fair value. Some of these and other assets and liabilities may have no direct observable price levels, making their valuation particularly subjective, being based on significant estimation and judgment. In addition,
sudden illiquidity in markets or declines in prices of certain loans and securities may make it more difficult to value certain balance sheet items, which may lead to the possibility that such valuations will be subject to further change or
adjustment and could lead to declines in our earnings.      The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Sarbanes-Oxley) requires our
management to evaluate the Company s disclosure controls

and procedures and its internal control over financial reporting and requires our auditors to issue a report on our internal control over financial reporting. We are required to disclose, in our
annual report on Form 10-K, the existence of any  material weaknesses  in our internal controls. We cannot assure that we will not identify one or more material weaknesses as of the end of any given quarter or year, nor can we predict the
effect on our stock price of disclosure of a material weakness. Sarbanes-Oxley also limits the types of non-audit services our outside auditors may provide to us in order to preserve their independence from us. If our auditors were found not to be
 independent  of us under SEC rules, we could be required to engage new auditors and re-file financial statements and audit reports with the SEC. We could be out of compliance with SEC rules until new financial statements and audit reports
were filed, limiting our ability to raise capital and resulting in other adverse consequences.       RISKS RELATED TO ACQUISITIONS
       Acquisitions could reduce our stock price upon announcement and reduce our earnings if we overpay or have difficulty integrating
them.  We regularly explore opportunities to acquire companies in the financial services industry. We cannot predict the frequency, size or timing of our acquisitions, and we typically do not comment publicly on a possible acquisition until we
have signed a definitive agreement. When we do announce an acquisition, our stock price may fall depending on the size of the acquisition, the type of business to be acquired, the purchase price, and the potential dilution to existing stockholders
or our earnings per share if we issue common stock in connection with the acquisition.      We generally must receive federal
regulatory approvals before we can acquire a bank, bank holding company or certain other financial services businesses depending on the size of the financial services business to be acquired. In deciding whether to approve a proposed acquisition,
federal bank regulators will consider, among other factors, the effect of the acquisition on competition and the risk to the stability of the U.S. banking or financial system, our financial condition and future prospects including current and
projected capital ratios and levels, the competence, experience, and integrity of management and record of compliance with laws and regulations, the convenience and needs of the communities to be served, including our record of compliance under the
Community Reinvestment Act, and our effectiveness in combating money laundering. As a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and concerns regarding the large size of financial institutions such as Wells Fargo, the regulatory process for approving acquisitions
has become more complex and regulatory approvals may be more difficult to obtain. We cannot be certain when or if, or on what terms and conditions, any required regulatory approvals will be granted. We might be required to sell banks, branches
and/or business units or assets or issue additional equity as a condition to receiving regulatory approval for an acquisition. In addition, federal bank regulations prohibit FRB regulatory approval of any transaction that would create an institution
holding more than 10% of total U.S. insured deposits, or of any transaction (whether or not subject to FRB approval) that would create a financial company with more than

117   

10% of the liabilities of all financial companies in the U.S. As a result, our size may limit our bank acquisition opportunities in the future.   
  Difficulty in integrating an acquired company may cause us not to realize expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in
geographic or product presence, and other projected benefits from the acquisition. The integration could result in higher than expected deposit attrition, loss of key team members, disruption of our business or the business of the acquired company,
or otherwise harm our ability to retain customers and team members or achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Time and resources spent on integration may also impair our ability to grow our existing businesses. Also, the negative effect
of any divestitures required by regulatory authorities in acquisitions or business combinations may be greater than expected. Many of the foregoing risks may be increased if the acquired company operates internationally or in a geographic location
where we do not already have significant business operations and/or team members.      * * *   
  Any factor described in this Report or in any of our other SEC filings could by itself, or together with other factors, adversely
affect our financial results and condition. Refer to our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC in 2013 for material changes to the above discussion of risk factors. There are factors not discussed above or elsewhere in this Report that
could adversely affect our financial results and condition.   

118   

Controls and Procedures    
     Disclosure Controls and Procedures    
      The Company s management evaluated the
effectiveness, as of December 31, 2012, of the Company s disclosure controls and procedures. The Company s chief executive officer and chief financial officer participated in the evaluation. Based on this evaluation, the
Company s chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that the Company s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2012.         Internal Control Over Financial Reporting        
  Internal control over financial reporting is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as a process designed by, or
under the supervision of, the Company s principal executive and principal financial officers and effected by the Company s Board, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and includes those policies and procedures that:   

pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of assets of the
Company;      

provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP, and
that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the Company; and      

provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Company s assets that
could have a material effect on the financial statements.         Because of its inherent limitations, internal
control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the
degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. No change occurred during any quarter in 2012 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company s internal control over financial
reporting. Management s report on internal control over financial reporting is set forth below, and should be read with these limitations in mind.         Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting       The Company s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for the Company. Management assessed the effectiveness of the
Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012, using the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in  Internal Control   Integrated
Framework . Based on this assessment, management concluded that as of December 31, 2012, the Company s internal control over financial reporting was effective.      KPMG LLP, the independent registered public accounting firm that audited the Company s financial statements included in this Annual Report, issued an audit report on the Company s internal
control over financial reporting. KPMG s audit report appears on the following page.   
         119   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    
      The Board of Directors and Stockholders
     Wells Fargo   Company:   
  We have audited Wells Fargo   Company and Subsidiaries  (the Company) internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2012, based on criteria established in  Internal Control     Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company s management is responsible
for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial
Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.      We
conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control
over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design
and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audit also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our
opinion.      A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and
procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are
recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management
and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements.      Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also,
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
     In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2012, based on criteria established in  Internal Control     Integrated Framework  issued by COSO.      We also have audited, in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheet of the Company as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive
income, changes in equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2012, and our report dated February 27, 2013, expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements.

120   

Wells Fargo   Company and Subsidiaries   
   Consolidated Statement of Income    

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.   
         121   

Wells Fargo   Company and Subsidiaries   
   Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income    
    The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.   
         122   

Wells Fargo   Company and Subsidiaries   
   Consolidated Balance Sheet    

(2)  
  Our consolidated liabilities at December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, include the following VIE liabilities for which the VIE creditors do not have recourse to Wells
Fargo: Short-term borrowings, $0 and $24 million; Accrued expenses and other liabilities, $134 million and $175 million; Long-term debt, $3.5 billion and $4.9 billion; and Total liabilities, $3.6 billion and $5.1 billion, respectively.
       The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.   
         123   

Wells Fargo   Company and Subsidiaries   
   Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity    
    The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.   
   (continued on following pages)    
         124   

125   

(continued from previous pages)       Wells Fargo   Company and Subsidiaries       Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity

(1)  
  For the year ended December 31, 2012, includes $200 million related to a private forward repurchase transaction entered into in fourth quarter 2012 that is expected to
settle in first quarter 2013 for an estimated 6 million shares of common stock. See Note 1 for additional information.        The
accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.   
         126   

127   

Wells Fargo   Company and Subsidiaries   
   Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows    
    The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements. See Note 1 for noncash activities.   
         128   

See the Glossary of Acronyms at the end of this Report for terms used
throughout the Financial Statements and related Notes of this Form 10-K.          Note 1: Summary of
Significant Accounting Policies            

Wells Fargo   Company is a diversified financial services company. We provide banking,
insurance, trust and investments, mortgage banking, investment banking, retail banking, brokerage, and consumer and commercial finance through banking stores, the internet and other distribution channels to consumers, businesses and institutions in
all 50 states, the District of Columbia, and in foreign countries. When we refer to  Wells Fargo,   the Company,   we,   our  or  us,  we mean Wells Fargo   Company and
Subsidiaries (consolidated). Wells Fargo   Company (the Parent) is a financial holding company and a bank holding company. We also hold a majority interest in a real estate investment trust, which has publicly traded preferred stock
outstanding.      Our accounting and reporting policies conform with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and
practices in the financial services industry. To prepare the financial statements in conformity with GAAP, management must make estimates based on assumptions about future economic and market conditions (for example, unemployment, market liquidity,
real estate prices, etc.) that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and income and expenses during the reporting period and the related disclosures. Although our estimates contemplate current
conditions and how we expect them to change in the future, it is reasonably possible that actual conditions could be worse than anticipated in those estimates, which could materially affect our results of operations and financial condition.
Management has made significant estimates in several areas, including allowance for credit losses and purchased credit-impaired (PCI) loans (Note 6), valuations of residential mortgage servicing rights (MSRs) (Notes 8 and 9) and financial
instruments (Note 17), liability for mortgage loan repurchase losses (Note 9) and income taxes (Note 21). Actual results could differ from those estimates.       Accounting Standards Adopted in 2012       In first quarter 2012, we adopted the following new
accounting guidance:       

ASU 2011-12,  Deferral of the Effective Date for Amendments to the Presentation of Reclassifications of Items Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive
Income in Accounting Standards Update No. 2011-05;       

ASU 2011-04,  Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs;  and

ASU 2011-03,  Reconsideration of Effective Control for Repurchase Agreements.       
   ASU 2011-05  eliminates the option for companies to include the components of other comprehensive income in the statement of changes in
stockholders  equity. This Update requires entities to present the components of comprehensive income in either a

single statement or in two separate statements, with the statement of other comprehensive income (OCI) immediately following the statement of income. This Update also requires companies to
present amounts reclassified out of OCI and into net income on the face of the statement of income. In December 2011, the FASB issued  ASU 2011-12 , which deferred the requirement to present reclassification adjustments on the statement of
income. In January 2013, the FASB issued ASU 2013-02,  Reporting of Amounts Reclassified Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income.  This guidance requires supplemental disclosures for significant amounts reclassified out of accumulated
other comprehensive income and is effective for us in first quarter 2013 with prospective application. We adopted the remaining provisions of ASU 2011-05 in first quarter 2012 with retrospective application. This Update did not affect our
consolidated financial results as it amends only the presentation of comprehensive income.       ASU 2011-04  modifies accounting guidance
and expands existing disclosure requirements for fair value measurements. This Update clarifies how fair values should be measured for instruments classified in stockholders  equity and under what circumstances premiums and discounts should be
applied in fair value measurements. This Update also permits entities to measure fair value on a net basis for financial instruments that are managed based on net exposure to market risks and/or counterparty credit risk. ASU 2011-04 requires new
disclosures for financial instruments classified as Level 3, including: 1) quantitative information about unobservable inputs used in measuring fair value, 2) qualitative discussion of the sensitivity of fair value measurements to changes in
unobservable inputs, and 3) a description of valuation processes used. This Update also requires disclosure of fair value levels for financial instruments that are not recorded at fair value but for which fair value is required to be disclosed. We
adopted this guidance in first quarter 2012 with prospective application, resulting in expanded fair value disclosures. The measurement clarifications of this Update did not have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements.
      ASU 2011-03  amends the criteria companies use to determine if repurchase and similar agreements should be accounted for as sales or
financings. Specifically, this Update removes the criterion for transferors to have the ability to meet contractual obligations through collateral maintenance provisions, even if transferees fail to return transferred assets pursuant to the
agreements. We adopted this guidance in first quarter 2012 with prospective application to new transactions and existing transactions modified on or after January 1, 2012. This Update did not have a material effect on our consolidated financial
statements.   

129   

In third quarter 2012, we early adopted Accounting Standards Update (ASU or Update)
2012-02,  Testing Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets for Impairment .       ASU 2012-02  provides entities with the option to perform a
qualitative assessment of indefinite-lived intangible assets to test for impairment. If, based on qualitative reviews, a company concludes it is more likely than not that the fair value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset is less than its
carrying amount, then the company must complete quantitative steps to determine if the asset is impaired. If a company concludes otherwise, quantitative tests are not required. Our adoption of this Update did not affect our consolidated financial
statements.       Accounting Standards with Retrospective Application       The following accounting pronouncements have been issued by the FASB but are not yet effective:       

Accounting Standards Update (ASU or Update) 2011-11,  Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities;  and      

ASU 2013-01,  Clarifying the Scope of Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities.       
   ASU 2011-11  expands the disclosure requirements for certain financial instruments and derivatives that are subject to enforceable master netting
agreements or similar arrangements. The disclosures are required regardless of whether the instruments have been offset (or netted) in the statement of financial position. Under ASU 2011-11, companies must describe the nature of offsetting
arrangements and provide quantitative information about those agreements, including the gross and net amounts of financial instruments that are recognized in the statement of financial position. In January 2013, the FASB issued  ASU 2013-01 ,
which clarifies the scope of ASU 2011-11 by limiting the disclosures to derivatives, repurchase agreements, and securities lending transactions to the extent they are subject to an enforceable master netting or similar arrangement. These changes are
effective for us in first quarter 2013 with retrospective application. The Updates will not affect our consolidated financial results since they amend only the disclosure requirements for offsetting financial instruments.   
   Consolidation       Our consolidated
financial statements include the accounts of the Parent and our majority-owned subsidiaries and VIEs (defined below) in which we are the primary beneficiary. Significant intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated in consolidation. If we
own at least 20% of an entity, we generally account for the investment using the equity method. If we own less than 20% of an entity, we generally carry the investment at cost, except marketable equity securities, which we carry at fair value with
changes in fair value included in OCI. Investments accounted for under the equity or cost method are included in other assets.   
  We are a variable interest holder in certain special-purpose entities (SPEs) in which equity investors do not have the characteristics
of a controlling financial interest or where the entity does not have enough equity at risk to finance its activities

without additional subordinated financial support from other parties (referred to as VIEs). Our variable interest arises from contractual, ownership or other monetary interests in the entity,
which change with fluctuations in the fair value of the entity s net assets. We consolidate a VIE if we are the primary beneficiary, defined as the party that that has both the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact the
VIE and a variable interest that could potentially be significant to the VIE. A variable interest is a contractual, ownership or other interest that changes with changes in the fair value of the VIE s net assets. To determine whether or not a
variable interest we hold could potentially be significant to the VIE, we consider both qualitative and quantitative factors regarding the nature, size and form of our involvement with the VIE. We assess whether or not we are the primary beneficiary
of a VIE on an on-going basis.       Cash and Due From Banks       Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, cash items in transit, and amounts due from the Federal Reserve Bank and other depository institutions.   
   Trading Assets       Trading assets are
primarily securities, including corporate debt, U.S. government agency obligations and other securities that we acquire for short-term appreciation or other trading purposes, and the fair value of derivatives held for customer accommodation purposes
or risk mitigation and hedging. Interest-only strips and other retained interests in securitizations that can be contractually prepaid or otherwise settled in a way that the holder would not recover substantially all of its recorded investment are
classified as trading assets. Trading assets are carried at fair value, with interest and dividend income recorded in interest income and realized and unrealized gains and losses recorded in noninterest income. Periodic cash settlements on
derivatives and other trading assets are recorded in noninterest income.       Investments    
   S ECURITIES   AVAILABLE   FOR   SALE     Debt securities that we might not hold
until maturity and marketable equity securities are classified as securities available for sale and reported at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses, after applicable income taxes, are reported in cumulative OCI. Fair value measurement is based
upon quoted prices in active markets, if available. If quoted prices in active markets are not available, fair values are measured using pricing models or other model-based valuation techniques such as the present value of future cash flows,
adjusted for the security s credit rating, prepayment assumptions and other factors such as credit loss assumptions and market liquidity. See Note 17 for more information on fair value measurement of our securities.   
  We conduct other-than-temporary impairment (OTTI) analysis on a quarterly basis or more often if a potential loss-triggering event
occurs. The initial indicator of OTTI for both debt and equity securities is a decline in fair market value below the amount recorded for an investment and the severity and duration of the decline.

130   

Note 1: Summary of Significant Accounting Policies    (continued)       

For a debt security for which there has been a decline in the fair value below amortized
cost basis, we recognize OTTI if we (1) have the intent to sell the security, (2) it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis, or (3) we do not expect to recover
the entire amortized cost basis of the security.      Estimating recovery of the amortized cost basis of a debt security is based
upon an assessment of the cash flows expected to be collected. If the cash flows expected to be collected are less than amortized cost, OTTI is considered to have occurred. In performing an assessment of the cash flows expected to be collected, we
consider all relevant information including:   

the length of time and the extent to which the fair value has been less than the amortized cost basis;      

the historical and implied volatility of the fair value of the security;      

the cause of the price decline, such as the general level of interest rates or adverse conditions specifically related to the security, an industry or
a geographic area;      

the issuer s financial condition, near-term prospects and ability to service the debt;      

the payment structure of the debt security and the likelihood of the issuer being able to make payments that increase in the future;

for asset-backed securities, the credit performance of the underlying collateral, including delinquency rates, level of non-performing assets,
cumulative losses to date, collateral value and the remaining credit enhancement compared with expected credit losses;      

any change in rating agencies  credit ratings at evaluation date from acquisition date and any likely imminent action;

independent analyst reports and forecasts, sector credit ratings and other independent market data; and      

recoveries or additional declines in fair value subsequent to the balance sheet date.      
  If we intend to sell the security, or if it is more likely than not we will be required to sell the security before recovery, an OTTI
write-down is recognized in earnings equal to the entire difference between the amortized cost basis and fair value of the security. For debt securities that are considered other-than-temporarily impaired that we do not intend to sell or it is more
likely than not that we will not be required to sell before recovery, the OTTI write-down is separated into an amount representing the credit loss, which is recognized in earnings, and the amount related to all other factors, which is recognized in
OCI. The measurement of the credit loss component is equal to the difference between the debt security s cost basis and the present value of its expected future cash flows discounted at the security s effective yield. The remaining
difference between the security s fair value and the present value of future expected cash flows is due to factors that are not credit-related and, therefore, are recognized in OCI. We believe that we will fully collect the carrying value of
securities on which we have recorded a non-credit-related impairment in OCI.      We hold investments in perpetual preferred
securities (PPS) that are structured in equity form, but have many of the characteristics of debt instruments, including periodic cash flows

in the form of dividends, call features, ratings that are similar to debt securities and pricing like long-term callable bonds.   
  Because of the hybrid nature of these securities, we evaluate PPS for OTTI using a model similar to the model we use for debt securities
as described above. Among the factors we consider in our evaluation of PPS are whether there is any evidence of deterioration in the credit of the issuer as indicated by a decline in cash flows or a rating agency downgrade to below investment grade
and the estimated recovery period. Additionally, in determining if there was evidence of credit deterioration, we evaluate: (1) the severity of decline in market value below cost, (2) the period of time for which the decline in fair value
has existed, and (3) the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, including any specific events which may influence the operations of the issuer. We consider PPS to be other-than-temporarily impaired if cash flows expected to
be collected are insufficient to recover our investment or if we no longer believe the security will recover within the estimated recovery period. OTTI write-downs of PPS are recognized in earnings equal to the difference between the cost basis and
fair value of the security. Based upon the factors considered in our OTTI evaluation, we believe our investments in PPS currently rated investment grade will be fully realized and, accordingly, have not recognized OTTI on such securities.
     For marketable equity securities other than PPS, OTTI evaluations focus on whether evidence exists that supports recovery of
the unrealized loss within a timeframe consistent with temporary impairment. This evaluation considers the severity of and length of time fair value is below cost, our intent and ability to hold the security until forecasted recovery of the fair
value of the security, and the investee s financial condition, capital strength, and near-term prospects.      The
securities portfolio is an integral part of our asset/liability management process. We manage these investments to provide liquidity, manage interest rate risk and maximize portfolio yield within capital risk limits approved by management and the
Board of Directors and monitored by the Corporate Asset/Liability Management Committee (Corporate ALCO). We recognize realized gains and losses on the sale of these securities in noninterest income using the specific identification method.
     Unamortized premiums and discounts are recognized in interest income over the contractual life of the security using the
interest method. As principal repayments are received on securities (i.e., primarily mortgage-backed securities (MBS)) a proportionate amount of the related premium or discount is recognized in income so that the effective interest rate on the
remaining portion of the security continues unchanged.       NONMARKETABLE EQUITY INVESTMENTS  Nonmarketable equity investments include low
income housing tax credit investments, venture capital equity securities that are not publicly traded and securities acquired for various purposes, such as to meet regulatory requirements (for example, Federal Reserve Bank and Federal Home Loan Bank
(FHLB) stock). These investments are accounted for under the cost or equity method and are included in other assets. We review those assets accounted for under the cost or equity method at least quarterly

131   

for possible OTTI. Our review typically includes an analysis of the facts and circumstances of each investment, the expectations for the investment s cash flows and capital needs, the
viability of its business model and our exit strategy. We reduce the asset value when we consider declines in value to be other than temporary. We recognize the estimated loss as a loss from equity investments in noninterest income.  
   Securities Purchased and Sold Agreements    
  Securities purchased under resale agreements and securities sold under repurchase agreements are accounted for as collateralized financing transactions
and are recorded at the acquisition or sale price plus accrued interest. It is our policy to take possession of securities purchased under resale agreements, which are primarily U.S. Government and Government agency securities. We monitor the market
value of securities purchased and sold, and obtain collateral from or return it to counterparties when appropriate. These financing transactions do not create material credit risk given the collateral provided and the related monitoring process.
      Mortgages and Loans Held for Sale       Mortgages held for sale (MHFS) include commercial and residential mortgages originated for sale and securitization in the secondary market, which is our principal market, or for sale as whole loans. We
elect the fair value option for substantially all residential MHFS (see Note 17). The remaining residential MHFS are held at the lower of cost or market value (LOCOM), and are valued on an aggregate portfolio basis. Commercial MHFS are held at LOCOM
and are valued on an individual loan basis.      Loans held for sale (LHFS) are carried at LOCOM or at fair value. Generally,
consumer loans are valued on an aggregate portfolio basis, and commercial loans are valued on an individual loan basis.   
  Gains and losses on MHFS are recorded in mortgage banking noninterest income. Gains and losses on LHFS are recorded in other noninterest
income. Direct loan origination costs and fees for MHFS and LHFS under fair value option are recognized in income at origination. For MHFS and LHFS recorded at LOCOM, loan costs and fees are deferred at origination and are recognized in income at
time of sale. Interest income on MHFS and LHFS is calculated based upon the note rate of the loan and is recorded to interest income.      Our lines of business are authorized to originate held-for-investment loans that meet or exceed established loan product profitability criteria, including minimum positive net interest margin spreads in
excess of funding costs. When a determination is made at the time of commitment to originate loans as held for investment, it is our intent to hold these loans to maturity or for the  foreseeable future,  subject to periodic review under
our corporate asset/liability management process. In determining the  foreseeable future  for these loans, management considers (1) the current economic environment and market conditions, (2) our business strategy and current
business plans, (3) the nature and type of the loan receivable, including its expected life, and (4) our current financial condition and liquidity demands. Consistent with our core

banking business of managing the spread between the yield on our assets and the cost of our funds, loans are periodically reevaluated to determine if our minimum net interest margin spreads
continue to meet our profitability objectives. If subsequent changes in interest rates significantly impact the ongoing profitability of certain loan products, we may subsequently change our intent to hold these loans, and we would take actions to
sell such loans in response to the Corporate ALCO directives to reposition our balance sheet because of the changes in interest rates. These directives identify both the type of loans to be sold and the weighted average coupon rate of such loans no
longer meeting our ongoing investment criteria. Upon the issuance of such directives, we immediately transfer these loans to the MHFS portfolio at LOCOM.       Loans       Loans are reported at their outstanding principal balances net of any unearned
income, cumulative charge-offs, unamortized deferred fees and costs on originated loans and unamortized premiums or discounts on purchased loans. PCI loans are reported net of any remaining purchase accounting adjustments. See the  Purchased
Credit-Impaired Loans  section in this Note for our accounting policy for PCI loans.      Unearned income, deferred fees and
costs, and discounts and premiums are amortized to interest income over the contractual life of the loan using the interest method. Loan commitment fees are generally deferred and amortized into noninterest income on a straight-line basis over the
commitment period.      Loans also include direct financing leases that are recorded at the aggregate of minimum lease payments
receivable plus the estimated residual value of the leased property, less unearned income. Leveraged leases, which are a form of direct financing leases, are recorded net of related nonrecourse debt. Leasing income is recognized as a constant
percentage of outstanding lease financing balances over the lease terms in interest income.       NONACCRUAL AND PAST DUE LOANS  We generally
place loans on nonaccrual status when:   

the full and timely collection of interest or principal becomes uncertain (generally based on an assessment of the borrower s financial condition
and the adequacy of collateral, if any);      

they are 90 days (120 days with respect to real estate 1-4 family first and junior lien mortgages) past due for interest or principal, unless both
well-secured and in the process of collection;      

part of the principal balance has been charged off (including loans discharged in bankruptcy);      

effective first quarter 2012, for junior lien mortgages, we have evidence that the related first lien mortgage may be 120 days past due or in the
process of foreclosure regardless of the junior lien delinquency status; or      

effective third quarter 2012, performing consumer loans are discharged in bankruptcy, regardless of their delinquency status.
        PCI loans are written down at acquisition to fair value using an estimate of cash flows deemed to be
collectible. Accordingly,   

132   

Note 1: Summary of Significant Accounting Policies    (continued)       

such loans are no longer classified as nonaccrual even though they may be contractually past due because we expect to fully collect the new carrying values of such loans (that is, the new cost
basis arising out of purchase accounting).      When we place a loan on nonaccrual status, we reverse the accrued unpaid interest
receivable against interest income and amortization of any net deferred fees is suspended. If the ultimate collectability of the recorded loan balance is in doubt on a nonaccrual loan, the cost recovery method is used and cash collected is applied
to first reduce the carrying value of the loan. Otherwise, interest income may be recognized to the extent cash is received. Generally, we return a loan to accrual status when all delinquent interest and principal become current under the terms of
the loan agreement and collectability of remaining principal and interest is no longer doubtful.      For modified loans, we
re-underwrite at the time of a restructuring to determine if there is sufficient evidence of sustained repayment capacity based on the borrower s financial strength, including documented income, debt to income ratios and other factors. If the
borrower has demonstrated performance under the previous terms and the underwriting process shows the capacity to continue to perform under the restructured terms, the loan will generally remain in accruing status. When a loan classified as a TDR
performs in accordance with its modified terms, the loan either continues to accrue interest (for performing loans) or will return to accrual status after the borrower demonstrates a sustained period of performance (generally six consecutive months
of payments, or equivalent, inclusive of consecutive payments made prior to the modification). Loans will be placed on nonaccrual status and a corresponding charge-off is recorded if we believe it is probable that principal and interest
contractually due under the modified terms of the agreement will not be collectible.      Our loans are considered past due when
contractually required principal or interest payments have not been made on the due dates.       LOAN CHARGE-OFF POLICIES  For commercial
loans, we generally fully charge off or charge down to net realizable value (fair value of collateral, less estimated costs to sell) for loans secured by collateral when:      

management judges the loan to be uncollectible;      

repayment is deemed to be protracted beyond reasonable time frames;      

the loan has been classified as a loss by either our internal loan review process or our banking regulatory agencies;      

the customer has filed bankruptcy and the loss becomes evident owing to a lack of assets; or      

the loan is 180 days past due unless both well-secured and in the process of collection.      
  For consumer loans, we fully charge off or charge down to net realizable value when deemed uncollectible due to bankruptcy or other factors, or no later
than reaching a defined number of days past due, as follows:   

1-4 family first and junior lien mortgages   We generally charge down to net realizable value when the loan is 180 days past due.

Auto loans   We generally fully charge off when the loan is 120 days past due.      

Credit card loans   We generally fully charge off when the loan is 180 days past due.      

Unsecured loans (closed end)   We generally charge off when the loan is 120 days past due.      

Unsecured loans (open end)   We generally charge off when the loan is 180 days past due.      

Other secured loans   We generally fully or partially charge down to net realizable value when the loan is 120 days past due.
        We implemented the guidance in the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) update to Bank
Accounting Advisory Series (OCC guidance) issued in third quarter 2012, which requires consumer loans discharged in bankruptcy to be written down to net realizable value and classified as nonaccrual troubled debt restructurings (TDRs), regardless of
their delinquency status.       IMPAIRED LOANS  We consider a loan to be impaired when, based on current information and events, we determine
that we will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the loan contract, including scheduled interest payments. This evaluation is generally based on delinquency information, an assessment of the borrower s financial condition and
the adequacy of collateral, if any. Our impaired loans predominantly include loans on nonaccrual status for commercial and industrial, commercial real estate (CRE), foreign loans and any loans modified in a TDR, on both accrual and nonaccrual
status.      When we identify a loan as impaired, we measure the impairment based on the present value of expected future cash
flows, discounted at the loan s effective interest rate. When collateral is the sole source of repayment for the loan, we may measure impairment based on the fair value of the collateral. If foreclosure is probable, we use the current fair
value of the collateral less estimated selling costs, instead of discounted cash flows.      If we determine that the value of an
impaired loan is less than the recorded investment in the loan (net of previous charge-offs, deferred loan fees or costs and unamortized premium or discount), we recognize impairment. When the value of an impaired loan is calculated by discounting
expected cash flows, interest income is recognized using the loan s effective interest rate over the remaining life of the loan.   
   TROUBLED DEBT RESTRUCTURINGS (TDR  s ) In situations where, for economic or legal reasons related to a borrower s financial difficulties,
we grant a concession for other than an insignificant period of time to the borrower that we would not otherwise consider, the related loan is classified as a TDR. These modified terms may include rate reductions, principal forgiveness, term
extensions, payment forbearance and other actions intended to minimize our economic loss and to avoid foreclosure or repossession of the collateral. For modifications where we forgive principal, the entire amount of such principal forgiveness is
immediately charged off. Loans classified as TDRs,   

133   

including loans in trial payment periods (trial modifications), are considered impaired loans.       PURCHASED CREDIT-IMPAIRED (PCI) LOANS  Loans acquired with evidence of credit deterioration since their origination and where it is probable that we will not collect all contractually required
principal and interest payments are PCI loans. PCI loans are recorded at fair value at the date of acquisition, and the historical allowance for credit losses related to these loans is not carried over. Some loans that otherwise meet the definition
as credit-impaired are specifically excluded from the PCI loan portfolios, such as revolving loans where the borrower still has revolving privileges.      Evidence of credit quality deterioration as of the purchase date may include statistics such as past due and nonaccrual status, commercial risk ratings, recent borrower credit scores and recent
loan-to-value percentages. Generally, acquired loans that meet our definition for nonaccrual status are considered to be credit-impaired.      Substantially all commercial and industrial, CRE and foreign PCI loans are accounted for as individual loans. Conversely, consumer PCI loans have been aggregated into pools based on common risk
characteristics. Each pool is accounted for as a single asset with a single composite interest rate and an aggregate expectation of cash flows.      Accounting for PCI loans involves estimating fair value, at acquisition, using the principal and interest cash flows expected to be collected discounted at the prevailing market rate of interest. The
excess of cash flows expected to be collected over the carrying value (estimated fair value at acquisition date) is referred to as the accretable yield and is recognized in interest income using an effective yield method over the remaining life of
the loan, or pool of loans, in situations where there is a reasonable expectation about the timing and amount of cash flows to be collected. The difference between contractually required payments and the cash flows expected to be collected at
acquisition, considering the impact of prepayments, is referred to as the nonaccretable difference.      Subsequent to
acquisition, we regularly evaluate our estimates of cash flows expected to be collected. If we have probable decreases in cash flows expected to be collected (other than due to decreases in interest rate indices and changes in prepayment
assumptions), we charge the provision for credit losses, resulting in an increase to the allowance for loan losses. If we have probable and significant increases in cash flows expected to be collected, we first reverse any previously established
allowance for loan losses and then increase interest income as a prospective yield adjustment over the remaining life of the loan, or pool of loans. Estimates of cash flows are impacted by changes in interest rate indices for variable rate loans and
prepayment assumptions, both of which are treated as prospective yield adjustments included in interest income.      Resolutions
of loans may include sales of loans to third parties, receipt of payments in settlement with the borrower, or foreclosure of the collateral. For individual PCI loans, gains or losses on sales to third parties are included in noninterest income, and
gains or losses as a result of a settlement with the borrower are included in interest income. Our policy is to remove an individual loan from a pool based on comparing the

amount received from its resolution with its contractual amount. Any difference between these amounts is absorbed by the nonaccretable difference for the entire pool. This removal method assumes
that the amount received from resolution approximates pool performance expectations. The remaining accretable yield balance is unaffected and any material change in remaining effective yield caused by this removal method is addressed by our
quarterly cash flow evaluation process for each pool. For loans that are resolved by payment in full, there is no release of the nonaccretable difference for the pool because there is no difference between the amount received at resolution and the
contractual amount of the loan. Modified PCI loans are not removed from a pool even if those loans would otherwise be deemed TDRs. Modified PCI loans that are accounted for individually are considered TDRs, and removed from PCI accounting if there
has been a concession granted in excess of the original nonaccretable difference. We include these TDRs in our impaired loans.       FORECLOSED
ASSETS  Foreclosed assets obtained through our lending activities primarily include real estate. Generally, loans have been written down to their net realizable value prior to foreclosure. Any further reduction to their net realizable value is
recorded with a charge to the allowance for credit losses at foreclosure. We allow up to 90 days after foreclosure to finalize determination of net realizable value. Thereafter, changes in net realizable value are recorded to noninterest expense.
The net realizable value of these assets is reviewed and updated periodically depending on the type of property.       ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT
LOSSES (ACL)  The allowance for credit losses is management s estimate of credit losses inherent in the loan portfolio, including unfunded credit commitments, at the balance sheet date. We have an established process to determine the
appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses that assesses the losses inherent in our portfolio and related unfunded credit commitments. While we attribute portions of the allowance to our respective commercial and consumer portfolio segments,
the entire allowance is available to absorb credit losses inherent in the total loan portfolio and unfunded credit commitments.      Our process involves procedures to appropriately consider the unique risk characteristics of our commercial and consumer loan portfolio segments. For each portfolio segment, losses are estimated
collectively for groups of loans with similar characteristics, individually or pooled for impaired loans or, for PCI loans, based on the changes in cash flows expected to be collected.   
  Our allowance levels are influenced by loan volumes, loan grade migration or delinquency status, historic loss experience influencing
loss factors, and other conditions influencing loss expectations, such as economic conditions.       COMMERCIAL PORTFOLIO SEGMENT ACL
METHODOLOGY  Generally, commercial loans are assessed for estimated losses by grading each loan using various risk factors as identified through periodic reviews. We apply historic grade-specific loss factors to

134   

Note 1: Summary of Significant Accounting Policies    (continued)       

the aggregation of each funded grade pool. These historic loss factors are also used to estimate losses for unfunded credit commitments. In the development of our statistically derived loan grade
loss factors, we observe historical losses over a relevant period for each loan grade. These loss estimates are adjusted as appropriate based on additional analysis of long-term average loss experience compared to previously forecasted losses,
external loss data or other risks identified from current economic conditions and credit quality trends.      The allowance also
includes an amount for the estimated impairment on nonaccrual commercial loans and commercial loans modified in a TDR, whether on accrual or nonaccrual status.       CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SEGMENT ACL METHODOLOGY  For consumer loans, not identified as a TDR, we determine the allowance predominantly on a collective basis utilizing forecasted losses to represent our
best estimate of inherent loss. We pool loans, generally by product types with similar risk characteristics, such as residential real estate mortgages and credit cards. As appropriate and to achieve greater accuracy, we may further stratify selected
portfolios by sub-product, origination channel, vintage, loss type, geographic location and other predictive characteristics. Models designed for each pool are utilized to develop the loss estimates. We use assumptions for these pools in our
forecast models, such as historic delinquency and default, loss severity, home price trends, unemployment trends, and other key economic variables that may influence the frequency and severity of losses in the pool.   
  In determining the appropriate allowance attributable to our residential mortgage portfolio, we take into consideration portfolios
determined to be at elevated risk, such as junior lien mortgages behind delinquent first lien mortgages and junior lien lines of credit subject to near term significant payment increases. We incorporate the default rates and high severity of loss
for these higher risk portfolios including the impact of our established loan modification programs. When modifications occur or are probable to occur, our allowance considers the impact of these modifications, taking into consideration the
associated credit cost, including re-defaults of modified loans and projected loss severity. Accordingly, the loss content associated with the effects of existing and probable loan modifications and higher risk portfolios has been captured in our
allowance methodology.      We separately estimate impairment for consumer loans that have been modified in a TDR (including
trial modifications), whether on accrual or nonaccrual status.       OTHER ACL MATTERS  The allowance for credit losses for both portfolio
segments includes an amount for imprecision or uncertainty that may change from period to period. This amount represents management s judgment of risks inherent in the processes and assumptions used in establishing the allowance. This
imprecision considers economic environmental factors, modeling assumptions and performance, process risk, and other subjective factors, including industry trends and risk assessments for our commitments to regulatory and government

agencies regarding settlements of mortgage foreclosure-related matters.   
   Securitizations and Beneficial Interests    
  In certain asset securitization transactions that meet the applicable criteria to be accounted for as a sale, assets are sold to an entity referred to as
an SPE, which then issues beneficial interests in the form of senior and subordinated interests collateralized by the assets. In some cases, we may retain beneficial interests issued by the entity. Additionally, from time to time, we may also
re-securitize certain assets in a new securitization transaction.      The assets and liabilities transferred to an SPE are
excluded from our consolidated balance sheet if the transfer qualifies as a sale and we are not required to consolidate the SPE.      For transfers of financial assets recorded as sales, we recognize and initially measure at fair value all assets obtained (including beneficial interests) and liabilities incurred. We record a gain or
loss in noninterest income for the difference between the carrying amount and the fair value of the assets sold. Fair values are based on quoted market prices, quoted market prices for similar assets, or if market prices are not available, then the
fair value is estimated using discounted cash flow analyses with assumptions for credit losses, prepayments and discount rates that are corroborated by and verified against market observable data, where possible. Retained interests from
securitizations with off-balance sheet entities, including SPEs and VIEs where we are not the primary beneficiary, are classified as available for sale securities, trading account assets or loans, and are accounted for as described herein.
      Mortgage Servicing Rights (MSRs)       We recognize the rights to service mortgage loans for others, or MSRs, as assets whether we purchase the MSRs or the MSRs result from a sale or securitization of loans we originate (asset transfers). We
initially record all of our MSRs at fair value. Subsequently, residential loan MSRs are carried at fair value. All of our MSRs related to our commercial mortgage loans are subsequently measured at LOCOM.   
  We base the fair value of MSRs on the present value of estimated future net servicing income cash flows. We estimate future net
servicing income cash flows with assumptions that market participants would use to estimate fair value, including estimates of prepayment speeds (which are influenced by changes in mortgage interest rates and borrower behavior, including estimates
for borrower default), discount rates, cost to service (including delinquency and foreclosure costs), escrow account earnings, contractual servicing fee income, ancillary income and late fees. Our valuation approach is validated by our internal
valuation model validation group and our valuation estimates are periodically benchmarked to third party appraisals on a quarterly basis.      Changes in the fair value of MSRs occur primarily due to the collection/realization of expected cash flows, as well as changes in valuation inputs and assumptions. For MSRs carried at fair value, changes
in fair value are reported in noninterest income in the period in which the change occurs. MSRs subsequently measured at LOCOM are amortized in proportion to, and over

135   

the period of, estimated net servicing income. The amortization of MSRs is reported in noninterest income, analyzed monthly and adjusted to reflect changes in prepayment speeds, as well as other
factors.      MSRs accounted for at LOCOM are periodically evaluated for impairment based on the fair value of those assets. For
purposes of impairment evaluation and measurement, we stratify MSRs based on the predominant risk characteristics of the underlying loans, including investor and product type. If, by individual stratum, the carrying amount of these MSRs exceeds fair
value, a valuation reserve is established. The valuation reserve is adjusted as the fair value changes.       Premises and Equipment
      Premises and equipment are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Capital leases, where we are the lessee, are
included in premises and equipment at the capitalized amount less accumulated amortization.      We primarily use the
straight-line method of depreciation and amortization. Estimated useful lives range up to 40 years for buildings, up to 10 years for furniture and equipment, and the shorter of the estimated useful life or lease term for leasehold improvements. We
amortize capitalized leased assets on a straight-line basis over the lives of the respective leases.       Goodwill and Identifiable Intangible
Assets       Goodwill is recorded in business combinations under the purchase method of accounting when the purchase price is higher than the
fair value of net assets, including identifiable intangible assets.      We assess goodwill for impairment at a reporting unit
level on an annual basis or more frequently in certain circumstances. We have determined that our reporting units are one level below the operating segments. We have the option of performing a qualitative assessment of goodwill. We may also elect to
bypass the qualitative test and proceed directly to a quantitative test. We initially perform a qualitative assessment of goodwill to test for impairment. If, based on our qualitative review, we conclude that more likely than not a reporting
unit s fair value is less than its carrying amount, then we complete quantitative steps as described below to determine if there is goodwill impairment. If we conclude that a reporting unit s fair value is not less than its carrying
amount, quantitative tests are not required. We assess goodwill for impairment on a reporting unit level and apply various quantitative valuation methodologies when required to compare the estimated fair value to the carrying value of each reporting
unit. Valuation methodologies include discounted cash flow and earnings multiple approaches. If the fair value is less than the carrying amount, an additional test is required to measure the amount of impairment. We recognize impairment losses as a
charge to noninterest expense (unless related to discontinued operations) and an adjustment to the carrying value of the goodwill asset. Subsequent reversals of goodwill impairment are prohibited.   
  We amortize core deposit and other customer relationship intangibles on an accelerated basis over useful lives not exceeding 10 years.
We review such intangibles for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Impairment is

indicated if the sum of undiscounted estimated future net cash flows is less than the carrying value of the asset. Impairment is permanently recognized by writing down the asset to the extent
that the carrying value exceeds the estimated fair value.       Operating Lease Assets    
  Operating lease rental income for leased assets is recognized in other income on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Related depreciation expense
is recorded on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life, considering the estimated residual value of the leased asset. The useful life may be adjusted to the term of the lease depending on our plans for the asset after the lease term. On
a periodic basis, leased assets are reviewed for impairment. Impairment loss is recognized if the carrying amount of leased assets exceeds fair value and is not recoverable. The carrying amount of leased assets is not recoverable if it exceeds the
sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the lease payments and the estimated residual value upon the eventual disposition of the equipment.       Liability for Mortgage Loan Repurchase Losses       We sell residential mortgage loans to
various parties, including (1) Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae (government-sponsored entities (GSEs)), which include the mortgage loans in GSE-guaranteed mortgage securitizations, (2) special purpose entities that issue private label MBS, and
(3) other financial institutions that purchase mortgage loans for investment or private label securitization. In addition, we pool Federal Housing Administration (FHA)-insured and Department of Veterans Affairs (VA)-guaranteed mortgage loans,
which back securities guaranteed by the Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA).      We may be required to repurchase
mortgage loans, indemnify the securitization trust, investor or insurer, or reimburse the securitization trust, investor or insurer for credit losses incurred on loans (collectively  repurchase ) in the event of a breach of specified
contractual representations or warranties that are not remedied within a period (usually 90 days or less) after we receive notice of the breach. Our loan sale contracts to private investors (non-GSE) typically contain an additional provision where
we would only be required to repurchase securitized loans if a breach is deemed to have a material and adverse effect on the value of the mortgage loan or to the investors or interests of security holders in the mortgage loan.   
  We establish mortgage repurchase liabilities related to various representations and warranties that reflect management s estimate
of losses for loans for which we could have a repurchase obligation, whether or not we currently service those loans, based on a combination of factors. Such factors include default expectations, expected investor repurchase demands (influenced by
current and expected mortgage loan file requests and mortgage insurance rescission notices, as well as estimated demand to default and file request relationships) and appeals success rates (where the investor rescinds the demand based on a cure of
the defect or acknowledges that the loan satisfies the investor s applicable representations and warranties), reimbursement by correspondent and other third party originators, and projected

136   

Note 1: Summary of Significant Accounting Policies    (continued)       

loss severity. We establish a liability at the time loans are sold and continually update our liability estimate during their life. Although activity can vary by investor, investors may demand
repurchase at any time and there is often a lag from the date of default to the time we receive a repurchase demand. This lag has lengthened as some investor audit reviews, particularly by the GSEs, have changed to reopen or expand reviews on
previously defaulted populations. Accordingly, the majority of repurchase demands continue to be on loans that default in the first 24 to 36 months following origination of the mortgage loan.   
  The liability for mortgage loan repurchase losses is included in other liabilities. For additional information on our repurchase
liability, see Note 9.       Pension Accounting       We account for our defined benefit pension plans using an actuarial model. Two principal assumptions in determining net periodic pension cost are the discount rate and the expected long term rate of
return on plan assets.      A discount rate is used to estimate the present value of our future pension benefit obligations. We
use a consistent methodology to determine the discount rate that is based on an established yield curve methodology. This methodology incorporates a broad group of top quartile Aa bonds consisting of approximately 325-350 bonds. The discount rate is
determined by matching this yield curve with the timing and amounts of the expected benefit payments for our plans.      Our
determination of the reasonableness of our expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is highly quantitative by nature. We evaluate the current asset allocations and expected returns under two sets of conditions: projected returns using
several forward-looking capital market assumptions, and historical returns for the main asset classes dating back to 1970 or the earliest period for which historical data was readily available for the asset classes included. Using long term
historical data allows us to capture multiple economic environments, which we believe is relevant when using historical returns. We place greater emphasis on the forward-looking return and risk assumptions than on historical results. We use the
resulting projections to derive a base line expected rate of return and risk level for the Cash Balance Plans  prescribed asset mix. We evaluate the portfolio based on: (1) the established target asset allocations over short term
(one-year) and longer term (ten-year) investment horizons, and (2) the range of potential outcomes over these horizons within specific standard deviations. We perform the above analyses to assess the reasonableness of our expected long-term
rate of return on plan assets. We consider the expected rate of return to be a long-term average view of expected returns. The use of an expected long term rate of return on plan assets may cause us to recognize pension income returns that are
greater or less than the actual returns of plan assets in any given year. Differences between expected and actual returns in each year, if any, are included in our net actuarial gain or loss amount, which is recognized in OCI. We generally amortize
net actuarial gain or loss in excess of a 5% corridor from accumulated OCI into net periodic pension cost over the estimated average remaining participation period, which at December 31, 2012, is 16 years. See Note 20 for additional information
on our pension accounting.   
 
    Income Taxes       We file consolidated and separate company federal income tax returns, foreign tax returns and various combined and separate company state tax returns.   
  We evaluate two components of income tax expense: current and deferred. Current income tax expense represents our estimated taxes to be
paid or refunded for the current period and includes income tax expense related to our uncertain tax positions. We determine deferred income taxes using the balance sheet method. Under this method, the net deferred tax asset or liability is based on
the tax effects of the differences between the book and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and recognizes enacted changes in tax rates and laws in the period in which they occur. Deferred income tax expense results from changes in deferred tax
assets and liabilities between periods. Deferred tax assets are recognized subject to management s judgment that realization is  more likely than not.  Uncertain tax positions that meet the more likely than not recognition threshold
are measured to determine the amount of benefit to recognize. An uncertain tax position is measured at the largest amount of benefit that management believes has a greater than 50% likelihood of realization upon settlement. Tax benefits
not meeting our realization criteria represent unrecognized tax benefits. Foreign taxes paid are generally applied as credits to reduce federal income taxes payable. We account for interest and penalties as a component of income tax expense.
      Stock-Based Compensation       We
have stock-based employee compensation plans as more fully discussed in Note 19. Our Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan provides for awards of incentive and nonqualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted shares, RSRs,
performance share awards and stock awards without restrictions. We measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments, such as stock options, restricted share rights (RSRs) or performance shares, based on
the fair value of the award on the grant date. The cost is normally recognized in our income statement over the vesting period of the award; awards with graded vesting are expensed on a straight line method. Awards that continue to vest after
retirement are expensed over the shorter of the period of time between the grant date and the final vesting period or between the grant date and when a team member becomes retirement eligible; awards to team members who are retirement eligible at
the grant date are subject to immediate expensing upon grant.       Earnings Per Common Share    
  We compute earnings per common share by dividing net income (after deducting dividends on preferred stock) by the average number of common shares
outstanding during the year. We compute diluted earnings per common share by dividing net income (after deducting dividends and related accretion on preferred stock) by the average number of common shares outstanding during the year, plus the effect
of common stock equivalents (for example, stock options, restricted share rights, convertible debentures and warrants) that are dilutive.

137   

Fair Value of Financial Instruments       We use fair value measurements in our fair value disclosures and to record certain assets and liabilities at fair value on a recurring basis, such as trading assets, or on a nonrecurring basis such as
measuring impairment on assets carried at amortized cost.       DETERMINATION OF FAIR VALUE    
  We base our fair values on the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market
participants at the measurement date. These fair value measurements are based on exit prices and determined by maximizing the use of observable inputs. However, for certain instruments we must utilize unobservable inputs in determining fair value
due to the lack of observable inputs in the market which requires greater judgment in measuring fair value.      In instances
where there is limited or no observable market data, fair value measurements for assets and liabilities are based primarily upon our own estimates or combination of our own estimates and third-party vendor or broker pricing, and the measurements are
often calculated based on current pricing for products we offer or issue, the economic and competitive environment, the characteristics of the asset or liability and other such factors. As with any valuation technique used to estimate fair value,
changes in underlying assumptions used, including discount rates and estimates of future cash flows, could significantly affect the results of current or future values. Accordingly, these fair value estimates may not be realized in an actual sale or
immediate settlement of the asset or liability.      We incorporate lack of liquidity into our fair value measurement based on
the type of asset or liability measured and the valuation methodology used. For example, for certain residential MHFS and certain securities where the significant inputs have become unobservable due to illiquid markets and vendor or broker pricing
is not used, we use a discounted cash flow technique to measure fair value. This technique incorporates forecasting of expected cash flows (adjusted for credit loss assumptions and estimated prepayment speeds) discounted at an appropriate market
discount rate to reflect the lack of liquidity in the market that a market participant would consider. For other securities where vendor or broker pricing is used, we use either unadjusted broker quotes or vendor prices or vendor or broker prices
adjusted by weighting them with internal discounted cash flow techniques to measure fair value. These unadjusted vendor or broker prices inherently reflect any lack of liquidity in the market as the fair value measurement represents an exit price
from a market participant viewpoint.      Where markets are inactive and transactions are not orderly, transaction or quoted
prices for assets or liabilities in inactive markets may require adjustment due to the uncertainty of whether the underlying transactions are orderly. For items that use price quotes in inactive markets, such as certain security classes within
securities available for sale, we analyze the degree of market inactivity and distressed transactions to determine the appropriate adjustment to the price quotes.      The methodology used to adjust the quotes involves weighting the price quotes and results of internal pricing techniques such as the net present value of future expected cash flows (with observable
inputs, where available) discounted at a

rate of return market participants require. The significant inputs utilized in the internal pricing techniques, which are estimated by type of underlying collateral, include credit loss
assumptions, estimated prepayment speeds and discount rates.      The more active and orderly markets for particular security
classes are determined to be, the more weighting is assigned to price quotes. The less active and orderly markets are determined to be, the less weighting is assigned to price quotes. We continually assess the level and volume of market activity in
our investment security classes in determining adjustments, if any, to price quotes. Given market conditions can change over time, our determination of which securities markets are considered active or inactive can change. If we determine a market
to be inactive, the degree to which price quotes require adjustment, can also change. See Note 17 for further discussion of the valuation methodologies applied to financial instruments to determine fair value.   
   FAIR VALUE HIERARCHY       We group our
assets and liabilities measured at fair value in three levels, based on the markets in which the assets and liabilities are traded and the reliability of the assumptions used to determine fair value. These levels are:   

Level 1   Valuation is based upon quoted prices for identical instruments traded in active markets.      

Level 2   Valuation is based upon quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in
markets that are not active, and model-based valuation techniques for which all significant assumptions are observable in the market.      

Level 3   Valuation is generated from techniques that use significant assumptions not observable in the market. These unobservable assumptions
reflect estimates of assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. Valuation techniques include use of option pricing models, discounted cash flow models and similar techniques.      
  In the determination of the classification of financial instruments in Level 2 or Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, we consider all
available information, including observable market data, indications of market liquidity and orderliness, and our understanding of the valuation techniques and significant inputs used. For securities in inactive markets, we use a predetermined
percentage to evaluate the impact of fair value adjustments derived from weighting both external and internal indications of value to determine if the instrument is classified as Level 2 or Level 3. Based upon the specific facts and circumstances of
each instrument or instrument category, we make judgments regarding the significance of the Level 3 inputs to the instruments  fair value measurement in its entirety. If Level 3 inputs are considered significant, the instrument is classified as
Level 3.       Derivatives and Hedging Activities       We recognize all derivatives in the balance sheet at fair value. On the date we enter into a derivative contract, we designate the derivative as (1) a hedge of the fair value of a recognized asset or
liability, including hedges of foreign currency exposure ( fair value  hedge), (2) a hedge of a forecasted transaction or of the

138   

Note 1: Summary of Significant Accounting Policies    (continued)       

variability of cash flows to be received or paid related to a recognized asset or liability ( cash flow  hedge), or (3) held for trading, customer accommodation or asset/liability
risk management purposes, including economic hedges not qualifying for hedge accounting. For a fair value hedge, we record changes in the fair value of the derivative and, to the extent that it is effective, changes in the fair value of the hedged
asset or liability attributable to the hedged risk, in current period earnings in the same financial statement category as the hedged item. For a cash flow hedge, we record changes in the fair value of the derivative to the extent that it is
effective in OCI, with any ineffectiveness recorded in current period earnings. We subsequently reclassify these changes in fair value to net income in the same period(s) that the hedged transaction affects net income in the same financial statement
category as the hedged item. For free-standing derivatives, we report changes in the fair values in current period noninterest income.      For fair value and cash flow hedges qualifying for hedge accounting, we formally document at inception the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, our risk management objective,
strategy and our evaluation of effectiveness for our hedge transactions. This includes linking all derivatives designated as fair value or cash flow hedges to specific assets and liabilities in the balance sheet or to specific forecasted
transactions. Periodically, as required, we also formally assess whether the derivative we designated in each hedging relationship is expected to be and has been highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged item
using the regression analysis method or, in limited cases, the dollar offset method.      We discontinue hedge accounting
prospectively when (1) a derivative is no longer highly effective in offsetting changes in the fair value or cash flows of a hedged item, (2) a derivative expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, (3) a derivative is de-designated
as a hedge, because it is unlikely that a forecasted transaction will occur, or (4) we elect to discontinue the designation of a derivative as a hedge.      When we discontinue hedge accounting because a derivative no longer qualifies as an effective fair value hedge, we continue to carry the derivative in the balance sheet at its fair value with changes in
fair value included in earnings, and no longer adjust the previously hedged asset or liability for changes in fair value. Previous adjustments to the hedged item are accounted for in the same manner as other components of the carrying amount of the
asset or liability.      When we discontinue cash flow hedge accounting because the hedging instrument is sold, terminated or no
longer designated (de-designated), the amount reported in OCI up to the date of sale, termination or de-designation continues to be reported in OCI until the forecasted transaction affects earnings.   
  When we discontinue cash flow hedge accounting because it is probable that a forecasted transaction will not occur, we continue to carry
the derivative in the balance sheet at its fair value with changes in fair value included in earnings, and immediately recognize gains and losses that were accumulated in OCI in earnings.   
  In all other situations in which we discontinue hedge accounting, the derivative will be carried at its fair value in the

balance sheet, with changes in its fair value recognized in current period earnings.      We occasionally purchase or originate financial instruments that contain an embedded derivative. At inception of the financial instrument, we assess (1) if the economic characteristics of the
embedded derivative are not clearly and closely related to the economic characteristics of the financial instrument (host contract), (2) if the financial instrument that embodies both the embedded derivative and the host contract is not
measured at fair value with changes in fair value reported in earnings, and (3) if a separate instrument with the same terms as the embedded instrument would meet the definition of a derivative. If the embedded derivative meets all of these
conditions, we separate it from the host contract by recording the bifurcated derivative at fair value and the remaining host contract at the difference between the basis of the hybrid instrument and the fair value of the bifurcated derivative. The
bifurcated derivative is carried as a free-standing derivative at fair value with changes recorded in current period earnings.   
  By using derivatives, we are exposed to counterparty credit risk if counterparties to the derivative contracts do not perform as
expected. If a counterparty fails to perform, our counterparty credit risk is equal to the amount reported as a derivative asset on our balance sheet. The amounts reported as a derivative asset are derivative contracts in a gain position, and to the
extent subject to legally enforceable master netting arrangements, net of derivatives in a loss position with the same counterparty and cash collateral received. We minimize counterparty credit risk through credit approvals, limits, monitoring
procedures, executing master netting arrangements and obtaining collateral, where appropriate. To the extent derivatives subject to master netting arrangements meet the applicable requirements, including determining the legal enforceability of the
arrangement, it is our policy to present derivatives balances and related cash collateral amounts net in the balance sheet. Counterparty credit risk related to derivatives is considered in determining fair value and our assessment of hedge
effectiveness.       Private Share Repurchases       During 2012 and 2011, we repurchased approximately 36 million shares and 6 million shares, respectively, under repurchase contracts. We entered into these transactions to complement our
open-market common stock repurchase strategies, to allow us to manage our share repurchases in a manner consistent with our capital plan submitted under the 2012 Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR), and to provide an economic benefit to
the Company.      As of December 31, 2012, we had a forward repurchase contract outstanding to repurchase an estimated
6 million shares, which is expected to settle in first quarter 2013. In connection with this contract, we paid $200 million to the counterparty, which was recorded in permanent equity in the quarter paid and was not subject to re-measurement.
The classification of the up-front payment as permanent equity assured that we would have appropriate repurchase timing consistent with our 2012 capital plan, which contemplated a fixed dollar amount available per quarter for share repurchases
pursuant to Federal Reserve Board (FRB) supervisory guidance.   

139   

In return, the counterparty agreed to deliver a variable number of shares based on a per share discount to the volume-weighted average stock price over the contract period. The counterparty has
the right to accelerate settlement with delivery of shares

prior to the contractual settlement. There are no scenarios where the contracts would not either physically settle in shares or allow us to choose the settlement method.

SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW
INFORMATION   Noncash activities are presented below, including information on transfers affecting MHFS, LHFS, and MSRs.       

SUBSEQUENT EVENTS   We have evaluated the effects of subsequent events that have occurred
subsequent to period end December 31, 2012, and there have been no material events that would require recognition in our 2012 consolidated financial statements or disclosure in the Notes to the financial statements, except for the announcement
on January 7, 2013, that the Company, along with nine other mortgage services, entered into term sheets with the OCC and the FRB that provide the parties will enter into amendments to the Consent Orders, which would end our Independent
Foreclosure Review (IFR) programs created by Article VII of an April 2011 Interagency Consent Order and replace it with an accelerated remediation process. The amendments to the Consent Orders have not yet been entered into with the OCC or FRB.
     In aggregate, the servicers have agreed to make direct, cash payments of $3.3 billion and to provide $5.2 billion in
additional assistance, such as loan modifications, to consumers. Our portion of the cash settlement is $766 million, which is based on the proportionate share of Wells Fargo-serviced loans in the overall IFR population. We fully accrued the cash
portion of the settlement in 2012, along with other remediation-related costs. We also committed to foreclosure prevention actions which include first and second lien modifications and short sales/deeds-in-lieu of foreclosure on $1.2 billion of
loans. We anticipate meeting this commitment primarily through first lien modification and short sale activities. We are required to meet this commitment within two years of signing the agreement and

we anticipate that we will be able to meet our commitment within the required timelines. This commitment did not result in any charge as we believe that this commitment is covered through the
existing allowance for credit losses and the nonaccretable difference relating to the purchased credit-impaired loan portfolios.

140   

Note 2: Business Combinations    

We regularly explore opportunities to acquire financial services companies and businesses. Generally, we do
not make a public announcement about an acquisition opportunity until a definitive agreement has been signed. For information on

additional contingent consideration related to acquisitions, which is considered to be a guarantee, see Note 14.      Business combinations completed in 2012, 2011, and 2010 are presented below. At December 31, 2012, we had no pending business combinations.

(in millions)  
      
  Date  

Assets  

2012    

EverKey Global Partners Limited / EverKey Global Management LLC / EverKey Global Partners (GP), LLC / EverKey Global Focus (GP), LLC  
Bahamas/New York, New York   

January 1  

$   
   7   

Burdale Financial Holdings Limited / Certain Assets of Burdale Capital Finance, Inc.   England/Stamford, Connecticut   

February 1  

874   

Energy Lending Business of BNP Paribas, SA   Houston, Texas   

April 20  

3,639   

Merlin Securities, LLC / Merlin Canada LTD. / Certain Assets and Liabilities of Merlin Group Holdings, LLC   San Francisco,
California/Toronto, Ontario   

August 1  

281   

$   
           4,801   

2011    

CP Equity, LLC   Denver, Colorado   

July 1  

$  
  389  

Certain assets of Foreign Currency Exchange Corp   Orlando, Florida   

August 1  

46  

LaCrosse Holdings, LLC   Minneapolis, Minnesota   

November 30  

116  

Other (1)   

Various  

37  

$  
  588  

2010    

Certain assets of GMAC Commercial Finance, LLC   New York, New York   

April 30  

$  
  430  

Other (2)   

Various  

40  

$  
  470  

(1)  
  Consists of seven acquisitions of insurance brokerage businesses.     

(2)  
  Consists of five acquisitions of insurance brokerage businesses.     
         141   

Note 3: Cash, Loan and Dividend Restrictions    

Federal Reserve Board (FRB) regulations require that each of our subsidiary banks maintain reserve balances
on deposit with the Federal Reserve Banks. The average required reserve balance was $9.1 billion in 2012 and $7.0 billion in 2011.      Federal law restricts the amount and the terms of both credit and non-credit transactions between a bank and its nonbank affiliates. They may not exceed 10% of the bank s capital and surplus (which
for this purpose represents Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital, as calculated under the risk-based capital (RBC) guidelines, plus the balance of the allowance for credit losses excluded from Tier 2 capital) with any single nonbank affiliate and 20% of the
bank s capital and surplus with all its nonbank affiliates. Transactions that are extensions of credit may require collateral to be held to provide added security to the bank. For further discussion of RBC, see Note 26 in this Report.
     Dividends paid by our subsidiary banks are subject to various federal and state regulatory limitations. Dividends that may
be paid by a national bank without the express approval of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) are limited to that bank s retained net profits for the preceding two calendar years plus retained net profits up to the date of any
dividend declaration in the current calendar year. Retained net profits, as defined by the OCC, consist of net income less dividends declared during the period.      We also have a state-chartered subsidiary bank that is subject to state regulations that limit dividends. Under those provisions,

our national and state-chartered subsidiary banks could have declared additional dividends of $1.7 billion at December 31, 2012, without obtaining prior regulatory approval. Our nonbank
subsidiaries are also limited by certain federal and state statutory provisions and regulations covering the amount of dividends that may be paid in any given year. Based on retained earnings at December 31, 2012, our nonbank subsidiaries could
have declared additional dividends of $6.2 billion at December 31, 2012, without obtaining prior approval.      The FRB
published clarifying supervisory guidance in first quarter 2009,  SR 09-4 Applying Supervisory Guidance and Regulations on the Payment of Dividends, Stock Redemptions, and Stock Repurchases at Bank Holding Companies,  pertaining to FRB s
criteria, assessment and approval process for reductions in capital. The FRB supplemented this guidance with the Capital Plan Rule issued in fourth quarter 2011 (codified at 12 CFR 225.8 of Regulation Y) that establishes capital planning and prior
notice and approval requirements for capital distributions including dividends by certain bank holding companies. The effect of this guidance is to require the approval of the FRB (or specifically under the Capital Plan Rule, a notice of
non-objection) for the Company to repurchase or redeem common or perpetual preferred stock as well as to raise the per share quarterly dividend from its current level of $0.25 per share as declared by the Company s Board of Directors on
January 22, 2013, payable on March 1, 2013.   

Note 4: Federal Funds Sold, Securities Purchased under Resale Agreements and Other Short-Term Investments

The following table provides the detail of federal funds sold, securities purchased under short-term resale
agreements (generally less than one year) and other short-term investments. The majority of interest-earning deposits at December 31, 2012, were held at the Federal Reserve.   
   
    We have classified in loans securities purchased under long-term resale agreements (generally one year or more), which
totaled $9.5 billion and $8.7 billion at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. For additional information on the collateral we receive from other entities under resale agreements and securities borrowings, see the  Pledged Assets and
Collateral  section of Note 14.   

142   

Note 5: Securities Available for Sale    

The following table provides the amortized cost and fair value for the major categories of securities
available for sale carried at fair value. The net unrealized gains (losses) are reported on an

after-tax basis as a component of cumulative OCI. There were no securities classified as held to maturity as of the periods presented.

(2)  
  Included in the  Other  category are asset-backed securities collateralized by auto leases or loans and cash reserves with a cost basis and fair value of $5.9 billion
each at December 31, 2012, and $6.7 billion each at December 31, 2011. Also included in the  Other  category are asset-backed securities collateralized by home equity loans with a cost basis and fair value of $695 million and
$918 million, respectively, at December 31, 2012, and $846 million and $932 million, respectively, at December 31, 2011. The remaining balances primarily include asset-backed securities collateralized by credit cards and student loans.

(3)  
  At December 31, 2012 and 2011, we held no securities of any single issuer (excluding the U.S. Treasury and federal agencies) with a book value that exceeded 10% of
stockholders  equity.     
         143   

Gross Unrealized Losses and Fair Value       The following table shows the gross unrealized losses and fair value of securities in the securities available-for-sale portfolio by length of time that individual securities in each category had been in
a continuous loss position. Debt securities on which we

have taken credit-related OTTI write-downs are categorized as being  less than 12 months  or  12 months or more  in a continuous loss position based on the point in time that
the fair value declined to below the cost basis and not the period of time since the credit-related OTTI write-down.   

144   

Note 5: Securities Available for Sale    (continued)       

We do not have the intent to sell any securities included in the previous table. For debt securities
included in the table, we have concluded it is more likely than not that we will not be required to sell prior to recovery of the amortized cost basis. We have assessed each security with gross unrealized losses for credit impairment. For debt
securities, we evaluate, where necessary, whether credit impairment exists by comparing the present value of the expected cash flows to the securities  amortized cost basis. For equity securities, we consider numerous factors in determining
whether impairment exists, including our intent and ability to hold the securities for a period of time sufficient to recover the cost basis of the securities.      See Note 1    Investments  for the factors that we consider in our analysis of OTTI for debt and equity securities available for sale.   
   SECURITIES OF U.S. TREASURY AND FEDERAL AGENCIES AND FEDERAL AGENCY MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MBS)   The unrealized losses associated
with U.S. Treasury and federal agency securities and federal agency MBS are primarily driven by changes in interest rates and not due to credit losses given the explicit or implicit guarantees provided by the U.S. government.   
   SECURITIES OF U.S. STATES AND POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS   The unrealized losses associated with securities of U.S. states and political
subdivisions are primarily driven by changes in the relationship between municipal and term funding credit curves rather than by changes to the credit quality of the underlying securities. Substantially all of these investments are investment grade.
The securities were generally underwritten in accordance with our own investment standards prior to the decision to purchase. Some of these securities are guaranteed by a bond insurer, but we did not rely on this guarantee in making our investment
decision. These investments will continue to be monitored as part of our ongoing impairment analysis, but are expected to perform, even if the rating agencies reduce the credit rating of the bond insurers. As a result, we expect to recover the
entire amortized cost basis of these securities.       RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL MBS   The unrealized losses associated with
private residential MBS and commercial MBS are primarily driven by changes in projected collateral losses, credit spreads and interest rates. We assess for credit impairment by estimating the present value of expected cash flows. The key assumptions
for determining expected cash flows include default rates, loss severities and/or prepayment rates. We estimate losses to a security by forecasting the underlying mortgage loans in each transaction. We use forecasted loan performance to project cash
flows to the various tranches in the structure. We also consider cash flow forecasts and, as applicable, independent industry analyst reports and forecasts, sector credit ratings, and other independent market data. Based upon our assessment of the
expected credit losses and the credit enhancement level of the securities, we expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of these securities.       CORPORATE DEBT SECURITIES   The unrealized losses associated with corporate debt securities are primarily related to

unsecured debt obligations issued by various corporations. We evaluate the financial performance of each issuer on a quarterly basis to determine that the issuer can make all contractual
principal and interest payments. Based upon this assessment, we expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of these securities.   
   COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (CDOs)   The unrealized losses associated with CDOs relate to securities primarily backed by commercial,
residential or other consumer collateral. The unrealized losses are primarily driven by changes in projected collateral losses, credit spreads and interest rates. We assess for credit impairment by estimating the present value of expected cash
flows. The key assumptions for determining expected cash flows include default rates, loss severities and prepayment rates. We also consider cash flow forecasts and, as applicable, independent industry analyst reports and forecasts, sector credit
ratings, and other independent market data. Based upon our assessment of the expected credit losses and the credit enhancement level of the securities, we expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of these securities.   
   OTHER DEBT SECURITIES   The unrealized losses associated with other debt securities primarily relate to other asset-backed securities.
The losses are primarily driven by changes in projected collateral losses, credit spreads and interest rates. We assess for credit impairment by estimating the present value of expected cash flows. The key assumptions for determining expected cash
flows include default rates, loss severities and prepayment rates. Based upon our assessment of the expected credit losses and the credit enhancement level of the securities, we expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of these securities.
      MARKETABLE EQUITY SECURITIES   Our marketable equity securities include investments in perpetual preferred securities, which
provide attractive tax-equivalent yields. We evaluated these hybrid financial instruments with investment-grade ratings for impairment using an evaluation methodology similar to that used for debt securities. Perpetual preferred securities are not
considered to be other-than-temporarily impaired if there is no evidence of credit deterioration or investment rating downgrades of any issuers to below investment grade, and we expect to continue to receive full contractual payments. We will
continue to evaluate the prospects for these securities for recovery in their market value in accordance with our policy for estimating OTTI. We have recorded impairment write-downs on perpetual preferred securities where there was evidence of
credit deterioration.       OTHER SECURITIES AVAILABLE FOR SALE MATTERS   The fair values of our investment securities could
decline in the future if the underlying performance of the collateral for the residential and commercial MBS or other securities deteriorate and our credit enhancement levels do not provide sufficient protection to our contractual principal and
interest. As a result, there is a risk that significant OTTI may occur in the future.   

145   

The following table shows the gross unrealized losses and fair value of debt and
perpetual preferred securities available for sale by those rated investment grade and those rated less than investment grade, according to their lowest credit rating by Standard   Poor s Rating Services (S P) or Moody s
Investors Service (Moody s). Credit ratings express opinions about the credit quality of a security. Securities rated investment grade, that is those rated BBB- or higher by S P or Baa3 or higher by Moody s, are generally considered by
the rating agencies and market participants to be low credit risk. Conversely, securities rated below investment grade, labeled as  speculative grade  by the rating agencies, are considered to be distinctively higher

credit risk than investment grade securities. We have also included securities not rated by S P or Moody s in the table below based on the internal credit grade of the securities (used
for credit risk management purposes) equivalent to the credit rating assigned by major credit agencies. The unrealized losses and fair value of unrated securities categorized as investment grade based on internal credit grades were $19 million and
$2.0 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2012, and $207 million and $6.2 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2011. If an internal credit grade was not assigned, we categorized the security as non-investment grade.

146   

Note 5: Securities Available for Sale    (continued)       

Contractual Maturities       The following table shows the remaining contractual maturities and contractual yields (taxable-equivalent basis) of debt securities available for sale. The remaining contractual principal maturities
for MBS do not consider prepayments. Remaining

expected maturities will differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to prepay obligations before the underlying mortgages mature.

147   

Realized Gains and Losses       The following table shows the gross realized gains and losses on sales and OTTI write-downs related to the securities available-for-sale portfolio, which includes marketable equity securities, as well as
net realized gains and losses on nonmarketable equity investments (see Note 7   Other Assets).       
     Other-Than-Temporary Impairment       The following table shows the detail of total OTTI write-downs included in earnings for debt securities, marketable securities and nonmarketable equity investments.

(1)  
  For the year ended December 31, 2010, amount represents OTTI recognized on federal agency MBS because we had the intent to sell, of which $252 million related to securities
with a fair value of $14.5 billion that were sold subsequent to December 31, 2010.     
         148   

Note 5: Securities Available for Sale    (continued)       

Other-Than-Temporarily Impaired Debt Securities    
  The following table shows the detail of OTTI write-downs on debt securities available for sale included in earnings and the related changes in OCI for the
same securities.   

(2)  
  Represents amounts recorded to OCI on debt securities in periods where credit-related OTTI write-downs have occurred. Increases represent initial or subsequent non-credit-related
OTTI on debt securities. Decreases represent partial to full reversal of impairment due to recoveries in the fair value of securities due to factors other than credit.     

The following table presents a rollforward of the credit loss component recognized in earnings for debt
securities we still own (referred to as  credit-impaired  debt securities). The credit loss component of the amortized cost represents the difference between the present value of expected future cash flows discounted using the
security s current effective interest rate and the amortized cost basis of the security prior to considering credit losses. OTTI recognized in earnings for credit-impaired debt securities is presented as additions and is classified into one of
two components based upon whether the current period is the first time the debt security was credit-impaired (initial credit

impairment) or if the debt security was previously credit-impaired (subsequent credit impairments). The credit loss component is reduced if we sell, intend to sell or believe we will be required
to sell previously credit-impaired debt securities. Additionally, the credit loss component is reduced if we receive or expect to receive cash flows in excess of what we previously expected to receive over the remaining life of the credit-impaired
debt security, the security matures or is fully written down.      Changes in the credit loss component of credit-impaired debt
securities that were recognized in earnings and related to securities that we do not intend to sell were:   

(1)  
  Recoveries of previous credit impairments result from increases in expected cash flows subsequent to credit loss recognition. Such recoveries are reflected prospectively as
interest yield adjustments using the effective interest method.     
         149   

To determine credit impairment losses for asset-backed securities (e.g., residential MBS, commercial MBS),
we estimate expected future cash flows of the security by estimating the expected future cash flows of the underlying collateral and applying those collateral cash flows, together with any credit enhancements such as subordinated interests owned by
third parties, to the security. The expected future cash flows of the underlying collateral are determined using the remaining contractual cash flows adjusted for future expected credit losses (which consider current delinquencies and nonperforming
assets

(NPAs), future expected default rates and collateral value by vintage and geographic region) and prepayments. The expected cash flows of the security are then discounted at the security s
current effective interest rate to arrive at a present value amount. Total credit impairment losses on residential MBS that we do not intend to sell are shown in the table below. The table also presents a summary of the significant inputs considered
in determining the measurement of the credit loss component recognized in earnings for residential MBS.   

(1)  
  Represents future expected credit losses on each pool of loans underlying respective securities expressed as a percentage of the total current outstanding loan balance of the
pool for each respective security.     

(2)  
  Represents the range of inputs/assumptions based upon the individual securities within each category.     

(3)  
  Represents distribution of credit impairment losses recognized in earnings categorized based on range of expected remaining life of loan losses. For example 77% of credit
impairment losses recognized in earnings for the year ended December 31, 2012, had expected remaining life of loan loss assumptions of 0 to 10%.     

(4)  
  Calculated by weighting the relevant input/assumption for each individual security by current outstanding amortized cost basis of the security.     

(5)  
  Represents current level of credit protection provided by tranches subordinate to our security holdings (subordination), expressed as a percentage of total current underlying
loan balance.     

(6)  
  Constant prepayment rate.     

Total credit impairment losses on commercial MBS that we do not intend to sell were $86
million, $101 million, and $120 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Significant inputs considered in determining the credit impairment losses for commercial MBS are the expected remaining life of
loan loss rates and current subordination levels. Prepayment activity on commercial MBS does not significantly impact the determination of their credit impairment because, unlike residential MBS, commercial MBS experience significantly lower
prepayments due to certain contractual restrictions, impacting the borrower s ability to prepay the mortgage. The expected remaining life of loan loss rates for commercial MBS with credit impairment losses ranged from 3% to 18%, 4% to 18%, and
2% to 15%, while the current subordination level ranges were 0% to 13%, 3% to 15%, and 3% to 13% for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.

150   

Note 6: Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses    

The following table presents total loans outstanding by portfolio segment and class of financing
receivable. Outstanding balances include a total net reduction of $7.4 billion and $9.3 billion at December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, respectively, for unearned income, net deferred loan fees, and unamortized

discounts and premiums. Outstanding balances also include PCI loans net of any remaining purchase accounting adjustments. Information about PCI loans is presented separately in the
 Purchased Credit-Impaired Loans  section of this Note.   

(1)  
  Substantially all of our foreign loan portfolio is commercial loans. Loans are classified as foreign if the borrower s primary address is outside of the United States.

Loan Concentrations       Loan concentrations may exist when there are amounts loaned to borrowers engaged in similar activities or similar types of loans extended to a diverse group of borrowers that would cause them to be
similarly impacted by economic or other conditions. At December 31, 2012 and 2011, we did not have concentrations representing 10% or more of our total loan portfolio in domestic commercial and industrial loans and lease financing by industry
or CRE loans (real estate mortgage and real estate construction) by state or property type. Our real estate 1-4 family mortgage loans to borrowers in the state of California represented approximately 13% of total loans at both December 31, 2012
and 2011. For the years ended 2012 and 2011, 2% and 3% of the amounts were PCI loans, respectively. These loans are generally diversified among the larger metropolitan areas in California, with no single area consisting of more than 3% of total
loans. We continuously monitor changes in real estate values and underlying economic or market conditions for all geographic areas of our real estate 1-4 family mortgage portfolio as part of our credit risk management process.   
  Some of our real estate 1-4 family first and junior lien mortgage loans include an interest-only feature as part of the loan
terms. These interest-only loans were approximately 18% of total loans at December 31, 2012, and 21% at December 31, 2011. Substantially all of these interest-only loans at origination were considered to be prime or near prime.
We do not offer option adjustable-rate mortgage (ARM) products, nor do we offer variable-rate mortgage products with fixed payment amounts, commonly referred to within the financial services industry as negative amortizing mortgage loans. We
acquired an option payment loan portfolio (Pick-a-Pay) from Wachovia at

December 31, 2008. A majority of the portfolio was identified as PCI loans. Since the acquisition, we have reduced our exposure to the option payment portion of the portfolio through our
modification efforts and loss mitigation actions. At December 31, 2012, approximately 4 percent of total loans remained with the payment option feature compared with 10 percent at December 31, 2008.   
  Our first and junior lien lines of credit products generally have a draw period of 10 years with variable interest rates and payment
options during the draw period of (1) interest only or (2) 1.5% of total outstanding balance. During the draw period, the borrower has the option of converting all or a portion of the line from a variable interest rate to a fixed rate with
terms including interest-only payments for a fixed period between three to seven years or a fully amortizing payment with a fixed period between five to 30 years. At the end of the draw period, a line of credit generally converts to an amortizing
payment loan with repayment terms of up to 30 years based on the balance at time of conversion. At December 31, 2012, our lines of credit portfolio had an outstanding balance of $84.6 billion, of which $2.1 billion (2%) is in its
amortization period, another $8.2 billion, or 10%, of our total outstanding balance, will reach their end of draw period during 2013 through 2014, $29.4 billion, or 35%, during 2015 through 2017, and $44.9 billion, or 53%, will convert in
subsequent years. This portfolio had unfunded credit commitments of $77.8 billion at December 31, 2012. The lines that enter their amortization period may experience higher delinquencies and higher loss rates than the ones in their draw period.
At December 31, 2012, $223 million, or 11%, of outstanding lines of credit that are in their amortization period were 30 or more days past due, compared with $1.9 billion, or

151   

2%, for lines in their draw period. In anticipation of our customer s reaching their contractual end of draw period, we have created a process to help borrowers effectively make the
transition from interest-only to fully-amortizing payments.   
 
    Loan Purchases, Sales, and Transfers       The following table summarizes the proceeds paid or received for purchases and sales of loans and transfers from loans held for investment to mortgages/loans held for sale at lower of cost or market. This
loan activity primarily includes loans added in business combinations and asset acquisitions, as well as purchases or sales of commercial loan participation interests, whereby we receive or transfer a portion of a loan after origination. The table
excludes PCI loans and loans recorded at fair value, including loans originated for sale because their loan activity normally does not impact the allowance for credit losses.

(1)  
  The  Purchases  and  Transfers to MHFS/LHFS  categories exclude activity in government insured/guaranteed loans. As servicer, we are able to buy delinquent
insured/guaranteed loans out of the Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA) pools. These loans have different risk characteristics from the rest of our consumer portfolio, whereby this activity does not impact the allowance for loan losses
in the same manner because the loans are predominantly insured by the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) or guaranteed by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). On a net basis, such purchases net of transfers to MHFS were $9.8 billion and $10.4
billion for the year ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.     

Commitments to Lend       A commitment to lend is a legally binding agreement to lend funds to a customer, usually at a stated interest rate, if funded, and for specific purposes and time periods. We generally require a fee to
extend such commitments. Certain commitments are subject to loan agreements with covenants regarding the financial performance of the customer or borrowing base formulas that must be met before we are required to fund the commitment. We may reduce
or cancel consumer commitments, including home equity lines and credit card lines, in accordance with the contracts and applicable law.      When we make commitments, we are exposed to credit risk. The maximum credit risk for these commitments will generally be lower than the contractual amount because a significant portion of these
commitments are expected to expire without being used by the customer. In addition, we manage the potential risk in commitments to lend by limiting the total amount of arrangements, both by individual customer and in total, by monitoring the size
and maturity structure of these commitment portfolios and by applying the same credit standards as for all of our credit activities. In some cases, we participate a portion of our commitment to others in an arrangement that reduces our contractual
commitment amount. We also originate multipurpose lending commitments under which borrowers have the option to draw on the facility in one of several forms, including a standby letter of credit. See Note 14 for information on standby letters of
credit.      For certain loans and commitments to lend, we may require collateral or a guarantee, based on our assessment of a
customer s credit risk. We may require various types of collateral, including commercial and consumer real estate, autos, other short-term liquid assets such as accounts receivable or inventory and long-lived asset, such as equipment and other
business assets. Collateral requirements for each customer may

vary according to the specific credit underwriting, including terms and structure of loans funded immediately or under a commitment to fund at a later date.   
  The contractual amount of our unfunded credit commitments, net of participations and net of all standby and commercial letters of credit
issued under the terms of these commitments, is summarized by portfolio segment and class of financing receivable in the following table:       

152   

Note 6: Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses    (continued)       
         Allowance for Credit Losses    
  The allowance for credit losses consists of the allowance for loan losses and the allowance for unfunded credit commitments. Changes in the allowance for
credit losses were:       

(1)  
  Certain impaired loans with an allowance calculated by discounting expected cash flows using the loan s effective interest rate over the remaining life of the loan recognize
reductions in the allowance as interest income.     

(2)  
  The year ended December 31, 2012, includes $888 million resulting from the OCC guidance issued in third quarter 2012, which requires consumer loans discharged in bankruptcy
to be placed on nonaccrual status and written down to net realizable collateral value, regardless of their delinquency status.     

(3)  
  For PCI loans, charge-offs are only recorded to the extent that losses exceed the purchase accounting estimates.     

153   

The following table summarizes the activity in the allowance for credit losses by our commercial and
consumer portfolio segments.       
    The following table disaggregates our allowance for credit losses and recorded investment in loans by impairment
methodology.       

(1)  
  Represents loans collectively evaluated for impairment in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 450-20,  Loss Contingencies  (formerly FAS 5), and pursuant
to amendments by ASU 2010-20 regarding allowance for non-impaired loans.     

(2)  
  Represents loans individually evaluated for impairment in accordance with ASC 310-10,  Receivables  (formerly FAS 114), and pursuant to amendments by ASU 2010-20 regarding
allowance for impaired loans.     

(3)  
  Represents the allowance and related loan carrying value determined in accordance with ASC 310-30 , Receivables   Loans and Debt Securities Acquired with Deteriorated
Credit Quality  (formerly SOP 03-3) and pursuant to amendments by ASU 2010-20 regarding allowance for PCI loans.     

Credit Quality       We monitor credit quality as indicated by evaluating various attributes and utilize such information in our evaluation of the appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses. The following sections
provide the credit quality indicators we most closely monitor. See the  Purchased Credit-Impaired Loans  section of this Note for credit quality information on our PCI portfolio.   
  The majority of credit quality indicators are based on December 31, 2012 information, with the exception of updated Fair Isaac
Corporation (FICO) scores and updated loan-to-value (LTV)/combined LTV (CLTV), which are obtained at least quarterly. Generally, these indicators are updated in the second month of each quarter, with updates no older than September 30, 2012.

COMMERCIAL CREDIT QUALITY INDICATORS  In addition to monitoring commercial loan concentration risk,
we manage a consistent process for assessing commercial loan credit quality. Generally, commercial loans are subject to individual risk assessment using our internal borrower and collateral quality ratings. Our ratings are aligned to Pass and
Criticized categories. The Criticized category includes Special Mention, Substandard, and Doubtful categories which are defined by bank regulatory agencies.      The following table provides a breakdown of outstanding commercial loans by risk category. Of the $21.0 billion in criticized commercial real estate (CRE) loans, $4.3 billion has been placed on nonaccrual
status and written down to net realizable collateral value. CRE loans have a high level of monitoring in place to manage these assets and mitigate loss exposure.

154   

Note 6: Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses    (continued)       

The following table provides past due information for commercial loans, which we monitor
as part of our credit risk management practices.   

CONSUMER CREDIT QUALITY INDICATORS  We have various classes of consumer loans that present unique
risks. Loan delinquency, FICO credit scores and LTV for loan types are common credit quality indicators that we monitor and utilize in our evaluation of the appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses for the consumer portfolio segment.

Many of our loss estimation techniques used for the allowance for credit losses rely on
delinquency-based models; therefore, delinquency is an important indicator of credit quality and the establishment of our allowance for credit losses.

155   

The following table provides the outstanding balances of our consumer portfolio by delinquency status.

(1)  
  Represents loans whose repayments are predominantly insured by the FHA or guaranteed by the VA and student loans whose repayments are predominantly guaranteed by agencies on
behalf of the U.S. Department of Education under the Federal Family Education Loan Program (FFELP). Loans insured/guaranteed by the FHA/VA and 90+ DPD totaled $20.2 billion at December 31, 2012, compared with $18.5 billion at December 31,
2011. Student loans 90+ DPD totaled $1.1 billion at December 31, 2012, compared with $1.3 billion at December 31, 2011.     

Of the $10.3 billion of loans not government insured/guaranteed that are 90 days or more
past due at December 31, 2012, $1.1 billion was accruing, compared with $11.5 billion past due and $1.5 billion accruing at December 31, 2011.      Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage loans 180 days or more past due totaled $6.7 billion, or 3.0% of total first mortgages (excluding PCI), at December 31, 2012, compared with $6.7 billion, or
3.3%, at December 31, 2011.      The following table provides a breakdown of our consumer portfolio by updated FICO. We
obtain FICO scores at loan origination and the scores are updated at least quarterly. The majority of our portfolio is underwritten with a FICO score of 680 and above. FICO is not available for certain loan types and may not be obtained if we deem
it unnecessary due to strong collateral and other borrower attributes, primarily securities-based margin loans of $5.4 billion at December 31, 2012, and $5.0 billion at December 31, 2011.

156   

Note 6: Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses    (continued)       

(1)  
  Represents loans whose repayments are predominantly insured by the FHA or guaranteed by the VA and student loans whose repayments are predominantly guaranteed by agencies on
behalf of the U.S. Department of Education under FFELP.     

LTV refers to the ratio comparing the loan s unpaid principal balance to the
property s collateral value. CLTV refers to the combination of first mortgage and junior lien mortgage (including unused line amounts for credit line products) ratios. LTVs and CLTVs are updated quarterly using a cascade approach which first
uses values provided by automated valuation models (AVMs) for the property. If an AVM is not available, then the value is estimated using the original appraised value adjusted by the change in Home Price Index (HPI) for the property location. If an
HPI is not available, the original appraised value is used. The HPI value is normally the only method considered for high value properties, generally with an original value of $1 million or more, as the AVM values have proven less accurate for these
properties.   
 
   The following table shows the most updated LTV and CLTV distribution of the real estate
1-4 family first and junior lien mortgage loan portfolios. In recent years, the residential real estate markets experienced significant declines in property values and several markets, particularly California and Florida have experienced more
significant declines than the national decline. These trends are considered in the way that we monitor credit risk and establish our allowance for credit losses. LTV does not necessarily reflect the likelihood of performance of a given loan,
but does provide an indication of collateral value. In the event of a default, any loss should be limited to the portion of the loan amount in excess of the net realizable value of the underlying real estate collateral value. Certain loans do not
have an LTV or CLTV primarily due to industry data availability and portfolios acquired from or serviced by other institutions.

157   

(1)  
  Reflects total loan balances with LTV/CLTV amounts in excess of 100%. In the event of default, the loss content would generally be limited to only the amount in excess of 100%
LTV/CLTV.     

(2)  
  Represents loans whose repayments are predominantly insured by the FHA or guaranteed by the VA.     

NONACCRUAL LOANS  The following table provides loans on nonaccrual status. PCI loans are excluded
from this table due to the existence of the accretable yield.       

(3)  
  Includes $960 million at December 31, 2012, resulting from the Interagency Guidance issued in 2012, which requires performing junior liens to be classified as nonaccrual if
the related first mortgage is nonaccruing.     

(4)  
  Includes $1.8 billion at December 31, 2012, consisting of $1.4 billion of first mortgages, $205 million of junior liens and $140 million of auto and other loans, resulting
from the OCC guidance issued in third quarter 2012, which requires performing consumer loans discharged in bankruptcy to be placed on nonaccrual status and written down to net realizable collateral value, regardless of their delinquency status.

158   

Note 6: Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses    (continued)       

LOANS 90 DAYS OR MORE PAST DUE AND STILL ACCRUING  Certain loans 90 days or more past due as to
interest or principal are still accruing, because they are (1) well-secured and in the process of collection or (2) real estate 1-4 family mortgage loans or consumer loans exempt under regulatory rules from being classified as
nonaccrual until later delinquency, usually 120 days past due. PCI loans of $6.0 billion at December 31, 2012, and $8.7 billion at December 31, 2011, are not included in these past due and still accruing loans even though they are 90
days or more contractually past due. These PCI loans are considered to be accruing due to the existence of the accretable yield and not based on consideration given to contractual interest payments. Loans 90 days or more past due and still
accruing whose repayments are predominantly insured by the FHA or guaranteed by the VA for mortgages and the U.S. Department of Education for student loans under the FFELP were $21.8 billion at December 31, 2012, up from $20.5 billion at
December 31, 2011.      The following table shows non-PCI loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing by class for
loans not government insured/guaranteed.       

(1)  
  Represents loans whose repayments are predominantly insured by the FHA or guaranteed by the VA.     

(2)  
  Includes mortgage loans held for sale 90 days or more past due and still accruing.     

(3)  
  Represents loans whose repayments are predominantly guaranteed by agencies on behalf of the U.S. Department of Education under the FFELP.     

(4)  
  The balance at December 31, 2012, includes the impact from the transfer of certain 1-4 family junior lien mortgages to nonaccrual loans in accordance with the Interagency
Guidance issued on January 31, 2012.     

159   

IMPAIRED LOANS   The table below summarizes key information for impaired loans. Our
impaired loans predominantly include loans on nonaccrual status in the commercial portfolio segment and loans modified in a TDR, whether on accrual or nonaccrual status. These impaired loans generally have estimated losses which are included in the
allowance for credit losses. Impaired

loans exclude PCI loans. Based on clarifying guidance from the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) received in December 2011, we now classify trial modifications as TDRs at the beginning of
the trial period. The table below includes trial modifications that totaled $705 million at December 31, 2012, and $651 million at December 31, 2011.

(1)  
  The unpaid principal balance for commercial loans at December 31, 2011, includes $2.5 billion of commercial and industrial, $1.1 billion of real estate mortgage, $1.8
billion of real estate construction and $157 million of lease financing and foreign loans that have been fully charged off and therefore have no recorded investment. The unpaid principal balance for loans with no recorded investment has been
excluded from the amounts disclosed at December 31, 2012.     
         160   

Note 6: Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses    (continued)       

Commitments to lend additional funds on loans whose terms have been modified in a TDR
amounted to $421 million at December 31, 2012, and $3.8 billion at December 31, 2011.   

The following tables provide the average recorded investment in impaired loans and the
amount of interest income recognized on impaired loans by portfolio segment and class.   

(1)  
  Includes interest recognized on accruing TDRs, interest recognized related to certain impaired loans which have an allowance calculated using discounting, and amortization of
purchase accounting adjustments related to certain impaired loans. See footnote 1 to the table of changes in the allowance for credit losses.     

TROUBLED DEBT RESTRUCTURINGS (TDRs)  When, for economic or legal reasons related to a borrower s
financial difficulties, we grant a concession for other than an insignificant period of time to a borrower that we would not otherwise consider, the related loan is classified as a TDR. We do not consider any loans modified through a loan resolution
such as foreclosure or short sale to be a TDR.      We may require some borrowers experiencing financial difficulty to make trial
payments generally for a period of three to four months, according to the terms of a planned permanent modification, to determine if they can perform according to those terms. Based on clarifying guidance from the SEC in December 2011, these
arrangements represent trial modifications, which we classify and account for as TDRs. While loans are in trial payment programs, their original terms are not considered modified and they continue to advance through delinquency status and accrue
interest according to their original terms. The planned modifications for these arrangements predominantly involve interest rate reductions or other interest rate concessions, however, the exact concession type and resulting financial effect are
usually not finalized and do not take

effect until the loan is permanently modified. The trial period terms are developed in accordance with our proprietary programs or the U.S. Treasury s Making Homes Affordable programs for
real estate 1-4 family first lien (i.e. Home Affordable Modification Program   HAMP) and junior lien (i.e. Second Lien Modification Program   2MP) mortgage loans.      At December 31, 2012, the loans in trial modification period were $402 million under HAMP, $45 million under 2MP and $258 million under proprietary programs, compared with $421 million, $46 million
and $184 million at December 31, 2011, respectively. Trial modifications with a recorded investment of $429 million at December 31, 2012, and $310 million at December 31, 2011, were accruing loans and $276 million and $341 million,
respectively, were nonaccruing loans. Our recent experience is that most of the mortgages that enter a trial payment period program are successful in completing the program requirements and are then permanently modified at the end of the trial
period. As previously discussed, our allowance process considers the impact of those modifications that are probable to occur including the associated credit cost and related re-default risk.

161   

The following table summarizes our TDR modifications for the periods presented by primary
modification type and includes

the financial effects of these modifications.   

(1)  
  Amounts represent the recorded investment in loans after recognizing the effects of the TDR, if any. TDRs with multiple types of concessions are presented only once in the table
in the first category type based on the order presented.     

(2)  
  Principal modifications include principal forgiveness at the time of the modification, contingent principal forgiveness granted over the life of the loan based on borrower
performance, and principal that has been legally separated and deferred to the end of the loan, with a zero percent contractual interest rate.     

(3)  
  Other interest rate concessions include loans modified to an interest rate that is not commensurate with the credit risk, even though the rate may have been increased. These
modifications would include renewals, term extensions and other interest adjustments, but exclude modifications that also forgive principal and/or reduce the interest rate. Year ended December 31, 2012, includes $5.2 billion of consumer loans,
consisting of $4.5 billion of first mortgages, $506 million of junior liens and $140 million of auto and other loans, resulting from the OCC guidance issued in third quarter 2012, which requires consumer loans discharged in bankruptcy to be
classified as TDRs, as well as written down to net realizable collateral value.     

(4)  
  Charge-offs include write-downs of the investment in the loan in the period it is contractually modified. The amount of charge-off will differ from the modification terms if the
loan has been charged down prior to the modification based on our policies. In addition, there may be cases where we have a charge-off/down with no legal principal modification. Modifications resulted in legally forgiving principal (actual,
contingent or deferred) of $495 million and $577 million for years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Year ended December 31, 2012, includes $888 million in charge-offs on consumer loans resulting from the OCC guidance
discussed above.     

(5)  
  Reflects the effect of reduced interest rates to loans with principal or interest rate reduction primary modification type.     

(6)  
  Trial modifications are granted a delay in payments due under the original terms during the trial payment period. However, these loans continue to advance through delinquency
status and accrue interest according to their original terms. Any subsequent permanent modification generally includes interest rate related concessions; however, the exact concession type and resulting financial effect are usually not known until
the loan is permanently modified. Trial modifications for the period are presented net of any trial modifications that successfully complete the program requirements. Such successful modifications are included as an addition to the appropriate loan
category in the period they successfully complete the program requirements.     
         162   

Note 6: Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses    (continued)       

The table below summarizes permanent modification TDRs that have defaulted in the current
period within 12 months of their permanent modification date. We are reporting these defaulted TDRs based on a payment default definition of 90 days past due for the commercial portfolio segment and 60 days past due for the consumer portfolio
segment.       
     Purchased Credit-Impaired Loans       Substantially all of our PCI loans were acquired from Wachovia on December 31, 2008. The following table presents PCI loans net of any remaining purchase accounting adjustments. Real estate 1-4
family first mortgage PCI loans are predominantly Pick-a-Pay loans.

163   

ACCRETABLE YIELD  The excess of cash flows expected to be collected over the carrying value of PCI
loans is referred to as the accretable yield and is recognized in interest income using an effective yield method over the remaining life of the loan, or pools of loans. The accretable yield is affected by:   

changes in interest rate indices for variable rate PCI loans   expected future cash flows are based on the variable rates in effect at the time of
the regular evaluations of cash flows expected to be collected;      

changes in prepayment assumptions   prepayments affect the estimated life of PCI loans which may change the amount of interest income, and
possibly principal, expected to be collected; and      

changes in the expected principal and interest payments over the estimated life   updates to expected cash flows are driven by the credit outlook
and actions taken with borrowers. Changes in expected future cash flows from loan modifications are included in the regular evaluations of cash flows expected to be collected.

During 2012, our expectation of cash flows was favorably impacted by lower expected
defaults and losses as a result of observed strengthening in housing prices and the impact of our modification efforts. These factors favorably impacted probability of default and loss severity, reducing our expected loss on PCI loans, primarily
Pick-a-Pay, and increasing the estimated weighted-average remaining life of the PCI portfolios and resulting expected interest to be collected. Accordingly, we increased accretable yield for $1.1 billion of transfers out of nonaccretable difference
for the increase in principal expected to be collected, and by $3.6 billion for the increase in interest income expected to be collected.      The change in the accretable yield related to PCI loans is presented in the following table.

(1)  
  Includes accretable yield released as a result of settlements with borrowers, which is included in interest income.     

(2)  
  Includes accretable yield released as a result of sales to third parties, which is included in noninterest income.     

(3)  
  Represents changes in cash flows expected to be collected due to the impact of modifications, changes in prepayment assumptions and changes in interest rates on variable rate PCI
loans.     
         164   

Note 6: Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses    (continued)       

PCI ALLOWANCE  Based on our regular evaluation of estimates of cash flows expected to be collected,
we may establish an allowance for a PCI loan or pool of loans, with a

charge to income though the provision for losses. The following table summarizes the changes in allowance for PCI loan losses.

COMMERCIAL PCI CREDIT QUALITY INDICATORS  The following table provides a breakdown of commercial PCI loans by risk
category.       
 
         165   

The following table provides past due information for commercial PCI loans.   

CONSUMER PCI CREDIT QUALITY INDICATORS  Our consumer PCI loans were aggregated into several pools of
loans at acquisition. Below, we have provided credit quality indicators based on the unpaid principal balance (adjusted for write-downs)

of the individual loans included in the pool, but we have not allocated the remaining purchase accounting adjustments, which were established at a pool level. The following table provides the
delinquency status of consumer PCI loans.   

166   

Note 6: Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses    (continued)       
        The following table provides FICO scores for consumer PCI loans.   
   
    The following table shows the distribution of consumer PCI loans by LTV for real estate 1-4 family first mortgages and by
CLTV for real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgages.       

(1)  
  Reflects total loan balances with LTV/CLTV amounts in excess of 100%. In the event of default, the loss content would generally be limited to only the amount in excess of 100%
LTV/CLTV.     
         167   

Note 7: Premises, Equipment, Lease Commitments and Other Assets

Depreciation and amortization expense for premises and equipment was $1.3 billion, $1.4 billion and $1.5 billion in 2012,
2011 and 2010, respectively.      Dispositions of premises and equipment, included in noninterest expense, resulted in a net gain
of $7 million in 2012, and net losses of $17 million and $115 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively.      We have obligations
under a number of noncancelable operating leases for premises and equipment. The leases predominantly expire over the next 15 years, with the longest expiring in 2105, and many provide for periodic adjustment of rentals based on changes in various
economic indicators. Some leases also include a renewal option. The following table provides the future minimum payments under capital leases and noncancelable operating leases, net of sublease rentals, with terms greater than one year as of
December 31, 2012.       

Operating lease rental expense (predominantly for premises), net of rental income, was $1.1 billion,
$1.2 billion and $1.3 billion in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.      The components of other assets were:

(1)  
  Represents low income housing tax credit investments.     

(3)  
  These are foreclosed real estate securing GNMA loans. Both principal and interest for government insured/guaranteed loans secured by the foreclosed real estate are
collectible because the loans are insured by the FHA or guaranteed by the VA.        Income related to nonmarketable
equity investments was:       

168   

Note 8: Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities    

Involvement with SPEs       In the normal course of business, we enter into various types of on- and off-balance sheet transactions with special purpose entities (SPEs), which are corporations, trusts or partnerships that are
established for a limited purpose. Generally, SPEs are formed in connection with securitization transactions. In a securitization transaction, assets from our balance sheet are transferred to an SPE, which then issues to investors various forms of
interests in those assets and may also enter into derivative transactions. In a securitization transaction, we typically receive cash and/or other interests in an SPE as proceeds for the assets we transfer. Also, in certain transactions, we may
retain the right to service the transferred receivables and to repurchase those receivables from the SPE if the outstanding balance of the receivables falls to a level where the cost exceeds the benefits of servicing such receivables. In addition,
we may purchase the right to service loans in an SPE that were transferred to the SPE by a third party.      In connection with
our securitization activities, we have various forms of ongoing involvement with SPEs, which may include:       

underwriting securities issued by SPEs and subsequently making markets in those securities;      

providing liquidity facilities to support short-term obligations of SPEs issued to third party investors;      

providing credit enhancement on securities issued by SPEs or market value guarantees of assets held by SPEs through the use of letters of credit,
financial guarantees, credit default swaps and total return swaps;      

entering into other derivative contracts with SPEs;          

holding senior or subordinated interests in SPEs;          

acting as servicer or investment manager for SPEs; and      

providing administrative or trustee services to SPEs.

SPEs are generally considered variable interest entities (VIEs). A VIE is an entity that
has either a total equity investment that is insufficient to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support or whose equity investors lack the ability to control the entity s activities. A VIE is consolidated by its
primary beneficiary, the party that has both the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact the VIE and a variable interest that could potentially be significant to the VIE. A variable interest is a contractual, ownership or other
interest that changes with changes in the fair value of the VIE s net assets. To determine whether or not a variable interest we hold could potentially be significant to the VIE, we consider both qualitative and quantitative factors regarding
the nature, size and form of our involvement with the VIE. We assess whether or not we are the primary beneficiary of a VIE on an on-going basis.      We have segregated our involvement with VIEs between those VIEs which we consolidate, those which we do not consolidate and those for which we account for the transfers of financial assets as secured
borrowings. Secured borrowings are transactions involving transfers of our financial assets to third parties that are accounted for as financings with the assets pledged as collateral. Accordingly, the transferred assets remain recognized on our
balance sheet. Subsequent tables within this Note further segregate these transactions by structure type.   

169   

The classifications of assets and liabilities in our balance sheet associated with our
transactions with VIEs follow:       

(1)  
  Excludes certain debt securities related to loans serviced for the Federal National Mortgage Association (FNMA), Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (FHLMC) and
GNMA.     

Transactions with Unconsolidated VIEs       Our transactions with VIEs include securitizations of residential mortgage loans, CRE loans, student loans and auto loans and leases; investment and financing activities involving CDOs backed by
asset-backed and CRE securities, collateralized loan obligations (CLOs) backed by corporate loans, and other types of structured financing. We have various forms of involvement with VIEs, including holding senior or subordinated interests, entering
into liquidity arrangements, credit default swaps and other derivative contracts. Involvements with these unconsolidated VIEs are recorded on our balance sheet primarily in trading assets, securities available for sale, loans, MSRs, other assets and
other liabilities, as appropriate.   
 
   The following tables provide a summary of unconsolidated VIEs with which we have
significant continuing involvement, but we are not the primary beneficiary. We do not consider our continuing involvement in an unconsolidated VIE to be significant when it relates to third-party sponsored VIEs for which we were not the transferor
or if we were the sponsor but do not have any other significant continuing involvement.      Significant continuing involvement
includes transactions where we were the sponsor or transferor and have other significant forms of involvement. Sponsorship includes transactions with unconsolidated VIEs where we solely or materially participated in the initial design or structuring
of the entity or marketing of the transaction to investors. When we transfer assets to a VIE and account for the transfer as a sale, we are considered the transferor. We consider investments in securities held outside of trading, loans, guarantees,
liquidity agreements, written options and servicing of collateral to be other forms of involvement that may be significant. We have excluded certain transactions with unconsolidated VIEs from the balances presented in the table below where we have
determined that our continuing involvement is not significant due to the   

170   

Note 8: Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities    (continued)       

temporary nature and size of our variable interests, because we were not the transferor or because we were not involved in

the design or operations of the unconsolidated VIEs.   

(continued on following page)    
         171   

(continued from previous page)    

(1)  
  Includes total equity interests of $5.8 billion and $4.5 billion at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The December 31, 2011 equity interests balance has been
revised to include tax credit structures, which are all equity interests. Also includes debt interests in the form of both loans and securities. Excludes certain debt securities held related to loans serviced for FNMA, FHLMC and GNMA.

(2)  
  Represents senior loans to trusts that are collateralized by asset-backed securities. The trusts invest primarily in senior tranches from a diversified pool of primarily U.S.
asset securitizations, of which all are current, and over 83% and 88% were rated as investment grade by the primary rating agencies at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. These senior loans are accounted for at amortized cost and are
subject to the Company s allowance and credit charge-off policies.     

(3)  
  Includes structured financing, student loan securitizations, auto loan and lease securitizations and credit-linked note structures. Also contains investments in auction rate
securities (ARS) issued by VIEs that we do not sponsor and, accordingly, are unable to obtain the total assets of the entity.     
         172   

Note 8: Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities    (continued)        

In the two preceding tables,  Total VIE assets  represents the remaining
principal balance of assets held by unconsolidated VIEs using the most current information available. For VIEs that obtain exposure to assets synthetically through derivative instruments, the remaining notional amount of the derivative is included
in the asset balance.  Carrying value  is the amount in our consolidated balance sheet related to our involvement with the unconsolidated VIEs.  Maximum exposure to loss  from our involvement with off-balance sheet entities,
which is a required disclosure under GAAP, is determined as the carrying value of our involvement with off-balance sheet (unconsolidated) VIEs plus the remaining undrawn liquidity and lending commitments, the notional amount of net written
derivative contracts, and generally the notional amount of, or stressed loss estimate for, other commitments and guarantees. It represents estimated loss that would be incurred under severe, hypothetical circumstances, for which we believe the
possibility is extremely remote, such as where the value of our interests and any associated collateral declines to zero, without any consideration of recovery or offset from any economic hedges. Accordingly, this required disclosure is not an
indication of expected loss.       RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE LOANS  Residential mortgage loan securitizations are financed through the issuance of
fixed- or floating-rate-asset-backed-securities, which are collateralized by the loans transferred to a VIE. We typically transfer loans we originated to these VIEs, account for the transfers as sales, retain the right to service the loans and may
hold other beneficial interests issued by the VIEs. We also may be exposed to limited liability related to recourse agreements and repurchase agreements we make to our issuers and purchasers, which are included in other commitments and guarantees.
In certain instances, we may service residential mortgage loan securitizations structured by third parties whose loans we did not originate or transfer. Our residential mortgage loan securitizations consist of conforming and nonconforming
securitizations.      Conforming residential mortgage loan securitizations are those that are guaranteed by GSEs, including GNMA.
Because of the power of the GSEs over the VIEs that hold the assets from these conforming residential mortgage loan securitizations, we do not consolidate them.      The loans sold to the VIEs in nonconforming residential mortgage loan securitizations are those that do not qualify for a GSE guarantee. We may hold variable interests issued by the VIEs, primarily in the
form of senior securities. We do not consolidate the nonconforming residential mortgage loan securitizations included in the table because we either do not hold any variable interests, hold variable interests that we do not consider potentially
significant or are not the primary servicer for a majority of the VIE assets.      Other commitments and guarantees include
amounts related to loans sold that we may be required to repurchase, or otherwise indemnify or reimburse the investor or insurer for losses incurred, due to material breach of contractual representations and warranties. The maximum exposure to loss
for material breach of contractual representations and warranties represents a stressed case estimate we utilize for

determining stressed case regulatory capital needs and is considered to be a remote scenario.       COMMERCIAL MORTGAGE LOAN SECURITIZATIONS  Commercial mortgage loan securitizations are financed through the issuance of fixed- or floating-rate-asset-backed-securities, which are collateralized by
the loans transferred to the VIE. In a typical securitization, we may transfer loans we originate to these VIEs, account for the transfers as sales, retain the right to service the loans and may hold other beneficial interests issued by the VIEs. In
certain instances, we may service commercial mortgage loan securitizations structured by third parties whose loans we did not originate or transfer. We typically serve as primary or master servicer of these VIEs. The primary or master servicer in a
commercial mortgage loan securitization typically cannot make the most significant decisions impacting the performance of the VIE and therefore does not have power over the VIE. We do not consolidate the commercial mortgage loan securitizations
included in the disclosure because we either do not have power or do not have a variable interest that could potentially be significant to the VIE.       COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (CDOs)  A CDO is a securitization where a VIE purchases a pool of assets consisting of asset-backed securities and issues multiple tranches of equity or notes to
investors. In some CDOs, a portion of the assets are obtained synthetically through the use of derivatives such as credit default swaps or total return swaps.      Prior to 2008, we engaged in the structuring of CDOs on behalf of third party asset managers who would select and manage the assets for the CDO. Typically, the asset manager has some discretion to manage
the sale of assets of, or derivatives used by the CDO, which generally gives the asset manager the power over the CDO. We have not structured these types of transactions since the credit market disruption began in late 2007.   
  In addition to our role as arranger we may have other forms of involvement with these CDOs, including ones established prior to 2008.
Such involvement may include acting as liquidity provider, derivative counterparty, secondary market maker or investor. For certain CDOs, we may also act as the collateral manager or servicer. We receive fees in connection with our role as
collateral manager or servicer.      We assess whether we are the primary beneficiary of CDOs based on our role in them in
combination with the variable interests we hold. Subsequently, we monitor our ongoing involvement to determine if the nature of our involvement has changed. We are not the primary beneficiary of these CDOs in most cases because we do not act as the
collateral manager or servicer, which generally denotes power. In cases where we are the collateral manager or servicer, we are not the primary beneficiary because we do not hold interests that could potentially be significant to the VIE.
      COLLATERALIZED LOAN OBLIGATIONS (CLOs)  A CLO is a securitization where an SPE purchases a pool of assets consisting of loans and
issues multiple tranches of equity or notes to investors. Generally, CLOs are structured on behalf of a third

party asset manager that typically selects and manages the assets for the term of the CLO. Typically, the asset manager has the power over the significant decisions of the VIE through its
discretion to manage the assets of the CLO. We assess whether we are the primary beneficiary of CLOs based on our role in them and the variable interests we hold. In most cases, we are not the primary beneficiary because we do not have the power to
manage the collateral in the VIE.      In addition to our role as arranger, we may have other forms of involvement with these
CLOs. Such involvement may include acting as underwriter, derivative counterparty, secondary market maker or investor. For certain CLOs, we may also act as the servicer, for which we receive fees in connection with that role. We also earn fees for
arranging these CLOs and distributing the securities.       ASSET-BASED FINANCE STRUCTURES  We engage in various forms of structured finance
arrangements with VIEs that are collateralized by various asset classes including energy contracts, auto and other transportation leases, intellectual property, equipment and general corporate credit. We typically provide senior financing, and may
act as an interest rate swap or commodity derivative counterparty when necessary. In most cases, we are not the primary beneficiary of these structures because we do not have power over the significant activities of the VIEs involved in them.
     For example, we have investments in asset-backed securities that are collateralized by auto leases or loans and cash
reserves. These fixed-rate and variable-rate securities have been structured as single-tranche, fully amortizing, unrated bonds that are equivalent to investment-grade securities due to their significant overcollateralization. The securities are
issued by VIEs that have been formed by third party auto financing institutions primarily because they require a source of liquidity to fund ongoing vehicle sales operations. The third party auto financing institutions manage the collateral in the
VIEs, which is indicative of power in them and we therefore do not consolidate these VIEs.       TAX CREDIT STRUCTURES  We co-sponsor and
make investments in affordable housing and sustainable energy projects that are designed to generate a return primarily through the realization of federal tax credits. In some instances, our investments in these structures may require that we fund
future capital commitments at the discretion of the project sponsors. While the size of our investment in a single entity may at times exceed 50% of the outstanding equity interests, we do not consolidate these structures due to the project
sponsor s ability to manage the projects, which is indicative of power in them.       INVESTMENT FUNDS  We do not consolidate the
investment funds because we do not absorb the majority of the expected future variability associated with the funds  assets, including variability associated with credit, interest rate and liquidity risks.   
   OTHER TRANSACTIONS WITH VIEs  In 2008, legacy Wachovia reached an agreement to purchase auction rate securities (ARS) at par that were sold to
third-party investors by

certain of its subsidiaries. ARS are debt instruments with long-term maturities, but which re-price more frequently, and preferred equities with no maturity. We purchased all outstanding ARS that
were issued by VIEs and subject to the agreement. At December 31, 2012, we held in our securities available-for-sale portfolio $357 million of ARS issued by VIEs redeemed pursuant to this agreement, compared with $643 million at
December 31, 2011.      In 2009, we reached agreements to purchase additional ARS from eligible investors who bought ARS
through one of our broker-dealer subsidiaries. We purchased all outstanding ARS that were issued by VIEs and subject to the agreement. As of December 31, 2012, we held in our securities available-for-sale portfolio $329 million of ARS issued by
VIEs redeemed pursuant to this agreement, compared with $624 million at December 31, 2011.      We do not consolidate the
VIEs that issued the ARS because we do not have power over the activities of the VIEs.       TRUST PREFERRED SECURITIES  In addition to the
involvements disclosed in the preceding table, through the issuance of trust preferred securities we had junior subordinated debt financing with a carrying value of $4.9 billion at December 31, 2012, and $7.6 billion at December 31, 2011
and $2.5 billion of preferred stock at both December 31, 2012, and 2011. In these transactions, VIEs that we wholly own issue debt securities or preferred equity to third party investors. All of the proceeds of the issuance are invested in debt
securities or preferred equity that we issue to the VIEs. The VIEs  operations and cash flows relate only to the issuance, administration and repayment of the securities held by third parties. We do not consolidate these VIEs because the sole
assets of the VIEs are receivables from us. This is the case even though we own all of the voting equity shares of the VIEs, have fully guaranteed the obligations of the VIEs and may have the right to redeem the third party securities under certain
circumstances. We report the debt securities issued to the VIEs as long-term junior subordinated debt and the preferred equity securities issued to the VIEs as preferred stock in our consolidated balance sheet.   
  In 2012, we redeemed $2.7 billion of trust preferred securities that will no longer count as Tier 1 capital under the Dodd-Frank Act and
the Basel Committee recommendations known as the Basel III standards.       Securitization Activity Related to Unconsolidated VIEs 
     We use VIEs to securitize consumer and CRE loans and other types of financial assets, including student loans and auto loans. We typically
retain the servicing rights from these sales and may continue to hold other beneficial interests in the VIEs. We may also provide liquidity to investors in the beneficial interests and credit enhancements in the form of standby letters of credit.
Through these securitizations we may be exposed to liability under limited amounts of recourse as well as standard representations and warranties we make to purchasers and issuers. We had the following cash flows with our securitization trusts that
were involved in transfers accounted for as sales.   

174   

Note 8: Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities    (continued)        

(1)  
  Represents cash flow data for all loans securitized in the period presented.     

In 2012, 2011, and 2010, we recognized net gains of $518 million, $112 million and
$27 million, respectively, from transfers accounted for as sales of financial assets in securitizations. These net gains primarily relate to commercial mortgage securitizations and residential mortgage securitizations where the loans were not
already carried at fair value.      Sales with continuing involvement during 2012, 2011 and 2010 predominantly related to
conforming residential mortgage securitizations. During 2012, 2011 and 2010 we transferred $517.3 billion, $329.1 billion and $379.0 billion respectively, in fair value of conforming residential mortgages to unconsolidated VIEs and recorded the
transfers as sales. Substantially all of these transfers did not result in a gain or loss because the loans are already carried at fair value. In connection with all of these transfers, in 2012 we recorded a $4.9 billion servicing asset, measured at
fair value using a Level 3 measurement technique, and a $274 million liability for probable repurchase losses. In 2011, we recorded a $4.0 billion servicing asset and a $101 million liability. In 2010, we recorded a $4.5 billion servicing asset,
with $4.1 billion recorded at fair value as Level 3 and the remaining $400 million recorded as amortized mortgage servicing rights. We also recorded a $144 million repurchase liability in 2010.   
  We used the following key weighted-average assumptions to measure mortgage servicing assets at the date of securitization:   

(1)  
  The prepayment speed assumption for residential mortgage servicing rights includes a blend of prepayment speeds and default rates. Prepayment speed assumptions are
influenced by mortgage interest rate inputs as well as our estimation of drivers of borrower behavior.     

(2)  
  Includes costs to service and unreimbursed foreclosure costs.        During 2012, 2011 and 2010, we transferred $3.4 billion, $3.0 billion and $336 million, respectively, in fair value of commercial mortgages to unconsolidated VIEs and recorded the

transfers as sales. These transfers resulted in a gain of $178 million in 2012, $48 million in 2011 and $23 million in 2010 because the loans were carried at LOCOM. In connection with these
transfers, in 2012 and 2011 we recorded a servicing asset of $13 million and $20 million, respectively, initially measured at fair value using a Level 3 measurement technique.

175   

The following table provides key economic assumptions and the sensitivity of the current
fair value of residential mortgage servicing rights and other retained interests to immediate adverse changes in those assumptions.  Other interests held  relate predominantly to residential and commercial mortgage loan securitizations.
Residential mortgage-backed securities retained in securitizations issued through GSEs, such as FNMA, FHLMC and GNMA, are excluded from the table because these securities have a remote risk of credit loss due to the GSE

guarantee. These securities also have economic characteristics similar to GSE mortgage-backed securities that we purchase, which are not included in the table. Subordinated interests include only
those bonds whose credit rating was below AAA by a major rating agency at issuance. Senior interests include only those bonds whose credit rating was AAA by a major rating agency at issuance. The information presented excludes trading positions held
in inventory.   

(1)  
  December 31, 2011, has been revised to report only the sensitivities for residential mortgage servicing rights. See narrative following this table for a discussion of
commercial mortgage servicing rights.     

(2)  
   Other interests held  has been expanded to include retained interests from commercial securitizations. Prepayment speed assumptions do not significantly impact the
value of commercial mortgage securitization bonds as the underlying commercial mortgage loans experience significantly lower prepayments due to certain contractual restrictions, impacting the borrower s ability to prepay the mortgage.

(3)  
  The prepayment speed assumption for residential mortgage servicing rights includes a blend of prepayment speeds and default rates. Prepayment speed assumptions are
influenced by mortgage interest rate inputs as well as our estimation of drivers of borrower behavior.     
         176   

Note 8: Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities    (continued)        

In addition to residential mortgage servicing rights (MSRs) included in the previous
table, we have a small portfolio of commercial MSRs with a fair value of $1.4 billion at December 31, 2012, and December 31, 2011. The nature of our commercial MSRs, which are carried at LOCOM, is different from our residential MSRs.
Prepayment activity on serviced loans does not significantly impact the value of commercial MSRs because, unlike residential mortgages, commercial mortgages experience significantly lower prepayments due to certain contractual restrictions,
impacting the borrower s ability to prepay the mortgage. Additionally, for our commercial MSR portfolio, we are typically master/primary servicer, but not the special servicer, who is separately responsible for the servicing and workout of
delinquent and foreclosed loans. It is the special servicer, similar to our role as servicer of residential mortgage loans, who is affected by higher servicing and foreclosure costs due to an increase in delinquent and foreclosed loans. Accordingly,
prepayment speeds and costs to service are not key assumptions for commercial MSRs as they do not significantly impact the valuation. The primary economic driver impacting the fair value of our commercial MSRs is forward interest rates, which are
derived from market observable yield curves used to price capital markets instruments. Market interest rates most significantly affect interest earned on custodial deposit balances. The sensitivity of the current fair value to an immediate adverse
25% change in the assumption about interest earned on deposit

balances at December 31, 2012, and 2011, results in a decrease in fair value of $139 million and $219 million, respectively. See Note 9 for further information on our commercial MSRs.
     The sensitivities in the preceding paragraph and table are hypothetical and caution should be exercised when relying on this
data. Changes in value based on variations in assumptions generally cannot be extrapolated because the relationship of the change in the assumption to the change in value may not be linear. Also, the effect of a variation in a particular assumption
on the value of the other interests held is calculated independently without changing any other assumptions. In reality, changes in one factor may result in changes in others (for example, changes in prepayment speed estimates could result in
changes in the credit losses), which might magnify or counteract the sensitivities.      The following table presents information
about the principal balances of off-balance sheet securitized loans, including residential mortgages sold to FNMA, FHLMC, GNMA and securitizations where servicing is our only form of continuing involvement. Delinquent loans include loans 90 days or
more past due and still accruing interest as well as nonaccrual loans. In securitizations where servicing is our only form of continuing involvement, we would only experience a loss if required to repurchase a delinquent loan due to a breach in
representations and warranties associated with our loan sale or servicing contracts.   

(1)  
  At December 31, 2012 and 2011, the table includes total loans of $1.3 trillion and $1.2 trillion, respectively, and delinquent loans of $17.4 billion and $19.7 billion,
respectively for FNMA, FHLMC and GNMA. Net charge-offs exclude loans sold to FNMA, FHLMC and GNMA as we do not service or manage the underlying real estate upon foreclosure and, as such, do not have access to net charge-off information.
    
         177   

Transactions with Consolidated VIEs and Secured Borrowings    
  The following table presents a summary of transfers of financial assets accounted for as secured borrowings and involvements with consolidated VIEs.
 Consolidated assets  are presented using GAAP measurement methods, which may include fair value, credit impairment or other adjustments, and therefore in

some instances will differ from  Total VIE assets.  For VIEs that obtain exposure synthetically through derivative instruments, the remaining notional amount of the derivative is
included in  Total VIE assets.  On the consolidated balance sheet, we separately disclose the consolidated assets of certain VIEs that can only be used to settle the liabilities of those VIEs.

In addition to the transactions included in the previous table, at both December 31,
2012, and 2011, we had approximately $6.0 billion of private placement debt financing issued through a consolidated VIE. The issuance is classified as long-term debt in our consolidated financial statements. At December 31, 2012, and 2011, we
pledged approximately $6.4 billion and $6.2 billion in loans (principal and interest eligible to be capitalized), $179 million and $316 million in securities available for sale, and $138 million and $154 million in cash and cash equivalents to
collateralize the VIE s borrowings, respectively. These assets were not transferred to the VIE, and accordingly we have excluded the VIE from the previous table.

We have raised financing through the securitization of certain financial assets in
transactions with VIEs accounted for as secured borrowings. We also consolidate VIEs where we are the primary beneficiary. In certain transactions other than the multi-seller commercial paper conduit, we provide contractual support in the form of
limited recourse and liquidity to facilitate the remarketing of short-term securities issued to third party investors. Other than this limited contractual support, the assets of the VIEs are the sole source of repayment of the securities held by
third parties. The liquidity support we provide to the multi-seller commercial paper conduit ensures timely repayment of commercial paper issued by the conduit and is described further below.

178   

Note 8: Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities    (continued)        

MUNICIPAL TENDER OPTION BOND SECURITIZATIONS   As part of our normal portfolio investment
activities, we consolidate municipal bond trusts that hold highly rated, long-term, fixed-rate municipal bonds, the majority of which are rated AA or better. Our residual interests in these trusts generally allow us to capture the economics of
owning the securities outright, and constructively make decisions that significantly impact the economic performance of the municipal bond vehicle, primarily by directing the sale of the municipal bonds owned by the vehicle. In addition, the
residual interest owners have the right to receive benefits and bear losses that are proportional to owning the underlying municipal bonds in the trusts. The trusts obtain financing by issuing floating-rate trust certificates that reprice on a
weekly or other basis to third-party investors. Under certain conditions, if we elect to terminate the trusts and withdraw the underlying assets, the third party investors are entitled to a small portion of any unrealized gain on the underlying
assets. We may serve as remarketing agent and/or liquidity provider for the trusts. The floating-rate investors have the right to tender the certificates at specified dates, often with as little as seven days  notice. Should we be unable to
remarket the tendered certificates, we are generally obligated to purchase them at par under standby liquidity facilities unless the bond s credit rating has declined below investment grade or there has been an event of default or bankruptcy of
the issuer and insurer.       NONCONFORMING RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE LOAN SECURITIZATIONS   We have consolidated certain of our
nonconforming residential mortgage loan securitizations in accordance with consolidation accounting guidance. We have determined we are the primary beneficiary of these securitizations because we have the power to direct the most significant
activities of the entity through our role as primary servicer and also hold variable interests that we have determined to be significant. The nature of our variable interests in these entities may include beneficial interests issued by the VIE,
mortgage servicing rights and recourse or repurchase reserve liabilities. The beneficial interests issued by the VIE that we hold include either subordinate or senior securities held in an amount that we consider potentially significant.   
   MULTI-SELLER COMMERCIAL PAPER CONDUIT   We administer a multi-seller asset-based commercial paper conduit that finances certain client
transactions. This conduit is a bankruptcy remote entity that makes loans to, or purchases certificated interests, generally from SPEs, established by our clients (sellers) and which are secured by pools of financial assets. The conduit funds itself
through the issuance of highly rated commercial paper to third party investors. The primary source of repayment of the commercial paper is the cash flows from the conduit s assets or the re-issuance of commercial paper upon maturity. The
conduit s assets are structured with deal-specific credit enhancements generally in the form of overcollateralization provided by the seller, but may also include subordinated interests, cash reserve accounts, third party credit support
facilities and excess spread capture. The timely repayment of the commercial paper is further supported by

asset-specific liquidity facilities in the form of liquidity asset purchase agreements that we provide. Each facility is equal to 102% of the conduit s funding commitment to a client. The
aggregate amount of liquidity must be equal to or greater than all the commercial paper issued by the conduit. At the discretion of the administrator, we may be required to purchase assets from the conduit at par value plus accrued interest or
discount on the related commercial paper, including situations where the conduit is unable to issue commercial paper. Par value may be different from fair value.      We receive fees in connection with our role as administrator and liquidity provider. We may also receive fees related to the structuring of the conduit s transactions. We are the primary beneficiary
of the conduit because we have power over the significant activities of the conduit and have a significant variable interest due to our liquidity arrangement.       INVESTMENT FUNDS   We have consolidated certain of our investment funds where we manage the assets of the fund and our interests absorb a majority of the funds  variability. We
consolidate these VIEs because we have discretion over the management of the assets and are the sole investor in these funds.

179   

Note 9: Mortgage Banking Activities    

Mortgage banking activities, included in the Community Banking and Wholesale Banking operating segments,
consist of residential and commercial mortgage originations, sale activity and servicing.

We apply the amortization method to all commercial MSRs and apply the fair value method
to only residential MSRs. The changes in MSRs measured using the fair value method were:   

(2)  
  Primarily represents prepayment speed changes due to changes in mortgage interest rates, but also includes other valuation changes due to changes in mortgage interest rates (such
as changes in estimated interest earned on custodial deposit balances).     

(3)  
  Includes costs to service and unreimbursed foreclosure costs.     

(4)  
  Reflects discount rate assumption change, excluding portion attributable to changes in mortgage interest rates; the year ended December 31, 2012, change predominantly
reflects increased capital return requirements from market participants.     

(5)  
  Represents changes driven by other valuation model inputs or assumptions including prepayment speed estimation changes and other assumption updates. Prepayment speed estimation
changes are influenced by observed changes in borrower behavior that occur independent of interest rate changes.     

(6)  
  Represents changes due to collection/realization of expected cash flows over time.        The changes in amortized MSRs were:       

(3)  
  Commercial amortized MSRs are evaluated for impairment purposes by the following risk strata: agency (GSEs) and non-agency. There was no valuation allowance recorded for the
periods presented on the commercial amortized MSRs. Residential amortized MSRs are evaluated for impairment purposes by the following risk strata: mortgages sold to GSEs (FHLMC and FNMA) and mortgages sold to GNMA, each by interest rate
stratifications. A valuation allowance of $37 million and $3 million was recorded on the residential amortized MSRs for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2012, valuation allowance of
$37 million for residential MSRs was reversed upon election to carry at fair value.     
 
         180   

Note 9: Mortgage Banking Activities    (continued)       

We present the components of our managed servicing portfolio in the following table at
unpaid principal balance for

loans serviced and subserviced for others and at book value for owned loans serviced.

The components of mortgage banking noninterest income were:   

(1)  
  Primarily associated with foreclosure expenses and certain interest costs.     

(2)  
  Refer to the changes in fair value of MSRs table in this Note for more detail.     

(3)  
  Represents changes due to collection/realization of expected cash flows over time.     

(4)  
  Represents results from free-standing derivatives (economic hedges) used to hedge the risk of changes in fair value of MSRs. See Note 16   Free-Standing Derivatives for
additional discussion and detail.     
         181   

The table below summarizes the changes in our liability for mortgage loan repurchase losses. This
liability is in  Accrued expenses and other liabilities  in our consolidated financial statements and the provision for repurchase losses reduces net gains on mortgage loan origination/sales activities. Because the level of mortgage loan
repurchase losses depends upon economic factors, investor demand strategies and other external conditions that may change over the life of the underlying loans, the level of the liability for mortgage loan repurchase losses is difficult to estimate
and requires considerable management judgment. We maintain regular contact with the GSEs, the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA), and other significant investors to monitor their repurchase demand practices and issues as part of our process to
update our repurchase liability estimate as new information becomes available. Because of the uncertainty in the various estimates underlying the mortgage repurchase liability, there is a range of losses in excess of the recorded mortgage repurchase
liability that is reasonably possible. The estimate of the range of possible loss for representations and warranties does not represent a probable loss, and is based on currently available information, significant judgment, and a number of
assumptions that are subject to change. The high end of this range of reasonably possible losses in excess of our recorded liability was $2.4 billion at December 31, 2012, and was determined based upon modifying the assumptions (particularly to
assume significant changes in investor repurchase demand practices) utilized in our best estimate of probable loss to reflect what we believe to be the high end of reasonably possible adverse assumptions.   

(1)  
  Results from such factors as changes in investor demand and mortgage insurer practices, credit deterioration and changes in the financial stability of correspondent lenders.

182   

Note 10: Intangible Assets    
       The gross carrying value of
intangible assets and accumulated amortization was:       

(1)  
  Excludes fully amortized intangible assets.     

(2)  
  See Note 9 for additional information on MSRs.     

We based our projections of amortization expense shown below on existing asset balances
at December 31, 2012. Future amortization expense may vary from these projections.

The following table provides the current year and estimated future amortization expense
for amortized intangible assets.   

For our goodwill impairment analysis, we allocate all of the goodwill to the individual
operating segments. We identify reporting units that are one level below an operating segment (referred to as a component), and distinguish these reporting units based on how the segments and components are managed, taking into consideration the
economic characteristics, nature of

the products and customers of the components. We allocate goodwill to reporting units based on relative fair value, using certain performance metrics. See Note 24 for further information on
management reporting.      The following table shows the allocation of goodwill to our operating segments for purposes of
goodwill impairment testing.   

183   

Note 11: Deposits    

Time certificates of deposit (CDs) and other time deposits issued by domestic and foreign offices totaled
$90.1 billion and $99.6 billion at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Substantially all of these deposits were interest bearing. The contractual maturities of these deposits follow.   

Of these deposits, the amount of domestic time deposits with a denomination of $100,000
or more was $23.7 billion and $25.1 billion at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The contractual maturities of these deposits follow.       
    Time CDs and other time deposits issued by foreign offices with a denomination of $100,000 or more were
$11.7 billion and $13.6 billion at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.      Demand deposit overdrafts of
$806 million and $649 million were included as loan balances at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   

Note 12: Short-Term Borrowings    

The table below shows selected information for short-term borrowings, which generally mature in less than
30 days. We pledge certain financial instruments that we own to collateralize repurchase agreements and other securities financings. For additional information, see the  Pledged Assets and Collateral  section of Note 14.

N/A   Not Applicable   

184   

Note 13: Long-Term Debt    

We issue long-term debt denominated in multiple currencies, predominantly in U.S. dollars. Our issuances
have both fixed and floating interest rates. As a part of our overall interest rate risk management strategy, we often use derivatives to manage our exposure to interest rate risk. We also use derivatives to manage our exposure to foreign currency
risk. As a result, the long-term debt presented below is primarily hedged in a fair value or cash flow hedge relationship. See Note 16 for further information on qualifying hedge contracts.   
  Following is a summary of our long-term debt carrying values, reflecting unamortized debt discounts and premiums, and purchase
accounting adjustments for debt assumed in the

Wachovia acquisition, where applicable. The interest rates displayed represent the range of contractual rates in effect at December 31, 2012. These interest rates do not include the effects
of any associated derivatives designated in a hedge accounting relationship.   

(continued on following page)    
         185   

(continued from previous page)    

(1)  
  On March 30, 2009, Wells Fargo issued $1.75 billion of 2.125% fixed senior unsecured notes and $1.75 billion of floating senior unsecured notes that matured on June 15,
2012. These notes were guaranteed under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation s (FDIC) Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (TLGP) and were backed by the full faith and credit of the United States.     

(2)  
  A significant portion consists of long-term notes where the performance of the note is linked to an embedded equity, commodity, or currency index, or basket of indices accounted
for separately from the note as a free-standing derivative. For information on embedded derivatives, see Note 16   Free-standing derivatives. In addition, a major portion consists of zero coupon callable notes where interest is paid as part of
the final redemption amount.     

(3)  
  Represents junior subordinated debentures held by unconsolidated wholly owned trusts formed for the sole purpose of issuing trust preferred securities. See Note 8 for additional
information on our trust preferred security structures.     

(4)  
  Represents floating-rate extendible notes where holders of the notes may elect to extend the contractual maturity of all or a portion of the principal amount on a periodic basis.
The maturity of the notes may not be extended beyond 2018.     

The aggregate carrying value of long-term debt that matures (based on contractual payment
dates) as of December 31, 2012, in each of the following five years and thereafter, is presented in the following table.       

As part of our long-term and short-term borrowing arrangements, we are subject to various
financial and operational covenants. Some of the agreements under which debt has been issued have provisions that may limit the merger or sale of certain subsidiary banks and the issuance of capital stock or convertible securities by certain
subsidiary banks. At December 31, 2012, we were in compliance with all the covenants.   

186   

Note 14: Guarantees, Pledged Assets and Collateral    

Guarantees are contracts that contingently require us to make payments to a guaranteed party based on an
event or a change in an underlying asset, liability, rate or index. Guarantees are generally in the form of standby letters of credit, securities lending and other indemnifications, liquidity agreements,

written put options, recourse obligations, residual value guarantees, and contingent consideration. The following table shows carrying value, maximum exposure to loss on our guarantees and the
related non-investment grade amounts.   

(1)  
  Amounts have been revised from what was previously reported to reflect better alignment of our internal rating process to external noninvestment grade ratings.

(2)  
  Total maximum exposure to loss includes direct pay letters of credit (DPLCs) of $18.5 billion and $19.7 billion at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. We issue DPLCs
to provide credit enhancements for certain bond issuances. Beneficiaries (bond trustees) may draw upon these instruments to make scheduled principal and interest payments, redeem all outstanding bonds because a default event has occurred, or for
other reasons as permitted by the agreement. We also originate multipurpose lending commitments under which borrowers have the option to draw on the facility in one of several forms, including as a standby letter of credit. Total maximum exposure to
loss includes the portion of these facilities for which we have issued standby letters of credit under the commitments.     

(3)  
  Certain of these agreements included in this table are related to off-balance sheet entities and, accordingly, are also disclosed in Note 8.     

(4)  
  Written put options, which are in the form of derivatives, are also included in the derivative disclosures in Note 16.     

Maximum exposure to loss  and  Non-investment grade  are required
disclosures under GAAP. Non-investment grade represents those guarantees on which we have a higher risk of being required to perform under the terms of the guarantee. If the underlying assets under the guarantee are non-investment grade (that is, an
external rating that is below investment grade or an internal credit default grade that is equivalent to a below investment grade external rating), we consider the risk of performance to be high. Internal credit default grades are determined based
upon the same credit policies that we use to evaluate the risk of payment or performance when making loans and other extensions of credit. These credit policies are further described in Note 6.   
  Maximum exposure to loss represents the estimated loss that would be incurred under an assumed hypothetical circumstance, despite what
we believe is its extremely remote possibility, where the value of our interests and any associated collateral declines to zero. Maximum exposure to loss estimates in the table above do not reflect economic hedges or collateral we could use to
offset or recover losses we may incur under our guarantee agreements. Accordingly, this required disclosure is not an indication of expected loss. We believe the carrying value, which is either fair value for derivative related products or the
allowance for lending related commitments, is more representative of our exposure to loss than maximum exposure to loss.       STANDBY LETTERS
OF CREDIT   We issue standby letters of credit, which include performance and financial guarantees, for

customers in connection with contracts between our customers and third parties. Standby letters of credit are agreements where we are obligated to make payment to a third party on behalf of a
customer in the event the customer fails to meet their contractual obligations. We consider the credit risk in standby letters of credit and commercial and similar letters of credit in determining the allowance for credit losses. Standby letters of
credit include direct pay letters of credit we issue to provide credit enhancements for certain bond issuances. The terms of our standby letters of credit are predominantly five years or less.   
   SECURITIES LENDING AND OTHER INDEMNIFICATIONS   As a securities lending agent, we lend debt and equity securities from participating
institutional clients  portfolios to third-party borrowers. These arrangements are for an indefinite period of time whereby we indemnify our clients against default by the borrower in returning these lent securities. This indemnity is supported
by collateral received from the borrowers and is generally in the form of cash or highly liquid securities that are marked to market daily. Substantially all of these securities are returned to our clients within one year from trade date. There was
$443 million at December 31, 2012, and $687 million at December 31, 2011, in collateral supporting loaned securities with values of $436 million and $669 million, respectively.   
  Commencing third quarter 2012, we began using certain third party clearing agents to clear and settle transactions on behalf of some of
our institutional brokerage customers. We indemnify the clearing agents against loss that could occur for non-performance by our customers on transactions that are not

sufficiently collateralized. These arrangements are for an indefinite period. Transactions subject to the indemnifications may include customer obligations related to the settlement of margin
accounts and short positions, such as written call options and securities borrowing transactions. Outstanding customer obligations and related collateral were $579 million and $3.1 billion, respectively, as of December 31, 2012. Our estimate of
maximum exposure to loss, which requires judgment regarding the range and likelihood of future events, was $2.1 billion as of December 31, 2012.      We enter into other types of indemnification agreements in the ordinary course of business under which we agree to indemnify third parties against any damages, losses and expenses incurred in connection
with legal and other proceedings arising from relationships or transactions with us. These relationships or transactions include those arising from service as a director or officer of the Company, underwriting agreements relating to our securities,
acquisition agreements and various other business transactions or arrangements. Because the extent of our obligations under these agreements depends entirely upon the occurrence of future events, we are unable to determine our potential future
liability under these agreements. We do, however, record a liability for residential mortgage loans that we expect to repurchase pursuant to various representations and warranties. See Note 9 for additional information on the liability for mortgage
loan repurchase losses.       LIQUIDITY AGREEMENTS   We provide liquidity facilities on all commercial paper issued by the conduit
we administer. We also provide liquidity to certain off-balance sheet entities that hold securitized fixed-rate municipal bonds and consumer or commercial assets that are partially funded with the issuance of money market and other short-term notes.
See Note 8 for additional information on these arrangements.       WRITTEN PUT OPTIONS   Written put options are contracts that
give the counterparty the right to sell to us an underlying instrument held by the counterparty at a specified price, and include options, floors, caps and credit default swaps. These written put option contracts generally permit net settlement.
While these derivative transactions expose us to risk in the event the option is exercised, we manage this risk by entering into offsetting trades or by taking short positions in the underlying instrument. We offset substantially all put options
written to customers with purchased options. Additionally, for certain of these contracts, we require the counterparty to pledge the underlying instrument as collateral for the transaction. Our ultimate obligation under written put options is based
on future market conditions and is only quantifiable at settlement. The terms of our written put options are largely five years or less. See Note 8 for additional information regarding transactions with VIEs and Note 16 for additional information
regarding written derivative contracts.       LOANS AND MHFS SOLD WITH RECOURSE   In certain loan sales or securitizations, we
provide recourse to the buyer whereby we are required to indemnify the buyer for any loss on the loan up to par value plus accrued interest. We provide recourse,

predominantly to the GSEs, on loans sold under various programs and arrangements. Primarily all of these programs and arrangements require that we share in the loans  credit exposure for
their remaining life by providing recourse to the GSE, up to 33.33% of actual losses incurred on a pro-rata basis, in the event of borrower default. Under the remaining recourse programs and arrangements, if certain events occur within a specified
period of time from transfer date, we have to provide limited recourse to the buyer to indemnify them for losses incurred for the remaining life of the loans. The maximum exposure to loss reported in the accompanying table represents the outstanding
principal balance of the loans sold or securitized that are subject to recourse provisions or the maximum losses per the contractual agreements. However, we believe the likelihood of loss of the entire balance due to these recourse agreements is
remote and amounts paid can be recovered in whole or in part from the sale of collateral. Our recourse arrangements remain in effect as long as the loans are outstanding, which predominantly have remaining terms in excess of five years. During 2012,
we repurchased $26 million of loans associated with these agreements. We also provide representation and warranty guarantees on loans sold under the various recourse programs and arrangements. Our loss exposure relative to these guarantees is
separately considered and provided for, as necessary, in determination of our liability for loan repurchases due to breaches of representation and warranties. See Note 9 for additional information on the liability for mortgage loan repurchase
losses.       RESIDUAL VALUE GUARANTEES   We have provided residual value guarantees as part of certain leasing transactions of
corporate assets. The lessors in these leases are generally large financial institutions or their leasing subsidiaries. These guarantees protect the lessor from loss on sale of the related asset at the end of the lease term. To the extent that a
sale of the leased assets results in proceeds less than a stated percent (generally 80% to 89%) of the asset s cost, we would be required to reimburse the lessor under our guarantee. In November 2012, the purchase options on the leasing
transactions related to these residual value guarantees were exercised; therefore we no longer have any exposure related to these guarantees.   
   CONTINGENT CONSIDERATION   In connection with certain brokerage, asset management, insurance agency and other acquisitions we have made,
the terms of the acquisition agreements provide for deferred payments or additional consideration, based on certain performance targets.   
   OTHER GUARANTEES   We are members of exchanges and clearing houses that we use to clear our trades and those of our customers. It is
common that all members in these organizations are required to collectively guarantee the performance of other members. Our obligations under the guarantees are based on either a fixed amount or a multiple of the collateral we are required to
maintain with these organizations. We have not recorded a liability for these arrangements as of the dates presented in the previous table because we believe the likelihood of loss is remote.

188   

Note 14: Guarantees, Pledged Assets and Collateral
   (continued)             

We also have contingent performance arrangements related to various customer
relationships and lease transactions. We are required to pay the counterparties to these agreements if third parties default on certain obligations.       Pledged Assets and Collateral       As part of our liquidity management strategy, we pledge
assets to secure trust and public deposits, borrowings from the FHLB and FRB and for other purposes as required or permitted by law. The following table provides pledged loans and securities available for sale where the secured party does not have
the right to sell or repledge the collateral. At December 31, 2012, and 2011, we did not pledge any loans or securities available for sale where the secured party has the right to sell or repledge the collateral. The table excludes pledged
assets related to VIEs, which can only be used to settle the liabilities of those entities. See Note 8 for additional information on consolidated VIE assets.

We also pledge certain financial instruments that we own to collateralize repurchase agreements and
other securities financings. The types of collateral we pledge include securities issued by federal agencies, government-sponsored entities (GSEs), and domestic and foreign companies. We pledged $27.4 billion at December 31, 2012, and
$20.8 billion at December 31, 2011, under agreements that permit the secured parties to sell or repledge the collateral. Pledged collateral where the secured party cannot sell or repledge was $677 million and $2.8 billion at the
same period ends, respectively.      We receive collateral from other entities under short-term (generally less than one year)
and long-term resale agreements and securities borrowings. At December 31, 2012 and 2011, we have received $46.6 billion and $31.1 billion, respectively, in collateral that we have the right to sell or repledge, of which $15.5 billion
and $13.3 billion, respectively, are for long-term resale agreements. These amounts include securities we have sold or repledged to others with a fair value of $29.7 billion at December 31, 2012, and $16.7 billion at December 31,
2011.   

189   

Note 15: Legal Actions    

Wells Fargo and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in a number of judicial, regulatory and
arbitration proceedings concerning matters arising from the conduct of our business activities. These proceedings include actions brought against Wells Fargo and/or our subsidiaries with respect to corporate related matters and transactions in which
Wells Fargo and/or our subsidiaries were involved. In addition, Wells Fargo and our subsidiaries may be requested to provide information or otherwise cooperate with government authorities in the conduct of investigations of other persons or industry
groups.      Although there can be no assurance as to the ultimate outcome, Wells Fargo and/or our subsidiaries have generally
denied, or believe we have a meritorious defense and will deny, liability in all significant litigation pending against us, including the matters described below, and we intend to defend vigorously each case, other than matters we describe as having
settled. Reserves are established for legal claims when payments associated with the claims become probable and the costs can be reasonably estimated. The actual costs of resolving legal claims may be substantially higher or lower than the amounts
reserved for those claims.       FHA INSURANCE LITIGATION   On October 9, 2012, the United States filed a complaint, captioned
 United States of America v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. , in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. The complaint makes claims with respect to Wells Fargo s Federal Housing Administration (FHA) lending program for the
period 2001 to 2010. The complaint alleges, among other allegations, that Wells Fargo improperly certified certain FHA mortgage loans for United States Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) insurance that did not qualify for the program,
and therefore Wells Fargo should not have received insurance proceeds from HUD when some of the loans later defaulted. The complaint further alleges Wells Fargo knew some of the mortgages did not qualify for insurance and did not disclose the
deficiencies to HUD before making insurance claims. On December 1, 2012, Wells Fargo filed a motion in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia seeking to enforce a release of Wells Fargo given by the United States, which was denied
on February 12, 2013. On December 14, 2012, the United States filed an amended complaint. On January 16, 2013, Wells Fargo filed a motion in the Southern District of New York to dismiss the amended complaint.   
   INTERCHANGE LITIGATION   Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., Wells Fargo   Company, Wachovia Bank, N.A. and Wachovia Corporation are named
as defendants, separately or in combination, in putative class actions filed on behalf of a plaintiff class of merchants and in individual actions brought by individual merchants with regard to the interchange fees associated with Visa and
MasterCard payment card transactions. These actions have been consolidated in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York. Visa, MasterCard and several banks and bank holding companies are named as defendants in various of these
actions. The amended and consolidated complaint asserts claims against defendants based on alleged violations of federal and state antitrust laws

and seeks damages, as well as injunctive relief. Plaintiff merchants allege that Visa, MasterCard and payment card issuing banks unlawfully colluded to set interchange rates. Plaintiffs also
allege that enforcement of certain Visa and MasterCard rules and alleged tying and bundling of services offered to merchants are anticompetitive. Wells Fargo and Wachovia, along with other defendants and entities, are parties to Loss and Judgment
Sharing Agreements, which provide that they, along with other entities, will share, based on a formula, in any losses from the Interchange Litigation. On July 13, 2012, Visa, MasterCard and the financial institution defendants, including Wells
Fargo, signed a memorandum of understanding with plaintiff merchants to resolve the consolidated class actions and reached a separate settlement in principle of the consolidated individual actions. The proposed settlement payments by all defendants
in the consolidated class and individual actions total approximately $6.6 billion. The class settlement also provides for the distribution to class merchants of 10 basis points of default interchange across all credit rate categories for a period of
eight consecutive months. The Court has granted preliminary approval of the settlements. The settlements are subject to further review and approval by the Court.       MEDICAL CAPITAL CORPORATION LITIGATION   Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. served as indenture trustee for debt issued by affiliates of Medical Capital Corporation, which was placed in receivership
at the request of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in August 2009. Since September 2009,      Wells Fargo has been named as a defendant
in various class and mass actions brought by holders of Medical Capital Corporation s debt, alleging that Wells Fargo breached contractual and other legal obligations owed to them and seeking unspecified damages. The actions have been
consolidated in the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California. On July 26, 2011, the District Court certified a class consisting of holders of notes issued by affiliates of Medical Capital Corporation and, on October 18,
2011, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals denied a petition seeking to appeal the class certification order. A previously disclosed potential settlement of the case was not consummated and the case is in discovery.   
   MARYLAND MORTGAGE LENDING LITIGATION   On December 26, 2007, a class action complaint captioned  Denise Minter, et al., v. Wells
Fargo Bank, N.A., et al.,  was filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of Maryland. The complaint alleges that Wells Fargo and others violated provisions of the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act and other laws by conducting mortgage
lending business improperly through a general partnership, Prosperity Mortgage Company. The complaint asserts that Prosperity Mortgage Company was not a legitimate affiliated business and instead operated to conceal Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. s
role in the loans at issue. A plaintiff class of borrowers who received a mortgage loan from Prosperity that was funded by Prosperity s line of credit with Wells Fargo Bank,

190   

Note 15: Legal Actions    (continued)       

N.A. from 1993 to May 31, 2012 has been certified. The Court has scheduled a trial in this case for May 6, 2013. A second, related case is also pending in the same Court. On
July 8, 2008, a class action complaint captioned  Stacey and Bradley Petry, et al., v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., et al.,  was filed. The complaint alleges that Wells Fargo and others violated the Maryland Finder s Fee Act in the closing
of mortgage loans in Maryland. The Court certified a plaintiff class of borrowers whose loans are secured by Maryland real property, which loans showed Prosperity Mortgage Company as the lender receiving a fee for services, and were funded through a
Wells Fargo line of credit to Prosperity from 1993 to May 31, 2012. The Court has scheduled a trial in this case for March 18, 2013.   
   MORTGAGE-BACKED CERTIFICATES LITIGATION   Several securities law based putative class actions were consolidated in the U.S. District
Court for the Northern District of California on July 16, 2009, under the caption  In re Wells Fargo Mortgage-Backed Certificates Litigation . The case asserted claims against several Wells Fargo mortgage backed securities trusts, Wells
Fargo Bank, N.A. and other affiliated entities, individual employee defendants, along with various underwriters and rating agencies. The plaintiffs alleged that the offering documents contain untrue statements of material fact, or omit to state
material facts necessary to make the registration statements and accompanying prospectuses not misleading. The parties agreed to settle the case on May 27, 2011, for $125 million. Final approval of the settlement was entered on
November 14, 2011. Some class members opted out of the settlement, with the most significant being the Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae) and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (Freddie Mac).   
  On June 29, 2010, and on July 15, 2010, two complaints, the first captioned  The Charles Schwab Corporation vs. Merrill
Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith, Inc., et al.,  and the second captioned  The Charles Schwab Corporation v. BNP ParibasSecurities Corp., et al.,  were filed in the Superior Court for the State of California, San Francisco County
against a number of defendants, including Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. and Wells Fargo Asset Securities Corporation. As against the Wells Fargo entities, the new cases assert opt out claims relating to the claims alleged in the Mortgage-Backed
Certificates Litigation.      On October 15, 2010, three actions, captioned  Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago v. Banc of
America Funding Corporation, et al.  (filed in the Cook County Circuit Court, State of Illinois);  Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago v. Banc of America Securities LLC, et al.  (filed in the Superior Court of the State of California for the
County of Los Angeles); and  Federal Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis v. Banc of America Mortgage America Securities, Inc., et al.  (filed in the Superior Court of the State of Indiana for the County of Marion), named multiple defendants,
described as issuers/depositors, and underwriters/dealers of private label mortgage-backed securities, in an action asserting claims that defendants used false and misleading statements in offering documents for the sale of such securities.
Plaintiffs seek rescission of the sales and damages under state securities and other laws and Section 11 of the Securities Act of 1933. Wells Fargo Asset Securities Corporation, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. and Wells Fargo  

Company were named among the defendants. On April 20, 2011, a case captioned  Federal Home Loan of Boston v. Ally Financial, Inc., et al. , was filed in the Superior Court of the
Commonwealth of Massachusetts for the County of Suffolk. The case names, among a large number of parties, Wells Fargo   Company, Wells Fargo Asset Securitization Corporation and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. as parties and contains allegations
substantially similar to the cases filed by the other Federal Home Loan Banks.      In addition, there are other mortgage-related
threatened or asserted claims by entities or investors where Wells Fargo may have indemnity or repurchase obligations, or as to which it has entered into agreements to toll the relevant statutes of limitations.   
   MORTGAGE FORECLOSURE DOCUMENT LITIGATION   Eight purported class actions and several individual borrower actions related to foreclosure
document practices were filed in late 2010 and in early 2011 against Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. in its status as mortgage servicer or corporate trustee of mortgage trusts. The cases were brought in state and federal courts. All eight cases have been
dismissed or otherwise resolved.       MORTGAGE RELATED REGULATORY INVESTIGATIONS   Government agencies and authorities continue
investigations or examinations of certain mortgage related practices of Wells Fargo. Wells Fargo, for itself and for predecessor institutions, has responded, and continues to respond, to requests from government agencies seeking information
regarding the origination, underwriting and securitization of residential mortgages, including sub-prime mortgages. On February 24, 2012, Wells Fargo received a Wells Notice from SEC Staff relating to Wells Fargo s disclosures in
mortgage-backed securities offering documents. On November 20, 2012, the SEC Staff advised Wells Fargo it did not intend to take action on the subject matter of the Wells Notice.       IN RE MUNICIPAL DERIVATIVES ANTITRUST LITIGATION   Wachovia Bank, along with several other banks and financial services companies, was named as a defendant beginning in April 2008 in a
number of substantially identical purported class actions and individual actions filed in various state and federal courts by various municipalities alleging they have been damaged by alleged anticompetitive activity of the defendants. These cases
were either consolidated under the caption  In re Municipal Derivatives Antitrust Litigation  or administered jointly with that action in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. The plaintiffs and Wells Fargo agreed to
settle the  In re Municipal Derivatives Antitrust Litigation  on October 21, 2011. The settlement received final approval on December 14, 2012. A number of municipalities have opted out of the settlement, but the remaining potential
claims are not material.       ORDER OF POSTING LITIGATION   A series of putative class actions have been filed against Wachovia
Bank, N.A. and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as well as many other banks, challenging the

high to low order in which the Banks post debit card transactions to consumer deposit accounts. There are currently several such cases pending against Wells Fargo Bank (including the Wachovia
Bank cases to which Wells Fargo succeeded), most of which have been consolidated in multi-district litigation proceedings in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida. The bank defendants moved to compel these cases to arbitration
under recent Supreme Court authority. On November 22, 2011, the Judge denied the motion. The Banks appealed the decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit. On October 26, 2012, the Eleventh Circuit affirmed the District
Court s denial of the motion.      On August 10, 2010, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California
issued an order in  Gutierrez v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. , a case that was not consolidated in the multi-district proceedings, enjoining the Bank s use of the high to low posting method for debit card transactions with respect to the
plaintiff class of California depositors, directing that the Bank establish a different posting methodology and ordering remediation of approximately $203 million. On October 26, 2010, a final judgment was entered in Gutierrez. On
October 28, 2010, Wells Fargo appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. On December 26, 2012, the Ninth Circuit reversed the order requiring Wells Fargo to change its order of posting and vacated the portion of the order
granting remediation of approximately $203 million on the grounds of federal pre-emption. The Ninth Circuit affirmed the District Court s finding that Wells Fargo violated a California state law prohibition on fraudulent representations and
remanded the case to the District Court for further proceedings.       SECURITIES LENDING LITIGATION   Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. is
involved in several separate pending actions brought by securities lending customers of Wells Fargo and Wachovia

Bank in various courts. In general, each of the cases alleges that Wells Fargo violated fiduciary and contractual duties by investing collateral for loaned securities in investments that suffered
losses. In addition, on March 27, 2012, a class of Wells Fargo securities lending customers was certified in a case captioned  City of Farmington Hills Employees Retirement System v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. , which is pending in the U.S.
District Court for the District of Minnesota. Wells Fargo sought interlocutory review of the class certification in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit. The Eighth Circuit declined such review on May 7, 2012.   
   OUTLOOK   When establishing a liability for contingent litigation losses, the Company determines a range of potential losses for each
matter that is both probable and estimable, and records the amount it considers to be the best estimate within the range. The high end of the range of reasonably possible potential litigation losses in excess of the Company s liability for
probable and estimable losses was $1.0 billion as of December 31, 2012. For these matters and others where an unfavorable outcome is reasonably possible but not probable, there may be a range of possible losses in excess of the established
liability that cannot be estimated. Based on information currently available, advice of counsel, available insurance coverage and established reserves, Wells Fargo believes that the eventual outcome of the actions against Wells Fargo and/or its
subsidiaries, including the matters described above, will not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on Wells Fargo s consolidated financial position. However, in the event of unexpected future developments, it is
possible that the ultimate resolution of those matters, if unfavorable, may be material to Wells Fargo s results of operations for any particular period.

192   

Note 16: Derivatives    

We primarily use derivatives to manage exposure to market risk, interest rate risk, credit risk and foreign
currency risk, and to assist customers with their risk management objectives. We designate derivatives either as hedging instruments in a qualifying hedge accounting relationship (fair value or cash flow hedge) or as free-standing derivatives.
Free-standing derivatives include economic hedges that do not qualify for hedge accounting and derivatives held for customer accommodation or other trading purposes.      Our asset/liability management approach to interest rate, foreign currency and certain other risks includes the use of derivatives. Such derivatives are typically designated as fair value or cash flow
hedges, or free-standing derivatives (economic hedges) for those that do not qualify for hedge accounting. This helps minimize significant, unplanned fluctuations in earnings, fair values of assets and liabilities, and cash flows caused by interest
rate, foreign currency and other market value volatility. This approach involves modifying the repricing characteristics of certain assets and liabilities so that changes in interest rates, foreign currency and other exposures do not have a
significantly adverse effect on the net interest margin, cash flows and earnings. As a result of fluctuations in these exposures, hedged assets and liabilities will gain or lose market value. In a fair value or economic hedge, the effect of this
unrealized gain or loss will generally be offset by the gain or loss on the derivatives linked to the hedged assets and liabilities. In a cash flow hedge, where we manage the variability of cash payments due to interest rate fluctuations by the
effective use of derivatives linked to hedged assets and liabilities, the unrealized gain or loss on the derivatives or the hedged asset or liability is generally reflected in other comprehensive income and not in earnings.

We also offer various derivatives, including interest rate, commodity, equity, credit and
foreign exchange contracts, to our customers as part of our trading businesses but usually offset our exposure from such contracts by entering into other financial contracts. These derivative transactions are conducted in an effort to help customers
manage their market price risks. The customer accommodations and any offsetting derivative contracts are treated as free-standing derivatives. To a much lesser extent, we take positions executed for our own account based on market expectations or to
benefit from price differentials between financial instruments and markets. Additionally, free-standing derivatives include embedded derivatives that are required to be accounted for separately from their host contracts.   
  The following table presents the total notional or contractual amounts and fair values for our derivatives. Derivative transactions can
be measured in terms of the notional amount, but this amount is not recorded on the balance sheet and is not, when viewed in isolation, a meaningful measure of the risk profile of the instruments. The notional amount is generally not exchanged, but
is used only as the basis on which interest and other payments are determined. Derivatives designated as qualifying hedge contracts and free-standing derivatives (economic hedges) are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value in other assets or
other liabilities. Customer accommodation, trading and other free-standing derivatives are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value in trading assets, other assets or other liabilities.

193   

(1)  
  Notional amounts presented exclude $4.7 billion at December 31, 2012, and $15.5 billion at December 31, 2011, of basis swaps that are combined with receive
fixed-rate/pay floating-rate swaps and designated as one hedging instrument.     

(2)  
  Includes free-standing derivatives (economic hedges) used to hedge the risk of changes in the fair value of residential MSRs, MHFS, loans and other interests held.

(3)  
  Represents netting of derivative asset and liability balances, and related cash collateral, with the same counterparty subject to master netting arrangements. The amount of cash
collateral netted against derivative assets and liabilities was $5.0 billion and $14.5 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2012, and $6.6 billion and $15.4 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2011.     
         194   

Note 16: Derivatives    (continued)       

Fair Value Hedges       We use interest rate swaps to convert certain of our fixed-rate long-term debt and CDs to floating rates to hedge our exposure to interest rate risk. We also enter into cross-currency swaps,
cross-currency interest rate swaps and forward contracts to hedge our exposure to foreign currency risk and interest rate risk associated with the issuance of non-U.S. dollar denominated long-term debt. In addition, we use interest rate swaps,
cross-currency swaps, cross-currency interest rate swaps and forward contracts to hedge against changes in fair value of certain investments in available-for-sale debt securities due to changes in interest rates, foreign currency rates, or both. We
also use interest rate swaps to hedge against changes in fair value for certain mortgages held for sale. The entire derivative gain or loss is included in the assessment of hedge effectiveness for all fair value hedge relationships, except for those
involving foreign-currency denominated securities available for sale and long-term

debt hedged with foreign currency forward derivatives for which the component of the derivative gain or loss related to the changes in the difference between the spot and forward price is
excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness.      We use statistical regression analysis to assess hedge effectiveness,
both at inception of the hedging relationship and on an ongoing basis. The regression analysis involves regressing the periodic change in fair value of the hedging instrument against the periodic changes in fair value of the asset or liability being
hedged due to changes in the hedged risk(s). The assessment includes an evaluation of the quantitative measures of the regression results used to validate the conclusion of high effectiveness.   
  The following table shows the net gains (losses) recognized in the income statement related to derivatives in fair value hedging
relationships.   

(1)  
  Included $(9) million and $53 million, respectively, for year ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, of gains (losses) on forward derivatives hedging foreign currency securities
available for sale and long-term debt, representing the portion of derivative gains (losses) excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness (time value).     
         195   

Cash Flow Hedges       We hedge floating-rate debt against future interest rate increases by using interest rate swaps, caps, floors and futures to limit variability of cash flows due to changes in the benchmark interest rate.
We also use interest rate swaps and floors to hedge the variability in interest payments received on certain floating-rate commercial loans, due to changes in the benchmark interest rate. Gains and losses on derivatives that are reclassified from
OCI to interest income and interest expense in the current period are included in the line item in which the hedged item s effect on earnings is recorded. All parts of gain or loss on these derivatives are included in the assessment of hedge
effectiveness. We assess hedge effectiveness using regression analysis, both at inception of the hedging relationship and on an ongoing basis. The regression analysis involves regressing the periodic changes in cash flows of the hedging instrument
against the periodic

changes in cash flows of the forecasted transaction being hedged due to changes in the hedged risk(s). The assessment includes an evaluation of the quantitative measures of the regression results
used to validate the conclusion of high effectiveness.      Based upon current interest rates, we estimate that $350 million
(pre tax) of deferred net gains on derivatives in OCI at December 31, 2012, will be reclassified into interest income and interest expense during the next twelve months. Future changes to interest rates may significantly change actual amounts
reclassified to earnings. We are hedging our exposure to the variability of future cash flows for all forecasted transactions for a maximum of 5 years for both hedges of floating-rate debt and floating-rate commercial loans.   
  The following table shows the net gains (losses) recognized related to derivatives in cash flow hedging relationships.

(1)  
  Amounts were recorded in net interest income and noninterest expense.     

(2)  
  None of the change in value of the derivatives was excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness.     

Free-Standing Derivatives       We use free-standing derivatives (economic hedges), in addition to debt securities available for sale, to hedge the risk of changes in the fair value of certain residential MHFS, certain loans held for
investment, residential MSRs measured at fair value, derivative loan commitments and other interests held. The resulting gain or loss on these economic hedges is reflected in mortgage banking noninterest income and other noninterest income. Changes
in fair value of debt securities available for sale (unrealized gains and losses) are not included in servicing income, but are reported in cumulative OCI (net of tax) or, upon sale, are reported in net gains (losses) on debt securities available
for sale.      The derivatives used to hedge MSRs measured at fair value, which include swaps, swaptions, constant maturity
mortgages, forwards, Eurodollar and Treasury futures and options contracts, resulted in net derivative gains of $3.6 billion in 2012 and $5.2 billion in 2011, which are included in mortgage banking noninterest income. The aggregate fair value of
these derivatives was a net asset of $87 million at December 31, 2012, and a net asset of $1.4 billion at December 31, 2011. The change in fair value of these derivatives for each period end is due to changes in the underlying market
indices and interest rates as well as the purchase and sale of derivative financial instruments throughout the period as part of our dynamic MSR risk management process.      Interest rate lock commitments for residential mortgage loans that we intend to sell are considered free-standing derivatives. Our interest rate exposure on these derivative loan commitments, as well as
substantially all residential MHFS, is hedged with free-standing derivatives (economic hedges) such as swaps, forwards and options, Eurodollar futures and options,

and Treasury futures, forwards and options contracts. The commitments, free-standing derivatives and residential MHFS are carried at fair value with changes in fair value included in mortgage
banking noninterest income. For the fair value measurement of interest rate lock commitments we include, at inception and during the life of the loan commitment, the expected net future cash flows related to the associated servicing of the loan.
Fair value changes subsequent to inception are based on changes in fair value of the underlying loan resulting from the exercise of the commitment and changes in the probability that the loan will not fund within the terms of the commitment
(referred to as a fall-out factor). The value of the underlying loan is affected primarily by changes in interest rates and the passage of time. However, changes in investor demand can also cause changes in the value of the underlying loan value
that cannot be hedged. The aggregate fair value of derivative loan commitments in the balance sheet was a net asset of $497 million at December 31, 2012, and a net asset of $478 million at December 31, 2011, and is included in the caption
 Interest rate contracts  under  Customer accommodation, trading and other free-standing derivatives  in the first table in this Note.      We also enter into various derivatives primarily to provide derivative products to customers. To a lesser extent, we take positions based on market expectations or to benefit from price differentials
between financial instruments and markets. These derivatives are not linked to specific assets and liabilities in the balance sheet or to forecasted transactions in an accounting hedge relationship and, therefore, do not qualify for hedge
accounting. We also enter into free-standing derivatives for risk management that do not otherwise qualify for hedge accounting. They are carried at fair value with changes in fair value recorded as other noninterest income.

196   

Note 16: Derivatives    (continued)       

Free-standing derivatives also include embedded derivatives that are required to be
accounted for separately from their host contract. We periodically issue hybrid long-term notes and CDs where the performance of the hybrid instrument notes is linked to an equity, commodity or currency index, or basket of such indices. These notes
contain explicit terms that affect some or all of the cash flows or the value of the note in a manner similar to a derivative instrument and therefore are considered to contain an  embedded  derivative instrument. The indices on which the
performance of the hybrid instrument is calculated are not clearly and closely related to the host debt instrument. The

embedded  derivative is separated from the host contract and accounted for as a free-standing derivative. Additionally, we may invest in hybrid instruments that contain embedded
derivatives, such as credit derivatives, that are not clearly and closely related to the host contract. In such instances, we either elect fair value option for the hybrid instrument or separate the embedded derivative from the host contract and
account for the host contract and derivative separately.      The following table shows the net gains recognized in the income
statement related to derivatives not designated as hedging instruments.   

(1)  
  Predominantly mortgage banking noninterest income including gains (losses) on the derivatives used as economic hedges of MSRs measured at fair value, interest rate lock
commitments and mortgages held for sale.     

(2)  
  Predominantly included in other noninterest income.     

(3)  
  Predominantly mortgage banking noninterest income including gains (losses) on interest rate lock commitments.     

(4)  
  Predominantly included in net gains from trading activities in noninterest income.     

Credit Derivatives       We use credit derivatives primarily to assist customers with their risk management objectives. We may also use credit derivatives in structured product transactions or liquidity agreements written to
special purpose vehicles. The maximum exposure of sold credit derivatives is managed through posted collateral, purchased credit derivatives and similar products in order to achieve our desired credit risk profile. This credit risk management
provides an ability to recover a significant portion of any amounts that would be paid under the sold credit derivatives. We would be required to perform under the noted credit derivatives in the event of default by the referenced obligors. Events
of default include events such as bankruptcy, capital restructuring or lack of principal and/or interest payment. In certain cases, other triggers may exist, such as the credit downgrade of the referenced obligors or the inability of the special
purpose vehicle for which we have provided liquidity to obtain funding.

197   

The following table provides details of sold and purchased credit derivatives.   

Protection sold represents the estimated maximum exposure to loss that would be incurred
under an assumed hypothetical circumstance, where the value of our interests and any associated collateral declines to zero, without any consideration of recovery or offset from any economic hedges. We believe this hypothetical circumstance to be an
extremely remote possibility and accordingly, this required disclosure is not an indication of expected loss. The amounts under non-investment grade represent the notional amounts of those credit derivatives on which we have a higher risk of being
required to perform under the terms of the credit derivative and are a function of the underlying assets.

We consider the risk of performance to be high if the underlying assets under the credit
derivative have an external rating that is below investment grade or an internal credit default grade that is equivalent thereto. We believe the net protection sold, which is representative of the net notional amount of protection sold and purchased
with identical underlyings, in combination with other protection purchased, is more representative of our exposure to loss than either non-investment grade or protection sold. Other protection purchased represents additional protection, which may
offset the exposure to loss for protection sold, that was not purchased with an identical underlying of the protection sold.

198   

Note 16: Derivatives    (continued)       

Credit-Risk Contingent Features       Certain of our derivative contracts contain provisions whereby if the credit rating of our debt were to be downgraded by certain major credit rating agencies, the counterparty could demand additional
collateral or require termination or replacement of derivative instruments in a net liability position. The aggregate fair value of all derivative instruments with such credit-risk-related contingent features that are in a net liability position was
$16.2 billion at December 31, 2012, and $17.1 billion at December 31, 2011, respectively, for which we posted $14.3 billion and $15.0 billion, respectively, in collateral in the normal course of business. If the credit rating of our debt
had been downgraded below investment grade, which is the credit-risk-related contingent feature that if triggered requires the maximum amount of collateral to be posted, on December 31, 2012, or December 31, 2011, we would have been
required to post additional collateral of $1.9 billion or $2.1 billion, respectively, or potentially settle the contract in an amount equal to its fair value.

Counterparty Credit Risk       By using derivatives, we are exposed to counterparty credit risk if counterparties to the derivative contracts do not perform as expected. If a counterparty fails to perform, our counterparty credit risk
is equal to the amount reported as a derivative asset on our balance sheet. The amounts reported as a derivative asset are derivative contracts in a gain position, and to the extent subject to legally enforceable master netting arrangements, net of
derivatives in a loss position with the same counterparty and cash collateral received. We minimize counterparty credit risk through credit approvals, limits, monitoring procedures, executing master netting arrangements and obtaining collateral,
where appropriate. To the extent the master netting arrangements and other criteria meet the applicable requirements, including determining the legal enforceability of the arrangement, it is our policy to present derivatives balances and related
cash collateral amounts net in the balance sheet. Counterparty credit risk related to derivatives is considered in determining fair value and our assessment of hedge effectiveness.

199   

Note 17: Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities    

We use fair value measurements to record fair value adjustments to certain assets and liabilities and to
determine fair value disclosures. Trading assets (excluding derivatives), securities available for sale, derivatives, substantially all residential MHFS, certain commercial LHFS, certain loans held for investment, fair value MSRs and securities sold
but not yet purchased (short sale liabilities) are recorded at fair value on a recurring basis. Additionally, from time to time, we may be required to record at fair value other assets on a nonrecurring basis, such as certain residential and
commercial MHFS, certain LHFS, loans held for investment and certain other assets. These nonrecurring fair value adjustments typically involve application of lower-of-cost-or-market accounting or write-downs of individual assets.   
  Following are descriptions of the valuation methodologies used for assets and liabilities recorded at fair value on a recurring or
nonrecurring basis and for estimating fair value for financial instruments not recorded at fair value.       Assets    
   SHORT-TERM FINANCIAL ASSETS  Short-term financial assets include cash and due from banks, federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale
agreements and due from customers on acceptances. These assets are carried at historical cost. The carrying amount is a reasonable estimate of fair value because of the relatively short time between the origination of the instrument and its expected
realization.       TRADING ASSETS (EXCLUDING DERIVATIVES) AND SECURITIES AVAILABLE FOR SALE  Trading assets and securities available for sale
are recorded at fair value on a recurring basis. Fair value measurement is based upon various sources of market pricing. We use quoted prices in active markets, where available and classify such instruments within Level 1 of the fair value
hierarchy. Examples include exchange-traded equity securities and some highly liquid government securities such as U.S. Treasuries. When instruments are traded in secondary markets and quoted market prices do not exist for such securities, we
generally rely on internal valuation techniques or on prices obtained from third-party pricing services or brokers (collectively, vendors) or combination thereof, and accordingly, we classify these instruments as Level 2 or 3.   
  Trading securities are mostly valued using internal trader prices that are subject to price verification procedures performed by
separate internal personnel. The majority of fair values derived using internal valuation techniques are verified against multiple pricing sources, including prices obtained from third-party vendors. Vendors compile prices from various sources and
often apply matrix pricing for similar securities when no price is observable. We review pricing methodologies provided by the vendors in order to determine if observable market information is being used, versus unobservable inputs. When evaluating
the appropriateness of an internal trader price compared with vendor prices, considerations include the range and quality of vendor prices. Vendor prices are used to ensure the reasonableness of a trader price; however valuing financial

instruments involves judgments acquired from knowledge of a particular market. If a trader asserts that a vendor price is not reflective of market value, justification for using the trader price,
including recent sales activity where possible, must be provided to and approved by the appropriate levels of management.   
  Similarly, while securities available for sale traded in secondary markets are typically valued using unadjusted vendor prices or vendor
prices adjusted by weighting them with internal discounted cash flow techniques, these prices are reviewed and, if deemed inappropriate by a trader who has the most knowledge of a particular market, can be adjusted. Securities measured with these
internal valuation techniques are generally classified as Level 2 of the hierarchy and often involve using quoted market prices for similar securities, pricing models, discounted cash flow analyses using significant inputs observable in the market
where available or combination of multiple valuation techniques. Examples include certain residential and commercial MBS, municipal bonds, U.S. government and agency MBS, and corporate debt securities.   
  Security fair value measurements using significant inputs that are unobservable in the market due to limited activity or a less liquid
market are classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. Such measurements include securities valued using internal models or a combination of multiple valuation techniques such as weighting of internal models and vendor or broker pricing,
where the unobservable inputs are significant to the overall fair value measurement. Securities classified as Level 3 include certain residential and commercial MBS, asset-backed securities collateralized by auto leases or loans and cash reserves,
CDOs and CLOs, and certain residual and retained interests in residential mortgage loan securitizations. We value CDOs using the prices of similar instruments, the pricing of completed or pending third party transactions or the pricing of the
underlying collateral within the CDO. Where vendor or broker prices are not readily available, we use management s best estimate.   
   MORTGAGES HELD FOR SALE (MHFS)  We carry substantially all of our residential MHFS portfolio at fair value. Fair value is based on quoted market
prices, where available, or the prices for other mortgage whole loans with similar characteristics. As necessary, these prices are adjusted for typical securitization activities, including servicing value, portfolio composition, market conditions
and liquidity. Most of our MHFS are classified as Level 2. For the portion where market pricing data is not available, we use a discounted cash flow model to estimate fair value and, accordingly, classify as Level 3.   
   LOANS HELD FOR SALE (LHFS)  LHFS are carried at the lower of cost or market value, or at fair value. The fair value of LHFS is based on what
secondary markets are currently offering for loans with similar characteristics. As such, we classify those loans subjected to nonrecurring fair value adjustments as Level 2.       LOANS  For information on how we report the carrying value of loans, including PCI loans, see Note 1. Although most loans are

200   

Note 17: Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities    (continued)       

not recorded at fair value on a recurring basis, reverse mortgages are held at fair value on a recurring basis. In addition, we record nonrecurring fair value adjustments to loans to reflect
partial write-downs that are based on the observable market price of the loan or current appraised value of the collateral.   
  We provide fair value estimates in this disclosure for loans that are not recorded at fair value on a recurring or nonrecurring basis.
Those estimates differentiate loans based on their financial characteristics, such as product classification, loan category, pricing features and remaining maturity. Prepayment and credit loss estimates are evaluated by product and loan rate.
     The fair value of commercial loans is calculated by discounting contractual cash flows, adjusted for credit loss estimates,
using discount rates that are appropriate for loans with similar characteristics and remaining maturity.      For real estate 1-4 family first and
junior lien mortgages, we calculate fair value by discounting contractual cash flows, adjusted for prepayment and credit loss estimates, using discount rates based on current industry pricing (where readily available) or our own estimate of an
appropriate discount rate for loans of similar size, type, remaining maturity and repricing characteristics.      The carrying
value of credit card loans, which is adjusted for estimates of credit losses inherent in the portfolio at the balance sheet date, is reported as a reasonable estimate of fair value. For all other consumer loans, the fair value is generally
calculated by discounting the contractual cash flows, adjusted for prepayment and credit loss estimates, based on the current rates we offer for loans with similar characteristics.   
  Loan commitments, standby letters of credit and commercial and similar letters of credit generate ongoing fees at our current pricing
levels, which are recognized over the term of the commitment period. In situations where the credit quality of the counterparty to a commitment has declined, we record an allowance. A reasonable estimate of the fair value of these instruments is the
carrying value of deferred fees plus the related allowance. Certain letters of credit that are hedged with derivative instruments are carried at fair value in trading assets or liabilities. For those letters of credit, fair value is calculated based
on readily quotable credit default spreads, using a market risk credit default swap model.       DERIVATIVES  Quoted market prices are
available and used for our exchange-traded derivatives, such as certain interest rate futures and option contracts, which we classify as Level 1. However, substantially all of our derivatives are traded in over-the-counter (OTC) markets where quoted
market prices are not always readily available. Therefore we value most OTC derivatives using internal valuation techniques. Valuation techniques and inputs to internally-developed models depend on the type of derivative and nature of the underlying
rate, price or index upon which the derivative s value is based. Key inputs can include yield curves, credit curves, foreign-exchange rates, prepayment rates, volatility measurements and correlation of such inputs. Where model inputs can be
observed in a liquid market and the model does not require significant judgment, such derivatives are typically classified as Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. Examples of derivatives classified as Level 2

include generic interest rate swaps, foreign currency swaps, commodity swaps, and certain option and forward contracts. When instruments are traded in less liquid markets and significant inputs
are unobservable, such derivatives are classified as Level 3. Examples of derivatives classified as Level 3 include complex and highly structured derivatives, certain credit default swaps, interest rate lock commitments written for our residential
mortgage loans that we intend to sell and long dated equity options where volatility is not observable. Additionally, significant judgments are required when classifying financial instruments within the fair value hierarchy, particularly between
Level 2 and 3, as is the case for certain derivatives.       MORTGAGE SERVICING RIGHTS (MSRs) AND CERTAIN OTHER INTERESTS HELD IN
SECURITIZATIONS  MSRs and certain other interests held in securitizations (e.g., interest-only strips) do not trade in an active market with readily observable prices. Accordingly, we determine the fair value of MSRs using a valuation model that
calculates the present value of estimated future net servicing income cash flows. The model incorporates assumptions that market participants use in estimating future net servicing income cash flows, including estimates of prepayment speeds
(including housing price volatility), discount rate, default rates, cost to service (including delinquency and foreclosure costs), escrow account earnings, contractual servicing fee income, ancillary income and late fees. Commercial MSRs are carried
at lower of cost or market value, and therefore can be subject to fair value measurements on a nonrecurring basis. Changes in the fair value of MSRs occur primarily due to the collection/realization of expected cash flows, as well as changes in
valuation inputs and assumptions. For other interests held in securitizations (such as interest-only strips) we use a valuation model that calculates the present value of estimated future cash flows. The model incorporates our own estimates of
assumptions market participants use in determining the fair value, including estimates of prepayment speeds, discount rates, defaults and contractual fee income. Interest-only strips are recorded as trading assets. Our valuation approach is
validated by our internal valuation model validation group. Fair value measurements of our MSRs and interest-only strips use significant unobservable inputs and, accordingly, we classify them as Level 3.   
   FORECLOSED ASSETS  Foreclosed assets are carried at net realizable value, which represents fair value less costs to sell. Fair value is generally
based upon independent market prices or appraised values of the collateral and, accordingly, we classify foreclosed assets as Level 2.   
   NONMARKETABLE EQUITY INVESTMENTS  Nonmarketable equity investments are generally recorded under the cost or equity method of accounting. There are
generally restrictions on the sale and/or liquidation of these investments, including federal bank stock. Federal bank stock carrying value approximates fair value. We use facts and circumstances available to estimate the fair value of our
nonmarketable equity investments. We typically consider our access to and need for capital (including recent or projected financing activity),

201   

qualitative assessments of the viability of the investee, evaluation of the financial statements of the
investee and prospects for its future. Public equity investments are valued using quoted market prices and discounts are only applied when there are trading restrictions that are an attribute of the investment. We estimate the fair value of
investments in non-public securities using metrics such as security prices of comparable public companies, acquisition prices for similar companies and original investment purchase price multiples, while also incorporating a portfolio company s
financial performance and specific factors. For investments in private equity funds, we use the NAV provided by the fund sponsor as an appropriate measure of fair value. In some cases, such NAVs require adjustments based on certain unobservable
inputs.       Liabilities    
   DEPOSIT LIABILITIES  Deposit liabilities are carried at historical cost. The fair value of deposits with no stated maturity, such as
noninterest-bearing demand deposits, interest-bearing checking, and market rate and other savings, is equal to the amount payable on demand at the measurement date. The fair value of other time deposits is calculated based on the discounted value of
contractual cash flows. The discount rate is estimated using the rates currently offered for like wholesale deposits with similar remaining maturities.       SHORT-TERM FINANCIAL LIABILITIES  Short-term financial liabilities are carried at historical cost and include federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements, commercial
paper and other short-term borrowings. The carrying amount is a reasonable estimate of fair value because of the relatively short time between the origination of the instrument and its expected realization.   
   OTHER LIABILITIES  Other liabilities recorded at fair value on a recurring basis, excluding derivative liabilities (see the  Derivatives 
section for derivative liabilities), includes primarily short sale liabilities. Short sale liabilities are predominantly classified as either Level 1 or Level 2, generally dependent upon whether the underlying securities have readily obtainable
quoted prices in active exchange markets.       LONG-TERM DEBT  Long-term debt is generally carried at amortized cost. For disclosure, we are
required to estimate the fair value of long-term debt. Generally, the discounted cash flow method is used to estimate the fair value of our long-term debt. Contractual cash flows are discounted using rates currently offered for new notes with
similar remaining maturities and, as such, these discount rates include our current spread levels.       Level 3 Asset and Liability Valuation
Processes       We generally determine fair value of our Level 3 assets and liabilities by using internally developed models and, to a lesser
extent, prices obtained from third-party pricing services or brokers (collectively, vendors). Our valuation processes vary depending on which approach is utilized.       INTERNAL MODEL VALUATIONS  Our internally developed models primarily consist of discounted cash flow techniques. Use

of such techniques requires determining relevant inputs, some of which are unobservable. Unobservable inputs are generally derived from historic performance of similar assets or determined from
previous market trades in similar instruments. These unobservable inputs usually consist of discount rates, default rates, loss severity upon default, volatilities, correlations and prepayment rates, which are inherent within our Level 3
instruments. Such inputs can be correlated to similar portfolios with known historic experience or recent trades where particular unobservable inputs may be implied; but due to the nature of various inputs being reflected within a particular trade,
the value of each input is considered unobservable. We attempt to correlate each unobservable input to historic experience and other third party data where available.      Internal valuation models are subject to review prescribed within our model risk management policies and procedures which includes model validation. The purpose of model validation includes ensuring the
model is appropriate for its intended use and the appropriate controls exist to help mitigate risk of invalid valuations. Model validation assesses the adequacy and appropriateness of the model, including reviewing its key components such as inputs,
processing components, logic or theory, output results and supporting model documentation. Validation also includes ensuring significant unobservable model inputs are appropriate given observable market transactions or other market data within the
same or similar asset classes. This ensures modeled approaches are appropriate given similar product valuation techniques and are in line with their intended purpose.      We have ongoing monitoring procedures in place for our Level 3 assets and liabilities that use such internal valuation models. These procedures, which are designed to provide reasonable assurance that
models continue to perform as expected after approved, include:   

ongoing analysis and benchmarking to market transactions and other independent market data (including pricing vendors, if available);

back-testing of modeled fair values to actual realized transactions; and      

review of modeled valuation results against expectations, including review of significant or unusual value fluctuations.      
  We update model inputs and methodologies periodically to reflect these monitoring procedures. Additionally, procedures and controls are
in place to ensure existing models are subject to periodic reviews, and we perform full model revalidations as necessary.   
  All internal valuation models are subject to ongoing review by business-unit-level management. More complex models are subject to
additional oversight by a corporate-level risk management department. Corporate oversight responsibilities include evaluating adequacy of business unit risk management programs, maintaining company-wide model validation policies and standards and
reporting the results of these activities to management and our Enterprise Risk Management Committee (ERMC). The ERMC, which consists of senior executive management and reports on top risks to the Company s Board of

202   

Note 17: Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities    (continued)       

Directors, monitors all company-wide risks, including credit risk, market risk, and reputational risk.       VENDOR-DEVELOPED VALUATIONS  In certain limited circumstances we obtain pricing from third party vendors for the value of our Level 3 assets or liabilities. We have processes in place to approve
such vendors to ensure information obtained and valuation techniques used are appropriate. Once these vendors are approved to provide pricing information, we monitor and review the results to ensure the fair values are reasonable and in line with
market experience in similar asset classes. While the input amounts used by the pricing vendor in determining fair value are not provided, and therefore unavailable for our review, we do perform one or more of the following procedures to validate
the prices received:   

comparison to other pricing vendors (if available);      

variance analysis of prices;

corroboration of pricing by reference to other independent market data such as market transactions and relevant benchmark indices;

review of pricing by Company personnel familiar with market liquidity and other market-related conditions; and      

investigation of prices on a specific instrument-by-instrument basis.          Fair Value Measurements from Brokers or Third Party Pricing Services       For certain assets
and liabilities, we obtain fair value measurements from brokers or third party pricing services and record the unadjusted fair value in our financial statements. The detail by level is shown in the table below. Fair value measurements obtained from
brokers or third party pricing services that we have adjusted to determine the fair value recorded in our financial statements are not included in the following table.

203   

Assets and Liabilities Recorded at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis

The following two tables present the balances of assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a
recurring basis.   

(1)  
  Includes collateralized loan obligations of $721 million that are classified as trading assets.     

(2)  
  Net gains from trading activities recognized in the income statement include $305 million in net unrealized gains on trading securities held at December 31, 2012.

(3)  
  Balances consist of securities that are predominantly investment grade based on ratings received from the ratings agencies or internal credit grades categorized as investment
grade if external ratings are not available. The securities are classified as Level 3 due to limited market activity.     

(4)  
  Includes collateralized loan obligations of $12.5 billion that are classified as securities available for sale.     

(5)  
  Perpetual preferred securities include ARS and corporate preferred securities. See Note 8 for additional information.     

(6)  
  Derivatives are reported net of cash collateral received and paid and, to the extent that the criteria of the accounting guidance covering the offsetting of amounts related to
certain contracts are met, positions with the same counterparty are netted as part of a legally enforceable master netting agreement.     

(7)  
  Derivative assets and derivative liabilities include contracts qualifying for hedge accounting, economic hedges, and derivatives included in trading assets and trading
liabilities, respectively.         (continued on following page)    
         204   

Note 17: Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities    (continued)       
         (continued from previous page)    

(1)  
  Includes collateralized loan obligations of $583 million that are classified as trading assets.     

(2)  
  Net gains from trading activities recognized in the income statement include $133 million in net unrealized gains on trading securities we held at December 31, 2011.

(3)  
  Balances consist of securities that are predominantly investment grade based on ratings received from the ratings agencies or internal credit grades categorized as investment
grade if external ratings are not available. The securities are classified as Level 3 due to limited market activity.     

(4)  
  Includes collateralized loan obligations of $8.1 billion that are classified as securities available for sale.     

(5)  
  Perpetual preferred securities include ARS and corporate preferred securities. See Note 8 for additional information.     

(6)  
  Derivatives are reported net of cash collateral received and paid and, to the extent that the criteria of the accounting guidance covering the offsetting of amounts related to
certain contracts are met, positions with the same counterparty are netted as part of a legally enforceable master netting agreement.     

(7)  
  Derivative assets and derivative liabilities include contracts qualifying for hedge accounting, economic hedges, and derivatives included in trading assets and trading
liabilities, respectively.     
         205   

Changes in Fair Value Levels       We monitor the availability of observable market data to assess the appropriate classification of financial instruments within the fair value hierarchy and transfer between Level 1, Level 2, and Level 3
accordingly. Observable market data includes but is not limited to quoted prices and market transactions. Changes in economic conditions or market liquidity generally will drive changes in availability of observable market data. Changes in

availability of observable market data, which also may result in changing the valuation technique used, are generally the cause of transfers between Level 1, Level 2, and Level 3.   
  All current period transfers into and out of Level 1, Level 2, and Level 3 are provided within the below table. The amounts reported as
transfers represent the fair value as of the beginning of the quarter in which the transfer occurred.   

(1)  
  All transfers in and out of Level 3 are disclosed within the recurring level 3 rollforward table in this Note.     

(2)  
  Includes $9.4 billion of securities of U.S. states and political subdivisions that we transferred from Level 3 to Level 2 as a result of increased observable market data in the
valuation of such instruments. This transfer was done in conjunction with a change in our valuation technique from an internal model based upon unobservable inputs to third party vendor pricing based upon market observable data.

(3)  
  Consists of reverse mortgage loans securitized with GNMA which were accounted for as secured borrowing transactions. We transferred the loans from Level 2 to Level 3 in third
quarter 2012 due to decreased market activity and visibility to significant trades of the same or similar products. As a result, we changed our valuation technique from an internal model based on market observable data to an internal discounted cash
flow model based on unobservable inputs.     

For the year ended December 31, 2011, we transferred $709 million of other
trading assets from Level 2 to Level 1 due to use of more observable market data. We transferred $801 million of debt securities available for sale from Level 3 to Level 2 due to an increase in the volume of trading activity for certain
securities, which resulted in increased occurrences of observable market prices. We also transferred $502 million of securities available for sale from Level 2 to Level 3 primarily due to a decrease in liquidity for certain asset-backed securities.
     Significant changes to Level 3 assets for the year ended December 31, 2010 are described as follows:   

We adopted new consolidation accounting guidance which impacted Level 3 balances for certain financial instruments. Reductions in Level 3 balances,
which represent derecognition of existing investments in newly consolidated VIEs, are reflected as transfers out for the following

categories: trading assets, $276 million; securities available for sale, $1.9 billion; and mortgage servicing rights, $118 million. Increases in Level 3 balances, which represent newly
consolidated VIE assets, are reflected as transfers in for the following categories: securities available for sale, $829 million; loans, $366 million; and long-term debt, $359 million.      

We transferred $4.9 billion of securities available for sale from Level 3 to Level 2 due to an increase in the volume of trading activity for certain
mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities, which resulted in increased occurrences of observable market prices. We also transferred $1.7 billion of debt securities available for sale from Level 2 to Level 3, primarily due to a decrease in
liquidity for certain asset-backed securities.      

206   

Note 17: Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities    (continued)       
        The changes in Level 3 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a
recurring basis for the year ended December 31, 2012, are summarized as follows:       

(1)  
  See next page for detail.     

(2)  
  Represents only net gains (losses) that are due to changes in economic conditions and management s estimates of fair value and excludes changes due to the
collection/realization of cash flows over time.     

(3)  
  Included in trading activities and other noninterest income in the income statement.     

(4)  
  Included in debt securities available for sale in the income statement.     

(5)  
  Included in equity investments in the income statement.     

(6)  
  Included in mortgage banking and other noninterest income in the income statement.     

(7)  
  Included in mortgage banking, trading activities and other noninterest income in the income statement.         (continued on following page)    
         207   

(continued from previous page)       The following table presents gross purchases, sales, issuances and settlements related to the changes in Level 3 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis for the year ended
December 31, 2012.       
 
         208   

Note 17: Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities    (continued)       
        The changes in Level 3 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a
recurring basis for the year ended December 31, 2011, are summarized as follows:       

(1)  
  See next page for detail.     

(2)  
  Represents only net gains (losses) that are due to changes in economic conditions and management s estimates of fair value and excludes changes due to the
collection/realization of cash flows over time.     

(3)  
  Included in trading activities and other noninterest income in the income statement.     

(4)  
  Included in debt securities available for sale in the income statement.     

(5)  
  Included in equity investments in the income statement.     

(6)  
  Included in mortgage banking and other noninterest income in the income statement.     

(7)  
  Included in mortgage banking, trading activities and other noninterest income in the income statement.         (continued on following page)    
         209   

(continued from previous page)       The following table presents gross purchases, sales, issuances and settlements related to the changes in Level 3 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis for the year ended
December 31, 2011.       
 
         210   

Note 17: Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities    (continued)       
        The following table presents changes in Level 3 assets and
liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis for the year ended December 31, 2010.       

(1)  
  Represents only net gains (losses) that are due to changes in economic conditions and management s estimates of fair value and excludes changes due to the
collection/realization of cash flows over time.     

(2)  
  Included in trading activities and other noninterest income in the income statement.     

(3)  
  Included in debt securities available for sale in the income statement.     

(4)  
  Included in equity investments in the income statement.     

(5)  
  Included in mortgage banking and other noninterest income in the income statement.     

(6)  
  Included in mortgage banking, trading activities and other noninterest income in the income statement.     

The following table provides quantitative information about the valuation techniques and
significant unobservable inputs used in the valuation of substantially all of our Level 3 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis for which we use an internal model.

The significant unobservable inputs for Level 3 assets and liabilities that are valued
using fair values obtained from third party vendors are not included in the table as the specific inputs applied are not provided by the vendor (see discussion regarding vendor-developed valuations within the  Level 3 Asset and Liabilities
Valuation Processes  section previously within this   

Note). In addition, the table excludes the valuation techniques and significant unobservable inputs for certain classes of Level 3 assets and liabilities measured using an internal model that we
consider, both individually and in the aggregate, insignificant relative to our overall Level 3 assets and liabilities. We made this

determination based upon an evaluation of each class which considered the magnitude of the positions, nature of the unobservable inputs and potential for significant changes in fair value due to
changes in those inputs.   

(1)  
  Weighted averages are calculated using outstanding unpaid principal balance for cash instruments such as loans and securities, and notional amounts for derivative instruments.

(2)  
  Includes $13.3 billion of collateralized loan obligations.     

(3)  
  Securities backed by specified sources of current and future receivables generated from foreign originators.     

(4)  
  Consists primarily of investments in asset-backed securities that are revolving in nature, in which the timing of advances and repayments of principal are uncertain.

(5)  
  Consists of auction rate preferred equity securities with no maturity date that are callable by the issuer.     

(6)  
  Consists predominantly of reverse mortgage loans securitized with GNMA which were accounted for as secured borrowing transactions.     

(7)  
  The high end of the range of inputs is for servicing modified loans. For non-modified loans the range is $90   $437.     

(8)  
  Includes a blend of prepayment speeds and expected defaults. Prepayment speeds are influenced by mortgage interest rates as well as our estimation of drivers of borrower
behavior.     

(9)  
  Represents the aggregate amount of Level 3 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis that are individually and in the aggregate insignificant. The amount
includes corporate debt securities, mortgage-backed securities, asset-backed securities backed by home equity loans, other marketable equity securities, other assets, other liabilities and certain net derivative assets and liabilities, such as
commodity contracts, foreign exchange contracts and other derivative contracts.     

(10)  
  Consists of total Level 3 assets of $51.9 billion and total Level 3 liabilities of $3.1 billion, before netting of derivative balances.     
         212   

Note 17: Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities    (continued)       

The valuation techniques used for our Level 3 assets and liabilities, as presented in the previous table,
are described as follows:   

Discounted cash flow    Discounted cash flow valuation techniques generally consist of developing an estimate of future cash flows that are
expected to occur over the life of an instrument and then discounting those cash flows at a rate of return that results in the fair value amount.      

Option model    Option model valuation techniques are generally used for instruments in which the holder has a contingent right or
obligation based on the occurrence of a future event, such as the price of a referenced asset going above or below a predetermined strike price. Option models estimate the likelihood of the specified event occurring by incorporating assumptions such
as volatility estimates, price of the underlying instrument and expected rate of return.      

Market comparable pricing    Market comparable pricing valuation techniques are used to determine the fair value of certain instruments by
incorporating known inputs such as recent transaction prices, pending transactions, or prices of other similar investments which require significant adjustment to reflect differences in instrument characteristics.      

Vendor-priced    Prices obtained from third party pricing vendors or brokers that are used to record the fair value of the asset or
liability, of which the related valuation technique and significant unobservable inputs are not provided.      
  Significant unobservable inputs presented in the previous table are those we consider significant to the fair value of the Level 3
asset or liability. We consider unobservable inputs to be significant, if by their exclusion, the fair value of the Level 3 asset or liability would be impacted by a predetermined percentage change or based on qualitative factors such as nature of
the instrument, type of valuation technique used, and the significance of the unobservable inputs relative to other inputs used within the valuation. Following is a description of the significant unobservable inputs provided in the table.

Comparability adjustment    is an adjustment made to observed market data such as a transaction price in order to reflect dissimilarities in
underlying collateral, issuer, rating, or other factors used within a market valuation approach, expressed as a percentage of an observed price.      

Correlation factor    is the likelihood of one instrument changing in price relative to another based on an established relationship
expressed as a percentage of relative change in price over a period over time.      

Cost to service    is the expected cost per loan of servicing a portfolio of loans which includes estimates for unreimbursed expenses
(including delinquency and foreclosure costs) that may occur as a result of servicing such loan portfolios.      

Credit spread    is the portion of the interest rate in excess of a benchmark interest rate, such as LIBOR or U.S. Treasury rates, that when
applied to an investment captures changes in the obligor s creditworthiness.

Default rate    is an estimate of the likelihood of not collecting contractual amounts owed expressed as a constant default rate (CDR).

Discount rate    is a rate of return used to present value the future expected cash flow to arrive at the fair value of an instrument. The
discount rate consists of a benchmark rate component and a risk premium component. The benchmark rate component, for example, LIBOR or U.S. Treasury rates, is generally observable within the market and is necessary to appropriately reflect the time
value of money. The risk premium component reflects the amount of compensation market participants require due to the uncertainty inherent in the instruments  cash flows resulting from risks such as credit and liquidity.

Fall-out factor    is the expected percentage of loans associated with our interest rate lock commitment portfolio that are likely of not
funding.      

Initial-value servicing    is the estimated value of the underlying loan, including the value attributable to the embedded servicing right,
expressed in basis points of outstanding unpaid principal balance.      

Loss severity    is the percentage of contractual cash flows lost in the event of a default.      

Prepayment rate    is the estimated rate at which forecasted prepayments of principal of the related loan or debt instrument are expected to
occur, expressed as a constant prepayment rate (CPR).      

Utilization rate    is the estimated rate in which incremental portions of existing reverse mortgage credit lines are expected to be drawn
by borrowers, expressed as an annualized rate.      

Volatility factor    is the extent of change in price an item is estimated to fluctuate over a specified period of time expressed as a
percentage of relative change in price over a period over time.      

Weighted average life    is the weighted average number of years an investment is expected to remain outstanding, based on its expected cash
flows reflecting the estimated date the issuer will call or extend the maturity of the instrument or otherwise reflecting an estimate of the timing of an instrument s cash flows whose timing is not contractually fixed.
         Significant Recurring Level 3 Fair Value Asset and Liability Input Sensitivity    
  We generally use discounted cash flow or similar internal modeling techniques to determine the fair value of our Level 3 assets and liabilities. Use of
these techniques requires determination of relevant inputs and assumptions, some of which represent significant unobservable inputs as indicated in the preceding table. Accordingly, changes in these unobservable inputs may have a significant impact
on fair value.      Certain of these unobservable inputs will (in isolation) have a directionally consistent impact on the fair
value of the instrument for a given change in that input. Alternatively, the fair value of the instrument may move in an opposite direction for a given change in another input. Where multiple inputs are used within the valuation technique of an
asset or liability, a change in one input in a certain direction may be offset by an

213   

opposite change in another input having a potentially muted impact to the overall fair value of that particular instrument. Additionally, a change in one unobservable input may result in a change
to another unobservable input (that is, changes in certain inputs are interrelated to one another), which may counteract or magnify the fair value impact.       SECURITIES, LOANS and MORTGAGES HELD FOR SALE  The fair values of predominantly all Level 3 trading securities, mortgages held for sale, loans and securities available for sale have consistent
inputs, valuation techniques and correlation to changes in underlying inputs. The internal models used to determine fair value for these Level 3 instruments use certain significant unobservable inputs within a discounted cash flow or market
comparable pricing valuation technique. Such inputs include discount rate, prepayment rate, default rate, loss severity, utilization rate and weighted average life.      These Level 3 assets would decrease (increase) in value based upon an increase (decrease) in discount rate, default rate, loss severity, or weighted average life inputs. Conversely, the fair value of
these Level 3 assets would generally increase (decrease) in value if the prepayment rate input were to increase (decrease) or if the utilization rate input were to increase (decrease).   
  Generally, a change in the assumption used for default rate is accompanied by a directionally similar change in the risk premium
component of the discount rate (specifically, the portion related to credit risk) and a directionally opposite change in the assumption used for prepayment rates. Unobservable inputs for loss severity, utilization rate and weighted average life do
not increase or decrease based on movements in the other significant unobservable inputs for these Level 3 assets.       DERIVATIVE
INSTRUMENTS  Level 3 derivative instruments are valued using market comparable pricing, option pricing and discounted cash flow valuation techniques. We utilize certain unobservable inputs within these techniques to determine the fair value of
the Level 3 derivative instruments. The significant unobservable inputs consist of credit spread, a comparability adjustment, prepayment rate, default rate, loss severity, initial value servicing, fall-out factor, volatility factor, and correlation
factor.   
 
   Level 3 derivative assets (liabilities) would decrease (increase) in value upon an
increase (decrease) in default rate, fall-out factor, credit spread or loss severity inputs. Conversely, Level 3 derivative assets (liabilities) would increase (decrease) in value upon an increase (decrease) in prepayment rate, initial-value
servicing or volatility factor inputs. The correlation factor and comparability adjustment inputs may have a positive or negative impact on the fair value of these derivative instruments depending on the change in value of the item the correlation
factor and comparability adjustment is referencing. The correlation factor and comparability adjustment is considered independent from movements in other significant unobservable inputs for derivative instruments.   
  Generally, for derivative instruments for which we are subject to changes in the value of the underlying referenced instrument, change
in the assumption used for default rate is accompanied by directionally similar change in the risk premium component of the discount rate (specifically, the portion related to credit risk) and a directionally opposite change in the assumption used
for prepayment rates. Unobservable inputs for loss severity, fall-out factor, initial-value servicing, and volatility do not increase or decrease based on movements in other significant unobservable inputs for these Level 3 instruments.   
   MORTGAGE SERVICING RIGHTS  We use a discounted cash flow valuation technique to determine the fair value of Level 3 mortgage servicing rights.
These models utilize certain significant unobservable inputs including prepayment rate, discount rate and costs to service. An increase in any of these unobservable inputs will reduce the fair value of the mortgage servicing rights and
alternatively, a decrease in any one of these inputs would result in the mortgage servicing rights increasing in value. Generally, a change in the assumption used for the default rate is accompanied by a directionally similar change in the
assumption used for cost to service and a directionally opposite change in the assumption used for prepayment. The sensitivity of our residential MSRs is discussed further in Note 8.

214   

Note 17: Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities    (continued)       

Assets and Liabilities Recorded at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis    
  We may be required, from time to time, to measure certain assets at fair value on a nonrecurring basis in accordance with GAAP. These adjustments to fair
value usually result from application of LOCOM accounting or write-downs of individual

assets. For assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis in 2012 and 2011 that were still held in the balance sheet at each respective period end, the following table provides the fair
value hierarchy and the fair value of the related individual assets or portfolios at period end.   

(1)  
  Predominantly real estate 1-4 family first mortgage loans.     

(2)  
  The December 31, 2012, amount includes fair value of $2.0 billion for consumer loans that were written down in accordance with OCC guidance issued in third quarter 2012.

(3)  
  Represents carrying value of loans for which adjustments are based on the appraised value of the collateral.     

(4)  
  Includes the fair value of foreclosed real estate and other collateral owned that were measured at fair value subsequent to their initial classification as foreclosed assets.

The following table presents the increase (decrease) in value of certain assets that are
measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis for which a fair value adjustment has been recognized in the periods presented.       

(1)  
  Represents write-downs of loans based on the appraised value of the collateral. The year ended December 31, 2012, includes $888 million resulting from consumer loans written
down in accordance with OCC guidance issued in third quarter 2012.     

(2)  
  Includes the losses on foreclosed real estate and other collateral owned that were measured at fair value subsequent to their initial classification as foreclosed assets.

215   

The table below provides quantitative information about the valuation techniques and
significant unobservable inputs used in the valuation of substantially all of our Level 3 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis for which we use an internal model.   
  We have excluded from the table classes of Level 3 assets and liabilities measured using an internal model that we consider,

both individually and in the aggregate, insignificant relative to our overall Level 3 nonrecurring measurements. We made this determination based upon an evaluation of each class which considered
the magnitude of the positions, nature of the unobservable inputs and potential for significant changes in fair value due to changes in those inputs.

(1)  
  Refer to the narrative following the recurring quantitative Level 3 table of this Note for a definition of the valuation technique(s) and significant unobservable inputs.

(2)  
  Weighted averages are calculated using outstanding unpaid principal balance of the loans.     

(3)  
  Consists of approximately $942 million government insured/guaranteed loans purchased from GNMA-guaranteed mortgage securitization and $103 million of other mortgage loans
which are not government insured/guaranteed.     

(4)  
  Applies only to non-government insured/guaranteed loans.     

(5)  
  Includes the impact on prepayment rate of expected defaults for the government insured/guaranteed loans, which impacts the frequency and timing of early resolution of loans.

Alternative Investments       The following table summarizes our investments in various types of funds, which are included in trading assets, securities available for sale and other assets. We use the funds  net asset

values (NAVs) per share as a practical expedient to measure fair value on recurring and nonrecurring bases. The fair values presented in the table are based upon the funds  NAVs or an
equivalent measure.   

N/A   Not applicable   

Offshore funds primarily invest in investment grade European fixed-income securities.
Redemption restrictions are in place for these investments with a fair value of $189 million and $200 million at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, due to lock-up provisions that will remain in effect until October 2015.   
  Private equity funds invest in equity and debt securities issued by private and publicly-held companies in connection with leveraged
buyouts, recapitalizations and expansion opportunities. Substantially all of these investments do not allow

redemptions. Alternatively, we receive distributions as the underlying assets of the funds liquidate, which we expect to occur over the next eight years.   
  Venture capital funds invest in domestic and foreign companies in a variety of industries, including information technology, financial
services and healthcare. These investments can never be redeemed with the funds. Instead, we receive distributions as the underlying assets of the fund liquidate, which we expect to occur over the next five years.

216   

Note 17: Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities    (continued)       

Fair Value Option       We measure MHFS at fair value for prime MHFS originations for which an active secondary market and readily available market prices exist to reliably support fair value pricing models used for these loans.
Loan origination fees on these loans are recorded when earned, and related direct loan origination costs are recognized when incurred. We also measure at fair value certain of our other interests held related to residential loan sales and
securitizations. We believe fair value measurement for prime MHFS and other interests held, which we hedge with free-standing derivatives (economic hedges) along with our MSRs measured at fair value, reduces certain timing differences and better
matches changes in the value of these assets with changes in the value of derivatives used as economic hedges for these assets.      We elected to measure certain LHFS portfolios at fair value in conjunction with customer accommodation activities, to better align the measurement basis of the assets held with our management objectives
given the trading nature of these portfolios. In addition, we elected to measure at fair value certain letters of credit that are hedged with derivative instruments to better reflect the economics of the transactions.

These letters of credit are included in trading account assets or liabilities.      Loans that we measure at fair value consist predominantly of reverse mortgage loans previously transferred under a GNMA reverse mortgage securitization program accounted for as a secured borrowing. Before
the transfer, they were classified as MHFS measured at fair value and, as such, remain carried on our balance sheet under the fair value option.      Similarly, we may elect fair value option for the assets and liabilities of certain consolidated VIEs. This option is generally elected for newly consolidated VIEs for which predominantly all of our
interests, prior to consolidation, are carried at fair value with changes in fair value recorded to earnings. Accordingly, such an election allows us to continue fair value accounting through earnings for those interests and eliminate income
statement mismatch otherwise caused by differences in the measurement basis of the consolidated VIEs assets and liabilities.   
  The following table reflects the differences between fair value carrying amount of certain assets and liabilities for which we have
elected the fair value option and the contractual aggregate unpaid principal amount at maturity.   

(1)  
  The difference between fair value carrying amount and aggregate unpaid principal includes changes in fair value recorded at and subsequent to funding, gains and losses on the
related loan commitment prior to funding, and premiums on acquired loans.     

(2)  
  Represents collateralized, non-recourse debt securities issued by certain of our consolidated securitization VIEs that are held by third party investors. To the extent cash flows
from the underlying collateral are not sufficient to pay the unpaid principal amount of the debt, those third party investors absorb losses.     
         217   

The assets and liabilities accounted for under the fair value option are initially
measured at fair value. Gains and losses from initial measurement and subsequent changes in fair value are recognized in earnings. The changes in fair value related to

initial measurement and subsequent changes in fair value included in earnings for these assets and liabilities measured at fair value are shown, by income statement line item, below.

For performing loans, instrument-specific credit risk gains or losses were derived
principally by determining the change in fair value of the loans due to changes in the observable or implied credit spread. Credit spread is the market yield on the loans less the relevant risk-free benchmark interest rate. In recent years spreads
have been significantly affected by the lack of liquidity in the secondary market for mortgage loans. For nonperforming loans, we attribute all changes in fair value to instrument-specific credit risk. The following table shows the estimated gains
and losses from earnings attributable to instrument-specific credit risk related to assets accounted for under the fair value option.       

218   

Note 17: Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities    (continued)       

Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments    
  The table below is a summary of fair value estimates for financial instruments, excluding financial instruments recorded at fair value on a recurring
basis as they are included within the Assets and Liabilities Recorded at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis table included earlier in this Note. The carrying amounts in the following table are recorded in the balance sheet under the indicated captions.

We have not included assets and liabilities that are not financial instruments in our
disclosure, such as the value of the long-term relationships with our deposit, credit card and trust customers, amortized MSRs, premises and equipment, goodwill and other intangibles, deferred taxes and other liabilities. The total of the fair value
calculations presented does not represent, and should not be construed to represent, the underlying value of the Company.

(1)  
  Amounts consist of financial instruments in which carrying value approximates fair value.     

(2)  
  Balance reflects MHFS and LHFS, as applicable, other than those MHFS and LHFS for which election of the fair value option was made.     

(4)  
  The carrying amount and fair value exclude balances for which the fair value option was elected and obligations under capital leases of $12 million and $116 million at
December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.     

Loan commitments, standby letters of credit and commercial and similar letters of credit
are not included in the table above. A reasonable estimate of the fair value of these instruments is the carrying value of deferred fees plus the related allowance. This amounted to $586 million and $495 million at December 31, 2012
and 2011, respectively.   

219   

Note 18: Preferred Stock    

We are authorized to issue 20 million shares of preferred stock and 4 million shares of
preference stock, both without par value. Preferred shares outstanding rank senior to common shares both as to dividends and liquidation preference but have no general voting rights. We have not issued any preference shares under this authorization.
If issued, preference shares would be limited to one vote per share. Our total issued and outstanding

preferred stock includes Dividend Equalization Preferred (DEP) shares and Series I, J, K, L, N and O which are presented in the following two tables, and Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP)
Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, which is presented in the second table below and the table on the following page.

(1)  
  Preferred shares qualify as Tier 1 capital.     
         220   

Note 18: Preferred Stock    (continued)       

In August 2012, we issued 30 million Depositary Shares, each
representing a 1/1,000   th    interest in a share of the
Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series N, for an aggregate public offering price of $750 million.      In November 2012, we issued 26 million Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1,000   th    interest in a share of the Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series O, for an aggregate public
offering price of $650 million.      See Note 8 for additional information on our trust preferred securities. We do not have a
commitment to issue Series G or H preferred stock.   
 
    ESOP CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK  All shares of our ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred
Stock (ESOP Preferred Stock) were issued to a trustee acting on behalf of the Wells Fargo   Company 401(k) Plan (the 401(k) Plan). Dividends on the ESOP Preferred Stock are cumulative from the date of initial issuance and are payable
quarterly at annual rates based upon the year of issuance. Each share of ESOP Preferred Stock released from the unallocated reserve of the 401(k) Plan is converted into shares of our common stock based on the stated value of the ESOP Preferred Stock
and the then current market price of our common stock. The ESOP Preferred Stock is also convertible at the option of the holder at any time, unless previously redeemed. We have the option to redeem the ESOP Preferred Stock at any time, in whole or
in part, at a redemption price per share equal to the higher of (a) $1,000 per share plus accrued and unpaid dividends or (b) the fair market value, as defined in the Certificates of Designation for the ESOP Preferred Stock.

(2)  
  We recorded a corresponding charge to unearned ESOP shares in connection with the issuance of the ESOP Preferred Stock. The unearned ESOP shares are reduced as shares of the ESOP
Preferred Stock are committed to be released.     
         221   

Note 19: Common Stock and Stock Plans    

Common Stock       The following table presents our reserved, issued and authorized shares of common stock at December 31, 2012.       

(1)  
  Includes employee options, restricted shares and restricted share rights, 401(k), profit sharing and compensation deferral plans.     
  At December 31, 2012, we have warrants outstanding and exercisable to purchase 39,109,299 shares of our common stock with an
exercise price of $34.01 per share, expiring on October 28, 2018. We purchased 70,210 and 264,972 of these warrants in 2012 and 2011, respectively. These warrants were issued in connection with our participation in the TARP CPP.   
   Dividend Reinvestment and Common Stock Purchase Plans       Participants in our dividend reinvestment and common stock direct purchase plans may purchase shares of our common stock at fair market value by reinvesting dividends and/or making optional cash payments,
under the plan s terms.       Employee Stock Plans       We offer stock-based employee compensation plans as described below. For information on our accounting for stock-based compensation plans, see Note 1.   
   LONG-TERM INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLANS    
  Our Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan (LTICP) provides for awards of incentive and nonqualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted
shares, RSRs, performance share awards and stock awards without restrictions.      During 2012, 2011 and 2010 we granted RSRs and
performance shares as our primary long-term incentive awards instead of stock options. Holders of RSRs are entitled to the related shares of common stock at no cost generally over three to five years after the RSRs were granted. Holders of RSRs may
be entitled to receive additional RSRs (dividend equivalents) or cash payments

equal to the cash dividends that would have been paid had the RSRs been issued and outstanding shares of common stock. RSRs granted as dividend equivalents are subject to the same vesting
schedule and conditions as the underlying RSRs. RSRs generally continue to vest after retirement according to the original vesting schedule. Except in limited circumstances, RSRs are cancelled when employment ends.   
  Holders of each vested performance share are entitled to the related shares of common stock at no cost. Performance shares continue to
vest after retirement according to the original vesting schedule subject to satisfying the performance criteria and other vesting conditions.      Stock options must have an exercise price at or above fair market value (as defined in the plan) of the stock at the date of grant (except for substitute or replacement options granted in connection with
mergers or other acquisitions) and a term of no more than 10 years. Except for options granted in 2004 and 2005, which generally vested in full upon grant, options generally become exercisable over three years beginning on the first anniversary of
the date of grant. Except as otherwise permitted under the plan, if employment is ended for reasons other than retirement, permanent disability or death, the option exercise period is reduced or the options are cancelled.   
  Options granted prior to 2004 may include the right to acquire a  reload  stock option. If an option contains the reload
feature and if a participant pays all or part of the exercise price of the option with shares of stock purchased in the market or held by the participant for at least six months and, in either case, not used in a similar transaction in the last six
months, upon exercise of the option, the participant is granted a new option to purchase at the fair market value of the stock as of the date of the reload, the number of shares of stock equal to the sum of the number of shares used in payment of
the exercise price and a number of shares with respect to related statutory minimum withholding taxes. Reload grants are fully vested upon grant and are expensed immediately.      Compensation expense for RSRs and performance shares is based on the quoted market price of the related stock at the grant date. Stock option expense is based on the fair value of the awards at the date
of grant. The following table summarizes the major components of stock incentive compensation expense and the related recognized tax benefit.       

222   

Note 19: Common Stock and Stock Plans    (continued)       

For various acquisitions and mergers, we converted employee and director stock options of
acquired or merged companies into stock options to purchase our common stock based on the terms of the original stock option plan and the agreed-upon exchange ratio. In addition, we converted restricted stock awards into awards that entitle holders
to our stock after the vesting conditions are met. Holders receive cash dividends on outstanding awards if provided in the original award.      The total number of shares of common stock available for grant under the plans at December 31, 2012, was 173 million.   
    PARTNERSHARES    PLAN  In 1996, we adopted the  PartnerShares       Stock Option Plan, a broad-based employee stock option plan. It covered full- and part-time employees who generally were not included in the LTICP described
above. No options have been granted under the plan since 2002, and as a result of action taken by the Board of Directors on January 22, 2008, no future awards will be granted under the plan. All of our  PartnerShares  Plan grants were
fully vested as of December 31, 2007, and no options were outstanding as of December 31, 2012.       Director Awards    
  Under the LTICP, we grant common stock and options to purchase common stock to non-employee directors elected or re-elected at the annual meeting of
stockholders and prorated awards to directors who join the Board at any other time. The stock award vests immediately. Options granted to directors can be exercised after twelve months through the tenth anniversary of the grant date. Options granted
prior to 2005 may include the right to acquire a  reload  stock option.

Restricted Share Rights       A summary of the status of our RSRs and restricted share awards at December 31, 2012, and changes during 2012 is in the following table:   
   
    The weighted-average grant date fair value of RSRs granted during 2011 and 2010 was $31.02 and $27.29,
respectively.      At December 31, 2012, there was $671 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested
RSRs. The cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.9 years. The total fair value of RSRs that vested during 2012, 2011 and 2010 was $89 million, $41 million and $15 million, respectively.   
   Performance Share Awards       Holders of
performance share awards are entitled to the related shares of common stock at no cost subject to the Company s achievement of specified performance criteria over a three-year period ending December 31, 2013, June 30, 2013, and
December 31, 2012. Performance share awards are granted at a target number; based on the Company s performance, the number of awards that vest can be adjusted downward to zero and upward to a maximum of either 125% or 150% of target. The
awards vest in the quarter after the end of the performance period. For performance share awards whose performance period ended December 31, 2012, the determination of the awards that will vest will occur in the first quarter of 2013, after
review of the Company s performance by the Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors.      A summary of the status
of our performance awards at December 31, 2012, and changes during 2012 is in the following table, based on the target amount of awards:       
    The weighted-average grant date fair value of performance awards granted during 2011 and 2010 was
$31.26 and $27.46, respectively.      At December 31, 2012, there was $89 million of total unrecognized compensation cost
related to nonvested performance awards. The cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.8 years. As of December 31, 2012, no performance shares were vested.

223   

Stock Options       The table below summarizes stock option activity and related information for the stock plans. Options assumed in mergers are included in the activity and related information for Incentive

Compensation Plans if originally issued under an employee plan, and in the activity and related information for Director Awards if originally issued under a director plan.

As of December 31, 2012, there was no unrecognized compensation cost related to
stock options. The total intrinsic value of options exercised during 2012, 2011 and 2010 was $694 million, $246 million and $298 million, respectively.      Cash received from the exercise of stock options for 2012, 2011 and 2010 was $1.5 billion, $554 million and $687 million, respectively.   
  We do not have a specific policy on repurchasing shares to satisfy share option exercises. Rather, we have a general policy on
repurchasing shares to meet common stock issuance requirements for our benefit plans (including share option exercises), conversion of our convertible securities, acquisitions and other corporate purposes. Various factors determine the amount and
timing of our share repurchases, including our capital requirements, the number of shares we expect to issue for acquisitions and employee benefit plans, market conditions (including the trading price of our stock), and regulatory and legal
considerations. These factors can change at any time, and there can be no assurance as to the number of shares we will repurchase or when we will repurchase them.

The fair value of each option award granted on or after January 1, 2006, is
estimated using a Black-Scholes valuation model. The expected term of reload options granted is generally based on the midpoint between the valuation date and the contractual termination date of the original option. Our expected volatilities are
based on a combination of the historical volatility of our common stock and implied volatilities for traded options on our common stock. The risk-free rate is based on the U.S. Treasury zero-coupon yield curve in effect at the time of grant. Both
expected volatility and the risk-free rates are based on a period commensurate with our expected term. The expected dividend is based on a fixed dividend amount.

224   

Note 19: Common Stock and Stock Plans    (continued)       

The following table presents the weighted-average per share fair value of options granted
and the assumptions used, based on a Black-Scholes option valuation model. Substantially all of the options granted in the years shown resulted from the reload feature.   
   
     Employee Stock Ownership Plan       The Wells Fargo   Company 401(k) Plan (401(k) Plan) is a defined contribution plan with an Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP) feature. The ESOP feature enables the 401(k) Plan to borrow
money to purchase our preferred or common stock. From 1994 through 2012, with the exception of 2009, we loaned money to the 401(k) Plan to purchase shares of our ESOP preferred stock. As our employer contributions are made to the

401(k) Plan and are used by the 401(k) Plan to make ESOP loan payments, the ESOP preferred stock in the 401(k) Plan is released and converted into our common stock shares. Dividends on the common
stock shares allocated as a result of the release and conversion of the ESOP preferred stock reduce retained earnings and the shares are considered outstanding for computing earnings per share. Dividends on the unallocated ESOP preferred stock do
not reduce retained earnings, and the shares are not considered to be common stock equivalents for computing earnings per share. Loan principal and interest payments are made from our employer contributions to the 401(k) Plan, along with dividends
paid on the ESOP preferred stock. With each principal and interest payment, a portion of the ESOP preferred stock is released and converted to common stock shares, which are allocated to the 401(k) Plan participants and invested in the Wells Fargo
ESOP Fund within the 401(k) Plan.      The balance of common stock and unreleased preferred stock held in the Wells Fargo ESOP
Fund, the fair value of unreleased ESOP preferred stock and the dividends on allocated shares of common stock and unreleased ESOP preferred stock paid to the 401(k) Plan were:

Deferred Compensation Plan for Independent Sales Agents    
  WF Deferred Compensation Holdings, Inc. is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Parent formed solely to sponsor a deferred compensation plan for independent
sales agents who provide investment, financial and other qualifying services for or with respect to participating affiliates.

The Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan for Independent Contractors, which became
effective January 1, 2002, allows participants to defer all or part of their eligible compensation payable to them by a participating affiliate. The Parent has fully and unconditionally guaranteed the deferred compensation obligations of WF
Deferred Compensation Holdings, Inc. under the plan.   

225   

Note 20: Employee Benefits and Other Expenses    

Pension and Postretirement Plans       We sponsor a noncontributory qualified defined benefit retirement plan, the Wells Fargo   Company Cash Balance Plan (Cash Balance Plan), which covers eligible employees of Wells Fargo.
Benefits accrued under the Cash Balance Plan were frozen effective July 1, 2009.      Prior to July 1, 2009, eligible
employees  Cash Balance Plan accounts were allocated a compensation credit based on a percentage of their qualifying compensation. The compensation credit percentage was based on age and years of credited service. The freeze discontinues the
allocation of compensation credits after June 30, 2009. Investment credits continue to be allocated to participants based on their accumulated balances.      We did not make a contribution to our Cash Balance Plan in 2012. We do not expect that we will be required to make a contribution to the Cash Balance Plan in 2013; however, this is dependent on the
finalization of the actuarial valuation in 2013. Our decision of whether to make a contribution in 2013 will be

based on various factors including the actual investment performance of plan assets during 2013. Given these uncertainties, we cannot estimate at this time the amount, if any, that we will
contribute in 2013 to the Cash Balance Plan. For the nonqualified pension plans and postretirement benefit plans, there is no minimum required contribution beyond the amount needed to fund benefit payments; we may contribute more to our
postretirement benefit plans dependent on various factors.      We provide health care and life insurance benefits for certain
retired employees and reserve the right to terminate, modify or amend any of the benefits at any time.      The information set
forth in the following tables is based on current actuarial reports using the measurement date of December 31 for our pension and postretirement benefit plans.      The changes in the projected benefit obligation of pension benefits and the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation of other benefits and the fair value of plan assets, the funded status and the
amounts recognized in the balance sheet were:   

226   

Note 20: Employee Benefits and Other Expenses    (continued)       

The following table provides information for pension plans with benefit obligations in
excess of plan assets.   

The components of net
periodic benefit cost and other comprehensive income were:       
 
         227   

Amounts recognized in accumulated OCI (pre tax) consist of:   

The net actuarial loss for the defined benefit pension plans and other post retirement
plans that will be amortized from accumulated OCI into net periodic benefit cost in 2013 is $182 million. The net prior service credit for the defined benefit pension plans and other post retirement plans that will be amortized from accumulated
OCI into net periodic benefit cost in 2013 is $2 million.

Plan Assumptions       For the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, the weighted-average discount rate used to estimate the projected benefit obligation for pension benefits (qualified and nonqualified) was 4.00% and
5.00%, respectively, and for other postretirement benefits was 3.75% and 4.75%, respectively. For additional information on our pension accounting assumptions, see Note 1.

The weighted-average assumptions used
to determine the net periodic benefit cost were:       

(1)  
  Includes both qualified and nonqualified pension benefits.     

To account for postretirement health care plans we use health care cost trend rates to
recognize the effect of expected changes in future health care costs due to medical inflation, utilization changes, new technology, regulatory requirements and Medicare cost shifting. In determining the end of year benefit obligation we assume a
range of average annual increases of approximately 7.00% and 8.75%, dependent on plan type, for health care costs in 2013. These rates are assumed to trend down 0.25% per year until the trend rate reaches an ultimate rate of 5.00% in 2020
through 2028, dependent on plan type. The 2012 periodic benefit cost was determined using initial annual trend rates of 7.75%. These rates were assumed to decrease 0.25% per year until they reached ultimate rates of 5.00% in 2023. Increasing
the assumed health care trend by one percentage point in each year would increase the benefit obligation as of December 31, 2012, by $58 million and the total of the interest cost and service cost components of the net periodic benefit
cost for 2012 by $3 million. Decreasing the assumed health care trend by one percentage point in each year would decrease the benefit obligation as of December 31, 2012, by $52 million and the total of the interest cost and service
cost components of the net periodic benefit cost for 2012 by $2 million.

Investment Strategy and Asset Allocation       We seek to achieve the expected long-term rate of return with a prudent level of risk given the benefit obligations of the pension plans and their funded status. Our overall investment strategy is
designed to provide our Cash Balance Plan with a balance of long-term growth opportunities and short-term benefit strategies while ensuring that risk is mitigated through diversification across numerous asset classes and various investment
strategies. We target the asset allocation for our Cash Balance Plan at a target mix range of 35-55% equities, 35-55% fixed income, and approximately 10% in real estate, venture capital, private equity and other investments. The Employee Benefit
Review Committee (EBRC), which includes several members of senior management, formally reviews the investment risk and performance of our Cash Balance Plan on a quarterly basis. Annual Plan liability analysis and periodic asset/liability evaluations
are also conducted.      Other benefit plan assets include (1) assets held in a 401(h) trust, which are invested with a
target mix of 40-60% for both equities and fixed income, and (2) assets held in the Retiree Medical Plan Voluntary Employees  Beneficiary Association (VEBA) trust, which are invested with a general target asset mix of 20-40% equities and
60-80% fixed income. In addition, the strategy for the VEBA trust assets considers the effect of income taxes by utilizing a combination of variable annuity and low

228   

Note 20: Employee Benefits and Other Expenses    (continued)       

turnover investment strategies. Members of the EBRC formally review the investment risk and performance of these assets on a quarterly basis.   
   Projected Benefit Payments       Future
benefits that we expect to pay under the pension and other benefit plans are presented in the following table. Other benefits payments are expected to be reduced by prescription drug subsidies from the federal government provided by the Medicare
Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003.       

229   

Fair Value of Plan Assets       The following table presents the balances of pension plan assets and other benefit plan assets measured at fair value. See Note 17 for fair value hierarchy level definitions.

(1)  
  This category includes a diversified mix of assets which are being managed in accordance with a duration target of approximately 10 years and an emphasis on corporate credit
bonds combined with investments in U.S. Treasury securities and other U.S. agency and non-agency bonds.     

(2)  
  This category includes assets that are primarily intermediate duration, investment grade bonds held in investment strategies benchmarked to the Barclays Capital U.S. Aggregate
Bond Index. Includes U.S. Treasury securities, agency and non-agency asset-backed bonds and corporate bonds.     

(3)  
  This category covers a broad range of investment styles, both active and passive approaches, as well as style characteristics of value, core and growth emphasized strategies.
Assets in this category are currently diversified across eight unique investment strategies. For December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, approximately 24% and 34% of the assets within this category are passively managed to popular mainstream
market indexes including the Standard   Poor s 500 Index; excluding the allocation to the S P 500 Index strategy, no single investment manager represents more than 2.5% of total plan assets.     

(4)  
  This category consists of a highly diversified combination of four distinct investment management strategies with no single strategy representing more than 2% of total plan
assets. Allocations in this category are primarily spread across actively managed approaches with distinct value and growth emphasized approaches in fairly equal proportions.     

(5)  
  This category includes assets diversified across six unique investment strategies providing exposure to companies based primarily in developed market, non-U.S. countries with no
single strategy representing more than 2.5% of total plan assets.     

(6)  
  This category primarily includes investments in private and public real estate, as well as timber specific limited partnerships; real estate holdings are diversified by
geographic location and sector (e.g., retail, office, apartments).     

(7)  
  This category consists of several investment strategies diversified across more than 30 hedge fund managers. Single manager allocation exposure is limited to 0.15% (15 basis
points) of total plan assets.     
         230   

Note 20: Employee Benefits and Other Expenses    (continued)       
        The changes in Level 3 pension plan and other benefit plan assets measured at
fair value are summarized as follows:       

(1)  
  All unrealized gains (losses) relate to instruments held at period end.     

VALUATION METHODOLOGIES  Following is a description of the valuation methodologies used for assets
measured at fair value.      Cash and Cash Equivalents   includes investments in collective investment funds valued at fair value based upon
the quoted market values of the underlying net assets. The unit price is quoted on a private market that is not active; however, the unit price is based on underlying investments traded on an active market.   
  Long Duration, Intermediate (Core), High-Yield, and International Fixed Income   includes investments traded on the secondary markets; prices are
measured by using quoted market prices for similar securities, pricing models, and discounted cash flow analyses using significant inputs observable in the

market where available, or a combination of multiple valuation techniques. This group of assets also includes investments in registered investment companies valued at the NAV of shares held at
year end, highly liquid government securities such as U.S. Treasuries and collective investment funds described above.      Domestic,
International and Emerging Market Stocks   investments in exchange-traded equity securities are valued at quoted market values. This group of assets also includes investments in registered investment companies and collective investment funds
described above.   

231   

Real Estate and Timber   the fair value of real estate and timber is estimated based primarily on
appraisals prepared by third-party appraisers. Market values are estimates and the actual market price of the real estate can only be determined by negotiation between independent third parties in a sales transaction. This group of assets also
includes investments in exchange-traded equity securities described above.      Multi-Strategy Hedge Funds and Private Equity   the fair
values of hedge funds are valued based on the proportionate share of the underlying net assets of the investment funds that comprise the fund, based on valuations supplied by the underlying investment funds. Investments in private equity funds are
valued at the NAV provided by the fund sponsor. Market values are estimates and the actual market price of the investments can only be determined by negotiation between independent third parties in a sales transaction.   
  Other   the fair values of miscellaneous investments are valued at the NAV provided by the fund sponsor. Market values are estimates and the actual
market price of the investments can only be determined by negotiation between independent third parties in a sales transaction. This group of assets also includes insurance contracts that are generally stated at cash surrender value.   
  The methods described above may produce a fair value calculation that may not be indicative of net realizable value or reflective of
future fair values. While we believe our valuation methods are appropriate and consistent with other market participants, the use of different methodologies or assumptions to determine the fair value of certain financial instruments could result in
a different fair value measurement at the reporting date.       Defined Contribution Retirement Plans    
  We sponsor a defined contribution retirement plan named the Wells Fargo   Company 401(k) Plan (401(k) Plan). Under the 401(k) Plan,
after one month of service, eligible employees may contribute up to 50% of their certified compensation, although there may be a lower limit for certain highly compensated employees in order to maintain the qualified status of the 401(k) Plan.
Eligible employees who complete one year of service are eligible for company matching contributions, which are generally dollar for dollar up to 6% of an employee s eligible certified compensation. Effective January 1, 2010, previous and
future matching contributions are 100% vested for active participants.      In 2009, the 401(k) Plan was amended to permit us to
make discretionary profit sharing contributions. Based on 2012, 2011 and 2010 earnings, we committed to make a contribution in shares of common stock to eligible employees  401(k) Plan accounts equaling 2% of certified compensation for each
respective year, which resulted in recognizing $318 million, $311 million and $316 million of defined contribution retirement plan expense recorded in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Total defined contribution retirement plan expenses were
$1,143 million,

$1,104 million and $1,092 million in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   
   Other Expenses       Expenses exceeding 1% of
total interest income and noninterest income in any of the years presented that are not otherwise shown separately in the financial statements or Notes to Financial Statements were:   

232   

Note 21: Income Taxes    

The components of income tax expense were:   
   
    The tax effects of our temporary differences that gave rise to significant portions of our deferred tax
assets and liabilities are presented in the following table.       

(1)  
  Included in accrued expenses and other liabilities.        Deferred taxes related to net unrealized gains (losses) on securities available for sale, net unrealized gains (losses) on derivatives, foreign currency translation, and employee benefit plan adjustments
are recorded in cumulative OCI (see Note 23). These associated adjustments decreased OCI by $1.4 billion in 2012.      We have
determined that a valuation reserve is required for 2012 in the amount of $579 million predominantly attributable to

deferred tax assets in various state and foreign jurisdictions where we believe it is more likely than not that these deferred tax assets will not be realized. In these jurisdictions, carry back
limitations, lack of sources of taxable income, and tax planning strategy limitations contributed to our conclusion that the deferred tax assets would not be realizable. We have concluded that it is more likely than not that the remaining deferred
tax assets will be realized based on our history of earnings, sources of taxable income in carry back periods, and our ability to implement tax planning strategies.      At December 31, 2012, we had net operating loss and credit carry forwards with related deferred tax assets of $900 million and $158 million, respectively. If these carry forwards are not
utilized, they will expire in varying amounts through 2032.      At December 31, 2012, we had undistributed foreign earnings
of $1.3 billion related to foreign subsidiaries. We intend to reinvest these earnings indefinitely outside the U.S. and accordingly have not provided $367 million of income tax liability on these earnings.   
  The following table reconciles the statutory federal income tax expense and rate to the effective income tax expense and rate. Our
effective tax rate is calculated by dividing income tax expense by income before income tax expense less the net income from noncontrolling interests.

233   

The lower effective tax rates for 2012 and 2011, as compared to 2010, were primarily due
to the realization, for tax purposes, of tax benefits on previously written down investments. For 2012 this includes a tax benefit resulting from the surrender of previously written-down Wachovia life insurance investments. In addition, the 2011
effective tax rate was lower than the 2010 effective tax rate due to a decrease in tax expense associated with leveraged leases, as well as tax benefits related to charitable donations of appreciated securities.   
  The change in unrecognized tax benefits follows:       
    Of the $6.1 billion of unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2012, approximately $4.3 billion would,
if recognized, affect the effective tax rate. The remaining $1.8 billion of unrecognized tax benefits relates to income tax positions on temporary differences.      We recognize interest and penalties as a component of income tax expense. At December 31, 2012 and 2011, we have accrued approximately $1.0 billion and $871 million for the payment of interest
and penalties, respectively. We recognized in income tax expense in 2012 and 2011, interest and penalties of $92 million and $32 million, respectively.      We are subject to U.S. federal income tax as well as income tax in numerous state and foreign jurisdictions. We are routinely examined by tax authorities in these various jurisdictions. The IRS is
currently examining the 2007 through 2010 consolidated federal income tax returns of Wells Fargo   Company and its subsidiaries. In addition, we are currently subject to examination by various state, local and foreign taxing authorities. With
few exceptions, Wells Fargo and its

subsidiaries are not subject to federal, state, local and foreign income tax examinations for taxable years prior to 2007. Wachovia Corporation and its subsidiaries are no longer subject to
federal examination; with few exceptions, they remain subject to state, local and foreign income tax examinations for 2008.   
  We are also litigating or appealing various issues related to our prior IRS examinations for the periods 1999 and 2003 through 2006. On
December 1, 2011, we filed a Notice of Appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit relating to our lease restructuring transaction and that case is still pending. For Wachovia s 2003 through 2008 tax years, we are appealing
various issues related to their IRS examinations. We have paid the IRS the contested income tax associated with these issues and refund claims have been filed for the respective years. It is possible that one or more of these examinations, appeals
or litigation may be resolved within the next twelve months resulting in a decrease of up to $1.5 billion to our gross unrecognized tax benefits.

234   

Note 22: Earnings Per Common Share    

The table below shows earnings per common share and diluted earnings per common share and reconciles the
numerator and denominator of both earnings per common share calculations. See Note 1 for discussion of private share repurchases and the

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and Note 19 for information about stock and options activity and terms and conditions of warrants.

The following table presents the outstanding options and warrants to purchase shares of common stock that
were anti-dilutive (the exercise price was higher than the weighted-average market price), and therefore not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per common share.   

235   

Note 23: Other Comprehensive Income    
      The components of other comprehensive income
(OCI) and the related tax effects were:       
    Cumulative OCI balances were:       
 
         236   

Note 24: Operating Segments    

We have three operating segments for management reporting: Community Banking; Wholesale Banking; and
Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement. The results for these operating segments are based on our management accounting process, for which there is no comprehensive, authoritative guidance equivalent to GAAP for financial accounting. The management
accounting process measures the performance of the operating segments based on our management structure and is not necessarily comparable with similar information for other financial services companies. We define our operating segments by product
type and customer segment. If the management structure and/or the allocation process changes, allocations, transfers and assignments may change. In first quarter 2011, we realigned a private equity business into Wholesale Banking from Community
Banking. In first quarter 2012, we modified internal funds transfer rates and the allocation of funding. The prior periods have been revised to reflect these changes.       Community Banking  offers a complete line of diversified financial products and services to consumers and small businesses with annual sales generally up to $20 million in which the owner generally
is the financial decision maker. Community Banking also offers investment management and other services to retail customers and securities brokerage through affiliates. These products and services include the  Wells Fargo Advantage
Funds    SM   , a family of mutual funds. Loan products
include lines of credit, auto floor plan lines, equity lines and loans, equipment and transportation loans, education loans, origination and purchase of residential mortgage loans and servicing of mortgage loans and credit cards. Other credit
products and financial services available to small businesses and their owners include equipment leases, real estate and other commercial financing, Small Business Administration financing, venture capital financing, cash management, payroll
services, retirement plans, Health Savings Accounts, credit cards, and merchant payment processing. Community Banking also offers private label financing solutions for retail merchants across the United States and purchases retail installment
contracts from auto dealers in the United States and Puerto Rico. Consumer and business deposit products include checking accounts, savings deposits, market rate accounts, Individual Retirement Accounts, time deposits, global remittance and debit
cards.      Community Banking serves customers through a complete range of channels, including traditional banking stores,
in-store banking centers, business centers, ATMs, Online and Mobile Banking, and  Wells Fargo Customer Connection,  a 24-hours a day, seven days a week telephone service.

Wholesale Banking  provides financial solutions to businesses across the United
States with annual sales generally in excess of $20 million and to financial institutions globally. Wholesale Banking provides a complete line of commercial, corporate, capital markets, cash management and real estate banking products and services.
These include traditional commercial loans and lines of credit, letters of credit, asset-based lending, equipment leasing, international trade facilities, trade financing, collection services, foreign exchange services, treasury management,
investment management, institutional fixed-income sales, interest rate, commodity and equity risk management, online/electronic products such as the  Commercial Electronic Office       ( CEO      ) portal,
insurance, corporate trust fiduciary and agency services, and investment banking services. Wholesale Banking manages customer investments through institutional separate accounts and mutual funds, including the Wells Fargo Advantage Funds and
Wells Capital Management. Wholesale Banking also supports the CRE market with products and services such as construction loans for commercial and residential development, land acquisition and development loans, secured and unsecured lines of credit,
interim financing arrangements for completed structures, rehabilitation loans, affordable housing loans and letters of credit, permanent loans for securitization, CRE loan servicing and real estate and mortgage brokerage services.   
   Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement  provides a full range of financial advisory services to clients using a planning approach to
meet each client s needs. Wealth Management provides affluent and high net worth clients with a complete range of wealth management solutions, including financial planning, private banking, credit, investment management and trust. Abbot
Downing, a Wells Fargo business, provides comprehensive wealth management services to ultra high net worth families and individuals as well as their endowments and foundations. Brokerage serves customers  advisory, brokerage and financial needs
as part of one of the largest full-service brokerage firms in the United States. Retirement is a national leader in providing institutional retirement and trust services (including 401(k) and pension plan record keeping) for businesses, retail
retirement solutions for individuals, and reinsurance services for the life insurance industry.       Other  includes corporate items (such
as integration expenses related to the Wachovia merger) not specific to a business segment and elimination of certain items that are included in more than one business segment.

237   

(1)  
  Includes Wachovia integration expenses, through completion in the first quarter of 2012, and the elimination of items that are included in both Community Banking and Wealth,
Brokerage and Retirement, largely representing services and products for wealth management customers provided in Community Banking stores.     

(2)  
  Net interest income is the difference between interest earned on assets and the cost of liabilities to fund those assets. Interest earned includes actual interest earned on
segment assets and, if the segment has excess liabilities, interest credits for providing funding to other segments. The cost of liabilities includes interest expense on segment liabilities and, if the segment does not have enough liabilities to
fund its assets, a funding charge based on the cost of excess liabilities from another segment.     

(3)  
  Represents segment net income (loss) for Community Banking; Wholesale Banking; and Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement segments and Wells Fargo net income for the consolidated
company.     
         238   

Note 25: Parent-Only Financial Statements    

The following tables present Parent-only condensed financial statements.

Parent-Only Statement of Income

239   

Parent-Only Statement of Comprehensive Income   
 
         240   

Note 25: Parent-Only Financial Statements    (continued)       
        Parent-Only Statement of Cash Flows   
 
         241   

Note 26: Regulatory and Agency Capital Requirements    

The Company and each of its subsidiary banks are subject to regulatory capital adequacy requirements
promulgated by federal regulatory agencies. The Federal Reserve establishes capital requirements, including well capitalized standards, for the consolidated financial holding company, and the OCC has similar requirements for the Company s
national banks, including Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.      We do not consolidate our wholly-owned trust (the Trust) formed solely to
issue trust preferred and preferred purchase securities (the Securities). Securities issued by the Trust includable in Tier 1 capital were $4.8 billion at December 31, 2012. During 2012, we redeemed $2.7 billion of trust preferred
securities. Under applicable regulatory capital guidelines issued by bank regulatory agencies, upon notice of redemption, the redeemed trust preferred securities no longer qualify as Tier 1 Capital for the Company. This redemption is

consistent with the Capital Plan the Company submitted to the Federal Reserve Board and the actions the Company previously announced on March 13, 2012.   
  Certain subsidiaries of the Company are approved seller/servicers, and are therefore required to maintain minimum levels of
shareholders  equity, as specified by various agencies, including the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development, GNMA, FHLMC and FNMA. At December 31, 2012, each seller/servicer met these requirements. Certain broker-dealer
subsidiaries of the Company are subject to SEC Rule 15c3-1 (the Net Capital Rule), which requires that we maintain minimum levels of net capital, as defined. At December 31, 2012, each of these subsidiaries met these requirements.   
  The following table presents regulatory capital information for Wells Fargo   Company and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.

(1)  
  As defined by the regulations issued by the Federal Reserve, OCC and FDIC.     

(2)  
  The leverage ratio consists of Tier 1 capital divided by quarterly average total assets, excluding goodwill and certain other items. The minimum leverage ratio guideline is 3%
for banking organizations that do not anticipate significant growth and that have well-diversified risk, excellent asset quality, high liquidity, good earnings, effective management and monitoring of market risk and, in general, are considered
top-rated, strong banking organizations.     

(3)  
  Effective September 30, 2012, we refined our determination of the risk weighting of certain unused lending commitments that provide for the ability to issue standby letters
of credit and commitments to issue standby letters of credit under syndication arrangements where we have an obligation to issue in a lead agent or similar capacity beyond our contractual participation level.     
         242   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    
      The Board of Directors and Stockholders
     Wells Fargo   Company:   
  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of Wells Fargo   Company and Subsidiaries (the Company) as of
December 31, 2012 and 2011, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2012. These consolidated
financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits.      We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.   
  In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company
as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2012, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
     We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company s
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012, based on criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
(COSO), and our report dated February 27, 2013, expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting.   

243   

Quarterly Financial Data    
  Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income   Quarterly (Unaudited)   

(1)  
  Based on daily prices reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transaction Reporting System.     
         244   

Glossary of Acronyms    

ACL    
      
  Allowance for credit losses   
 
     ALCO    
      
  Asset/Liability Management Committee   
 
     ARM    
      
  Adjustable-rate mortgage   
 
     ARS    
      
  Auction rate security   
 
     ASC    
      
  Accounting Standards Codification   
 
     ASU    
      
  Accounting Standards Update   
 
     AVM    
      
  Automated valuation model   
 
     BCBS    
      
  Basel Committee on Bank Supervision   
 
     BHC    
      
  Bank holding company   
 
     CCAR    
      
  Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review   
 
     CD    
      
  Certificate of deposit   
 
     CDO    
      
  Collateralized debt obligation   
 
     CLO    
      
  Collateralized loan obligation   
 
     CLTV    
      
  Combined loan-to-value   
 
     CPP    
      
  Capital Purchase Program   
 
     CPR    
      
  Constant prepayment rate   
 
     CRE    
      
  Commercial real estate   
 
     DOJ    
      
  United States Department of Justice   
 
     DPD    
      
  Days past due   
 
     ESOP    
      
  Employee Stock Ownership Plan   
 
     FAS    
      
  Statement of Financial Accounting Standards   
 
     FASB    
      
  Financial Accounting Standards Board   
 
     FDIC    
      
  Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation   
 
     FFELP    
      
  Federal Family Education Loan Program   
 
     FHA    
      
  Federal Housing Administration   
 
     FHFA    
      
  Federal Housing Finance Agency   
 
     FHLB    
      
  Federal Home Loan Bank   
 
     FHLMC    
      
  Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation   
 
     FICO    
      
  Fair Isaac Corporation (credit rating)   
 
     FNMA    
      
  Federal National Mortgage Association   
 
     FRB    
      
  Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System   
 
     FSB    
      
  Financial Stability Board   
 
     FTC    
      
  Federal Trade Commission   
 
     GAAP    
      
  Generally accepted accounting principles   
 
     GNMA    
      
  Government National Mortgage Association   
 
     GSE    
      
  Government-sponsored entity   
 
     G-SIB    
      
  Globally systemic important bank    

HAMP    
      
  Home Affordability Modification Program   
 
     HPI    
      
  Home Price Index   
 
     HUD    
      
  Department of Housing and Urban Development   
 
     IFRS    
      
  International Financial Reporting Standards   
 
     LHFS    
      
  Loans held for sale   
 
     LIBOR    
      
  London Interbank Offered Rate   
 
     LIHTC    
      
  Low-Income Housing Tax Credit   
 
     LOCOM    
      
  Lower of cost or market value   
 
     LTV    
      
  Loan-to-value   
 
     MBS    
      
  Mortgage-backed security   
 
     MHA    
      
  Making Home Affordable programs   
 
     MHFS    
      
  Mortgages held for sale   
 
     MSR    
      
  Mortgage servicing right   
 
     MTN    
      
  Medium-term note   
 
     NAV    
      
  Net asset value   
 
     NPA    
      
  Nonperforming asset   
 
     OCC    
      
  Office of the Comptroller of the Currency   
 
     OCI    
      
  Other comprehensive income   
 
     OTC    
      
  Over-the-counter   
 
     OTTI    
      
  Other-than-temporary impairment   
 
     PCI Loans    
      
  Purchased credit-impaired loans   
 
     PTPP    
      
  Pre-tax pre-provision profit   
 
     RBC    
      
  Risk-based capital   
 
     ROA    
      
  Wells Fargo net income to average total assets   
 
     ROE    
      
  Wells Fargo net income applicable to common stock to average Wells Fargo common stockholders  equity   
 
     SEC    
      
  Securities and Exchange Commission   
 
     S P    
      
  Standard   Poor s   
 
     SPE    
      
  Special purpose entity   
 
     TARP    
      
  Troubled Asset Relief Program   
 
     TDR    
      
  Troubled debt restructuring   
 
     VA    
      
  Department of Veterans Affairs   
 
     VaR    
      
  Value-at-risk   
 
     VIE    
      
  Variable interest entity   
 
     WFCC    
      
  Wells Fargo Canada Corporation   

245   

</EX-13>

<EX-21>
 8
 d450230dex21.htm
 EX-21

EX-21 

EXHIBIT 21        SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT       The following is a list of the direct and indirect
subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2012:       

Subsidiary   
        
    Jurisdiction of  
  Incorporation or  
  Organization    

1005 Corp.   
        
  North Carolina   
 
    2007 Vento II, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    425 South Tryon Street, LLC   
        
  North Carolina   
 
    A. G. Edwards Technology Partners   
        
  Missouri   
 
    A.G. Edwards   Sons, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    A.G. Edwards Capital, Inc.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    A.G. Edwards Hedging Services, Inc.   
        
  Nevada   
 
    ACAS/WCM, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Accounting Services, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    ACO Brokerage Holdings Corporation   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Advanced Collateral Solutions, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    AGE Capital Holding, Inc.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    AILS, Inc.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Alano Funding, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Alces Funding, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Alternative Strategies Brokerage Services, Inc.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Alternative Strategies Group, Inc.   
        
  North Carolina   
 
    Alternative Strategies Managed Futures   Commodities Platform, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Alternative Strategies Offshore Platform, SPC   
        
  UK-Cayman Islands   
 
    Alternative Strategies Platform, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Alternative Strategies Private Equity Platform, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Alternative Strategies Real Estate Platform, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    American Capital/Wachovia CDO Investor Fund, L.P.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    American Securities Company   
        
  California   
 
    American Securities Company of Missouri   
        
  Missouri   
 
    American Securities Company of Nevada   
        
  Nevada   
 
    American Securities Company of Utah   
        
  Utah   
 
    Anchor 6 Offshore Fund Limited   
        
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Ao Cheng Ltd   
        
  British Virgin Islands   
 
    ASGI Agility Income Fund   
        
  Delaware   
 
    ASGI Aurora Opportunities Fund, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    ASGI Aurora Special Onshore Asset Holdings, Inc.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    ASGI Corbin Multi-Strategy Fund, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    ASGI Hedged Equities, Accredited, L.P.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    ASGI Hedged Equities, Super Accredited, L.P.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    ASGI Managed Futures Legends Fund, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    ASGI Multi-Strategy Fund II, Super Accredited, L.P.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    ASGI Multi-Strategy, Accredited, L.P.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    ASGI Multi-Strategy, Super Accredited, L.P.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    ASGI Private Equity Fund II, L.P.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    ASGI Private Equity Fund, L.P.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    ASGI Private Equity Partners 1999, L.P.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    ASGI Private Equity Partners 2001, L.P.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    ASGI Private Equity Partners QP 1999, L.P.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    ASGI Private Equity Partners QP 2001, L.P.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    ASGI Special Asset Holdings, Inc.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Asset Management Affiliates, Inc.   
        
  Wisconsin   
 
    ATC Realty Fifteen, Inc.   
        
  California    
         1   

EXHIBIT 21    
   SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT       The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2012:         

Subsidiary   
        
    Jurisdiction of  
  Incorporation or  
  Organization    

ATC Realty Nine, Inc.   
        
  California   
 
    ATC Realty One, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    ATC Realty Sixteen, Inc.   
        
  California   
 
    Atlas   OCI Enhanced Loan Income Fund LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Atlas Capital Funding, Ltd.   
        
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Atlas Loan Funding (CENT I), LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Atlas Loan Funding (Hartford), LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Atlas Loan Funding (Navigator), LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Atlas Loan Funding 2, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Augite Pte. Limited   
        
  Singapore   
 
    Augustus Ventures, L.L.C.   
        
  Nevada   
 
    Aurora GP Holding, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    AZ-#3644 Jackson, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Azalea Asset Management, Inc.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Bacon Housing L.P.   
        
  Virginia   
 
    Bankers Funding Company, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Bateman Eichler, Hill Richards Realty Co., Incorporated   
        
  California   
 
    Bellevue Property Holdings, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Bergamasco Funding, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Berkeley Teen Center Investment Fund, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    BFHDC Limited   
        
  UK-England   
 
    BGMCO PA, Inc.   
        
  Pennsylvania   
 
    Biscoe Finance, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Bitterroot Asset Management, Inc.   
        
  Cayman Islands   
 
    BluePoint Holdings Limited   
        
  Bermuda   
 
    Bowler Housing L.P.   
        
  Virginia   
 
    Britt/Paulk Insurance Agency, Inc.   
        
  Georgia   
 
    Brittlebush Financing, LLC   
        
  Nevada   
 
    Bryan, Pendleton, Swats   McAllister, LLC   
        
  Tennessee   
 
    BT Costa Rican Land, Sociedad De Responsabilidad Limitada   
        
  Costa Rica   
 
    Burdale Financial Limited   
        
  UK-England   
 
    Business Development Corporation of South Carolina   
        
  South Carolina   
 
    BW Properties Co. Limited   
        
  Korea   
 
    C   S Appraisal Services, LLC   
        
  Minnesota   
 
    California GP X, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Cardinal International Leasing, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Carlyle Energy Mezzanine Access   ASP Fund, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Carnation Asset Management, Inc.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Castle Pines Capital International LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Castle Pines Capital LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Cateavon Limited   
        
  Hong Kong   
 
    Cenizo Midstream, LLC   
        
  Texas   
 
    Central Fidelity Capital Trust I   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Centurion Casualty Company   
        
  Iowa   
 
    Centurion Funding, Inc.   
        
  California   
 
    Centurion Funding, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Centurion Life Insurance Company   
        
  Iowa   
 
    CGT Insurance Company Ltd.   
        
  Barbados   
 
    Charter Holdings, Inc.   
        
  Nevada   
 
    Chestnut Asset Management, Inc.   
        
  Delaware    
         2   

EXHIBIT 21    
   SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT       The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2012:         

Subsidiary   
        
    Jurisdiction of  
  Incorporation or  
  Organization    

ChinaVest Ltd.   
        
  Bermuda   
 
    City First Capital III, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    City First Capital V, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    City First Capital XI, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    City Place Buckhead, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    clearXchange, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    CMLB 2001, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    CNB Investment Trust I   
        
  Maryland   
 
    CNB Investment Trust II   
        
  Maryland   
 
    Collin Equities, Inc.   
        
  Texas   
 
    Colorado Mortgage Alliance, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    CoLTS LLC 2005-1   
        
  Delaware   
 
    CoLTS LLC 2005-2   
        
  Delaware   
 
    CoLTS LLC 2007-1   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Congress Financial Capital Corporation (Canada)   
        
  Canada-Ontario   
 
    Consortium America II, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    CoreStates Capital I   
        
  Delaware   
 
    CoreStates Capital II   
        
  Delaware   
 
    CoreStates Capital III   
        
  Delaware   
 
    CoreStates Holdings, Inc.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    CP Equity, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    CPC Global LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Crocker Properties, Inc.   
        
  California   
 
    CTB Realty Ventures XXI, Inc.   
        
  Connecticut   
 
    Danube Holdings I C.V.   
        
  Netherlands   
 
    Danube Holdings III C.V.   
        
  Netherlands   
 
    DE Capital Mortgage, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    DFG Holdings, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Dial Finance Company, Inc.   
        
  Nevada   
 
    Diversified Finance Investments, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    DNA Investment Holdings, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Early Warning Services, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Eastdil Secured Broker Services, Inc.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Eastdil Secured, L.L.C.   
        
  New York   
 
    ECM Asset Management Limited   
        
  UK-England   
 
    ECM Holdings Limited   
        
  UK-England   
 
    ECM Senior Secured Fund LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Edward Jones Mortgage, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    ELEW, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    EnerVest-Wachovia Co-Investment Partnership, L.P.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Epic Funding Corporation   
        
  California   
 
    Estates at Dunwoody Park GA, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    European Credit Fund SICAV II   
        
  Luxembourg   
 
    European Credit X S.a r.l.   
        
  Luxembourg   
 
    European Credit Y S.a r.l.   
        
  Luxembourg   
 
    EVEREN Capital Corporation   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Evergreen Alternative Capital, Inc.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Evergreen ECM Holdings B.V.   
        
  Netherlands    
         3   

EXHIBIT 21    
   SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT       The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2012:         

Subsidiary   
        
    Jurisdiction of  
  Incorporation or  
  Organization    

Evergreen Financing Company, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Evergreen Investment Management Trust   
        
  Delaware   
 
    EverKey Global Focus (GP), LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    EverKey Global Focus Master Fund, Ltd.   
        
  Bahamas   
 
    EverKey Global Fund, L.P.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    EverKey Global Management LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    EverKey Global Offshore Master Fund, Ltd.   
        
  Bahamas   
 
    EverKey Global Partners (GP), LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    EverKey Global Partners Limited   
        
  Bahamas   
 
    FA Recruiting Services, LLC   
        
  Texas   
 
    Falcon Asset Management, Inc.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Fannin County Equestrian Community, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    FCB/SC Capital Trust II   
        
  Delaware   
 
    FCC-PR, Inc   
        
  Puerto Rico   
 
    FFL Services Corporation   
        
  New Jersey   
 
    First Clearing, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    First Fidelity Urban Investment Corporation   
        
  New Jersey   
 
    First International Advisors, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    First National Properties, Inc.   
        
  South Carolina   
 
    First Penco Realty, Inc.   
        
  Pennsylvania   
 
    First Security Capital I   
        
  Delaware   
 
    First State Service Corporation   
        
  North Carolina   
 
    First Union Capital II   
        
  Delaware   
 
    First Union Community Development Corporation   
        
  Virginia   
 
    First Union Rail Corporation   
        
  North Carolina   
 
    Flagstone Apartment Property, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    FNL Insurance Company, Ltd   
        
  Hawaii   
 
    Forum Capital Markets, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Fullerton Towers Holdings, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    FUNC Holdings, Inc.   
        
  Florida   
 
    G.C. Leasing, Inc.   
        
  Virginia   
 
    G/WDC 541 N Fairbanks, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Galleria Developers Private Limited   
        
  India   
 
    Galliard Capital Management, Inc.   
        
  Minnesota   
 
    GC Finance 2010 LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    General Homes Corp.   
        
  Texas   
 
    Golden Capital Management, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Golden Funding Company   
        
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Golden West Savings Association Service Co.   
        
  California   
 
    Goldenrod Asset Management, Inc.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Greenfield Funding, LLC   
        
  Minnesota   
 
    GS Bridgeport I CDE, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    GS Private Equity Partners IX ASW Fund, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    HADBO Investments C.V.   
        
  Netherlands   
 
    Hanover/FUDC Master Limited Partnership   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Harrier Funding, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Haven for Hope Investment Fund, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Heritage Indemnity Company   
        
  California   
 
    Heritage Mechanical Breakdown Corporation   
        
  Delaware   
 
         4   

EXHIBIT 21    
   SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT       The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2012:         

Subsidiary   
        
    Jurisdiction of  
  Incorporation or  
  Organization    

HHC Mezzanine D, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Highland Glen, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Hokkaido Apartments LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Home Loan Experts, Inc.   
        
  California   
 
    Homeservices Lending, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Horizon Management Services, Inc.   
        
  Florida   
 
    Hyattsville Property Holdings, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Iapetus Funding, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    IBID, Inc.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    IntraWest Asset Management, Inc.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Island Finance Holding Company, LLC   
        
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Island Finance Puerto Rico, Inc.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Island Finance Sales Finance Corporation   
        
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Island Finance Sales Finance Trust   
        
  Puerto Rico   
 
    IWIC Insurance Company   
        
  Vermont   
 
    JC-Warren MI, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    JERSEY CENTER/FIDOREO, INC.   
        
  New Jersey   
 
    Jordan Investments GP   
        
  UK-Cayman Islands   
 
    Jordan Investments LP   
        
  UK-Cayman Islands   
 
    JPSD, Inc.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Kalorama Special Products Fund SPC, Ltd.   
        
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Killdeer Capital Company, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Komondor Funding, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Landfill Portfolio, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Landmark Equity Partners XIV ASP Fund, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    LG-354 Lewisville TX, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Lincoln Building Corporation   
        
  Colorado   
 
    Linear Financial, LP   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Lordship LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    MAA/NCF Sub-CDE, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Macom Dekalb IL, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Macro*World Research Corporation   
        
  North Carolina   
 
    Marigold International Limited   
        
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Marina Towers Melbourne, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Mastiff Funding, LP   
        
  Delaware   
 
    McCart Landing Conyers, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Meadowmont JV, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Meridian Venture Partners   
        
  Pennsylvania   
 
    Merlin Canada LTD.   
        
  Canada-Nova Scotia   
 
    Metropolitan West Capital Management, LLC   
        
  California   
 
    Mid-City Community CDE-Operating Fund, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Mid-Peninsula Capital, LLC   
        
  California   
 
    Milford Highlands PA, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Military Family Home Loans, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Monument Peak, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Monument Street Funding, Inc.   
        
  California   
 
    Monument Street Funding, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Monument Street Funding-II, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
         5   

EXHIBIT 21    
   SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT       The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2012:         

Subsidiary   
        
    Jurisdiction of  
  Incorporation or     Organization    

Monument Street Holding LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Morganite Pte. Ltd.   
        
  Singapore   
 
    Mortgage Services Professionals, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Mulberry Asset Management, Inc.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    MVP Distribution Partners   
        
  Pennsylvania   
 
    MW1-2002, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    NB Crossroads XVIII ASP Fund, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    NCT Exchange, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    NEC IX, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    NEC VIII, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Neckar Financial, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    NeighborCare Health Investment Fund, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Nelson Capital Management, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    New Markets Investment XIII, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    NFPS, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    North Hart Run, Inc.   
        
  Virginia   
 
    North Star Mortgage Guaranty Reinsurance Company   
        
  Vermont   
 
    Norwest Center, Inc.   
        
  Minnesota   
 
    Norwest Equity Capital, L.L.C.   
        
  Minnesota   
 
    Norwest Equity Partners IX, LP   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Norwest Equity Partners VI, LP   
        
  Minnesota   
 
    Norwest Equity Partners VII, LP   
        
  Minnesota   
 
    Norwest Equity Partners VIII, LP   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Norwest Financial Canada DE, Inc.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Norwest Financial Funding, Inc.   
        
  Nevada   
 
    Norwest Limited LP, LLLP   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Norwest Mezzanine Partners I, LP   
        
  Minnesota   
 
    Norwest Mezzanine Partners II, LP   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Norwest Mezzanine Partners III, LP   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Norwest Properties Holding Company   
        
  Minnesota   
 
    Norwest Venture Capital Management, Inc.   
        
  Minnesota   
 
    Norwest Venture Partners-Mauritius   
        
  Mauritius   
 
    Norwest Venture Partners Advisory-Mauritius   
        
  Mauritius   
 
    Norwest Venture Partners Advisory Hong Kong Limited   
        
  Hong Kong   
 
    Norwest Venture Partners FVCI Singapore Private Limited   
        
  Singapore   
 
    Norwest Venture Partners FVCI-Mauritius   
        
  Mauritius   
 
    Norwest Venture Partners IX, LP   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Norwest Venture Partners VI, LP   
        
  Minnesota   
 
    Norwest Venture Partners VI-A, LP   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Norwest Venture Partners VII, LP   
        
  Minnesota   
 
    Norwest Venture Partners VII-A Mauritius   
        
  Mauritius   
 
    Norwest Venture Partners VII-A, LP   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Norwest Venture Partners VIII, LP   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Norwest Venture Partners X-Mauritius   
        
  Mauritius   
 
    Norwest Venture Partners X FII-Mauritius   
        
  Mauritius   
 
    Norwest Venture Partners X, LP   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Norwest Venture Partners XI, LP   
        
  Delaware   
 
    NVP Associates, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    NVP Israel Ltd   
        
  Israel   
 
    NVP Rates, LLC   
        
  California   
 
         6   

EXHIBIT 21    
   SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT       The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2012:         

Subsidiary   
        
    Jurisdiction of  
  Incorporation or     Organization    

NVP Venture Capital India Private Limited   
        
  India   
 
    Oak Haven Senior Living, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Ocean View Holdco, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Old Swedish Bank Master Tenant, LLC   
        
  Minnesota   
 
    OmniPlus Capital Corporation   
        
  Tennessee   
 
    OmniServe of Alabama, L.L.C.   
        
  Alabama   
 
    Overland Advisors, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Overland GP LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Overland Relative Value Fund LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Overland Relative Value Fund Ltd.   
        
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Overland Relative Value Master Fund LP   
        
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Oxmoor Center, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Pal Office Holdings, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Palo Alto Partners, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Pamlico Capital II ASP Fund, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Pamlico Capital II, L.P.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Pamlico Capital Secondary Fund, L.P.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Partnership Investments S.a.r.l.   
        
  Luxembourg   
 
    Pebble Bay Developers Private Limited   
        
  India   
 
    Pelican Asset Management, Inc.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Peony Asset Management, Inc.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Peregrine Capital Management, Inc.   
        
  Minnesota   
 
    PFC Exchange, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    PFC Gas Liquids, LLC   
        
  Texas   
 
    Pheasant Asset Management, Inc.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    PHH Funding, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Philadelphia National Limitada   
        
  Brazil   
 
    Preferred Funding S.a.r.l.   
        
  Luxembourg   
 
    Preferred Investments S.a.r.l.   
        
  Luxembourg   
 
    Preferred Motor Sports Risk Purchasing Group, LLC   
        
  Minnesota   
 
    Premia Mortgage, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Premium Timberland Sales, Inc.   
        
  North Carolina   
 
    Prime Direct LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Prime Era Investments Limited   
        
  UK-Virgin Islands   
 
    Prime Valuation Services, LLC   
        
  Minnesota   
 
    Primrose Asset Management, Inc.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Private Mortgage Advisors, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    PRN Holdings, Inc.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Progress for People, LLC   
        
  Nebraska   
 
    Prometheus Investment, LLC   
        
  North Carolina   
 
    Prosperity Mortgage Company   
        
  Minnesota   
 
    Prudence Crandall Fund III, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Pumi Funding, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Quail Asset Management, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    QuestPoint L.P., Inc.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    R. B. C. Corporation   
        
  North Carolina   
 
    Railway Tenant, LLC   
        
  Maryland   
 
    RC Kenwood Fund Ltd.   
        
  Cayman Islands   
 
    RC Woodley Park, LP   
        
  Delaware   
 
         7   

EXHIBIT 21    
   SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT       The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2012:         

Subsidiary   
        
    Jurisdiction of  
  Incorporation or     Organization    

Real Sincere Group Limited   
        
  UK-Virgin Islands   
 
    REDUS AD, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS Alabama Commercial, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS Alabama, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS ALK, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS Arizona, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS Arlington Ridge FL Land, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS Arlington Ridge FL, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS Atlanta Club Homes, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS Atlanta Housing, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS Atlanta Subdivisions, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS Beach House Marina, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS Beau View Towers, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS Beauview Condos, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS Bundoran Farms, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS CA Properties, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS Calendar Mills, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS California, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS Campanile, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS Carlsbad LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS Charlotte Housing, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS Colorado, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS Dallas TX, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS DE, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS Delaware, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS EH, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS EL, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS Emerald Green, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS Fallschase Retail, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS Fallschase, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS Ferguson, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS FL Properties, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS Florida Commercial, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS Florida Condos, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS Florida Housing, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS Florida Land, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS FM, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS Frederica Club, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS Frederica, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS Georgia Commercial, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS Greensboro Subdivisions, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS Halifax Landing, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS Houston, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS IDS, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS Illinois, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS Imagine, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS Indiana, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS Kentucky, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
         8   

EXHIBIT 21    
   SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT       The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2012:         

Subsidiary   
        
    Jurisdiction of  
  Incorporation or     Organization    

REDUS Lake Wilson, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS Lee Branch, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS LH SC, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS LH, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS MA Commercial, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS MA Subdivisions, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS McCar Homes, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS MD Land, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS Mississippi Land, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS Mississippi, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS Missouri, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS Moorabelle, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS Nashville Housing, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS NC Coastal, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS NC Commercial, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS NC Land, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS NC-ALL, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS Nevada, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS New Hampshire, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS New Jersey, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS New York, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS NH Sewer Co, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS NH Water Co, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS NWP, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS Ocean Waters, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS Ohio, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS One Market, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS One, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS OR Land, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS PDG, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS Peninsula Millsboro, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS PG, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS Plaza Ocean Waters, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS Properties, Inc.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS Raleigh Housing, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS RG, LLC   
        
  South Carolina   
 
    REDUS Rhode Island, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS RSA Golf Club, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS SC Coastal, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS SC Housing, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS Seneca, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS SH ND, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS South Carolina, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS SVTC, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS Texas Land, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS TN-ALL, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS TRG II, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS TRG III, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
         9   

EXHIBIT 21    
   SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT       The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2012:         

Subsidiary   
        
    Jurisdiction of  
  Incorporation or     Organization    

REDUS TRG, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS Twin Lakes, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS TX Homes, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS TX Properties, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS VA Housing, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS Virginia Coastal, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS Virginia Commercial, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS Virginia Subdivisions, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS Wakefield, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS Washington, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    REDUS WLHP, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Reliable Finance Holding Company   
        
  Puerto Rico   
 
    Reliable Finance Holding Company, LLC   
        
  Nevada   
 
    Reliable Financial Services, Inc.   
        
  Puerto Rico   
 
    Reliable Insurance Services Corp.   
        
  Puerto Rico   
 
    RELS Management Company, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    RELS Title Services, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    RELS, L.L.C.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Renaissance Finance II, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    RES Direct, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Residential Home Mortgage Investment, L.L.C.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Rhine Investment Holdings, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Riggs Rental Exchange, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Rigil Funding, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Rim Power Center, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Rock Creek 1848 Fund L.P.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Rock Creek 1848 GP, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Rock Creek Austin Fund, L.P.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Rock Creek Austin GP, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Rock Creek Connecticut LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Rock Creek Emerging Markets Fund Offshore L.P.   
        
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Rock Creek Emerging Markets GP, Ltd.   
        
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Rock Creek Emerging Markets SPC, Ltd.   
        
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Rock Creek Empire Fund GP, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Rock Creek Empire Fund, L.P.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Rock Creek Fort Reno Series LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Rock Creek Fund (E) Ltd.   
        
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Rock Creek Georgetown Fund, Ltd.   
        
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Rock Creek GP Holdings, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Rock Creek Limestone Emerging Markets, L.P.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Rock Creek Limestone GP, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Rock Creek Mozarkite Emerging Markets Fund, L.P.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Rock Creek Mozarkite Emerging Markets GP, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Rock Creek Penn Quarter GP, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Rock Creek Penn Quarter, L.P.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Rock Creek Potomac Fund, Ltd.   
        
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Rock Creek Spring Valley Opportunities Onshore Fund GP, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Rock Creek Two Harbors Emerging Market Fund, Ltd.   
        
  Cayman Islands   
 
         10   

EXHIBIT 21    
   SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT       The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2012:         

Subsidiary   
        
    Jurisdiction of  
  Incorporation or     Organization    

Rock Creek Whitehaven Fund, Ltd.   
        
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Rock Creek Whitehurst EM Series LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Rock Creek Zilker Investment Fund GP, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Rocky River Project LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    RORI Property Holdings, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Ruby Asset Management Inc.   
        
  Maryland   
 
    Rural Community Insurance Agency, Inc.   
        
  Minnesota   
 
    Rural Community Insurance Company   
        
  Minnesota   
 
    RWF Mortgage Company   
        
  California   
 
    Ryder Exchange, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Sagebrush Asset Management, Inc.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Saguaro Asset Management, Inc.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Salvo Finance GP   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Savings Associations Financial Enterprises, Incorporated   
        
  District of Columbia   
 
    SC Realty, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    SCG Funding, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Seriford International Limited   
        
  UK-Virgin Islands   
 
    Shanghai Commercial Bank Limited   
        
  Hong Kong   
 
    Sierra Delaware Funding, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Siguler Guff BRIC Opportunities II ASW Fund, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Siguler Guff Distressed Real Estate ASP Fund, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Silver Asset Management, Inc.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Sirius Funding, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    SoCo Community Development Company, LLC   
        
  Alabama   
 
    Solid Bond Limited   
        
  UK-Virgin Islands   
 
    Solution Delivery, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Source One Liquidation, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    SouthTrust Community Reinvestment Company, LLC   
        
  Alabama   
 
    SouthTrust Mobile Services Funding Corporation   
        
  Alabama   
 
    Southwest Partners, Inc.   
        
  California   
 
    Sparta GP Holding REO Corp.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Sparta GP Holding, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Spring Cypress Water Supply Corporation   
        
  Texas   
 
    SR 70 Land Bradenton, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    SS South Loop, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    St. Joseph s Affordable Housing Limited Partnership   
        
  Pennsylvania   
 
    Stagecoach Wagon Wheel, Inc.   
        
  California   
 
    Sterling Bradenton, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    STRATS, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Structured Asset Investors, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Structured Credit Partners, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Structured Principal Strategies Holdings, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Structured Principal Strategies, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Summitt PELS Funding, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Superior Guaranty Insurance Company   
        
  Vermont   
 
    Sweetroot Funding, LLC   
        
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Synthetic Fixed-Income Securities, Inc.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    TAI Title Trust   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Taylor County Land GA, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    TAYLORR LAKES/FIDOREO, INC.   
        
  New Jersey   
 
         11   

EXHIBIT 21    
   SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT       The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2012:         

Subsidiary   
        
    Jurisdiction of  
  Incorporation or     Organization    

The Preserve Sevierville, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    The Ridges at Mountain Harbour, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    The Rock Creek Group, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    The Rock Creek Group, LP   
        
  Delaware   
 
    The Thirty-Eight Hundred Fund, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    The Westlake Group Limited   
        
  Turks   Caicos   
 
    Thirty-Eight Hundred Holdings, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Thirty-Eight Hundred Investments Limited   
        
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Tiberius Ventures, L.L.C.   
        
  Nevada   
 
    TMS Special Holdings, Inc.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    TMS Student Holdings, Inc.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Topaz Asset Management Inc.   
        
  Maryland   
 
    Trade School Finance LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Transportation Equipment Advisors, Inc.   
        
  Illinois   
 
    Triad Apartment Portfolio, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    TRSTE II, Inc.   
        
  Tennessee   
 
    TRSTE, Inc.   
        
  Virginia   
 
    Tryon Management, Inc.   
        
  North Carolina   
 
    TW Container Leasing Ltd.   
        
  Bermuda   
 
    Two APM Plaza, Inc.   
        
  Pennsylvania   
 
    Tyro Funding, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Union Commerce Title Company, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Union Hamilton Reinsurance, Ltd.   
        
  Bermuda   
 
    United Bancshares, Inc.   
        
  Pennsylvania   
 
    United Bank of Philadelphia   
        
  Pennsylvania   
 
    United California Bank Realty Corporation   
        
  California   
 
    Universal Master Servicing, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Valley Asset Management, Inc.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Valuation Information Technology, L.L.C.   
        
  Iowa   
 
    Vento WF, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Vermillion Huntersville, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Viewpointe, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Villages at Warner Ranch PUD, LP   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Violet Asset Management, Inc.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    W.C.A. Service Corporation, Inc.   
        
  California   
 
    Wachovia Asia Limited   
        
  Hong Kong   
 
    Wachovia Asset Securitization Issuance II, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Asset Securitization Issuance, LLC   
        
  North Carolina   
 
    Wachovia Capital Investments, Inc.   
        
  Georgia   
 
    Wachovia Capital Partners 2002, LLC   
        
  North Carolina   
 
    Wachovia Capital Partners 2003, LLC   
        
  North Carolina   
 
    Wachovia Capital Partners 2004, LLC   
        
  North Carolina   
 
    Wachovia Capital Partners 2005, LLC   
        
  North Carolina   
 
    Wachovia Capital Partners Secondary Fund I, L.P.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Capital Partners, Inc.   
        
  Virginia   
 
    Wachovia Capital Trust I   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Capital Trust II   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Capital Trust III   
        
  Delaware   
 
         12   

EXHIBIT 21    
   SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT       The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2012:         

Subsidiary   
        
    Jurisdiction of  
  Incorporation or     Organization    

Wachovia Capital Trust V   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Commercial Mortgage Loan Warehouse Corporation   
        
  North Carolina   
 
    Wachovia Community Development Corporation   
        
  North Carolina   
 
    Wachovia Community Development Enterprises I, LLC   
        
  North Carolina   
 
    Wachovia Community Development Enterprises II, LLC   
        
  North Carolina   
 
    Wachovia Community Development Enterprises III, LLC   
        
  North Carolina   
 
    Wachovia Community Development Enterprises IV, LLC   
        
  North Carolina   
 
    Wachovia Community Development Enterprises V, LLC   
        
  North Carolina   
 
    Wachovia Community Development Enterprises XIX, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Community Development Enterprises XVII, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Community Development Enterprises XVIII, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Community Development Enterprises XX, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Community Development Enterprises XXI, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Community Development Enterprises, LLC   
        
  North Carolina   
 
    Wachovia CRE CDO 2006-1 Carmel Sands Subsidiary, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia CRE CDO 2006-1 Investor LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia CRE CDO 2006-1 LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia CRE CDO 2006-1 Wagon Trails Subsidiary, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia CRE CDO 2006-1, Ltd.   
        
  UK-Cayman Islands   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance 3409 PRIMM III LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance 601 Valley III LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance Alta Mira Shopping Center LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance BACM 2001-PB1 III LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance BACM 2001-PB1 LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance BACM 2002-2 LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance BACM 2003-1 LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance BOA-FUNB 2001-3 CAC V-CRIT Portfolio LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance BOA-FUNB 2001-3 III LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance BOA-FUNB 2001-3 LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance BSCM 2006-TOP22 III LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 1999-C1 II LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 1999-C1 III LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 1999-WF2 III LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 1999-WF2 LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 2001-TOP2 III LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 2001-TOP4 III LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 2002-PBW1 III LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 2002-PBW1 LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 2002-TOP6 III LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 2002-TOP8 III LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 2003-PWR2 III LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 2003-TOP10 III LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 2003-Top10 LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 2003-TOP12 III LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 2003-Top12 LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 2004-PWR3 III LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 2004-PWR3 LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
         13   

EXHIBIT 21    
   SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT       The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2012:         

14   

EXHIBIT 21    
   SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT       The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2012:         

15   

EXHIBIT 21    
   SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT       The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2012:         

16   

EXHIBIT 21    
   SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT       The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2012:         

17   

EXHIBIT 21    
   SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT       The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2012:         

18   

EXHIBIT 21    
   SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT       The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2012:         

19   

EXHIBIT 21    
   SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT       The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2012:         

Subsidiary   
        
    Jurisdiction of  
  Incorporation or  
  Organization    

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2005-C5 III LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2005-C7 III LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2005-C7 VR Bayou LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2006-C1 III LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2006-C3 III LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2006-C7 III LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2007-C2 III LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2008-C1 III LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance Management-KeyCorp LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance Management-Midland LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance Management II LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance Management III LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance Management LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance Management-KeyCorp III LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance Management-Midland III LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance MCF 1998-MC3 LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance ML-CFC 2006-4 III LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance ML-CFC 2007-7 III LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance MLMI 1998-C2 II LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance MLMI 1998-C2 III LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance MLMI 1998-C2 LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance MLMI 1998-C3 LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance MLMI 2002-MW1 III LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance MLMI 2002-MW1 LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance MLMI 2005-CKI1 III LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance MLMI 2005-CKI1 LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance MLMI 2005-MCP1 LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance MLMI 2005-MCP1 PVA III LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance MLMI 2005-MKB2 LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance MLMI 2006-1 III LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance MLMI 2006-2 III LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance MLMI 2006-C2 III LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance MLMI 2007-5 III LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance MLMT 2004-MKB1 LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance MLMT 2006-C1 III LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 1998-CF1 LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 1998-HF2 LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 1998-WF2 LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 1999-FNVI LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 1999-LIFE1 LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 1999-RM1 LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 1999-WF1 III LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 1999-WF1 LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 2003-IQ4 LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 2003-IQ5 LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 2003-IQ6 III LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 2003-IQ6 LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 2003-TOP11 III LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
         20   

EXHIBIT 21    
   SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT       The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2012:         

21   

EXHIBIT 21    
   SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT       The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2012:         

22   

EXHIBIT 21    
   SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT       The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2012:         

Subsidiary   
        
    Jurisdiction of  
  Incorporation or  
  Organization    

Wachovia Development Corporation   
        
  North Carolina   
 
    Wachovia Education Loan Funding LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Fixed Income Structured Trading Solutions, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia International Capital Corporation   
        
  Georgia   
 
    Wachovia Investors, Inc.   
        
  North Carolina   
 
    Wachovia Mortgage Loan Trust, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Netherlands Holdings, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Ocean View Member, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Operational Services, LLC   
        
  North Carolina   
 
    Wachovia Preferred Funding Corp.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Preferred Funding Holding Corp.   
        
  California   
 
    Wachovia Preferred Realty, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Private Capital, Inc.   
        
  Pennsylvania   
 
    Wachovia Re, Inc.   
        
  Vermont   
 
    Wachovia Real Estate Investment Corp.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Real Estate Korea, Inc.   
        
  Korea   
 
    Wachovia Residual Interest Securitization, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Securities (Uruguay) S.A.   
        
  Uruguay   
 
    Wachovia Securities Financial Holdings, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Securities Servicos e Participacoes (Brasil) LTDA   
        
  Brazil   
 
    Wachovia Service Corporation   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Settlement Services of AL, LLC   
        
  Alabama   
 
    Wachovia Settlement Services, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Student Loan Trust 2005-1   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Student Loan Trust 2006-1   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wachovia Technology Planning   Solutions Private Limited   
        
  India   
 
    Wachovia Trade Finance Corporation   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Warranty Solutions Administrative Services, Inc.   
        
  Florida   
 
    Warranty Solutions Management Corporation   
        
  California   
 
    Waterside Villages, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    WBI Holdings I, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    WBI Holdings II, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    WBI Holdings III, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    WBI Holdings IV, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    WBI Holdings V, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    WBI Holdings VI, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    WCI OREO, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    WCP Compression Holdings, LLC   
        
  North Carolina   
 
    WCP Compression, LLC   
        
  North Carolina   
 
    WCP Holdings 2002, LLC   
        
  North Carolina   
 
    WCP Secondary Fund I GP, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    WDC 541 N Fairbanks Member, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    WDC Triad Member I, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    WDC Triad Parent, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    WDC Union Station, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    WDC Ventures Ltd.   
        
  Mauritius   
 
    WDS Holdings, Inc.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wealth Enhancement Advisory Services, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
         23   

EXHIBIT 21    
   SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT       The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2012:         

Subsidiary   
        
    Jurisdiction of  
  Incorporation or  
  Organization    

Wealth Enhancement Brokerage Services, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wealth Enhancement Group, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    WEG Holdings, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    WELF Holding LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Capital Management Incorporated   
        
  California   
 
    Wells Fargo Advisors (Argentina) LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Advisors (Chile) LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Advisors (Montevideo) Usuaria de Zona Franca S.A.   
        
  Uruguay   
 
    Wells Fargo Advisors Financial Network, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Advisors Insurance Agency of Puerto Rico, Inc.   
        
  Puerto Rico   
 
    Wells Fargo Advisors Insurance Agency, LLC   
        
  Virginia   
 
    Wells Fargo Advisors, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Affordable Housing Community Development Corporation   
        
  North Carolina   
 
    Wells Fargo Affordable Housing Corp.   
        
  North Carolina   
 
    Wells Fargo Aircraft S.a r.l.   
        
  Luxembourg   
 
    Wells Fargo Asia Limited   
        
  Hong Kong   
 
    Wells Fargo Asset Management Corporation   
        
  Minnesota   
 
    Wells Fargo Asset Securities Corporation   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Auto Receivables, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Bank International   
        
  Ireland   
 
    Wells Fargo Bank Northwest, National Association   
        
  United States   
 
    Wells Fargo Bank South Central, National Association   
        
  United States   
 
    Wells Fargo Bank, Ltd.   
        
  California   
 
    Wells Fargo Bank, National Association   
        
  United States   
 
    Wells Fargo Business Credit Canada ULC   
        
  Canada-Alberta   
 
    Wells Fargo Canada Corporation   
        
  Canada-Nova Scotia   
 
    Wells Fargo Capital Finance Corporation Canada   
        
  Canada-Ontario   
 
    Wells Fargo Capital Finance, Inc.   
        
  California   
 
    Wells Fargo Capital Finance, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Capital Holdings, Inc.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Capital II   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Capital IV   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Capital IX   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Capital VII   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Capital VIII   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Capital X   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Capital XI   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Capital XII   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Cedar Creek LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Central Pacific Holdings, Inc.   
        
  California   
 
    Wells Fargo CM Funding, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Commercial Mortgage   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Commercial Mortgage Securities, Inc.   
        
  North Carolina   
 
    Wells Fargo Commodities, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
         24   

EXHIBIT 21    
   SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT       The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2012:         

Subsidiary   
        
    Jurisdiction of  
  Incorporation or  
  Organization    

Wells Fargo Community Development Corporation   
        
  Nevada   
 
    Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprise Round 8 Subsidiary 7, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprise Round 8 Subsidiary 8, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprise Round 8 Subsidiary 9, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprise Round 9 Subsidiary 1, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprise Round 9 Subsidiary 10P, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprise Round 9 Subsidiary 2, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprise Round 9 Subsidiary 3, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprise Round 9 Subsidiary 4, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprise Round 9 Subsidiary 5, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprise Round 9 Subsidiary 6, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprise Round 9 Subsidiary 7, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprise Round 9 Subsidiary 8, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprise Round 9 Subsidiary 9, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprises Round 6 Sub 10, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprises Round 6 Sub 8, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprises Round 6 Sub 9, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprises Round 7 Sub 1, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprises Round 7 Sub 3, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprises Round 7 Sub 4, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprises Round 7 Sub 5, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprises Round 7 Sub 6, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprises Round 7 Sub 7, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprises Subsidiary 1, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprises Subsidiary 2, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprises Subsidiary 3, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprises Subsidiary 4, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprises Subsidiary 5, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprises Subsidiary 6, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprises Subsidiary 7, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprises, Inc.   
        
  Nevada   
 
    Wells Fargo Community Investment Holdings, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Container Corp. Ltd.   
        
  Bermuda   
 
    Wells Fargo Credit Card Funding LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Credit Card Master Note Trust   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Credit, Inc.   
        
  Minnesota   
 
    Wells Fargo Delaware Trust Company, National Association   
        
  United States   
 
    Wells Fargo Distribution Finance, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Energy Capital, Inc.   
        
  Texas   
 
    Wells Fargo Equipment Finance Company   
        
  Canada-Nova Scotia   
 
    Wells Fargo Equipment Finance, Inc.   
        
  Minnesota   
 
    Wells Fargo Equity Capital, Inc.   
        
  California   
 
    Wells Fargo Escrow Company, LLC   
        
  Iowa   
 
    Wells Fargo Exchange Services, Inc.   
        
  North Carolina   
 
    Wells Fargo Exchange Services, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Fairway Member, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial Acceptance America, Inc.   
        
  Pennsylvania   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial Acceptance, LLC   
        
  Minnesota   
 
         25   

EXHIBIT 21    
   SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT       The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2012:         

Subsidiary   
        
    Jurisdiction of  
  Incorporation or  
  Organization    

Wells Fargo Financial Alabama, Inc.   
        
  Alabama   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial Alaska, Inc.   
        
  Alaska   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial America, Inc.   
        
  Pennsylvania   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial Arizona, Inc.   
        
  Arizona   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial Arkansas, Inc.   
        
  Arkansas   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial California, Inc.   
        
  Colorado   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial Colorado, Inc.   
        
  Colorado   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial Connecticut, Inc.   
        
  Connecticut   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial Corporation Canada   
        
  Canada-Nova Scotia   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial Credit Services New York, Inc.   
        
  New York   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial Delaware, Inc.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial Florida, Inc.   
        
  Florida   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial Funding B.V.   
        
  Netherlands   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial Georgia, Inc.   
        
  Iowa   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial Guam, Inc.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial Hawaii, Inc.   
        
  Hawaii   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial Holdings, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial Idaho, Inc.   
        
  Idaho   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial Illinois, Inc.   
        
  Iowa   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial Indiana, Inc.   
        
  Indiana   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial Iowa 1, Inc.   
        
  Iowa   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial Iowa 3, Inc.   
        
  Iowa   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial Kansas, Inc.   
        
  Kansas   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial Kentucky 1, Inc.   
        
  Kentucky   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial Kentucky, Inc.   
        
  Kentucky   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial Leasing, Inc.   
        
  Iowa   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial Louisiana, Inc.   
        
  Louisiana   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial Maine, Inc.   
        
  Maine   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial Maryland, Inc.   
        
  Maryland   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial Massachusetts 1, Inc.   
        
  Massachusetts   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial Massachusetts, Inc.   
        
  Massachusetts   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial Michigan, Inc.   
        
  Michigan   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial Minnesota, Inc.   
        
  Minnesota   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial Missouri, Inc.   
        
  Missouri   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial Montana, Inc.   
        
  Montana   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial National Bank   
        
  United States   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial Nebraska, Inc.   
        
  Nebraska   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial Nevada 2, Inc.   
        
  Nevada   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial Nevada, Inc.   
        
  Nevada   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial New Hampshire 1, Inc.   
        
  New Hampshire   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial New Hampshire, Inc.   
        
  New Hampshire   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial New Jersey, Inc.   
        
  New Jersey   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial New Mexico, Inc.   
        
  New Mexico   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial New York, Inc.   
        
  New York   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial North Carolina 1, Inc.   
        
  North Carolina   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial North Carolina, Inc.   
        
  North Carolina   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial North Dakota, Inc.   
        
  North Dakota   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial Ohio 1, Inc.   
        
  New Hampshire   
 
         26   

EXHIBIT 21    
   SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT       The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2012:         

Subsidiary   
        
    Jurisdiction of  
  Incorporation or  
  Organization    

Wells Fargo Financial Ohio, Inc.   
        
  Ohio   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial Oklahoma, Inc.   
        
  Oklahoma   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial Oregon, Inc.   
        
  Oregon   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial Pennsylvania, Inc.   
        
  Pennsylvania   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial Retail Credit, Inc.   
        
  Iowa   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial Retail Services Company Canada   
        
  Canada-Nova Scotia   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial Rhode Island, Inc.   
        
  Rhode Island   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial Services, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial South Carolina, Inc.   
        
  South Carolina   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial South Dakota, Inc.   
        
  South Dakota   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial System Florida, Inc.   
        
  Florida   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial System Virginia, Inc.   
        
  Virginia   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial Tennessee 1, LLC   
        
  Tennessee   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial Tennessee, Inc.   
        
  Tennessee   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial Texas, Inc.   
        
  Texas   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial Utah, Inc.   
        
  Utah   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial Vermont, Inc.   
        
  Vermont   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial Virginia, Inc.   
        
  Virginia   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial Washington 1, Inc.   
        
  Washington   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial Washington, Inc.   
        
  Washington   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial West Virginia, Inc.   
        
  West Virginia   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial Wisconsin, Inc.   
        
  Wisconsin   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial Wyoming, Inc.   
        
  Wyoming   
 
    Wells Fargo Financial, LLC   
        
  Iowa   
 
    Wells Fargo Financing Corporation   
        
  California   
 
    Wells Fargo Foothill Canada ULC   
        
  Canada-Alberta   
 
    Wells Fargo Fund Services, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Funding, Inc.   
        
  Minnesota   
 
    Wells Fargo Funds Distributor, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Funds Management, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Gaming Capital, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Global Broker Network, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Global Fund Services (Asia) Pte Ltd.   
        
  Singapore   
 
    Wells Fargo Global Fund Services (Ireland) Limited   
        
  Ireland   
 
    Wells Fargo Global Fund Services (Jersey) Limited   
        
  Jersey   
 
    Wells Fargo Global Fund Services (UK) Limited   
        
  UK-England   
 
    Wells Fargo Global Fund Services Holdings LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Global Fund Services LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Home Mortgage Real Estate Funding 1, Inc.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Housing Advisors, Inc.   
        
  California   
 
    Wells Fargo India Solutions Private Limited   
        
  India   
 
    Wells Fargo Institutional Securities, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Insurance Montana, Inc.   
        
  Montana   
 
    Wells Fargo Insurance Services of West Virginia, Inc.   
        
  West Virginia   
 
    Wells Fargo Insurance Services USA, Inc.   
        
  North Carolina   
 
    Wells Fargo Insurance, Inc.   
        
  Minnesota   
 
    Wells Fargo International B.V.   
        
  Netherlands   
 
    Wells Fargo International Banking Corporation   
        
  United States   
 
         27   

EXHIBIT 21    
   SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT       The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2012:         

Subsidiary   
        
    Jurisdiction of  
  Incorporation or  
  Organization    

Wells Fargo International Commercial Services Limited   
        
  Hong Kong   
 
    Wells Fargo International Holdings (Luxembourg) S.a r.l.   
        
  Luxembourg   
 
    Wells Fargo International Inc.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo International Services Private Limited   
        
  India   
 
    Wells Fargo Investment Group, Inc.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Merchant Services, L.L.C.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Mortgage Loan Trust II, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Mortgage Loan Trust, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Municipal Capital Strategies, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Philippines Solutions Inc.   
        
  Philippines   
 
    Wells Fargo Prime Services, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Principal Investments, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Principal Lending, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Private Client Funding, Inc.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Properties, Inc.   
        
  Minnesota   
 
    Wells Fargo Real Estate Advisors Private Limited   
        
  India   
 
    Wells Fargo Real Estate Capital Investments, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Real Estate Tax Services, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Regional Community Development Corporation, Inc.   
        
  Pennsylvania   
 
    Wells Fargo Relative Value Portfolio   
        
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Wells Fargo Risk Services, Inc.   
        
  Virginia   
 
    Wells Fargo Securities (Japan) Co., Ltd.   
        
  Japan   
 
    Wells Fargo Securities Asia Limited   
        
  Hong Kong   
 
    Wells Fargo Securities International Limited   
        
  UK-England   
 
    Wells Fargo Securities, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Small Business Investment Company, Inc.   
        
  California   
 
    Wells Fargo Soporte Global Limitada   
        
  Chile   
 
    Wells Fargo Special Risks, Inc.   
        
  Illinois   
 
    Wells Fargo Structured Lending, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Student Loans Receivables I, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Trade Capital Services, Inc.   
        
  New York   
 
    Wells Fargo Trust Corporation Limited   
        
  UK-England   
 
    Wells Fargo Ventures, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Fargo Wealth Brokerage Insurance Agency, LLC   
        
  Virginia   
 
    Wells Fargo Wind Holdings LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    WestFin Insurance Agency, Inc.   
        
  California   
 
    Westlake Insurance Company (Bermuda), Ltd.   
        
  Bermuda   
 
    Westwood Vistas GP, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    WF Deferred Compensation Holdings, Inc.   
        
  Delaware   
 
    WF Investment Holdings, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    WF PCCP Co-Invest LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    WF Penta Wind, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    WFC Holdings Corporation   
        
  Delaware   
 
    WFLC Subsidiary, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Wheat First Butcher Singer Private Equity Fund, Limited Partnership   
        
  Virginia   
 
    Wheels Exchange, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Whippet Funding, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    WIBC Aruba N.V.   
        
  Aruba   
 
         28   

EXHIBIT 21    
   SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT       The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2012:         

Subsidiary   
        
    Jurisdiction of  
  Incorporation or  
  Organization    

WIH CDO, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    WIH Holdings   
        
  Mauritius   
 
    William Byrd Hotel Associates, L.P.   
        
  Virginia   
 
    Winchester REO, LLC   
        
  North Carolina   
 
    Wind Joint Venture LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    WLH 2008-1, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    World Mortgage Company   
        
  Colorado   
 
    World Savings, Inc.   
        
  California   
 
    WPFC Asset Funding LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    WREK Retail I, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    WS Aftermarket Services Corporation   
        
  Delaware   
 
    WSH Holdings, LTD   
        
  UK-Cayman Islands   
 
    WTC Property Holdings, LLC   
        
  Delaware   
 
    Zilker Investment Fund, LP   
        
  Delaware   
 
         29   

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 9
 d450230dex23.htm
 EX-23

EX-23 

Exhibit 23        Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm       The Board of Directors
     Wells Fargo   Company:       

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statements noted below on Forms S-3, S-4 and S-8 of Wells Fargo   Company of our reports dated
February 27, 2013, with respect to the consolidated balance sheet of Wells Fargo   Company and Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in
equity and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2012 and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012, which reports appear in the December 31, 2012
Annual Report on Form 10-K of Wells Fargo   Company.   

</EX-23>

<EX-24>
 10
 d450230dex24.htm
 EX-24

EX-24 

Exhibit 24       WELLS FARGO   COMPANY      Power of Attorney of Director   
  KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned director of WELLS FARGO   COMPANY, a Delaware corporation, does hereby
make, constitute, and appoint NICHOLAS G. MOORE, a director and Chairman of the Audit and Examination Committee of the Board of Directors, and ENRIQUE HERNANDEZ, JR., a director and member of the Audit and Examination Committee of the Board of
Directors, and each or either of them, the undersigned s true and lawful attorneys-in-fact, with power of substitution, for the undersigned and in the undersigned s name, place, and stead, to sign and affix the undersigned s name as
such director of said Company to an Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012, and all amendments thereto, to be filed by said Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C. under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and the rules and regulations of said Commission, and to file the same, with all exhibits thereto and other supporting documents, with said Commission, granting unto said attorneys-in-fact, and each of them, full
power and authority to do and perform any and all acts necessary or incidental to the performance and execution of the powers herein expressly granted.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this power of attorney this 26th day of February, 2013.       

/s/ JOHN D. BAKER II  
      
  /s/ NICHOLAS G. MOORE   
 
  /s/ ELAINE L. CHAO  
      
  /s/ FEDERICO F. PE A   
 
  /s/ JOHN S. CHEN  
      
  /s/ PHILIP J. QUIGLEY   
 
  /s/ LLOYD H. DEAN  
      
  /s/ HOWARD V. RICHARDSON   
 
  /s/ SUSAN E. ENGEL  
      
  /s/ JUDITH M. RUNSTAD   
 
  /s/ ENRIQUE HERNANDEZ, JR.  
      
  /s/ STEPHEN W. SANGER   
 
  /s/ DONALD M. JAMES  
      
  /s/ JOHN G. STUMPF   
 
  /s/ CYNTHIA H. MILLIGAN  

</EX-24>

<EX-31.(A)>
 11
 d450230dex31a.htm
 EX-31.(A)

EX-31.(a) 

Exhibit 31(a)         CERTIFICATION        I, John G. Stumpf, certify that:   

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:     

(a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;     

(b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;     

(c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

(d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

(a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

(b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.        Date: February 27, 2013    

/s/ JOHN G. STUMPF   

John G. Stumpf  
  Chief Executive Officer   

</EX-31.(A)>

<EX-31.(B)>
 12
 d450230dex31b.htm
 EX-31.(B)

EX-31.(b) 

Exhibit 31(b)         CERTIFICATION        I, Timothy J. Sloan, certify that:   

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:     

(a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;     

(b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;     

(c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

(d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

(a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

(b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.        Date: February 27, 2013   

/s/ TIMOTHY J. SLOAN   

Timothy J. Sloan  
  Chief Financial Officer   

</EX-31.(B)>

<EX-32.(A)>
 13
 d450230dex32a.htm
 EX-32.(A)

EX-32.(a) 

Exhibit 32(a)        CERTIFICATIONS PURSUANT TO        18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,    
   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO        SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       In connection with the
Annual Report on Form 10-K of Wells Fargo   Company (the  Company ) for the year ended December 31, 2012, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, John G. Stumpf,
Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  1350, as adopted pursuant to  906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:       

(1)  
  The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and     

(2)  
  The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.

/s/ JOHN G. STUMPF   

John G. Stumpf  

Chief Executive Officer  

Wells Fargo   Company  

February 27, 2013  

</EX-32.(A)>

<EX-32.(B)>
 14
 d450230dex32b.htm
 EX-32.(B)

EX-32.(b) 

Exhibit 32(b)        CERTIFICATIONS PURSUANT TO        18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,    
   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO        SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       In connection with the
Annual Report on Form 10-K of Wells Fargo   Company (the  Company ) for the year ended December 31, 2012, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Timothy J. Sloan,
Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  1350, as adopted pursuant to  906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:       

(1)  
  The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and     

(2)  
  The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.

/s/ TIMOTHY J. SLOAN   

Timothy J. Sloan  

Chief Financial Officer  

Wells Fargo   Company  

February 27, 2013  

</EX-32.(B)>

<EX-99>
 15
 d450230dex99.htm
 EX-99

EX-99 

Exhibit 99        Description of Replacement Capital Covenants of        Wells Fargo  
Company and Wachovia Corporation       (1) On December 5, 2006, Wells Fargo Capital X issued 5.95% Capital Securities (the Capital
Securities) and used the proceeds to purchase from the Parent 5.95% Capital Efficient Notes (the Notes) due 2086 (scheduled maturity 2036). When it issued the Notes, the Parent entered into a Replacement Capital Covenant (the Covenant) in which it
agreed for the benefit of the holders of the Parent s 5.625% Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2034 that it will not repay, redeem or repurchase, and that none of its subsidiaries will purchase, any part of the Notes or the Capital Securities
on or before December 1, 2066, unless the repayment, redemption or repurchase is made from the net cash proceeds of the issuance of certain qualified securities and pursuant to the other terms and conditions set forth in the Covenant. For more
information, refer to the Covenant, which was filed as Exhibit 99.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 5, 2006.      (2) On March 12, 2008, Wells Fargo Capital XII issued 7.875% Enhanced Trust Preferred Securities (Enhanced TRUPS     ) (the 2008 Capital Securities) and used the proceeds to purchase from the Parent 7.875% Junior Subordinated Deferrable Interest Debentures due 2068 (the 2008 Notes).
When it issued the 2008 Notes, the Parent entered into a Replacement Capital Covenant (the 2008 Covenant) in which it agreed for the benefit of the holders of the Parent s 5.375% Notes due 2035 that it will not repay, redeem or repurchase, and
that none of its subsidiaries will purchase, any part of the 2008 Notes or the 2008 Capital Securities on or before March 15, 2048, unless the repayment, redemption or repurchase is made from the net cash proceeds of the issuance of certain
qualified securities and pursuant to the other terms and conditions set forth in the 2008 Covenant. For more information, refer to the 2008 Covenant, which was filed as Exhibit 99.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
March 12, 2008.      (3) On February 1, 2006, Wachovia Capital Trust III issued 5.80% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Wachovia Income Trust
Securities (the Wachovia Trust Securities) and used the proceeds to purchase from Wachovia Remarketable Junior Subordinated Notes due 2042 (the Wachovia Notes). In connection with the issuance of the Wachovia Trust Securities, the Trust and Wachovia
entered into a forward stock purchase contract that obligated the Trust to purchase Wachovia s Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series I (the Series I Preferred Stock) and obligated Wachovia to make payments to the
Trust of 0.60% per annum through the stock purchase date, March 15, 2011 (the Series I Stock Purchase Date). Prior to the Series I Stock Purchase Date, the Trust was required to remarket and sell the Wachovia Notes to third party investors
to generate cash proceeds to satisfy its obligation to purchase the Series I Preferred Stock. When it issued the Wachovia Notes, Wachovia entered into a Declaration of Covenant (the Wachovia Covenant) in which it agreed for the benefit of the
holders of Wachovia s Floating Rate Junior Subordinated deferrable Interest Debentures due January 15, 2027 that it will repurchase the Wachovia Trust Securities or redeem or repurchase shares of the Series I Preferred Stock only if and to
the extent that the total redemption or repurchase price is equal to or less than the net cash proceeds of the issuance of certain qualified securities as described in the Wachovia Covenant. In connection with the Wachovia acquisition, the Parent
assumed all of Wachovia s obligations under the Wachovia Covenant. For more information, refer to the Wachovia Covenant, which was filed as Exhibit 99.1 to Wachovia s Current Report on Form 8-K filed February 1, 2006.   

</EX-99>

<EX-101.INS>
 16
 wfc-20121231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 17
 wfc-20121231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 18
 wfc-20121231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 19
 wfc-20121231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 20
 wfc-20121231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 21
 wfc-20121231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

