<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20140225_10-K_edgar_data_1163165_0001193125-14-066358_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>33137447</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>477430</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>8435581</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>8695255</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>10331589</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>4231191</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>153</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>15</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-14-066358.hdr.sgml : 20140225
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20140225100942
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-14-066358
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		16
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20131231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20140225
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20140225

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			CONOCOPHILLIPS
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001163165
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	PETROLEUM REFINING [2911]
		IRS NUMBER:				010562944
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-32395
		FILM NUMBER:		14639141

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		CONOCOPHILLIPS
		STREET 2:		600 NORTH DAIRY ASHFORD ROAD
		CITY:			HOUSTON
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			77079
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2812931000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		CONOCOPHILLIPS
		STREET 2:		600 NORTH DAIRY ASHFORD ROAD
		CITY:			HOUSTON
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			77079

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	CORVETTEPORSCHE CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	20011204

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001193125-14-066358.txt : 20140225

10-K
 1
 d665238d10k.htm
 10-K

10-K 

Table of Contents  

    2013        
       
  UNITED STATES   
  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      Washington, D.C. 20549       Form 10-K    
       
      Commission file number:  001-32395    
   ConocoPhillips        (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)        

Delaware   
     
   01-0562944    
 
   (State or other jurisdiction of   
     
   (I.R.S. Employer    
 
   incorporation or organization)   
     
   Identification No.)    
     600 North Dairy Ashford        Houston, TX 77079        (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)
      Registrant s telephone number, including area code:  281-293-1000    
  Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:   

Title of each class    
     
     Name of each exchange   
               on which
registered                 

Common Stock, $.01 Par Value   
     
  New York Stock Exchange   
 
    6.65% Debentures due July 15, 2018   
     
  New York Stock Exchange   
 
    7% Debentures due 2029   
     
  New York Stock Exchange   
    Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None   
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.   
  [x] Yes  [  ] No      Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.   
  [  ] Yes  [x] No      Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. [x] Yes  [  ] No      Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule
405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).      [x] Yes  [  ] No      Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of the registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or
any amendment to this Form 10-K. [  ]      Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated
filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.   
  Large accelerated filer [x]    Accelerated filer [  ]    Non-accelerated filer
[  ]    Smaller reporting company [  ]      Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell
company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). [ ] Yes [x] No      The aggregate market value of common stock held by non-affiliates of the
registrant on June 30, 2013, the last business day of the registrant s most recently completed second fiscal quarter, based on the closing price on that date of $60.50, was $74.0 billion.   
  The registrant had 1,226,104,592 shares of common stock outstanding at January 31, 2014.   
   Documents incorporated by reference:       Portions of the Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May 13, 2014 (Part III)       

Table of Contents  

      TABLE OF CONTENTS    

Item   

Page  

PART I    

1 and 2.   
      
   Business and Properties   

1  

Corporate Structure    

1  

Segment and Geographic Information    

2  

Alaska    

4  

Lower 48 and Latin America    

7  

Canada    

11  

Europe    

13  

Asia Pacific and Middle East    

16  

Other International    

22  

Competition    

25  

General    

25  

1A.   
      
   Risk Factors   

27  

1B.   
      
   Unresolved Staff Comments   

29  

3.   
      
   Legal Proceedings   

29  

4.   
      
   Mine Safety Disclosures   

30  

Executive Officers of the Registrant   

31  

PART II    

5.   
      
     Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
 Securities    

33  

6.   
      
   Selected Financial Data   

34  

7.   
      
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations    

35  

7A.   
      
   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   

72  

8.   
      
   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   

75  

9.   
      
     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure    

172  

9A.   
      
   Controls and Procedures   

172  

9B.   
      
   Other Information   

172  

PART III    

10.   
      
     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance    

173  

11.   
      
   Executive Compensation   

173  

12.   
      
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters    

173  

13.   
      
   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence   

173  

14.   
      
   Principal Accounting Fees and Services   

173  

PART IV    

15.   
      
     Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules    

174  

Signatures   

181  

Table of Contents  

      PART I    
  Unless otherwise indicated,  the company,   we,   our,   us  and  ConocoPhillips  are used in this
report to refer to the businesses of ConocoPhillips and its consolidated subsidiaries. Items 1 and 2 Business and Properties, contain forward-looking statements including, without limitation, statements relating to our plans, strategies,
objectives, expectations and intentions that are made pursuant to the  safe harbor  provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words  anticipate,   estimate,   believe, 
 budget,   continue,   could,   intend,   may,   plan,   potential,   predict,   seek,   should,   will,   would, 
 expect,   objective,   projection,   forecast,   goal,   guidance,   outlook,   effort,   target  and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements.
The company does not undertake to update, revise or correct any forward-looking information unless required to do so under the federal securities laws. Readers are cautioned that such forward-looking statements should be read in conjunction with the
company s disclosures under the heading  CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR THE PURPOSES OF THE  SAFE HARBOR  PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995,  beginning on page 71.   
     Items 1 and 2. BUSINESS AND PROPERTIES          CORPORATE STRUCTURE       ConocoPhillips is the world s largest
independent exploration and production (E P) company, based on proved reserves and production of liquids and natural gas. ConocoPhillips was incorporated in the state of Delaware on November 16, 2001, in connection with, and in anticipation
of, the merger between Conoco Inc. and Phillips Petroleum Company. The merger between Conoco and Phillips was consummated on August 30, 2002.      On April 30, 2012, we completed the separation of our downstream businesses into an independent, publicly traded company, Phillips 66. Our refining, marketing and transportation businesses, most of
our Midstream segment, our Chemicals segment, as well as our power generation and certain technology operations included in our Emerging Businesses segment (collectively, our  Downstream business ), were transferred to Phillips 66. As a
part of our asset disposition program, in the fourth quarter of 2013, we completed the sale of our interest in the North Caspian Sea Production Sharing Agreement (Kashagan) and the sale of our Algeria business, and we have agreements to sell our
Nigeria business. Results of operations related to Phillips 66, Kashagan, Algeria and Nigeria have been classified as discontinued operations in all periods presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For additional information, see Note
3 Discontinued Operations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.      Headquartered in Houston, Texas, we have operations and
activities in 27 countries. Our key focus areas include safely operating producing assets, executing major developments and exploring for new resources in promising areas. Our portfolio includes resource-rich North American shale and oil sands
assets; lower-risk legacy assets in North America, Europe, Asia and Australia; several major international developments; and a growing inventory of global conventional and unconventional exploration prospects.   
  At December 31, 2013, ConocoPhillips employed approximately 18,400 people worldwide.   
         1   

Table of Contents  

      SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION    
  For operating segment and geographic information, see Note 25 Segment Disclosures and Related Information, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, which is incorporated herein by reference.      We explore for, produce, transport and market crude oil, bitumen, natural gas,
liquefied natural gas (LNG) and natural gas liquids on a worldwide basis. At December 31, 2013, our continuing operations were producing in the United States, Norway, the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, Timor-Leste, Indonesia, China,
Malaysia, Qatar, Libya and Russia.      We manage our operations through six operating segments, which are defined by geographic region: Alaska,
Lower 48 and Latin America, Canada, Europe, Asia Pacific and Middle East, and Other International.      The information listed below appears in
the  Oil and Gas Operations  disclosures following the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and is incorporated herein by reference:       

Proved worldwide crude oil, natural gas liquids, natural gas and bitumen reserves.      

Net production of crude oil, natural gas liquids, natural gas and bitumen.      

Average sales prices of crude oil, natural gas liquids, natural gas and bitumen.      

Average production costs per barrel of oil equivalent (BOE).      

Net wells completed, wells in progress and productive wells.      

Developed and undeveloped acreage.         The following table is a summary of the proved reserves information included in the  Oil and Gas Operations  disclosures following the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Approximately
83 percent of our proved reserves are located in politically stable countries that belong to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. Natural gas reserves are converted to BOE based on a 6:1 ratio: six thousand cubic feet of
natural gas converts to one BOE. See Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a discussion of factors that will enhance the understanding of the following summary reserves table.   
         2   

Table of Contents  

Total production from continuing operations, including our share of equity affiliates, for 2013 averaged
1,502 thousand barrels of oil equivalent per day (MBOED), a 2 percent decrease compared with 1,527 MBOED in 2012. The decrease was mainly due to normal field decline, asset dispositions, shut-in Libya production, due to the closure of the
Es Sider crude oil export terminal, and higher unplanned downtime. These decreases were partially offset by new production from major developments, mainly from shale plays in the Lower 48, the ramp-up of production from new phases at Christina Lake
in Canada, and early production in Malaysia; higher production in China; and increased conventional drilling and well performance, mostly in the Lower 48, western Canada and Norway. Adjusted for dispositions, downtime and the impact from the closure
of the Es Sider Terminal in Libya, production grew by 30 MBOED, or 2 percent, compared with 2012.      Our total realized price from continuing
operations remained relatively flat in 2013, from $67.68 per BOE in 2012, compared with $67.62 per BOE in 2013. Our worldwide annual average crude oil sales price from continuing operations decreased 2 percent in 2013, from $105.72 per barrel in
2012 to $103.32 per barrel in 2013. Additionally, our worldwide average annual natural gas liquids prices from continuing operations decreased 11 percent, from $46.36 per barrel in 2012 to $41.42 per barrel in 2013. Our average annual worldwide
natural gas sales price from continuing operations increased 11 percent, from $5.48 per thousand cubic feet in 2012 to $6.11 per thousand cubic feet in 2013. Average annual bitumen prices decreased 1 percent, from $53.91 per barrel in 2012 to
$53.27 per barrel in 2013.   
         3   

Table of Contents  

     ALASKA      The Alaska segment primarily explores for, produces, transports and markets crude oil, natural gas liquids, natural gas and LNG. We are the largest crude oil and natural gas producer in Alaska and have
major ownership interests in two of North America s largest oil fields located on Alaska s North Slope: Prudhoe Bay and Kuparuk. We also have a significant operating interest in the Alpine Field, located on the Western North Slope.
Additionally, we are one of Alaska s largest owners of state and federal exploration leases, with approximately 0.9 million net undeveloped acres at year-end 2013. Approximately 0.5 million of these acres are located in the National
Petroleum Reserve Alaska (NPRA) and 0.3 million are located in the Chukchi Sea. In 2013, Alaska operations contributed 23 percent of our worldwide liquids production and 1 percent of our natural gas production.   
   
     * Thousands of barrels per day.        ** Millions of cubic feet per day.         Greater Prudhoe Area     
  The Greater Prudhoe Area includes the Prudhoe Bay Field and five satellite fields, as well as the Greater Point McIntyre Area fields. Prudhoe Bay, the
largest oil field on Alaska s North Slope, is the site of a large waterflood and enhanced oil recovery operation, as well as a gas processing plant which processes natural gas for reinjection into the reservoir. Prudhoe Bay s satellites
are Aurora, Borealis, Polaris, Midnight Sun and Orion, while the Point McIntyre, Niakuk, Raven and Lisburne fields are part of the Greater Point McIntyre Area.        Greater Kuparuk Area        We operate the Greater Kuparuk Area, which consists of the
Kuparuk Field and four satellite fields: Tarn, Tabasco, Meltwater and West Sak. Kuparuk is located 40 miles west of Prudhoe Bay. Field installations include three central production facilities which separate oil, natural gas and water, as well as a
separate seawater treatment plant. New rotary-drilled wells and sidetracks from existing well bores utilizing coiled-tubing drilling are the primary means for development drilling at Kuparuk.      The successful Shark Tooth delineation well extended the known Kuparuk accumulation to the southwestern area of the Kuparuk Field. As a result, plans for the future development of Drill Site 2S are
progressing, with project sanction targeted for late 2014 and first production estimated in late 2015.        Western North Slope
       On the Western North Slope, we operate the Colville River Unit, which includes the Alpine Field and three satellite fields: Nanuq,
Fiord and Qannik. Alpine is located 34 miles west of Kuparuk. Construction is progressing on Alpine West CD5, a drill site to access the western extension of the Alpine reservoir, in the NPRA. Initial production is anticipated in late 2015, with net
peak production estimated at 10 MBOED in 2016.      The Greater Mooses Tooth Unit, the first unit established entirely within the NPRA, was formed
in 2008. We are progressing development planning for the Greater Mooses Tooth #1 (GMT1) drill site in the Greater Mooses Tooth Unit. We filed permitting applications for GMT1 in July 2013, and project sanction is targeted for late 2014. GMT1 is
planned to be connected by road to the CD5 drill site, and production will be   
         4   

Table of Contents  

transported by pipeline to the existing Alpine facilities for processing. Construction is estimated to begin in 2016, with first production anticipated in late 2017. We are evaluating further
exploration and development potential in the NPRA.        Cook Inlet Area        We operate the North Cook Inlet Unit, the Beluga River Unit, and the Kenai LNG Facility in the Cook Inlet Area. We have a 100 percent interest in the North Cook Inlet Unit and the Kenai LNG Facility,
while we own 33.3 percent of the Beluga River Unit. Both units produce natural gas, and our share of production is currently sold to local utilities.      The Kenai LNG Facility includes a 1.3 million-tons-per-year capacity plant, which historically manufactured LNG for sale to utility companies in Japan, as well as docking and loading facilities,
which enable the LNG to be transported by tanker. Although our LNG export license expired in March 2013, the plant is operational and in stand-by mode, maintaining the flexibility to resume limited operations. Due to a change in market conditions,
including additional gas supplies, we submitted applications in December 2013 to the U.S. Department of Energy to resume LNG exports from the Kenai LNG Facility.        Point Thomson        We own a 5 percent interest in the Point Thomson Unit, which is
located approximately 60 miles east of Prudhoe Bay. An initial production system is anticipated to be online by 2016, which is estimated to send 400 net BOED of condensate through the Trans-Alaska Pipeline System (TAPS).   
    More Alaska Production Act (MAPA)     
  Following the April 2013 enactment of revised oil tax legislation, MAPA, we have increased our exploration and development investments and activities on
the North Slope by adding rigs and progressing new development opportunities. We will continue to work with co-owners to identify additional opportunities to increase our investments in Alaska.   
    Alaska LNG (AKLNG)        During 2012,
we, along with affiliates of Exxon Mobil Corporation, BP p.l.c. and TransCanada Corporation (collectively, the  AKLNG co-venturers ), began evaluating a potential LNG project which would export and liquefy natural gas from Alaska s
North Slope and deliver it to market. The AKLNG Project concept is an integrated LNG project consisting of a liquefaction plant, including marine terminal facilities and auxiliary marine vessels, located in south-central Alaska; a natural gas
treatment plant, located on the North Slope; and an estimated 800-mile natural gas pipeline, which would connect the two plants.      In October
2013, the AKLNG co-venturers selected the Nikiski area on the Kenai Peninsula as the lead site for the proposed AKLNG natural gas liquefaction plant and terminal. On January 14, 2014, the AKLNG co-venturers, the Commissioners of the Alaska
Departments of Revenue and Natural Resources, and the Alaska Gasline Development Corporation, a state-owned corporation, signed a Heads of Agreement (HOA) for the AKLNG Project. The HOA provides a roadmap of how the parties intend to progress the
project, including proposed terms for participation by the State of Alaska as an equity owner, proposed fiscal and regulatory terms, and proposed terms for expansion of project components. One of the initial steps in the HOA is enactment of general
legislation by the State of Alaska, as well as further commercial agreements, which would be subject to approval by the Alaska legislature. Significant engineering, technical, regulatory, fiscal, commercial and permitting issues would need to be
resolved prior to a final investment decision on the potential 17 million-tons-per-year, $45 billion to $65 billion (gross) project. Following the enabling legislation, we anticipate commencing preliminary front-end engineering and development,
currently estimated in the second quarter of 2014.   
         5   

Table of Contents  

     Exploration        In April 2013, we suspended our plans to drill an exploration well in the Chukchi Sea in 2014, in light of the uncertainties of evolving federal regulatory requirements and operational permitting
standards. Once these requirements are clarified and better defined, we will re-evaluate plans for drilling in the Chukchi Sea.      In 2013, we
drilled and flow-tested a new discovery at the Cassin prospect, located in the Bear Tooth Unit in the northeast NPRA, and we also tested the Moraine play on the western flank of the Kuparuk Field. The results for both wells are currently under
evaluation. Additionally, we plan to drill two exploration wells within the Greater Mooses Tooth Unit in 2014: the Rendezvous 3, which is currently drilling, and Flattop-1, which is expected to be spud later in the first quarter of 2014.   
    Transportation        We transport the
petroleum liquids produced on the North Slope to south-central Alaska through an  800-mile  pipeline that is part of TAPS. We have a 29.1 percent ownership interest in TAPS, and we also have ownership
interests in the Alpine, Kuparuk and Oliktok pipelines on the North Slope.      Our wholly owned subsidiary, Polar Tankers, Inc., manages the
marine transportation of our North Slope production, using five company-owned, double-hulled tankers and chartering third-party vessels, as necessary. The tankers deliver oil from Valdez, Alaska, to refineries on the west coast of the United States.
  
         6   

Table of Contents  

     LOWER 48 AND LATIN AMERICA   
  The Lower 48 and Latin America segment primarily consists of operations located in the U.S. Lower 48 states, as well as exploration activities in the
Gulf of Mexico and Colombia. As a result of increasing shale opportunities and a low natural gas price environment, we have directed our investments toward high-margin, liquids-rich plays, predominantly in the Lower 48.   
   Lower 48       We hold 15.3 million net
onshore and offshore acres in the Lower 48. In 2013, the Lower 48 contributed 29 percent of our worldwide liquids production and 38 percent of our natural gas production.   
   
      Onshore        We hold 13.1 million net acres of onshore conventional and unconventional acreage in the Lower 48, the majority of which is either held by production or owned by the Company. Our unconventional
holdings total approximately 2.7 million net acres in the following areas:       

620,000 net acres in the Bakken, located in North Dakota and Eastern Montana;      

240,000 net acres in the Permian, located in West Texas and southeastern New Mexico;      

900,000 net acres in the San Juan Basin, located in northwestern New Mexico and southwestern Colorado;      

65,000 net acres in the Barnett, located in north central Texas; and      
 
         7   

Table of Contents  

   The majority of our 2013 onshore production originated from San Juan, Eagle Ford, Permian, Bakken, Anadarko,
Lobo and Barnett. Onshore activities in 2013 were centered mostly on continued development and optimization of emerging and existing assets, with an emphasis on areas with higher-margin, liquids-rich production, particularly in growing
unconventional plays. Our major focus areas in 2013 included the following:       

Bakken The Bakken experienced a significant increase in activity in 2013. We drilled 126 operated wells during the year, of which 85 were brought
online. We also increased our operated rig count to 11 and improved our efficiency with pad drilling. As a result, we achieved net peak production of more than 40 MBOED in 2013, compared with approximately 25 MBOED in 2012.

San Juan Basin The San Juan Basin includes significant conventional gas production, which yields approximately 35 percent natural gas liquids, as
well as the majority of our U.S. coalbed methane (CBM) production. We hold approximately 1.3 million net acres of oil and gas leases by production in San Juan, where we continue to pursue conventional development opportunities. This also
includes approximately 900,000 net unconventional acres of lease rights, where we are advancing the assessment of the Mancos shale play.      

Permian Basin the Permian Basin is another area where we are leveraging our conventional legacy position by utilizing new technology to improve
the ultimate recovery and value from these fields. This technology will also identify new, unconventional plays across the region. We hold approximately 1.0 million net acres in the Permian, which includes 240,000 net unconventional acres.
          Gulf of Mexico        At year-end 2013, our portfolio of producing properties in the Gulf of Mexico primarily consisted of one operated field and three fields operated by co-venturers, including:   

15.9 percent nonoperated working interest in the unitized Ursa Field located in the Mississippi Canyon Area.      

15.9 percent nonoperated working interest in the Princess Field, a northern, subsalt extension of the Ursa Field.      

12.4 percent nonoperated working interest in the unitized K2 Field, comprised of seven blocks in the Green Canyon Area.      
    Exploration         

Conventional Exploration           In the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, we added approximately 430,000 net acres to our position in 2013, bringing our total acreage position to 2.1 million acres at December 31, 2013. Since 2011, we
have nearly doubled our acreage footprint in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and currently rank in the top five deepwater leaseholders. In 2013, we announced two new oil discoveries in the deepwater Lower Tertiary play at Coronado and Gila, adding to
the existing Shenandoah and Tiber discoveries made in 2009.      We own a 30 percent working interest in the Shenandoah discovery.
The results of the Shenandoah appraisal well were announced in 2013 and confirmed Shenandoah as a significant oil discovery. The well encountered more than 1,000 feet of net pay in high-quality, Lower Tertiary-aged reservoirs. We plan to participate
in further appraisal of Shenandoah in 2014. The Coronado exploration well encountered more than 400 feet of net pay and will require further appraisal. We hold a 35 percent working interest in Coronado. In 2013, we acquired a 20 percent interest in
the Gila Prospect, located   
         8   

Table of Contents  

in the Keathley Canyon section of the Gulf of Mexico. The Gila exploration well was announced as a discovery in 2013 and is expected to be appraised in 2014.   
  Ongoing drilling activities at the end of 2013 included a Tiber appraisal well, in which we own an 18 percent working interest, a
Coronado appraisal well and the Deep Nansen exploration well. We hold a 12.5 percent interest in the Deep Nansen well. We plan to evaluate the results of these wells in the first half of 2014.   
  The nonoperated Ardennes wildcat well and the ConocoPhillips-operated Thorn wildcat well were declared dry holes in 2013.   
  In support of our intentions to grow our Gulf of Mexico exploration program, we secured access to two new-build deepwater drillships,
which we anticipate will be delivered to the Gulf of Mexico in 2014 and 2015. The drillships will provide rig availability for our operated drilling program.       

Unconventional Exploration           In 2013, we actively pursued the exploration and appraisal of our existing unconventional resource plays, including the Eagle Ford in the Western Gulf Basin, the Bakken in the Williston Basin, the Barnett
in the Fort Worth Basin, the Niobrara play in the Denver-Julesburg Basin, Wolfcamp and Bone Springs in the Delaware Basin, Wolfcamp in the Midland Basin, and the Mancos in the San Juan Basin. During 2013, we acquired approximately 61,000 net
additional acres in various resource plays across the Lower 48, which included the Eagle Ford, Niobrara and Permian plays, further expanding our significant acreage position in Lower 48 shale plays to approximately 2.7 million net acres.
     During 2013, we drilled a total of 25 unconventional wells in the Niobrara, Bone Springs and Wolfcamp plays. In 2014, we will
continue to actively explore and appraise unconventional plays in the Lower 48, with a focus on Bone Springs, Wolfcamp and Niobrara. We will also continue to assess new opportunities in unconventional plays.   
   Facilities         Freeport LNG Terminal
       We have a long-term agreement with Freeport LNG Development, L.P. to use 0.9 billion cubic feet per day of regasification capacity at
Freeport s 1.5-billion-cubic-feet-per-day LNG receiving terminal in Quintana, Texas. In July 2013, we agreed with Freeport LNG to terminate this agreement, subject to Freeport LNG obtaining regulatory approval and project financing for an LNG
liquefaction and export facility in Texas, in which we are not a participant. Upon satisfaction of these conditions, currently expected to occur in the second half of 2014, we will pay Freeport LNG a termination fee of approximately $600
million. Freeport LNG will repay the outstanding ConocoPhillips loan used by Freeport LNG to partially fund the original construction of the terminal. These transactions, plus miscellaneous items, will result in a one-time net cash outflow of
approximately $80 million for us. When the agreement becomes effective, we also expect to recognize an after-tax charge to earnings of approximately $540 million. At that time, our terminal regasification capacity will be reduced from 0.9
billion cubic feet per day to 0.4 billion cubic feet per day, until July 1, 2016, at which time it will be reduced to zero. As a result of this transaction, we anticipate saving approximately $50 to $60 million per year in operating
costs over the next 19 years. For additional information, see Note 4 Variable Interest Entities (VIEs), in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.        Golden Pass LNG Terminal        We have a 12.4 percent ownership interest in the Golden
Pass LNG Terminal and affiliated Golden Pass Pipeline. It is located adjacent to the Sabine-Neches Industrial Ship Channel northwest of Sabine Pass, Texas. The terminal became commercially operational in May 2011. We hold terminal and pipeline
capacity for the receipt, storage and regasification of the LNG purchased from Qatargas 3 and the transportation of regasified LNG to interconnect with major interstate natural gas pipelines. Market conditions currently favor the flow of LNG to
European and Asian markets; therefore, our near-to-mid-term utilization of the terminal is expected to be limited.   
         9   

Table of Contents  

     Other         

San Juan Gas Plant We operate and own a 50 percent interest in the San Juan Gas Plant, a 550 million cubic-feet-per-day capacity natural gas
processing plant in Bloomfield, New Mexico.      

Lost Cabin Gas Plant We operate and own a 46 percent interest in the Lost Cabin Gas Plant, a 313 million cubic-feet-per-day capacity natural
gas processing facility in Lysite, Wyoming.      

Wingate Fractionator We operate and own the Wingate Fractionator, a 25,000 barrel-per-day capacity natural gas liquids fractionation plant located
in Gallup, New Mexico.      

Helena Stabilization Plant We operate and own the Helena Stabilization Plant, a 60,000 barrel-per-day condensate stabilization facility located in
Kenedy, Texas.      

Bordovsky Stabilization Plant We operate and own the Bordovsky Stabilization Plant, a 15,000 barrel-per-day condensate stabilization facility
located in Kenedy, Texas.      

Sugarloaf Stabilization Plant We operate and own an 87.5 percent interest in the Sugarloaf Stabilization Plant, a 15,000 barrel-per-day condensate
stabilization facility located near Pawnee, Texas.           Asset Dispositions     
  During 2013, we sold the majority of our producing zones in the Cedar Creek Anticline, located in southwestern North Dakota and eastern Montana; certain
properties located in southwest Louisiana; and our 39 percent equity interest in Phoenix Park Gas Processors Limited, located in Trinidad and Tobago. For additional information, see Note 6 Assets Held for Sale or Sold, in the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.       Colombia         Unconventional Exploration        During 2013, we entered into a farm-in agreement with
Canacol Energy Ltd. to acquire a 70 percent working interest for deep rights in the Santa Isabel Block in the Middle Magdalena Basin, which covers approximately 71,000 net acres. The first exploration well did not reach our planned La Luna Shale
target and was expensed. Additional seismic acquisition and processing will continue in 2014. Additionally, we executed farm-in agreements to acquire 30 percent working interests in three blocks in the Middle Magdalena Basin, which cover
approximately 116,000 net acres.       Venezuela       In September 2013, the World Bank s International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) arbitration tribunal ruled Venezuela unlawfully expropriated ConocoPhillips  significant
oil investments in the Petrozuata and Hamaca heavy crude oil projects and the offshore Corocoro development project in June 2007. A separate arbitration phase will proceed to determine the amount of damages owed to ConocoPhillips for
Venezuela s actions. For additional information, see Note 14 Contingencies and Commitments, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.       Ecuador       In December 2012, an ICSID tribunal issued a decision on liability in favor
of Burlington Resources, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of ConocoPhillips, finding that Ecuador s seizure of Blocks 7 and 21 was an unlawful expropriation in violation of the Ecuador-U.S. Bilateral Investment Treaty. An additional arbitration
phase is now proceeding to determine the damages owed to ConocoPhillips for Ecuador s actions and to address Ecuador s counterclaims. For additional information, see Note 14 Contingencies and Commitments, in the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.   
         10   

Table of Contents  

     CANADA      Our Canadian operations mainly consist of natural gas fields in western Canada and oil sands developments in the Athabasca Region of northeastern Alberta. In 2013, operations in Canada contributed 17
percent of our worldwide liquids production and 20 percent of our natural gas production.       
      Western Canada        Our operations in western Canada primarily consist of three core development areas: Deep Basin, Kaybob and Clearwater, which extend from central Alberta to northeastern British Columbia. We operate or
have ownership interests in approximately 80 natural gas processing plants in the region, and, as of December 31, 2013, held leasehold rights in 5.7 million net acres in western Canada.   
    Oil Sands        We hold approximately
0.9 million net acres of land in the Athabasca Region of northeastern Alberta. Our bitumen resources in Canada are produced via an enhanced thermal oil recovery method called steam-assisted gravity drainage (SAGD), whereby steam is injected
into the reservoir, effectively liquefying the heavy bitumen, which is recovered and pumped to the surface for further processing.       

Surmont           The Surmont oil sands leases are located approximately 35 miles south of Fort McMurray, Alberta. Surmont is a 50/50 joint venture with Total S.A. Surmont Phase 2 construction began in 2010, with
production startup targeted for 2015. Following startup, Surmont s gross production capacity is estimated to be 150 MBOED, with peak production anticipated by 2018.   

FCCL           We have a 50/50 heavy oil business venture with Cenovus Energy Inc., FCCL Partnership, a Canadian upstream general partnership. FCCL s assets, operated by Cenovus, include the Foster Creek, Christina
Lake and Narrows Lake SAGD bitumen developments. FCCL continues to progress expansion plans which would potentially increase total gross production capacity to approximately 750 MBOED.   

o  
  Foster Creek is located approximately 200 miles northeast of Edmonton, Alberta. There are five producing phases at Foster Creek, Phases A through E, with three more
under construction: Phases F, G and H. First production for Phase F is expected in the third quarter of 2014, and first production for Phases G and H are anticipated in 2015 and 2016, respectively. These phases, in addition to planned optimization,
will add approximately 125 MBOED of gross production capacity. An application for regulatory approval for an additional expansion, Phase J, was filed in 2013.     

o  
    Christina Lake is located approximately 75 miles south of Fort McMurray, Alberta. There are five producing phases at Christina Lake, Phases A through
E, with plans underway for three additional phases: Phases F, G and H. Gross production at Christina Lake increased more      
         11   

Table of Contents  

than 55 percent in 2013, mostly as a result of Phase D reaching full capacity in the first quarter of 2013 and Phase E commencing production in the third quarter of 2013. Phase E added 40 MBOED
of gross production capacity. During 2013, construction continued on Phase F, which is expected to commence production in 2016 and add another 50 MBOED of gross production capacity. Engineering work continued for Phase G, with first production
anticipated for 2017. An application for Phase H was submitted for regulatory review in 2013. With the additional expansion phases and optimization work, total gross production capacity from Christina Lake has the potential to reach approximately
310 MBOED.         

o  
  Narrows Lake is located near Christina Lake and is expected to have three phases of development. During 2013, plant construction began on Phase A, which is estimated to
have 45 MBOED of gross production capacity. Initial production is anticipated in 2017.          Amauligak     
  We have a 55 percent operating interest in the Amauligak discovery, which lies approximately 30 miles offshore in shallow water in the Beaufort Sea. A
range of development options are being evaluated.        Exploration        We hold exploration acreage in four areas of Canada: offshore eastern Canada, onshore western Canada, the Mackenzie Delta/Beaufort Sea Region and the Arctic Islands. Our primary exploration focus is
on liquids-rich unconventional plays in Alberta, British Columbia and the Northwest Territories.       

Unconventional Exploration           We hold approximately 0.7 million net acres in the emerging Montney, Muskwa, Duvernay and Canol unconventional plays in Alberta, northeastern British Columbia and the Northwest Territories. During
2013, we drilled unconventional test wells in the Duvernay, located in Alberta; the Canol shale, located in the Northwest Territories; and the Montney play, which extends from British Columbia into Alberta. In 2014, exploration activities will
continue in Duvernay, Canol and Montney. We also plan to continue delineating potential development opportunities in the oil sands.   
    Asset Dispositions        During 2013,
we sold our Clyden undeveloped oil sands leasehold. For additional information, see Note 6 Assets Held for Sale or Sold, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   
         12   

Table of Contents  

     EUROPE      The Europe segment consists of operations principally located in the Norwegian and U.K. sectors of the North Sea, as well as exploration activities in Poland and Greenland. In 2013, operations in Europe
contributed 14 percent of our worldwide liquids production and 11 percent of natural gas production.       Norway   
   
    The Greater Ekofisk Area is located approximately 200 miles offshore Stavanger, Norway in the North Sea, and
comprises four producing fields: Ekofisk, Eldfisk, Embla and Tor. Crude oil is exported to Teesside, England, and the natural gas is exported to Emden, Germany. In October 2013, we achieved first oil production from Ekofisk South, a development
which includes the planned drilling of 35 new production and eight water injection wells. At year-end 2013, four production wells and the eight water injection wells had been drilled. A second development, Eldfisk II, is scheduled to start up by
early 2015. Ekofisk South, along with Eldfisk II and other developments offshore Norway, are expected to add approximately 60 MBOED of net production within the next five years.      The Alvheim development is located in the northern part of the North Sea and consists of a floating production, storage and offloading (FPSO) vessel and subsea installations. Produced crude oil is
exported via shuttle tankers, and natural gas is transported to the United Kingdom via a pipeline to the Beryl-Sage system.      The Heidrun Field
is located in the Norwegian Sea. Produced crude oil is transported to Mongstad in Norway and Tetney in the United Kingdom by double-hulled shuttle tankers. Part of the natural gas is currently injected into the reservoir for optimization of crude
oil production, while the remainder is used as feedstock in a methanol plant in Norway, in which we own an 18.3 percent interest.      We also
have varying ownership interests in five other producing fields in the Norway sector of the North Sea and in the Norwegian Sea, including the Aasta Hansteen development, a gas discovery with first gas scheduled for late 2017.   
    Exploration     
  During 2013, we participated in five nonoperated wells, of which three were discoveries. Also in 2013, we were awarded four new
licenses in the 22   nd    Licencing Round in the Norwegian
Barents Sea: PL718, PL720, PL723 and PL615B. We plan to participate in two nonoperated wells in the Barents Sea in 2014. In January 2014, we were awarded one operatorship and an interest in one partnership license in the Predefined Areas gas
licensing round for mature areas.        Transportation        We own a 35.1 percent interest in the Norpipe Oil Pipeline System, a 220-mile pipeline which carries crude oil from Ekofisk to a crude oil stabilization and natural gas liquids processing facility in
Teesside, England. In addition, we own a 1.9 percent interest in Norwegian Continental Shelf Gas Transportation (Gassled), which owns most of the Norwegian gas transportation infrastructure.   
         13   

Table of Contents  

    United Kingdom        
    Britannia is one of the largest natural gas and condensate fields in the North Sea. In addition to our interest in the
Britannia Field, we own 50 percent of Britannia Operator Limited, the operator of the field. Condensate is delivered through the Forties Pipeline to an oil stabilization and processing plant near the Grangemouth Refinery in Scotland, while natural
gas is transported through Britannia s line to St. Fergus, Scotland. The Britannia satellite fields, Callanish and Brodgar, produce via subsea manifolds and pipelines linked to the Britannia platform. A new mono-column design compression
facility for the Britannia Platform is estimated to come on line in 2014 and increase Britannia s natural gas production by approximately 90 MMCFD.      The J-Area consists of the Judy/Joanne, Jade and Jasmine fields, located in the U.K. Central North Sea. Jasmine was discovered in 2006, and first production commenced in November 2013. The Jasmine
development includes a 24-slot wellhead platform with a bridge-linked accommodation and utilities platform, a six-mile, 16-inch multi-phase pipeline bundle, and a riser and processing platform bridge-linked to the existing Judy Platform. The field
is a high-pressure, high-temperature gas condensate reservoir located approximately six miles west of the Judy Platform. Jasmine is estimated to achieve average net production of 30 MBOED in 2014.   
  We have various ownership interests in 19 producing gas fields in the Rotliegendes and Carboniferous areas of the Southern North Sea. Our interests in
the East Irish Sea include the Millom, Dalton and Calder fields, which are operated on our behalf by a third party.      We own a 24 percent
interest in the Clair Field, located in the Atlantic Margin. Clair Ridge is the second phase of development for the Clair Field and is comprised of a 36-slot drilling and production facility with a bridge-linked accommodation and utilities platform.
The new facilities will tie into existing oil and gas export pipelines to the Shetland Islands. Initial production for Clair Ridge is targeted for 2016.        Exploration        During 2013, we participated in two operated wells, Lacewing and Romeo,
and three nonoperated wells in the Clair Field: HEXA, Segment 0 and Segment 5. The Lacewing well was deemed sub-commercial. All of the wells in the Greater Clair area were discoveries and are currently undergoing evaluation. The Romeo well is
currently drilling and will be evaluated during 2014.      During 2013, we were awarded four licenses: three licenses in the Central Graben area
of the North Sea, and one license in the Greater Clair area.   
         14   

Table of Contents  

     Transportation        We operate the Teesside oil and Theddlethorpe gas terminals in which we have 29.3 percent and 50 percent ownership interests, respectively. We also have a 100 percent ownership interest in the
Rivers Gas Terminal, operated by a third party, in the United Kingdom. A project to replace the Acid Gas Plant at the Rivers Gas Terminal was completed in early 2014.        Asset Dispositions        We sold our 10 percent equity interest in the Interconnector
Pipeline in the first quarter of 2013.       Poland         Exploration        We are participating in a shale gas venture in Poland and own a 70
percent equity interest in Lane Energy Poland. We operate three western Baltic Basin concessions, which encompass approximately 500,000 gross acres. Four wells have been drilled on these concessions, and further well tests and drilling are planned
in 2014.       Greenland    
    Exploration        During 2013, we were
awarded one non-operated license, Block 6, in the northeast area of Greenland.   
         15   

Table of Contents  

     ASIA PACIFIC AND MIDDLE EAST   
  The Asia Pacific and Middle East segment has exploration and production operations in China, Indonesia, Malaysia, Australia and the Timor Sea; producing
operations in Qatar; and exploration activities in Bangladesh and Brunei. In 2013, operations in the Asia Pacific and Middle East segment contributed 13 percent of our worldwide liquids production and 30 percent of natural gas production.
      Australia and Timor Sea        
      Australia Pacific LNG        Australia Pacific LNG Pty Ltd (APLNG), our joint venture with Origin Energy Limited and China Petrochemical Corporation (Sinopec), is focused on producing CBM from the Bowen and Surat basins in
Queensland, Australia, and converting the CBM into LNG. Natural gas is currently sold to domestic customers, while progress continues on the development of the LNG processing and export sales business. Origin operates APLNG s upstream
production and pipeline system, and we will operate the downstream LNG facility, located on Curtis Island near Gladstone, Queensland.      Two
fully subscribed 4.5-million-tonnes-per-year LNG trains have been sanctioned. Approximately 3,900 net wells are ultimately envisioned to supply both the domestic gas market and the LNG sales contracts. The wells will be supported by gathering
systems, central gas processing and compression stations, water treatment facilities, and a new export pipeline connecting the gas fields to the LNG facilities. First LNG is expected in mid-2015, under a sales agreement with Sinopec for up to
4.3 million metric tonnes of LNG per year for 20 years. Start-up of the second LNG train is expected to occur six-to-nine months following the startup of Train 1, under sales agreements with Sinopec and Japan-based Kansai Electric Power
Co., Inc. The resulting LNG exports from Train 2 will commence shortly thereafter. Sinopec has agreed to purchase an additional 3.3 million metric tonnes of LNG per year through 2035, and Kansai has agreed to purchase approximately
1 million metric tonnes of LNG per year for 20 years.      In May 2012, APLNG executed project financing agreements for an $8.5 billion
project finance facility and began drawing on the financing in October 2012. In connection with the execution of the project financing, we provided a completion guarantee for our pro-rata share of the project finance facility. Our guarantee of the
project financing will be released upon meeting certain completion tests with milestones.      For additional information, see Note
4 Variable Interest Entities (VIEs), Note 7 Investments, Loans and Long-Term Receivables, and Note 13 Guarantees, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.        Bayu-Undan        The Bayu-Undan gas condensate field is located in the Timor Sea Joint
Petroleum Development Area between Timor-Leste and Australia. We also operate and own a 56.9 percent interest in the associated Darwin LNG Facility, located at Wickham Point, Darwin.      The Bayu-Undan natural gas recycle facility processes wet gas; separates, stores and offloads condensate, propane and butane; and re-injects dry gas back into the reservoir. In addition, a 500-kilometer
natural gas   
         16   

Table of Contents  

pipeline connects the facility to the 3.5-million-tonnes-per-year capacity Darwin LNG Facility. Produced natural gas is piped to the Darwin LNG Plant, where it is converted into LNG before being
transported to international markets. In 2013, we sold 167 billion gross cubic feet of LNG to utility customers in Japan.      The Bayu-Undan
Phase Three Development was sanctioned in the third quarter of 2013, with development drilling anticipated to commence in the third quarter of 2014 and initial production estimated in the second quarter of 2015. The development will consist of two
standalone, subsea horizontal wells tied back to the existing drilling, production, and processing (DPP) platform. In 2013, we secured a semi-submersible drilling rig, procured long-lead items and commenced planning and detailed engineering for
subsea and DPP topsides installation. Planning and engineering activities will continue through 2014. The two wells are expected to produce over three to five years, with estimated average production of 150 MMCFD.   
  ConocoPhillips served a Notice of Arbitration on the Timor-Leste Minister of Finance in October 2012 for outstanding disputes related to a series of tax
assessments. The arbitration process is currently underway. For additional information, see Note 14 Contingencies and Commitments, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.        Athena/Perseus        The Athena production license (WA-17-L) is located offshore Western
Australia and contains part of the Perseus Field which straddles the boundary with WA-1-L, an adjoining license area. Natural gas is produced from these licenses.        Greater Sunrise        We have a 30 percent interest in the Greater Sunrise gas and
condensate field located in the Timor Sea. In May 2013, the Timor-Leste Government referred a dispute with the Australian Government relating to the treaty on Certain Maritime Arrangements in the Timor Sea (CMATS) to international
arbitration. The CMATS arbitration does not directly impact our underlying interest in Sunrise; however, key challenges must be resolved before further commercial and technical work continues.   
    Exploration         

Conventional Exploration           We operate three permits in the Browse Basin, offshore northwest Australia. In 2013, we reduced our interests in two permits in the Greater Poseidon Area, WA-315-P and WA-398-P, from 60 percent to 40
percent. We have a 10 percent interest in WA-314-P, which is outside the Greater Poseidon Area. Phase I of the 2009/2010 Browse Basin drilling campaign resulted in discoveries in the Greater Poseidon Area: Poseidon-1, Poseidon-2 and Kronos-1. Phase
II of the drilling campaign consists of six wells and commenced in 2012. The first two wells, Boreas-1 and Zephyros-1, discovered hydrocarbons and were completed, plugged and abandoned in 2012. The third well, Proteus-1, discovered hydrocarbons and
was plugged and abandoned in 2013. The three wells were drilled in the Greater Poseidon Area. The fourth well, Grace-1, was drilled to satisfy a  Year-5  permit obligation for WA-314-P. The Grace-1 was spud in
late 2013, reached total depth in early 2014 and was declared a dry hole. The outcome does not affect our view of the overall Greater Poseidon Project.      In the Bonaparte Basin, offshore northern Australia, we operate the NT/RL5 and NT/RL6 permits. Our ownership interest in each of the permits is 37.5 percent. A three-well appraisal program is expected to
commence in 2014 to further evaluate the field s potential.       

Unconventional Exploration           In 2013, we reduced our working interest in four exploration permits within the Canning Basin of Western Australia from 75 percent to 46 percent. These permits cover approximately 11 million gross
acres. Phase I of a three-well drilling program commenced in 2012 with the drilling of the Nicolay-1 and the Gibb-Maitland-1 wells. Both were written off as dry holes in 2013. Phase I drilling is expected to resume in the second half of 2014.
  
         17   

Table of Contents  

     Asset Dispositions        During 2013, we sold 20 percent of our working interest in the Greater Poseidon Area permits in the Browse Basin and 29 percent of our working interest in the Goldwyer Shale in the Canning Basin
permits. For additional information, see Note 6 Assets Held for Sale or Sold, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   
   Indonesia        
    We operate five production sharing contracts (PSCs) in Indonesia: the offshore South Natuna Sea Block B and four onshore
PSCs, the Corridor Block and South Jambi  B , both located in South Sumatra, Warim in Papua, and we acquired Palangkaraya in Kalimantan in 2013. Our producing assets are primarily concentrated in two core areas: South Natuna Sea and
onshore South Sumatra.        South Natuna Sea Block B        The offshore South Natuna Sea Block B PSC has 3 producing oil fields and 16 natural gas fields in various stages of development. Natural gas production is sold under international sales agreements to
Malaysia and Singapore, and liquefied petroleum gas is sold locally for domestic consumption.        South Sumatra     
  The Corridor PSC consists of five oil fields and seven natural gas fields in various stages of development. Natural gas is supplied from the Grissik and
Suban gas processing plants to the Duri steamflood in central Sumatra and to markets in Singapore, Batam and West Java. Production from the South Jambi  B  PSC has reached depletion and field development has been suspended. We are
evaluating options related to the future of this PSC.        Exploration        We own and operate an 80 percent interest in the Warim onshore exploration PSC in Papua. In 2013, we signed an amendment to the PSC, which enables us to continue exploration activities for the next five
years and, if there are commercial discoveries, to continue development and production activities until 2032.      In January 2013, we signed a
farm-in agreement to acquire a 49 percent interest in the Palangkaraya PSC. In November 2013, we completed the acquisition of Vela Energy Limited, which increased our interest in the Palangkaraya PSC to 100 percent. The Palangkaraya PSC consists of
approximately 1.9 million net acres and is located in a frontier exploration area in central Kalimantan.        Transportation
       We are a 35 percent owner of a consortium company that has a 40 percent ownership in PT Transportasi Gas Indonesia, which
owns and operates the Grissik to Duri and Grissik to Singapore natural gas pipelines.   
         18   

Table of Contents  

    China        
    The Peng Lai 19-3, 19-9 and 25-6 fields are located in Bohai Bay Block 11/05. Production from the Phase I development of
the PL 19-3 Field began in 2002. The Phase II development includes six drilling and production platforms and an FPSO vessel used to accommodate production from all the fields.      Crude oil production at the Peng Lai 19-3 Field in Bohai Bay was curtailed in 2011, as a result of two separate seepage incidents which occurred near Platforms B and C. In February 2013, we received
approval from China s State Oceanic Administration (SOA) to resume normal production operations.      During 2012, we reached agreements with
China s Ministry of Agriculture and the SOA to resolve claims related to these seepage incidents. In the third quarter of 2013, we recognized an after-tax charge of $116 million for amounts previously paid by ConocoPhillips as operator. We
do not anticipate further significant charges related to the 2011 seepage incidents.      Under the terms of the PSC, operatorship of the Peng Lai
fields will transfer to our co-venturer on July 1, 2014, and we will maintain our interest as a non-operator.      The Panyu development,
located in the South China Sea, is comprised of three oil fields: Panyu 4-2, Panyu 5-1 and Panyu 11-6. During 2012, a production platform was added to each of the Panyu 4-2 and Panyu 5-1 fields. Production from the new platforms began in September
2012.        Exploration         

Unconventional Exploration           In 2012, we entered into a joint study agreement with Sinopec Southern Exploration Company over the Qijiang shale gas block, located in the Sichuan Basin. The Qijiang Block covers approximately
1 million acres. The study, which will be carried out over two years and includes seismic and drilling obligations, will be an important step in evaluating the potential for shale gas exploration in the area.   
  In February 2013, we entered into a joint study agreement with PetroChina over the 500,000-acre Neijiang-Dazu shale block, also located
in the Sichuan Basin. The study is for 19 months and encompasses a desktop study and drilling preparation.   
         19   

Table of Contents  

    Malaysia        
    We own interests in five deepwater PSCs in Malaysia. Four are located off the eastern Malaysian state of Sabah: Block G,
Block J, the Kebabangan Cluster (KBBC) and SB-311. In 2013, we executed our fifth PSC, deepwater Block 3E, located off the Malaysian state of Sarawak.        Block G        We have a 21 percent interest in the unitized Siakap North-Petai oil field,
which is expected to begin producing in the first quarter of 2014, with estimated net annual peak production of 6 MBOED in 2015. Development of the Malikai oil field is underway with first production anticipated in the first half of 2017. Estimated
net annual peak production of 19 MBOED is expected in 2018. We own a 35 percent interest in the Malikai, Pisagan, Ubah and Limbayong oil discoveries. The Limbayong-2 appraisal well, located approximately seven miles from Gumusut, was suspended as an
oil discovery in the fourth quarter of 2013.        Block J        First production for Gumusut occurred from an early production system in the fourth quarter of 2012. Production from a permanent, semi-submersible floating production vessel is expected in the second
quarter of 2014, with estimated net annual peak production of 30 MBOED anticipated in 2015.        KBBC     
  We own a 30 percent interest in the KBBC PSC. Development of the KBB gas field commenced in 2011, with first production anticipated in late 2014.
Estimated net annual peak production of 28 MBOED is expected in 2015. The Kamunsu East-2 appraisal well, located approximately seven miles northwest of the KBB gas field, was suspended as a gas discovery in the third quarter of 2013.   
    Exploration        We own a 40 percent
operating interest in SB-311, an exploration block encompassing 259,000 acres offshore Sabah. Seismic reprocessing and acquisition occurred in 2013, and initial exploration drilling is anticipated in 2015.   
  In November 2013, we acquired an 85 percent operating interest in deepwater Block 3E, which encompasses approximately 480,000 acres offshore Sarawak. The
PSC carries a four-year exploration term during which we plan to drill two wells.       Bangladesh    
    Exploration        We hold 100 percent
interests in two deepwater blocks in the Bay of Bengal, Blocks 10 and 11. In 2013, we performed 2-D seismic activities and are currently evaluating the results. Additionally, we were the high bidder on adjoining Shelf Block 7 in 2013 and
are awaiting finalization of the PSC.   
         20   

Table of Contents  

    Brunei         Exploration        We have a 6.25 percent working interest in deepwater Block CA-2, where
exploration drilling has been ongoing since September 2011. Natural gas was discovered at the Kelidang NE well and the Keratau well in 2013. We are currently evaluating the results. Additionally, the Kempas #1 well was spud in late 2013 and declared
a dry hole in January 2014.       Qatar        
    Qatargas 3 (QG3) is an integrated development jointly owned by Qatar Petroleum (68.5 percent), ConocoPhillips
(30 percent) and Mitsui   Co., Ltd. (1.5 percent). QG3 consists of upstream natural gas production facilities, which produce approximately 1.4 billion gross cubic feet per day of natural gas from Qatar s North Field
over a 25 year life, in addition to a 7.8-million-gross-tonnes-per-year LNG facility. LNG is shipped in leased LNG carriers destined for sale globally.      QG3 executed the development of the onshore and offshore assets as a single integrated development with Qatargas 4 (QG4), a joint venture between Qatar Petroleum and Royal Dutch Shell plc. This
included the joint development of offshore facilities situated in a common offshore block in the North Field, as well as the construction of two identical LNG process trains and associated gas treating facilities for both the QG3 and QG4 joint
ventures. Production from the LNG trains and associated facilities are combined and shared.   
         21   

Table of Contents  

     OTHER INTERNATIONAL      The Other International segment includes exploration and producing operations in Libya and Russia, as well as exploration activities in Angola, Senegal and Azerbaijan. In 2013, we completed the sale of
our Algeria business and the sale of our interest in the Republic of Kazakhstan s North Caspian Sea Production Sharing Agreement (Kashagan), and we have agreements to sell our Nigeria business. Accordingly, results of these operations have been
reclassified to discontinued operations for all periods presented. During 2013, operations in Other International contributed 4 percent of our worldwide liquids production.       Libya        
    The Waha Concession consists of multiple concessions and encompasses nearly 13 million gross acres in the Sirte
Basin. Our production operations in Libya and related oil exports were interrupted in mid-2013, as a result of the shutdown of the Es Sider crude oil export terminal at the end of July 2013. Production remains shut-in, as the Es Sider Terminal
shutdown has continued into the first quarter of 2014.        Exploration        We continued to participate in the ongoing exploration and appraisal programs within the Waha Concession in 2013. We completed drilling six appraisal wells and are currently drilling four appraisal
wells. During 2014, we plan to drill six additional exploration and appraisal wells.       Russia    

2013  

Interest  

Operator  

Liquids MBD  

Natural Gas MMCFD  

Total MBOED  

Average Daily Net Production    

Polar Lights   

50.0   
  %  

Polar Lights Co.  

4  

-  

4   

Total Russia   

4  

-  

4   

Polar Lights        Polar Lights Company is an entity which has developed several fields in the Timan-Pechora Basin in northern Russia.       Angola         Exploration        We have a 50 percent operating interest in Block 36 and a 30 percent operating interest in Block 37, both of which are located in Angola s subsalt play trend. The two blocks total approximately
2.5 million acres. We have secured a rig for a four-well commitment program and plan to commence drilling in the second quarter of 2014.   
         22   

Table of Contents  

    Senegal         Exploration        In 2013, we farmed into three exploration blocks in offshore Senegal
with a 35 percent working interest. We have secured a rig for a two-well program and expect to begin drilling in the first half of 2014.   
   Kazakhstan         Exploration
       We disposed of our interest in the N Block, located offshore Kazakhstan, in January 2013.   
   Azerbaijan         Exploration
       During 2013, we acquired an onshore 2-D seismic survey as part of a joint study with the State Oil Company of the Republic of
Azerbaijan (SOCAR).        Transportation        The Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan (BTC) Pipeline transports crude oil from the Caspian Region through Azerbaijan, Georgia and Turkey for tanker loadings at the port of Ceyhan. We have a 2.5 percent interest in BTC.
      Discontinued Operations    
   Nigeria        
     *Reclassified to discontinued operations.       We have an interest in four onshore Oil Mining Leases (OMLs). Natural gas is sourced from our proved reserves in the OMLs and provides fuel for a 480-megawatt gas-fired power plant in Kwale, Nigeria. We
have a 20 percent interest in this power plant, which supplies electricity to Nigeria s national electricity supplier. In 2013, the plant consumed 11 million net cubic feet per day of natural gas.   
  We have a 17 percent equity interest in Brass LNG Limited, which plans to construct an LNG facility in the Niger Delta.   
  In December 2012, we entered into agreements to sell our Nigeria business, which includes its upstream affiliates and Brass LNG. For additional
information, see Note 3 Discontinued Operations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.       Algeria    
  In November 2013, we sold our Algeria business. Production from discontinued operations for Algeria averaged 9 MBOED in 2013.   
   Kazakhstan       In October 2013, we sold our
8.4 percent interest in Kashagan.      For additional information on the Algeria and Kashagan dispositions, see Note 3 Discontinued
Operations and Note 6 Assets Held for Sale or Sold, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   
         23   

Table of Contents  

   OTHER       Marketing Activities       Our Commercial organization manages our worldwide commodity
portfolio, which mainly includes natural gas, crude oil, bitumen, natural gas liquids and LNG. Marketing activities are performed through offices in the United States, Canada, Europe and Asia. In marketing our production, we attempt to minimize flow
disruptions, maximize realized prices and manage credit-risk exposure. Commodity sales are generally made at prevailing market prices at the time of sale. We also purchase third-party volumes to better position the Company to fully utilize
transportation and storage capacity and satisfy customer demand.        Natural Gas     
  Our natural gas production, along with third-party purchased gas, is primarily marketed in the United States, Canada, Europe and Asia. Our natural gas is
sold to a diverse client portfolio which includes local distribution companies; gas and power utilities; large industrials; independent, integrated or state-owned oil and gas companies; as well as marketing companies. To reduce our market exposure
and credit risk, we also transport natural gas via firm and interruptible transportation agreements to major market hubs.        Crude Oil,
Bitumen and Natural Gas Liquids        Our crude oil, bitumen and natural gas liquids revenues are derived from production in the United
States, Canada, Australia, Asia, Africa and Europe. These commodities are primarily sold under contracts with prices based on market indices, adjusted for location, quality and transportation.   
   Energy Partnerships         Marine Well
Containment Company        We are a founding member of the Marine Well Containment Company (MWCC), a non-profit organization formed in 2010,
which provides well containment equipment and technology in the deepwater U.S. Gulf of Mexico. MWCC developed an interim containment system, which meets the U.S. Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement requirements for a subsea well
containment system that can respond to a deepwater well control incident in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. To advance this capability, MWCC continues to develop an expanded containment system with significantly increased capacity. The expanded containment
system should be available by the end of 2014.        Subsea Well Response Project     
  In 2011, we, along with several leading oil and gas companies, launched the Subsea Well Response Project (SWRP), a non-profit organization based in
Stavanger, Norway, which was created to enhance the industry s capability to respond to international subsea well control incidents. Through collaboration with Oil Spill Response Limited, a non-profit organization in the United Kingdom, subsea
well intervention equipment is available for the industry to use in the event of a subsea well incident. This complements the work being undertaken in the United States by MWCC.       Technology       Our Technology organization has several technology programs, which focus on
areas to support our business growth plans: developing unconventional reservoirs, producing oil sands and heavy oil economically with fewer emissions, advancing our competitiveness in deepwater development capabilities, improving the economic
efficiency of our LNG and other gas solutions technologies, increasing recoveries from our legacy fields, and implementing sustainability measures.      Our Optimized Cascade      LNG liquefaction technology business
continues to grow with the demand for new LNG plants. The technology has been applied in 10 LNG trains around the world, with 12 more under construction and several feasibility studies ongoing.   
         24   

Table of Contents  

    RESERVES       We have not filed any information with any other federal authority or agency with respect to our estimated total proved reserves at December 31, 2013. No difference exists between our estimated total
proved reserves for year-end 2012 and year-end 2011, which are shown in this filing, and estimates of these reserves shown in a filing with another federal agency in 2013.       DELIVERY COMMITMENTS       We sell crude oil and natural gas from our producing operations
under a variety of contractual arrangements, some of which specify the delivery of a fixed and determinable quantity. Our Commercial organization also enters into natural gas sales contracts where the source of the natural gas used to fulfill the
contract can be the spot market or a combination of our reserves and the spot market. Worldwide, we are contractually committed to deliver approximately 4 trillion cubic feet of natural gas, including approximately 600 billion cubic feet
related to the noncontrolling interests of consolidated subsidiaries, and 200 million barrels of crude oil in the future. These contracts have various expiration dates through the year 2028. We expect to fulfill the majority of these delivery
commitments with proved developed reserves. In addition, we anticipate using proved undeveloped reserves and spot market purchases to fulfill any remaining commitments. See the disclosure on  Proved Undeveloped Reserves  in the  Oil
and Gas Operations  section following the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for information on the development of proved undeveloped reserves.         COMPETITION       We compete with private, public and state-owned
companies in all facets of the E P business. Some of our competitors are larger and have greater resources. Each of our segments is highly competitive, with no single competitor, or small group of competitors, dominating.   
  We compete with numerous other companies in the industry, including state-owned companies, to locate and obtain new sources of supply and to produce oil,
bitumen, natural gas liquids and natural gas in an efficient, cost-effective manner. Based on statistics published in the September 2, 2013, issue of the  Oil and Gas Journal , we had the third-largest worldwide liquids and natural gas
reserves for U.S.-based oil and gas companies in 2012. We deliver our production into the worldwide commodity markets. Principal methods of competing include geological, geophysical and engineering research and technology; experience and expertise;
economic analysis in connection with portfolio management; and safely operating oil and gas producing properties.   
     GENERAL       At
the end of 2013, we held a total of 811 active patents in 55 countries worldwide, including 336 active U.S. patents. During 2013, we received 40 patents in the United States and 50 foreign patents. Our products and processes generated licensing
revenues of $128 million in 2013. The overall profitability of any business segment is not dependent on any single patent, trademark, license, franchise or concession.      Company-sponsored research and development activities charged against earnings were $258 million, $221 million and $193 million in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   
    Health, Safety and Environment     
  Our Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) organization provides tools and support to our business units and staff groups to help them ensure world class
health, safety and environmental performance. The framework through which we safely manage our operations, the HSE Management System Standard, emphasizes process safety, risk management, emergency preparedness and environmental performance, with an
intense focus on occupational safety. In support of the goal of zero incidents, our HSE Excellence Process requires the business   
         25   

Table of Contents  

units to measure performance and drive continuous improvement. Assessments are conducted annually to capture progress and set new targets. We also have detailed processes in place to address
sustainable development in our economic, environmental and social performance. Our processes, related tools and requirements focus on water, biodiversity and climate change, as well as social and stakeholder issues.   
  The environmental information contained in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations on pages 63 through
66 under the captions  Environmental  and  Climate Change  is incorporated herein by reference. It includes information on expensed and capitalized environmental costs for 2013 and those expected for 2014 and 2015.   
   Website Access to SEC Reports       Our
internet website address is  www.conocophillips.com . Information contained on our internet website is not part of this report on Form 10-K.      Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available on our website, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with, or furnished to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Alternatively, you may
access these reports at the SEC s website at  www.sec.gov .   
         26   

Table of Contents  

      Item 1A. RISK FACTORS    
  You should carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Each of
these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock.        Our operating results, our future rate of growth and the carrying value of our assets are exposed to the effects of changing commodity prices.     
  Our revenues, operating results and future rate of growth are highly dependent on the prices we receive for our crude oil, bitumen, natural gas, natural
gas liquids and LNG. The factors influencing these prices are beyond our control. Lower crude oil, bitumen, natural gas, natural gas liquids and LNG prices may have a material adverse effect on our revenues, operating income and cash flows and may
reduce the amount of these commodities we can produce economically.        Unless we successfully add to our existing proved reserves, our
future crude oil, bitumen, natural gas and natural gas liquids production will decline, resulting in an adverse impact to our business.     
  The rate of production from upstream fields generally declines as reserves are depleted. Except to the extent that we conduct successful exploration and
development activities, or, through engineering studies, optimize production performance or identify additional or secondary recovery reserves, our proved reserves will decline materially as we produce crude oil, bitumen, natural gas and natural gas
liquids. Accordingly, to the extent we are unsuccessful in replacing the crude oil, bitumen, natural gas and natural gas liquids we produce with good prospects for future production, our business will experience reduced cash flows and results of
operations.        Any material change in the factors and assumptions underlying our estimates of crude oil, bitumen, natural gas and natural
gas liquids reserves could impair the quantity and value of those reserves.       Our proved reserve information included in this annual
report has been derived from engineering estimates prepared by our personnel. Future reserve revisions could also result from changes in, among other things, governmental regulation. Reserve estimation is a process that involves estimating volumes
to be recovered from underground accumulations of crude oil, bitumen, natural gas and natural gas liquids that cannot be directly measured. As a result, different petroleum engineers, each using industry-accepted geologic and engineering practices
and scientific methods, may produce different estimates of reserves and future net cash flows based on the same available data. Any significant future price changes could have a material effect on the quantity and present value of our proved
reserves. Any material changes in the factors and assumptions underlying our estimates of these items could result in a material negative impact to the volume of reserves reported.        We expect to continue to incur substantial capital expenditures and operating costs as a result of our compliance with existing and future environmental laws and regulations. Likewise, future
environmental laws and regulations may impact or limit our current business plans and reduce demand for our products.        Our businesses
are subject to numerous laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. These laws and regulations continue to increase in both number and complexity and affect our operations with respect to, among other things:   

The discharge of pollutants into the environment.      

Emissions into the atmosphere, such as nitrogen oxides, sulfur dioxide, and mercury and greenhouse gas emissions.      

Carbon taxes.      

The handling, use, storage, transportation, disposal and cleanup of hazardous materials and hazardous and nonhazardous wastes.
     
         27   

Table of Contents  

The dismantlement, abandonment and restoration of our properties and facilities at the end of their useful lives.      

Exploration and production activities in certain areas, such as offshore environments, arctic fields, oil sands reservoirs and shale plays.
        We have incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as
a result of these laws and regulations. To the extent these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of our products and services, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future
periods could be materially adversely affected.      Although our business operations are designed and operated to accommodate expected climatic
conditions, to the extent there are significant changes in the Earth s climate, such as more severe or frequent weather conditions in the markets we serve or the areas where our assets reside, we could incur increased expenses, our operations
could be materially impacted, and demand for our products could fall.      In addition, in response to the Deepwater Horizon incident, the United
States, as well as other countries where we do business, may make changes to their laws or regulations governing offshore operations that could have a material adverse effect on our business.        Domestic and worldwide political and economic developments could damage our operations and materially reduce our profitability and cash flows.     
  Actions of the U.S., state, local and foreign governments, through tax and other legislation, executive order and commercial restrictions, could reduce
our operating profitability both in the United States and abroad. In certain locations, governments have imposed or proposed restrictions on our operations; special taxes or tax assessments; and payment transparency regulations that could require us
to disclose competitively sensitive information or might cause us to violate non-disclosure laws of other countries. U.S. federal, state and local legislative and regulatory agencies  initiatives regarding the hydraulic fracturing process could
result in operating restrictions or delays in the completion of our oil and gas wells.      The U.S. government can also prevent or restrict us
from doing business in foreign countries. These restrictions and those of foreign governments have in the past limited our ability to operate in, or gain access to, opportunities in various countries. Actions by host governments have affected
operations significantly in the past, such as the expropriation of our oil assets by the Venezuelan government, and may continue to do so in the future. Changes in domestic and international regulations may affect our ability to obtain or maintain
permits, including those necessary for drilling and development of wells or for construction of LNG terminals or regasification facilities in various locations.      Local political and economic factors in international markets could have a material adverse effect on us. Approximately 54 percent of our hydrocarbon production from continuing operations was derived from
production outside the United States in 2013, and 56 percent of our proved reserves, as of December 31, 2013, was located outside the United States. We are subject to risks associated with operations in international markets, including changes
in foreign governmental policies relating to crude oil, natural gas, bitumen, natural gas liquids or LNG pricing and taxation, other political, economic or diplomatic developments, changing political conditions and international monetary
fluctuations.        Changes in governmental regulations may impose price controls and limitations on production of crude oil, natural gas,
bitumen, and natural gas liquids.        Our operations are subject to extensive governmental regulations. From time to time, regulatory
agencies have imposed price controls and limitations on production by restricting the rate of flow of crude oil, natural gas, bitumen and natural gas liquids wells below actual production capacity. Because legal requirements are frequently changed
and subject to interpretation, we cannot predict the effect of these requirements.   
         28   

Table of Contents  

     Our investments in joint ventures decrease our ability to manage risk.     
  We conduct many of our operations through joint ventures in which we may share control with our joint venture partners. There is a risk our joint venture
participants may at any time have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with those of the joint venture or us, or our joint venture partners may be unable to meet their economic or other obligations and we may be
required to fulfill those obligations alone. Failure by us, or an entity in which we have a joint venture interest, to adequately manage the risks associated with any acquisitions or joint ventures could have a material adverse effect on the
financial condition or results of operations of our joint ventures and, in turn, our business and operations.        We do not insure against
all potential losses; therefore, we could be harmed by unexpected liabilities and increased costs.        We maintain insurance against
many, but not all, potential losses or liabilities arising from operating risks. As such, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to fully cover us against potential losses arising from such risks. Uninsured losses and liabilities arising from
operating risks could reduce the funds available to us for capital, exploration and investment spending and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.   
    Our operations present hazards and risks that require significant and continuous oversight.     
  The scope and nature of our operations present a variety of significant hazards and risks, including operational hazards and risks such as explosions,
fires, crude oil spills, severe weather, geological events, labor disputes, civil unrest or cyber attacks. Our operations may be adversely affected by unavailability, interruptions or accidents involving infrastructure required to process or
transport our production, such as pipelines, railcars, tankers, barges or other infrastructure. Our operations are also subject to the additional hazards of pollution, releases of toxic gas and other environmental hazards and risks. Activities in
deepwater areas may pose incrementally greater risks because of complex subsurface conditions such as higher reservoir pressures, water depths and metocean conditions. All such hazards could result in loss of human life, significant property and
equipment damage, environmental pollution, impairment of operations, substantial losses to us and damage to our reputation.      Our technologies,
systems and networks may be subject to cybersecurity breaches. Although we have experienced occasional, actual or attempted breaches of our cybersecurity, none of these breaches have had a material effect on our business, operations or reputation.
If our systems for protecting against cybersecurity risks prove to be insufficient, we could be adversely affected by having our business systems compromised, our proprietary information altered, lost or stolen, or our business operations disrupted.
        Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS       None.         Item 3.    LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
      The following is a description of reportable legal proceedings, including those involving governmental authorities under federal, state
and local laws regulating the discharge of materials into the environment for this reporting period. The following proceedings include those matters that arose during the fourth quarter of 2013, as well as matters previously reported in our 2012
Form 10-K and our  first-, second- and third-quarter 2013 Form 10-Qs that were not resolved prior to the fourth quarter of 2013. Material developments to the previously reported matters have been included in the descriptions below. While it is
not possible to accurately predict the final outcome of these pending proceedings, if any one or more of such proceedings were to be decided adversely to ConocoPhillips, we expect there would be no material effect on our consolidated financial
position. Nevertheless, such proceedings are reported pursuant to the SEC regulations.   
         29   

Table of Contents  

   On April 30, 2012, the separation of our Downstream business was completed, creating two independent
energy companies: ConocoPhillips and Phillips 66. In connection with the separation, we entered into an Indemnification and Release Agreement, which provides for cross-indemnities between Phillips 66 and us and established procedures for handling
claims subject to indemnification and related matters, such as legal proceedings. We have included matters where we remain a party to a proceeding relating to Phillips 66, in accordance with SEC regulations. We do not expect any of those matters to
result in a net claim against us.        Matters Previously Reported   ConocoPhillips     
  The New Mexico Environment Department has issued 4 Notices of Violation (NOVs) to ConocoPhillips alleging a total of 16 individual violations for failure
to comply with air emission recordkeeping, reporting and testing requirements at various natural gas compression operations in northwestern New Mexico. These violations are alleged to have occurred between 2006 and 2012. The agency is seeking a
penalty of over $100,000. We are working with the agency to resolve these matters.        Matters Previously Reported   Phillips 66
       In October 2007, ConocoPhillips received a Complaint from the EPA alleging violations of the Clean Water Act related to a 2006 oil
spill at the Phillips 66 Bayway Refinery and proposing a penalty of $156,000.      On May 19, 2010, the Phillips 66 Lake Charles Refinery
received a Consolidated Compliance Order and Notice of Potential Penalty from the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality (LDEQ) alleging various violations of applicable air emission regulations, as well as certain provisions of the consent
decree in Civil Action No. H-01-4430.      In October 2011, ConocoPhillips was notified by the Attorney General of the State of California that it
was conducting an investigation into possible violations of the regulations relating to the operation of underground storage tanks at gas stations in California. On January 3, 2013, the California Attorney General filed a lawsuit notice that
alleges such violations.      On March 7, 2012, the Bay Area Air Quality Management District (District) in California issued a $302,500
demand to settle five NOVs issued between 2008 and 2010. The NOVs allege non-compliance with the District rules and/or facility permit conditions at the Phillips 66 Rodeo Refinery.      On September 19, 2012, the District issued a $213,500 demand to settle 14 NOVs issued in 2009 and 2010 with respect to alleged violations of regulatory and/or permit requirements at the Phillips 66
Rodeo Refinery.      On October 15, 2012, the District issued a $313,000 demand to settle 13 other NOVs issued in 2010 and 2011 with respect
to alleged violations of regulatory and/or permit requirements at the Phillips 66 Rodeo Refinery.      In May 2012, the Illinois Attorney
General s office filed and notified ConocoPhillips of a complaint with respect to operations at the Phillips 66 Wood River Refinery alleging violations of the Illinois groundwater standards and a third-party s hazardous waste permit. The
complaint seeks as relief remediation of area groundwater; compliance with the hazardous waste permit; enhanced pipeline and tank integrity measures; additional spill reporting; and yet-to-be specified amounts for fines and penalties.   
     Item 4.    MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES       Not applicable.   
         30   

Table of Contents  

      EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT    

Name   
      
    Position Held   
      
    Age*    

Ellen R. DeSanctis  
      
  Vice President, Investor Relations and Communications  
      
  57   

Sheila Feldman  
      
  Vice President, Human Resources  
      
  59   

Matt J. Fox  
      
  Executive Vice President, Exploration and Production  
      
  53   

Alan J. Hirshberg  
      
  Executive Vice President, Technology and Projects  
      
  52   

Janet L. Kelly  
      
  Senior Vice President, Legal, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary  
      
  56   

Ryan M. Lance  
      
  Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer  
      
  51   

Andrew D. Lundquist  
      
  Senior Vice President, Government Affairs  
      
  53   

Glenda M. Schwarz  
      
  Vice President and Controller  
      
  48   

Jeff W. Sheets  
      
  Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer  
      
  56   

Don E. Wallette, Jr.  
      
  Executive Vice President, Commercial, Business Development and Corporate Planning  
      
  55   
         *On
February 15, 2014.       There are no family relationships among any of the officers named above. Each officer of the Company is elected
by the Board of Directors at its first meeting after the Annual Meeting of Stockholders and thereafter as appropriate. Each officer of the Company holds office from the date of election until the first meeting of the directors held after the next
Annual Meeting of Stockholders or until a successor is elected. The date of the next annual meeting is May 13, 2014. Set forth below is information about the executive officers.       Ellen R. DeSanctis  was appointed Vice President, Investor Relations and Communications in May 2012. She was previously employed by Petrohawk Energy Corp. and served as Senior Vice President,
Corporate Communications since 2010. Prior to that she was employed by Rosetta Resources Inc. and served as Executive Vice President of Strategy and Development from 2008 to 2010.       Sheila Feldman  was appointed Vice President, Human Resources in May 2012. She was previously employed by Arch Coal, Inc. and served as Vice President, Human Resources since 2003.   
   Matt J. Fox  was appointed Executive Vice President, Exploration and Production in May 2012. Prior to that, he was employed by Nexen, Inc. and
served as Executive Vice President, International since 2010. He was previously employed by ConocoPhillips and served as President, ConocoPhillips Canada from 2009 to 2010 and Senior Vice President, Oil Sands and Canadian Arctic from 2007 to 2009.
      Alan J. Hirshberg  was appointed Executive Vice President, Technology and Projects in May 2012. Prior to that, he served as Senior Vice
President, Planning and Strategy since 2010. He was previously employed by Exxon Mobil Corporation and served as Vice President, Worldwide Deepwater and Africa Projects since 2009; and Vice President, Worldwide Deepwater Projects from 2008 to 2009.
      Janet L. Kelly  was appointed Senior Vice President, Legal, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary in 2007.   
   Ryan M. Lance  was appointed Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer in May 2012, having previously served as Senior Vice
President, Exploration and Production International since May 2009. Prior to that, he served as President, Exploration and Production Asia, Africa, Middle East and Russia/Caspian since April 2009; and President, Exploration and
Production  Europe, Asia, Africa and the Middle East from 2007 to 2009.       Andrew D. Lundquist  was appointed Senior Vice President,
Government Affairs in 2013. Prior to that, he served as managing partner of BlueWater Strategies LLC, since 2002.  
         31   

Table of Contents  

    Glenda M. Schwarz  was appointed Vice President and Controller in 2009. She previously served as
General Auditor and Chief Ethics Officer from 2008 to 2009.      Jeff W. Sheets  was appointed Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief
Financial Officer in May 2012. Prior to that, he served as Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer since 2010 and Senior Vice President, Planning and Strategy since 2008.       Don E. Wallette, Jr.  was appointed Executive Vice President, Commercial, Business Development and Corporate Planning in May 2012. Prior to that, he served as President, Asia Pacific since 2010 and
President, Russia/Caspian from 2006 to 2010.   
         32   

Table of Contents  

      PART II    

Item 5.   
   MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES      
   Quarterly Common Stock Prices and Cash Dividends Per Share       ConocoPhillips  common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange, under the symbol  COP.        
     *In determining the number of stockholders, we consider clearing agencies and security position listings as one
stockholder for each agency listing.        Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities    
  Our share repurchase program announced on December 2, 2011, to repurchase up to $10 billion of common stock expired on December 2, 2013.
Approximately $5.1 billion of shares were repurchased under the program since its inception.   
         33   

Table of Contents  

      Item 6.    SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA    
   
    Many factors can impact the comparability of this information, such as:   

Net income and Net income attributable to ConocoPhillips for all periods presented includes income from discontinued operations as a result of the
separation of the Downstream business, the sale of our interest in Kashagan, the sale of our Algeria business, and the intention to sell our Nigeria business. Total assets for 2011 and prior years includes assets for the Downstream business. For
additional information, see Note 3 Discontinued Operations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.          

The financial data for 2010 includes the impact of $5,563 million before-tax ($4,463 million after-tax) related to gains from asset dispositions and
LUKOIL share sales.         See Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of factors that will enhance an understanding of this data.   
         34   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS      
   Management s Discussion and Analysis is the Company s analysis of its financial performance and of significant trends that may affect future
performance. It should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and notes, and supplemental oil and gas disclosures included elsewhere in this report. It contains forward-looking statements including, without limitation, statements
relating to the Company s plans, strategies, objectives, expectations and intentions that are made pursuant to the  safe harbor  provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words  anticipate, 
 estimate,   believe,   budget,   continue,   could,   intend,   may,   plan,   potential,   predict,   seek,   should, 
 will,   would,   expect,   objective,   projection,   forecast,   goal,   guidance,   outlook,   effort,   target  and similar expressions
identify forward-looking statements. The Company does not undertake to update, revise or correct any of the forward-looking information unless required to do so under the federal securities laws. Readers are cautioned that such forward-looking
statements should be read in conjunction with the Company s disclosures under the heading:  CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR THE PURPOSES OF THE  SAFE HARBOR  PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995, 
beginning on page 71.        Due to discontinued operations reporting, as more fully described below, income (loss) from continuing
operations is more representative of ConocoPhillips  earnings. The terms  earnings  and  loss  as used in Management s Discussion and Analysis refer to income (loss) from continuing operations.    
   BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT AND EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW       ConocoPhillips is the world s largest independent exploration and production (E P) company, based on proved reserves and production of liquids and natural gas. Headquartered in Houston, Texas, we
have operations and activities in 27 countries. At December 31, 2013, we had approximately 18,400 employees worldwide and total assets of $118 billion. Our stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol  COP. 
      Discontinued Operations       On
April 30, 2012, we completed the separation of our downstream businesses into an independent, publicly traded company, Phillips 66. Our refining, marketing and transportation businesses, most of our Midstream segment, our Chemicals segment, as
well as our power generation and certain technology operations included in our Emerging Businesses segment (collectively, our  Downstream business ), were transferred to Phillips 66. As a part of our asset disposition program, in the
fourth quarter of 2013, we completed the sale of our interest in the North Caspian Sea Production Sharing Agreement (Kashagan) and the sale of our Algeria business, and we have agreements to sell our Nigeria business. Results of operations related
to Phillips 66, Kashagan, Algeria and Nigeria have been classified as discontinued operations in all periods presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For additional information, see Note 3 Discontinued Operations, in the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.       Overview       We are an independent E P company focused on exploring for, developing and producing crude oil and natural gas globally. Our asset base reflects our legacy as a major company with a strategic focus on
higher-margin developments. Our diverse portfolio includes resource-rich North American shale and oil sands assets; lower-risk legacy assets in North America, Europe, Asia and Australia; several major international developments; and a growing
inventory of global conventional and unconventional exploration prospects. Our value proposition to our shareholders is to deliver production and cash margin growth, competitive returns on capital, and a compelling dividend, while keeping our
fundamental commitment to safety, operating excellence and environmental stewardship. We expect to achieve this value proposition through optimizing our portfolio, investing in high-margin developments, applying technical capability and maintaining
financial flexibility.   
         35   

Table of Contents  

   We achieved several strategic milestones in 2013. We delivered on our non-core asset sales, advanced our
growth programs, achieved exploration success and increased shareholder distributions. These accomplishments will position us to meet our goal of 3 to 5 percent annual production and margin growth beginning in 2014.   
  During 2013, we generated $15.8 billion in cash from continuing operations, paid dividends on our common stock of $3.3 billion and generated $10.2
billion in proceeds from dispositions of non-core assets. This brings the total proceeds received to $12.4 billion for the 2012 2013 program, which has exceeded our goal of raising $8 $10 billion in proceeds from disposition of
non-strategic assets during 2012 and 2013. Consistent with our commitment to offer our shareholders a compelling dividend, in July 2013, our Board of Directors increased our quarterly dividend by 4.5 percent to $0.69 per share.   
  In 2013, we achieved production of 1,545 thousand barrels of oil equivalent per day (MBOED), including production from discontinued operations of 43
MBOED. With the startup of major projects at Christina Lake Phase E, Ekofisk South and Jasmine in 2013, final preparations underway for full-field startup at Gumusut and Siakap North-Petai, and a portfolio of high-margin opportunities, we have the
momentum to begin delivering our volume growth goals in 2014.      We funded a $16.9 billion capital program in 2013 and fully prepaid a $2.8
billion joint venture acquisition obligation to our 50 percent owned FCCL Partnership. Our 2013 capital program yielded a strong organic reserve replacement, as our annual organic reserve replacement ratio was 179 percent. The organic reserve
additions represent a continuing portfolio shift to higher-value liquids and reflect increased levels of activity in our development programs and major projects.      Our 2014 capital budget of $16.7 billion will target our diverse portfolio of global opportunities, with approximately 55 percent of the budget allocated toward North America and 45 percent toward Europe,
Asia Pacific and other international businesses. Our investments will be directed predominantly toward high-quality developments already underway in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, the Norwegian North Sea, Malaysia and Australia, as
well as exploration opportunities which will continue to build our inventory for the future.       Key Operating and Financial Highlights
      Significant highlights during 2013 included the following:   

Achieved annual organic reserve replacement of 179 percent from reserve additions of approximately 1.1 billion barrels of oil equivalent.     

Achieved annual production of 1,545 MBOED, including continuing operations of 1,502 MBOED and discontinued operations of 43 MBOED, and generated
earnings of $8.0 billion.    

Increased quarterly dividend by 4.5 percent.    

Generated $10.2 billion in proceeds from asset dispositions.    

Announced two deepwater Gulf of Mexico discoveries at Coronado and Gila, adding to the existing Shenandoah and Tiber discoveries in 2009.

Commenced production from major projects at Christina Lake Phase E, Ekofisk South and Jasmine, with preparations underway for full-field startup at
Gumusut and Siakap North-Petai in 2014.    
           Business Environment       The business environment for the energy industry has historically experienced many challenges which have influenced our operations and profitability, largely due to factors beyond our control, such as the
global financial crisis and recession which began in 2008; supply disruptions or fears thereof caused by civil unrest or military conflicts; environmental laws; tax regulations; governmental policies; and weather-related disruptions. Recently, North
America s energy landscape has been transformed from resource scarcity to an abundance of   
         36   

Table of Contents  

supply, as a result of advances in technology responsible for the rapid growth of shale production, successful exploration and development in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and rising production
from the Canadian oil sands. These dynamics generally influence world energy markets and commodity prices. The most significant factor impacting our profitability and related reinvestment of our operating cash flows into our business is commodity
prices, which can be very volatile; therefore, our strategy is to maintain a strong balance sheet with a diverse portfolio of assets, which we believe will provide the financial flexibility to withstand challenging business cycles.   
    Operating and Financial Priorities     
  Important factors we must continue to manage well in order to be successful include:   

Maintaining a relentless focus on safety and environmental stewardship.    Safety and environmental stewardship, including the
operating integrity of our assets, remain our highest priorities, and we are committed to protecting the health and safety of everyone who has a role in our operations and the communities in which we operate. We strive to conduct our business with
respect and care for both the local and global environment and systematically manage risk to drive sustainable business growth. Our sustainability efforts in 2013 focused on updating action plans for climate change, biodiversity, water and human
rights, as well as revamping public reporting to be more informative, searchable and responsive to common questions.         There has been heightened public focus on the safety of the oil and gas industry as a result of the 2010 Deepwater Horizon incident in the Gulf of Mexico. We are a founding member of the Marine Well
Containment Company LLC (MWCC), a non-profit organization formed in 2010 to improve industry spill response in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. MWCC developed a containment system, which meets the U.S. Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement
requirements for a subsea well containment system that can respond to a deepwater well control incident in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. To complement this work internationally, we and several leading oil and gas companies established the Subsea Well
Response Project in Norway, which enhances the oil industry s ability to respond to subsea well-control incidents in international waters.       

Adding to our proved reserve base.    We primarily add to our proved reserve base in three ways:      

o  
  Successful exploration, exploitation and development of new and existing fields.     

o  
  Application of new technologies and processes to improve recovery from existing fields.     

o  
  Acquisition of existing fields.     
  Through a combination of the methods listed above, we have been successful in adding to our proved reserve base, and we anticipate being
able to do so in the future. In the five years ended December 31, 2013, our organic reserve replacement was 145 percent, excluding LUKOIL and the impact of sales and purchases.   
  Access to additional resources has become increasingly difficult as direct investment is prohibited in some nations, while fiscal and
other terms in other countries can make projects uneconomic or unattractive. In addition, political instability, competition from national oil companies, and lack of access to high-potential areas due to environmental or other regulation may
negatively impact our ability to increase our reserve base. As such, the timing and level at which we add to our reserve base may, or may not, allow us to replace our production over subsequent years.   

Disciplined investment approach.    We participate in a capital-intensive industry. As a result, we must invest significant capital
dollars to explore for new oil and gas fields, develop newly discovered fields, maintain existing fields, and construct pipelines and liquefied natural gas (LNG) facilities. We use a disciplined approach to select the appropriate projects which will
provide the most attractive investment opportunities, with a continued focus on organic growth in volumes and margins through higher-margin oil, condensate and LNG projects and limited investment in North American
     
         37   

Table of Contents  

conventional natural gas. As investments bring more liquids production online, we expect a corresponding shift in our production mix. However, there are often long lead times from the time we
make an investment decision to the time the asset is operational and generates financial returns.         Our
actual capital program for 2013 was $16.9 billion, excluding a $2.8 billion prepayment to FCCL for the remaining balance of our joint venture acquisition obligation. Our capital budget for 2014 is $16.7 billion. Approximately 13 percent of the 2014
capital budget is allocated toward maintenance of our legacy base portfolio, including planned turnarounds; 39 percent is allocated to high-margin development drilling programs, mostly in North America, which is intended to offset natural field
decline from our producing assets; 35 percent is focused on sanctioned major developments, such as Australia Pacific LNG (APLNG) and Surmont Phase 2; and 13 percent is planned for our worldwide exploration and appraisal program, which will target
both conventional and unconventional plays.       

Portfolio optimization.    We continue to optimize our asset portfolio by focusing on assets which offer the highest returns and growth
potential, while selling nonstrategic holdings. In 2012, we announced plans to sell $8 $10 billion of noncore assets through the end of 2013. During 2013, we received proceeds from dispositions of approximately $10.2 billion, which primarily
resulted from:          

o  
  The disposition of our 8.4 percent interest in Kashagan, located in Kazakhstan.     

o  
  The sale of our Algeria business.     

o  
  The sale of the majority of our producing zones in the Cedar Creek Anticline, located in North Dakota and Montana.     

o  
  The sale of our Clyden undeveloped oil sands leasehold, located in Canada.     

o  
  The disposition of our 39 percent equity investment in Phoenix Park Gas Processors Limited, located in Trinidad and Tobago.     

o  
  The disposition of a portion of our working interests in the Poseidon discovery in the Browse Basin and the Goldwyer Shale in the Canning Basin.

o  
  The disposition of certain properties located in southwest Louisiana.     

o  
  The sale of our 10 percent interest in the Interconnector Pipeline, located in Europe.     
  As previously announced, we entered into agreements to sell our Nigeria business, which includes its upstream affiliates and Brass LNG.
The upstream sale is anticipated to close in the first quarter of 2014 and generate proceeds of approximately $1.5 billion, after customary adjustments. We have received deposits to date of $500 million, with the remainder of approximately $1.0
billion due at closing. The buyer has until March 31, 2014, to close on Brass LNG. The sale of Brass LNG would generate proceeds of approximately $0.16 billion, after customary adjustments.   
  During 2012, we received proceeds of $2.1 billion from the sale of our Vietnam business, the Statfjord and Alba fields in the North Sea,
our investment in Naryanmarneftegaz (NMNG) in Russia, and the additional dilution of our interest in APLNG from 42.5 percent to 37.5 percent.      Although we are near completion of the 2012 2013 asset disposition program, we will continue to evaluate our assets to determine whether they fit our strategic direction. We will prune the portfolio
as necessary and direct our capital investments to areas which will achieve our strategic objectives.       

Controlling costs and expenses.    Since we cannot control the prices of the commodity products we sell, controlling operating and
overhead costs, within the context of our commitment to safety and environmental stewardship, is a high priority. We monitor these costs using various methodologies that are reported to senior management monthly, on both an absolute-dollar basis and
a per-unit basis. As managing operating and overhead costs is critical to maintaining competitive positions in our industry, cost control is a component of our variable compensation programs. Operating and overhead costs increased 4 percent in 2013
compared with 2012, primarily as a result of higher operating expenses in the Lower 48 associated with increased production.      
         38   

Table of Contents  

Applying technical capability .   We focus on ways to leverage our knowledge and technology to create value and safely deliver on our
plans. Technical strength is part of our heritage, and we are evolving our technical approach to optimally apply best practices where they matter most. In 2013, we tested new technology as a means to provide remote monitoring capability, as well as
new methods that could increase production and reduce water usage and emissions from assets, such as the oil sands and unconventional reservoirs. Companywide, we continue to evaluate potential solutions to leverage knowledge of technological
successes across all of our operations. Such innovations enable us to economically convert additional resources to reserves, achieve greater operating efficiencies and reduce our environmental impact.      

Developing and retaining a talented work force.    We strive to attract, train, develop and retain individuals with the knowledge and
skills to implement our business strategy and who support our values and ethics. As part of our future workforce planning, we are committed to increasing student interest in energy industry professions by awarding scholarships in science,
technology, engineering, mathematics, accounting and finance, as well as providing university internships to attract the best talent. We also recruit experienced hires to maintain a broad range of skills and experience. Career development is an
important investment in our employees and our future, so we focus on continued learning, development and technical training through structured development programs designed to accelerate technical and functional skills of our employees.
        Other significant factors that can affect our profitability include:   

Commodity prices.    Our earnings generally correlate with industry price levels for crude oil and natural gas. These are commodity
products, the prices of which are subject to factors external to our company and over which we have no control. The following table depicts the average benchmark prices for West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude oil, Dated Brent crude oil and U.S.
Henry Hub natural gas:           
 
   Brent crude oil prices decreased 3 percent in 2013, compared with 2012, to average $108.65 per
barrel, as disruptions to the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) supplies were more than offset by non-OPEC production growth. Global oil demand grew 1 percent, or about 1.2 million barrels per day, to 91.2 million
barrels per day. The fiscal uncertainties that plagued many developed countries, while not completely resolved, subsided enough to help restore confidence and growth in real economic activity in 2013.   
  WTI crude oil prices increased 4 percent in 2013, compared with 2012, as new infrastructure helped to alleviate the glut at Cushing,
Oklahoma, by increasing the movement of physical barrels toward U.S. Gulf Coast refining centers. As a result, the WTI discount to Brent decreased by 38 percent to average $10.75. U.S. crude oil production grew 16 percent to reach an average of
7.5 million barrels per day. The growth was led by shale oil developments such as Bakken, Eagle Ford and Permian. U.S. oil demand increased by 2 percent in 2013, as economic growth strengthened.   
  Henry Hub natural gas prices increased 31 percent in 2013 compared with 2012. Strong weather-driven demand growth outweighed production
growth and drew down high storage inventories. U.S. natural gas consumption rose 2 percent, or 1.5 billion cubic feet per day, to an all-time high of   
         39   

Table of Contents  

71.2 billion cubic feet per day. U.S. dry gas production increased 1 percent, by 0.8 billion cubic feet per day, to reach 66.5 billion cubic feet per day, as growth from the Marcellus shale
gas play more than offset declines in other areas.      The expansion in shale production has also helped boost supplies of
natural gas liquids, resulting in downward pressure on natural gas liquids prices in the United States. As a result, our domestic realized natural gas liquids price declined 11 percent in 2013 compared with 2012. Our realized bitumen price remained
relatively flat in 2013.      In recent years, the use of hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling in shale natural gas
formations has led to increased industry actual and forecasted natural gas production in the United States. Although providing significant short- and long-term growth opportunities for our company, the increased abundance of natural gas due to
development of shale plays could also have adverse financial implications to us, including: an extended period of low natural gas and natural gas liquids prices; production curtailments on properties that produce primarily natural gas; delay of
plans to develop Alaska North Slope natural gas fields; and underutilization of LNG regasification facilities. Should one or more of these events occur, our revenues would be reduced and additional impairments might be possible.   

Impairments.    As mentioned above, we participate in capital-intensive industries. At times, our properties, plants and equipment and
investments become impaired when, for example, our reserve estimates are revised downward, commodity prices decline significantly for long periods of time, or a decision to dispose of an asset leads to a write-down to its fair value. We may also
invest large amounts of money in exploration which, if exploratory drilling proves unsuccessful, could lead to a material impairment of leasehold values. Before-tax impairments in 2013 totaled $0.5 billion and mainly resulted from impairments of
various properties in Europe, which have ceased production or are nearing the end of their useful lives, and mature natural gas properties in Canada. Before-tax impairments in 2012 totaled $1.2 billion and primarily resulted from the impairments of
the Mackenzie Gas Project and associated leaseholds in Canada; Cedar Creek Anticline in the Lower 48; various properties in Europe, which have ceased production or are nearing the end of their useful lives; and the N Block in the Caspian Sea. For
additional information, see Note 9 Impairments, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.          

Effective tax rate.    Our operations are located in countries with different tax rates and fiscal structures. Accordingly, even in a
stable commodity price and fiscal/regulatory environment, our overall effective tax rate can vary significantly between periods based on the  mix  of pretax earnings within our global operations.         

Fiscal and regulatory environment.    Our operations can be affected by changing economic, regulatory and political environments in the
various countries in which we operate, including the United States. Civil unrest or strained relationships with governments may impact our operations or investments. These changing environments have generally negatively impacted our results of
operations, and further changes to government fiscal take could have a negative impact on future operations. Our production operations in Libya and related oil exports have been suspended since July 2013 due to the closure of the Es Sider crude oil
export terminal, and they were also suspended in 2011 during Libya s period of civil unrest. In the United Kingdom, the government enacted tax legislation in both 2012 and 2011, which increased our U.K. corporate tax rate. Our assets in
Venezuela and Ecuador were expropriated in 2007 and 2009, respectively. Our management carefully considers these events when evaluating projects or determining the level of activity in such countries.      
         40   

Table of Contents  

    Outlook       Due to the ongoing shutdown of the Es Sider Terminal in Libya, we intend to exclude Libya from our future production outlooks. Production from continuing operations for 2013 was 1,502 MBOED, or 1,472
MBOED adjusted for Libya. Full-year 2014 production from continuing operations is expected to be approximately 1,550 MBOED, excluding Libya. First-quarter 2014 production from continuing operations is expected to be 1,490 to 1,530 MBOED, excluding
Libya. Our Corporate and Other segment earnings are expected to be an after-tax loss of approximately $1.0 billion for the full-year 2014.   
    Freeport LNG Terminal        We have a
long-term agreement with Freeport LNG Development, L.P. to use 0.9 billion cubic feet per day of regasification capacity at Freeport s 1.5-billion-cubic-feet-per-day LNG receiving terminal in Quintana, Texas. In July 2013, we agreed with
Freeport LNG to terminate this agreement, subject to Freeport LNG obtaining regulatory approval and project financing for an LNG liquefaction and export facility in Texas, in which we are not a participant. Upon satisfaction of these
conditions, currently expected to occur in the second half of 2014, we will pay Freeport LNG a termination fee of approximately $600 million. Freeport LNG will repay the outstanding ConocoPhillips loan used by Freeport LNG to partially fund the
original construction of the terminal. These transactions, plus miscellaneous items, will result in a one-time net cash outflow of approximately $80 million for us. When the agreement becomes effective, we also expect to recognize an after-tax
charge to earnings of approximately $540 million. At that time, our terminal regasification capacity will be reduced from 0.9 billion cubic feet per day to 0.4 billion cubic feet per day, until July 1, 2016, at which time it will be
reduced to zero. As a result of this transaction, we anticipate saving approximately $50 to $60 million per year in operating costs over the next 19 years. For additional information, see Note 4 Variable Interest Entities (VIEs), in
the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.       Operating Segments       We manage our operations through six operating segments, which are defined by geographic region: Alaska, Lower 48 and Latin America, Canada, Europe, Asia Pacific and Middle East, and Other International.
     The LUKOIL Investment segment represents our prior investment in the ordinary shares of OAO LUKOIL, which was sold in the first quarter of
2011.      Corporate and Other represents costs not directly associated with an operating segment, such as most interest expense, corporate
overhead, costs related to the separation and certain technology activities, as well as licensing revenues received.      Our key performance
indicators, shown in the statistical tables provided at the beginning of the operating segment sections that follow, reflect results from our continuing operations, including commodity prices and production.   
         41   

Table of Contents  

    RESULTS OF OPERATIONS       Consolidated Results       A summary of the company s income (loss) from continuing
operations by business segment follows:       
     2013 vs. 2012       Earnings for ConocoPhillips increased 7 percent in 2013. The increase was mainly due to:       

Higher natural gas prices.      

A higher proportion of production in higher-margin areas and a continued portfolio shift toward liquids.      

Lower production taxes, primarily as a result of lower production volumes and prices, and higher capital spending in Alaska.
        These items were partially offset by:       

Higher depreciation, depletion and amortization (DD A) expenses, mainly due to higher volumes in the Lower 48 and China.

Higher operating expenses.      

Lower crude oil and natural gas liquids prices.      
         42   

Table of Contents  

    2012 vs. 2011       Earnings for ConocoPhillips increased 4 percent in 2012. The increase was mainly due to:       

Higher gains from asset sales. In 2012, gains from asset dispositions were $1,567 million after-tax, compared with gains in 2011 from asset
dispositions and LUKOIL share sales of $141 million  after-tax.       

Higher LNG and crude oil prices.      

Lower production taxes, mainly as a result of lower volumes.      

The benefit from the realization of a tax loss carryforward of $236 million.      

The favorable resolution of pending claims and settlements of $235 million after-tax.      
  These items were partially offset by:       

Lower volumes, largely due to dispositions and reduced production in China.      

Lower natural gas, natural gas liquids and bitumen prices.      

Higher operating and selling, general and administrative (SG A) expenses, which included pension settlement expenses of $87 million after-tax and
separation costs of $84 million after-tax.      
 
         43   

Table of Contents  

    Income Statement Analysis        2013 vs. 2012        Sales and other operating revenues  decreased 6 percent in 2013,
mainly due to lower natural gas volumes and lower crude oil prices, partly offset by higher natural gas prices.       Equity in earnings of
affiliates  increased 16 percent in 2013. The increase primarily resulted from higher earnings from FCCL Partnership, mainly as a result of higher bitumen volumes.       Gain on dispositions  decreased 25 percent in 2013. For additional information, see Note 6 Assets Held for Sale or Sold, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   
   Other income  decreased 20 percent in 2013, primarily due to the absence of the 2012 benefit which resulted from the favorable resolution of the
Petr leos de Venezuela S.A. (PDVSA) International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) arbitration. The decrease was partly offset by a $150 million insurance settlement in 2013 associated with the Bohai Bay seepage incidents. For information on a
separate PDVSA arbitration with the World Bank s International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID), see Note 14 Contingencies and Commitments, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   
   Purchased commodities  decreased 10 percent in 2013, largely as a result of lower purchased natural gas volumes, partly offset by higher natural
gas prices.       Production and operating expenses  increased 7 percent in 2013, primarily due to increased drilling activity and production
volumes, mostly in the Lower 48, in addition to a charge related to a settlement in Asia Pacific and Middle East. These increases were partly offset by the reduction of an accrual related to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) approval
of cost allocation (pooling) agreements with the remaining owners of the Trans-Alaska Pipeline System (TAPS).       SG A expenses 
decreased 23 percent in 2013, primarily due to the absence of separation costs, lower pension settlement expense and lower costs related to compensation and benefit plans. For additional information on pension settlement expense, see Note
19 Employee Benefit Plans, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.       Exploration expenses  decreased 18 percent in 2013,
largely due to lower leasehold impairment costs. Exploration costs in 2012 included the $481 million impairment of undeveloped leasehold costs associated with the Mackenzie Gas Project, as a result of the indefinite suspension of the project.
Increased 2013 exploration activity and higher dry hole costs, mostly in the Lower 48, partly offset the reduction.       DD A  increased
13 percent in 2013. The increase was mostly associated with higher production volumes in the Lower 48. Higher production volumes in China partly contributed to the increase.       Impairments  decreased 22 percent in 2013. Impairments in 2013 mainly consisted of increases in the asset retirement obligation (ARO) for properties located in the United Kingdom, which have ceased
production or are nearing the end of their useful lives, and mature natural gas properties in Canada. Impairments in 2012 consisted of impairments of capitalized development costs associated with the Mackenzie Gas Project, the disposition of Cedar
Creek Anticline and impairments of late-life U.K. properties. For additional information, see Note 9 Impairments, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.       Taxes other than income taxes  decreased 19 percent in 2013, mainly due to lower production taxes as a result of lower crude oil production volumes and prices, and higher capital spending in Alaska.
      Interest and debt expense  decreased 14 percent in 2013, mostly as a result of lower interest expense from lower average debt levels.
  
         44   

Table of Contents  

   See Note 20 Income Taxes, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for information regarding
our  provision for income taxes  and effective tax rate.       2012 vs. 2011        Sales and other operating revenues  decreased 10 percent in 2012, mainly due to lower natural gas and natural gas liquids prices, partly offset by higher LNG prices.   
   Equity in earnings of affiliates  increased 54 percent in 2012. The increase primarily resulted from:   

Improved earnings from Qatar Liquefied Gas Company Limited (3) (QG3), mainly due to higher LNG prices, partly offset by lower volumes.

Lower impairments from NMNG. In 2011, equity earnings included a $395 million impairment of our equity investment.      
   Gain on dispositions  increased $1,287 million in 2012. Gains in 2012 primarily resulted from the disposition of our Vietnam business, our equity
investment in NMNG and the Statfjord and Alba fields in the North Sea, partly offset by the loss on further dilution of our equity interest in APLNG from 42.5 percent to 37.5 percent. Gains in 2011 mainly consisted of the divestiture of our
remaining LUKOIL shares and the disposition of certain properties located in the Lower 48 and Canada, partially offset by the loss on the initial dilution of our equity interest in APLNG from 50 percent to 42.5 percent.   
   Other income  increased 78 percent in 2012, mostly as a result of the favorable resolution of the PDVSA ICC arbitration.   
   Purchased commodities  decreased 15 percent in 2012, largely as a result of lower U.S. natural gas prices, partly offset by higher purchased
volumes.       Production and operating expenses  increased 6 percent in 2012, mostly due to major turnaround expenses at our Bayu-Undan
Field and Darwin LNG facility and higher operating expenses in the Lower 48.       SG A expenses  increased 28 percent in 2012, primarily
due to pension settlement expense and costs associated with the separation of Phillips 66.       Exploration expenses  increased 45 percent
in 2012, mostly due to the Mackenzie Gas Project impairment.       Impairments  increased 112 percent in 2012. Impairments in 2012 included
the impairment of capitalized development costs associated with the Mackenzie Gas Project, the disposition of Cedar Creek Anticline, and impairments of various late-life properties, mostly located in the United Kingdom. Impairments in 2011 consisted
of various North American natural gas properties.       Taxes other than income taxes  decreased 11 percent in 2012, mostly due to lower
production taxes as a result of lower crude oil production volumes.       Interest and debt expense  decreased 26 percent in 2012, primarily
due to higher capitalized interest on projects and lower interest expense due to lower average debt levels.      See Note 20 Income Taxes, in
the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for information regarding our  provision for income taxes  and effective tax rate.   
         45   

Table of Contents  

    Summary Operating Statistics    
   
     Excludes discontinued operations.          *Thousands of barrels per day.         **Millions of cubic feet per day.
Represents quantities available for sale and excludes gas equivalent of natural gas liquids included above.        ***Thousands of barrels of
oil equivalent per day.       We explore for, produce, transport and market crude oil, bitumen, natural gas, LNG and natural gas liquids on a
worldwide basis. At December 31, 2013, our continuing operations were producing in the United States, Norway, the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, Timor-Leste, Indonesia, China, Malaysia, Qatar, Libya and Russia.   
  In 2013, average production from continuing operations decreased 2 percent compared with 2012, mainly due to normal field decline, asset dispositions,
shut-in Libya production, due to the closure of the Es Sider crude oil export terminal, and higher unplanned downtime. These decreases were partially offset by new production from major developments, mainly from shale plays in the Lower 48, the
ramp-up of production from new phases at Christina Lake in Canada, and early production in Malaysia; higher production in China; and increased conventional drilling and well performance, mostly in the Lower 48, western Canada and Norway. Adjusted
for dispositions, downtime and the impact from the closure of the Es Sider Terminal in Libya, production grew by 30 MBOED, or 2 percent, compared with 2012.      In 2012, average production from continuing operations decreased 2 percent compared with 2011, primarily as a result of normal field decline, the impact from asset dispositions and higher planned and
unplanned downtime. These decreases were largely offset by additional production from major developments, mainly from shale plays in the Lower 48 and ramp-up of new phases at FCCL, the resumption of production in Libya following a period of civil
unrest in 2011, and increased drilling programs in the Lower 48.   
         46   

Table of Contents  

    Alaska        
    The Alaska segment primarily explores for, produces, transports and markets crude oil, natural gas liquids, natural gas
and LNG. In 2013, Alaska contributed 23 percent of our worldwide liquids production and 1 percent of our natural gas production.       2013
vs. 2012       Alaska earnings in 2013 were flat compared with 2012 earnings. Earnings in 2013 were mainly impacted by lower crude oil volumes
and lower crude oil prices. These decreases to earnings were mostly offset by lower production taxes, which resulted from lower prices, higher 2013 capital spending and lower crude oil production volumes. Additionally, 2013 earnings benefitted from
the impact of a ruling by the FERC.      In 2012, the major owners of TAPS filed a proposed settlement with FERC to resolve pooling disputes prior
to August 2012 and establish a voluntary pooling agreement to pool costs prospectively from August 2012. In July 2013, the FERC approved the proposed settlement and pooling agreement without modification. Under the terms of the agreements, we paid
the other remaining owners of TAPS $355 million, including interest, in the third quarter of 2013. As a result of FERC approval of these agreements, we reduced a related accrual in the second quarter of 2013, which decreased our production and
operating expenses by $97 million after-tax. The FERC ruling approving these agreements has been appealed by certain parties to the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia.      Production averaged 200 MBOED in 2013, a decrease of 6 percent compared with 2012. This decrease was mainly due to normal field decline, partially offset by lower planned downtime.   
   2012 vs. 2011       Alaska earnings in 2012
increased 15 percent compared with earnings in 2011. The increase in earnings was primarily due to higher crude oil prices, lower production taxes as a result of lower crude oil production volumes, the absence of the $54 million after-tax write-off
of our investment associated with the cancellation of the Denali gas pipeline project in 2011, and lower DD A. These increases were partly offset by lower crude oil sales volumes and higher operating expenses.   
  Production averaged 213 MBOED in 2012, a decrease of 5 percent compared with 2011. This decrease was mainly due to normal field decline, partially offset
by lower unplanned downtime.   
         47   

Table of Contents  

    Lower 48 and Latin America    
   
    During 2013, Lower 48 and Latin America contributed 29 percent of our worldwide liquids production and 38 percent of
our natural gas production. The Lower 48 and Latin America segment primarily consists of operations located in the U.S. Lower 48 states, as well as exploration activities in the Gulf of Mexico and Colombia.   
   2013 vs. 2012       Lower 48 and Latin
America earnings increased 5 percent in 2013 compared with 2012. Earnings in 2013 largely benefitted from higher crude oil and NGL volumes, higher gains from asset dispositions, mostly as a result of the $288 million after-tax gain on disposition of
our equity investment in Phoenix Park, higher natural gas and crude oil prices and lower impairments. These increases were partially offset by higher DD A, as a result of higher crude oil production, as well as the absence of the 2012
realization of a tax loss carryforward of $236 million and the 2012 favorable resolution of the PDVSA ICC arbitration, as more fully described below. Higher operating expenses, higher exploration expenses, which mainly resulted from the Thorn and
Ardennes dry holes in the Gulf of Mexico, and lower NGL prices also partially offset the increase in 2013 earnings. For additional information on asset sales, see Note 6 Assets Held for Sale or Sold, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.      In November 2012, based on an ICC arbitration tribunal ruling, PDVSA paid ConocoPhillips $68 million for pre-expropriation
breaches of the Petrozuata project agreements, which resulted in a $61 million after-tax earnings increase. The Company also recognized additional income of $173 million after-tax associated with the reversal of a related contingent liability
accrual. These amounts included interest of $33 million after-tax, which was reflected in the Corporate and Other segment. For information on a separate PDVSA ICSID arbitration, see Note 14 Contingencies and Commitments, in the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.      Average production in the Lower 48 increased 7 percent in 2013, while average crude oil production
increased 24 percent in the same period. New production, primarily from the Eagle Ford and Bakken areas, and improved drilling and well performance more than offset normal field decline and the impact from dispositions.   
   2012 vs. 2011       Lower 48 and Latin
America earnings decreased 20 percent in 2012 compared with 2011. The decrease in earnings was primarily the result of substantially lower natural gas and natural gas liquids prices; higher DD A, mostly due to higher crude oil and natural
gas liquids production; lower gains from asset dispositions; higher operating expenses and higher impairments. These decreases were partially offset by higher crude oil   
         48   

Table of Contents  

and natural gas liquids volumes. Earnings in 2012 also benefitted from the realization of a tax loss carryforward of $236 million, and the favorable resolution of the PDVSA ICC arbitration.
     Average production increased 7 percent in 2012, while average crude oil production increased 31 percent over the same period. New production,
primarily from the Eagle Ford, Bakken and Permian areas, and improved drilling and well performance more than offset normal field decline. In addition, higher unplanned downtime during 2012 partly offset the increase in production.   
   Canada        
    Our Canadian operations are mainly comprised of natural gas fields in western Canada and oil sands developments in the
Athabasca Region of northeastern Alberta. In 2013, Canada contributed 17 percent of our worldwide liquids production and 20 percent of our natural gas production.       2013 vs. 2012       Canada operations reported earnings of $718 million in 2013, an increase of
$1,402 million, compared with a loss of $684 million in 2012. The increase in 2013 earnings was largely due to:       

The $461 million after-tax gain on disposition of our Clyden undeveloped oil sands leasehold.      

Lower impairments. Impairments in 2013 consisted of the $162 million after-tax impairment of mature natural gas assets in western Canada. Impairments
in 2012 mainly resulted from the $520 million after-tax impairment of the Mackenzie Gas Project and associated undeveloped leaseholds.      

Higher bitumen volumes, primarily at Christina Lake.      

The recognition of additional income of $224 million related to the favorable tax resolution associated with the sale of certain western Canada
properties in a prior year.      
         49   

Table of Contents  

   For additional information on asset sales, see Note 6 Assets Held for Sale or Sold, in the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements. For additional information on impairments, see Note 9 Impairments, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.      Average production in Canada increased 1 percent in 2013, while average liquids production increased 13 percent in the same period, primarily from the oil sands. Normal field decline was more than
offset by the ramp-up of production from Christina Lake Phases D and E in FCCL and improved drilling and well performance from western Canada.   
   2012 vs. 2011       Canada operations
reported a loss of $684 million in 2012, a reduction of $775 million, compared with earnings of $91 million in 2011. The decrease in earnings was largely due to significantly lower natural gas prices, lower bitumen prices and higher impairments,
mainly as a result of the Mackenzie Gas Project impairment in 2012. These decreases were partially offset by significantly higher bitumen volumes from FCCL and lower DD A from our western Canadian gas assets, primarily due to asset
dispositions and curtailments. Equity earnings from FCCL were also impacted by higher operating and DD A expenses, mostly as a result of higher production volumes.      Average production in Canada increased 5 percent in 2012, while average liquids production increased 24 percent over the same period. Normal field decline and the impact from asset dispositions were
more than offset by new production from Christina Lake Phases C and D and improved well performance from Foster Creek in FCCL.       Europe
       
    The Europe segment consists of operations principally located in the Norwegian and U.K. sectors of the North Sea, as well
as exploration activities in Poland and Greenland. In 2013, our Europe operations contributed 14 percent of our worldwide liquids production and 11 percent of our natural gas production.       2013 vs. 2012       Europe operations reported a 20 percent decrease in 2013 earnings compared
with 2012, primarily due to lower volumes and lower gains from asset dispositions. Gains realized in 2012 included the $287 million after-tax gain on sale of our interests in the Statfjord and Alba fields, compared with the $83 million after-tax
gain on sale of our interest in the Interconnector Pipeline in 2013. These decreases were partly offset by the absence of   
         50   

Table of Contents  

the recognition of $170 million in additional income tax expense in 2012, as a result of legislation enacted in the United Kingdom, which restricted corporate tax relief on decommissioning costs
to 50 percent. The additional tax expense resulted from the revaluation of deferred tax balances.      Average production decreased 17 percent in
2013, primarily due to normal field decline. Major planned maintenance at Greater Ekofisk, higher unplanned downtime, mostly in the East Irish Sea, and asset dispositions also contributed to the decrease. These decreases were partially offset by
improved drilling and well performance in Norway and new production from Jasmine and Ekofisk South.       2012 vs. 2011    
  Earnings from Europe decreased 18 percent in 2012 compared with 2011, mainly as a result of lower volumes, higher impairments and the U.K. tax increase.
These decreases to earnings were partly offset by the gain on disposition of Statfjord and Alba and lower DD A. Additionally, earnings in 2011 included a $316 million increase in U.K. corporate income tax expense due to legislation enacted in
2011. This additional tax expense consisted of $106 million for the revaluation of deferred tax liabilities and $210 million to reflect the higher tax rates from the effective date of the legislation, March 24, 2011, through December 31,
2011.      Production decreased 18 percent in 2012, mostly due to normal field decline, dispositions and higher unplanned downtime in the United
Kingdom.   
         51   

Table of Contents  

    Asia Pacific and Middle East    
   
    The Asia Pacific and Middle East segment has producing operations in China, Indonesia, Malaysia, Australia, Timor-Leste
and Qatar, as well as exploration activities in Bangladesh and Brunei. During 2013, Asia Pacific and Middle East contributed 13 percent of our worldwide liquids production and 30 percent of our natural gas production.   
   2013 vs. 2012       Asia Pacific and Middle
East earnings decreased 10 percent in 2013 compared with 2012. The decrease in earnings was largely due to:       

Lower gains from asset dispositions. Amounts realized from dispositions in 2012 included the $937 million after-tax gain on sale of our Vietnam
business, in addition to the $133 million after-tax loss on further dilution of our equity interest in APLNG from 42.5 percent to 37.5 percent.      

Higher DD A, mostly due to increased production in China.      

A $116 million after-tax charge associated with a settlement.      
         52   

Table of Contents  

Lower crude oil prices.      

Higher operating expenses and production taxes.      
    These decreases to earnings were partially offset by:       

Higher crude oil and LNG volumes.      

A $146 million after-tax insurance settlement associated with the Bohai Bay seepage incidents.      

The absence of an $89 million after-tax charge related to the Bohai Bay settlement with the China State Oceanic Administration in 2012.

Higher equity earnings, mainly due to an $85 million tax benefit from foreign currency exchange rate movements.      
  Average production increased 4 percent in 2013. The improvement was largely due to:   

Increased production in Bohai Bay, China.      

New production from Panyu in the South China Sea.      

The continued ramp-up of production in Malaysia.      

Lower planned downtime, mainly from our Bayu-Undan Field and Darwin LNG facility.      
  These increases were partly offset by normal field decline and the Vietnam disposition.       2012 vs. 2011       Asia Pacific and Middle East earnings increased 29 percent in 2012 compared
with 2011. Earnings in 2012 primarily benefitted from higher gains from asset dispositions, significantly higher LNG prices, higher equity earnings due to lower DD A and operating expenses from QG3, and lower Bohai Bay expenses incurred in 2012.
Amounts realized from dispositions in 2012 consisted of the Vietnam gain and the APLNG loss on further dilution from 42.5 percent to 37.5 percent, compared with a $279 million after-tax loss on the initial dilution of our interest in APLNG from 50
percent to 42.5 percent in 2011. The increase in 2012 earnings was partly offset by lower crude oil volumes, mainly as a result of the Bohai Bay seepage incidents and the Vietnam disposition, lower LNG volumes and higher production taxes.
     Average production decreased 10 percent in 2012. The decrease was largely due to the disposition of our Vietnam business, normal field
decline, planned maintenance at our Bayu-Undan Field and Darwin LNG Facility in 2012, as well as lower production in China.   
         53   

Table of Contents  

    Other International        

    The Other International segment includes producing operations in Libya and Russia, as well as exploration activities in
Angola, Senegal and Azerbaijan. During 2013, Other International contributed 4 percent of our worldwide liquids production.       2013 vs.
2012       Other International operations reported a loss of $6 million in 2013, compared with earnings of $359 million in 2012. The decrease
in earnings was mainly due to the absence of the $443 million after-tax gain on disposition of our interest in NMNG in 2012. Lower volumes from Libya also contributed to the reduction. These decreases were partially offset by lower impairments.
Earnings in 2012 included a $108 million after-tax impairment associated with the N Block in the Caspian Sea.      Average production decreased 39
percent in 2013, largely as a result of the shutdown of the Es Sider crude oil export terminal in Libya at the end of July 2013 and the disposition of our interest in NMNG in 2012. These decreases were partially offset by higher production from
Libya during the first six months of 2013, compared with the ramp-up of production in 2012 following their period of civil unrest. Libya production remains shut-in, as the Es Sider Terminal closure has continued into the first quarter of 2014.
      2012 vs. 2011       Other
International earnings were $359 million in 2012, a $736 million increase compared with 2011. Earnings in 2012 primarily benefitted from the NMNG disposition, the absence of a $395 million after-tax impairment of our investment in NMNG in 2011, and
higher earnings from Libya, as a result of the resumption of production following a period of civil unrest in 2011. These increases were partially offset by the N Block impairment.      Average production increased 51 percent in 2012, mainly due to the resumption of production in Libya, partly offset by field decline in Russia and the disposition of our interest in NMNG.   
         54   

Table of Contents  

     Asset Dispositions        In 2013, we sold our 8.4 percent interest in Kashagan for $5.4 billion, and we sold our Algeria business for $1.65 billion. We also have agreements to sell our Nigeria business, which includes its
upstream affiliates and Brass LNG. Results of operations related to Kashagan, Algeria and Nigeria have been classified as discontinued operations in all periods presented in this Form 10-K. For additional information, see Note 3 Discontinued
Operations and Note 6 Assets Held for Sale or Sold, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.       LUKOIL Investment
       
    This segment represents our former investment in the ordinary shares of OAO LUKOIL, an international, integrated oil and
gas company headquartered in Russia. We sold our remaining interest in LUKOIL in the first quarter of 2011.       Corporate and Other
       
     2013 vs. 2012       Net interest consists of interest and financing expense, net of interest income and capitalized interest, as well as premiums incurred on the early retirement of debt. Net interest decreased 18 percent in
2013, compared with 2012, primarily due to the absence of a $68 million after-tax premium on early debt retirement in 2012 and lower interest expense on lower average debt levels. These improvements were partially offset by the absence of the $33
million after-tax interest benefit from the 2012 favorable resolution of the PDVSA ICC arbitration. For additional information on the ICC arbitration, see the Results of Operations for Lower 48 and Latin America.   
  Corporate general and administrative expenses decreased 32 percent in 2013, mainly due to lower pension settlement expense and lower costs related to
compensation and benefit plans. Pension settlement expense incurred in 2013 was $41 million after-tax, compared with $87 million after-tax in 2012.      Technology includes our investment in new technologies or businesses, as well as licensing revenues received. Activities are focused on heavy oil and oil sands; unconventional reservoirs; subsurface
technology; liquefied natural gas; and arctic, deepwater and sustainability technology.      Separation costs consist of expenses related to the
separation of our Downstream business into a stand-alone, publicly traded company, Phillips 66.   
         55   

Table of Contents  

   The category  Other  includes certain foreign currency transaction gains and losses, environmental
costs associated with sites no longer in operation, and other costs not directly associated with an operating segment.  Other  expenses increased $127 million in 2013, primarily as a result of higher tax-related adjustments, the absence of
a $39 million after-tax settlement which benefitted 2012 and higher foreign currency transaction losses.       2012 vs. 2011    
  Net interest decreased 9 percent in 2012 compared with 2011, mostly due to higher capitalized interest, lower interest expense due to lower average debt
levels, higher interest income and the $33 million after-tax interest benefit from the favorable resolution of the PDVSA arbitration. These improvements were partly offset by a $68 million after-tax premium on early debt retirement.   
  Corporate general and administrative expenses increased 65 percent in 2012, mainly due to $87 million of after-tax pension settlement expense and higher
costs related to compensation and benefit plans.      Technology reported a loss of $4 million in 2012, compared to earnings of $15 million
in 2011, primarily as a result of lower licensing revenues.      Separation costs increased $59 million in 2012 and mainly included costs related
to compensation and benefit plans.      The improvement in  Other  in 2012 was largely due to various tax-related adjustments, including
a $39 million after-tax settlement. These improvements were partially offset by higher environmental expenses and foreign currency transaction losses.   
         56   

Table of Contents  

    CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY        Financial Indicators        
       * Capital includes total debt and total equity.    
   ** Includes effect of interest rate swaps.       To meet our short- and long-term liquidity requirements, we look to a variety of funding sources. Cash generated from continuing operating activities is the primary source of funding. In addition, during
2013, we received $10,220 million in proceeds from asset sales. We used the remaining $748 million of our restricted cash balance, received in connection with the separation of Phillips 66, solely to pay dividends. During 2013, the primary uses
of our available cash were $15,537 million to support our ongoing capital expenditures and investments; $3,334 million to pay dividends on our common stock; $2,810 million to prepay the remaining balance of our joint venture acquisition
obligation with our 50 percent owned FCCL Partnership; and $946 million to repay debt. During 2013, cash and cash equivalents increased by $2,628 million, to $6,246 million.      In addition to cash flows from continuing operating activities and proceeds from asset sales, we rely on our commercial paper and credit facility programs and our shelf registration statement to support
our short- and long-term liquidity requirements. We believe our current cash balance and cash generated by operations, together with access to external sources of funds as described below in the  Significant Sources of Capital  section,
will be sufficient to meet our funding requirements in the near and long term, including our capital expenditures and investments, dividend payments and required debt payments.       Significant Sources of Capital         Operating Activities     
  During 2013, cash provided by continuing operating activities was $15,801 million, a 17 percent increase from 2012. The increase was primarily related to
lower income taxes due to a greater proportion of volumes in areas with more favorable fiscal regimes. During 2012, cash provided by continuing operations was $13,458 million, compared with $13,953 million in 2011.   
  While the stability of our cash flows from operating activities benefits from geographic diversity, our short- and long-term operating cash flows are
highly dependent upon prices for crude oil, bitumen, natural gas, LNG and natural gas liquids. Prices and margins in our industry are typically volatile and are driven by market conditions over which we have no control. Absent other mitigating
factors, as these prices and margins fluctuate, we would expect a corresponding change in our operating cash flows.      The level of our
production volumes also impacts our cash flows. These production levels are impacted by such factors as acquisitions and dispositions of fields, field production decline rates, new technologies, operating efficiency, weather conditions, the addition
of proved reserves through exploratory success, and their   
         57   

Table of Contents  

timely and cost-effective development. While we actively manage these factors, production levels can cause variability in cash flows, although generally this variability has not been as
significant as that caused by commodity prices.      Our 2013 production from continuing operations averaged 1,502 MBOED. Future production
is subject to numerous uncertainties, including, among others, the volatile crude oil and natural gas price environment, which may impact investment decisions; the effects of price changes on production sharing and variable-royalty contracts; timing
of startups and major turnarounds; and weather-related disruptions. Our production from continuing operations in 2014 is expected to be 1,550 MBOED, excluding Libya.      To maintain or grow our production volumes, we must continue to add to our proved reserve base. Our total reserve replacement in 2013 was 147 percent. Excluding the impact of sales and purchases, the
organic reserve replacement was 179 percent of 2013 production. Over the five-year period ended December 31, 2013, our reserve replacement was 69 percent (including 95 percent from consolidated operations) reflecting the disposition of our
interest in LUKOIL and the impact of asset dispositions. Excluding these items and purchases, our five-year organic reserve replacement was 145 percent. The total reserve replacement amount above is based on the sum of our net additions (revisions,
improved recovery, purchases, extensions and discoveries, and sales) divided by our production, as shown in our reserve table disclosures. For additional information about our proved reserves, including both developed and undeveloped reserves, see
the  Oil and Gas Operations  section of this report.      As discussed in the  Critical Accounting Estimates  section,
engineering estimates of proved reserves are imprecise; therefore, each year reserves may be revised upward or downward due to the impact of changes in commodity prices or as more technical data becomes available on reservoirs. In 2013, 2012 and
2011, revisions increased reserves. It is not possible to reliably predict how revisions will impact reserve quantities in the future.   
    Asset Sales        Proceeds from asset
sales in 2013 were $10,220 million, primarily from the sale of our 8.4 percent equity interest in Kashagan, the sale of our Algeria business, the sale of the majority of our producing zones in the Cedar Creek Anticline, the sale of our interest in
the Clyden undeveloped oil sands leasehold, the sale of our 39 percent equity interest in Phoenix Park and the sale of a portion of our working interests in Browse and Canning basins. This compares with proceeds of $2,132 million in 2012,
primarily from the sale of our Vietnam business, the sale of our equity interest in NMNG and the sale of our interest in the Statfjord and Alba fields in the North Sea.      As previously announced, we entered into agreements to sell our Nigeria business, which includes its upstream affiliates and Brass LNG. The upstream sale is anticipated to close in the first quarter of
2014 and generate proceeds of approximately $1.5 billion, after customary adjustments. We have received deposits to date of $500 million, with the remainder of approximately $1.0 billion due at closing. The buyer has until March 31, 2014, to
close on Brass LNG. The sale of Brass LNG would generate proceeds of approximately $0.16 billion, after customary adjustments.      We continue to
evaluate opportunities to further optimize the portfolio.        Commercial Paper and Credit Facilities     
  At December 31, 2013, we had a revolving credit facility totaling $7.5 billion expiring in August 2016. Our revolving credit facility may be used as
direct bank borrowings, as support for issuances of letters of credit totaling up to $750 million, or as support for our commercial paper programs. The revolving credit facility is broadly syndicated among financial institutions and does not
contain any material adverse change provisions or any covenants requiring maintenance of specified financial ratios or ratings. The facility agreement contains a cross-default provision relating to the failure to pay principal or interest on other
debt obligations of $200 million or more by ConocoPhillips, or by any of its consolidated subsidiaries.   
         58   

Table of Contents  

   Credit facility borrowings may bear interest at a margin above rates offered by certain designated banks in
the London interbank market or at a margin above the overnight federal funds rate or prime rates offered by certain designated banks in the United States. The agreements call for commitment fees on available, but unused, amounts. The agreements also
contain early termination rights if our current directors or their approved successors cease to be a majority of the Board of Directors.      Our
primary funding source for short-term working capital needs is the ConocoPhillips $6.35 billion commercial paper program. Commercial paper maturities are generally limited to 90 days. We also have the ConocoPhillips Qatar Funding Ltd.
$1.15 billion commercial paper program, which is used to fund commitments relating to QG3. At both December 31, 2013 and 2012, we had no direct outstanding borrowings or letters of credit issued under the revolving credit facility. In
addition, under the ConocoPhillips Qatar Funding Ltd. commercial paper program, there was $961 million of commercial paper outstanding at December 31, 2013, compared with $1,055 million at December 31, 2012. Since we had
$961 million of commercial paper outstanding and had issued no letters of credit, we had access to $6.5 billion in borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility at December 31, 2013.   
  Our senior long-term debt is rated  A1  by Moody s Investors Service and  A  by both Standard and Poor s Rating Service and
Fitch. We do not have any ratings triggers on any of our corporate debt that would cause an automatic default, and thereby impact our access to liquidity, in the event of a downgrade of our credit rating. If our credit rating were to deteriorate to
a level prohibiting us from accessing the commercial paper market, we would still be able to access funds under our $7.5 billion revolving credit facility.      Certain of our project-related contracts and derivative instruments contain provisions requiring us to post collateral. Many of these contracts and instruments permit us to post either cash or letters of
credit as collateral. At December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, we had direct bank letters of credit of $827 million and $852 million, respectively, which secured performance obligations related to various purchase commitments incident
to the ordinary conduct of business.        Shelf Registration        We have a universal shelf registration statement on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission under which we, as a well-known seasoned issuer, have the ability to issue and sell an
indeterminate amount of various types of debt and equity securities.       Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements    
  As part of our normal ongoing business operations and consistent with normal industry practice, we enter into numerous agreements with other parties to
pursue business opportunities, which share costs and apportion risks among the parties as governed by the agreements.      For information about
guarantees, see Note 13 Guarantees, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which is incorporated herein by reference.   
   Capital Requirements       For information
about our capital expenditures and investments, see the  Capital Spending  section.      Our debt balance at both December 31, 2013
and December 31, 2012, was $21.7 billion. During 2013, we repaid bonds at maturity totaling $850 million. In June 2013, we incurred a capital lease obligation of $906 million. For more information, see Note 11 Debt, in the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.      We were obligated to contribute $7.5 billion, plus interest, over a 10-year period that began in 2007, to
our 50 percent owned FCCL Partnership. Quarterly principal and interest payments of $237 million began in the second quarter of 2007. The principal portion of these payments totaled $772 million in 2013. In December 2013, we paid the remaining
balance of the obligation, which totaled $2,810 million and is included in the  Other  line in the financing activities section of our consolidated statement of cash flows.   
         59   

Table of Contents  

This $2,810 million prepayment substantially increases the FCCL Partnership s ability to make distributions to its partners or fund future capital requirements without contributions from the
partners. Interest accrued at a fixed annual rate of 5.3 percent on the unpaid principal balance. Fifty percent of the quarterly interest payment is reflected as a capital contribution and is included in the  Capital expenditures and
investments  line on our consolidated statement of cash flows.      In July 2013, we announced a 4.5 percent increase in the quarterly
dividend rate to 69 cents per share. Additionally, on February 5, 2014, we announced a dividend of 69 cents per share. The dividend will be paid March 3, 2014, to stockholders of record at the close of business on February 18, 2014.
     In February 2014, the $400 million 4.75% Notes due 2014 were repaid at maturity.       Contractual Obligations      The following table summarizes our aggregate contractual fixed and
variable obligations of our continuing operations as of December 31, 2013:       

(a)  
  Includes $404 million of net unamortized premiums and discounts. See Note 11 Debt, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information.

(b)  
  Capital lease obligations are presented on a discounted basis.         

(c)  
  Operating lease obligations are presented on an undiscounted basis.         

(d)  
  Represents any agreement to purchase goods or services that is enforceable and legally binding and that specifies all significant terms, presented on an undiscounted
basis. Does not include purchase commitments for jointly owned fields and facilities where we are not the operator.        The majority of the purchase obligations are market-based contracts related to our commodity business. Product purchase commitments with third parties totaled $9,610 million.   
  Purchase obligations of $10,538 million are related to agreements to access and utilize the capacity of third-party equipment and
facilities, including pipelines and LNG and product terminals, to transport, process, treat and store commodities. The remainder is primarily our net share of purchase commitments for materials and services for jointly owned fields and facilities
where we are the operator.   
         60   

Table of Contents  

(e)  
  Represents contributions to qualified and nonqualified pension and postretirement benefit plans for the years 2014 through 2018. For additional information related to
expected benefit payments subsequent to 2018, see Note 19 Employee Benefit Plans, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.         

(f)  
  Represents estimated discounted costs to retire and remove long-lived assets at the end of their operations.     

(g)  
  Represents estimated costs for accrued environmental expenditures presented on a discounted basis for costs acquired in various business combinations and an
undiscounted basis for all other accrued environmental costs.         

(h)  
  Excludes unrecognized tax benefits of $511 million because the ultimate disposition and timing of any payments to be made with regard to such amounts are not reasonably
estimable. Although unrecognized tax benefits are not a contractual obligation, they are presented in this table because they represent potential demands on our liquidity.         Capital Spending        
       *Excludes $2,810 million prepayment in the fourth quarter of 2013.    
  Our capital expenditures and investments from continuing operations for the three-year period ended December 31, 2013, totaled $40.9 billion.
The expenditures over this period supported key exploration and developments, primarily:       

Oil and natural gas exploration and development activities in the Lower 48, including the Eagle Ford and Bakken shale plays, and the Permian Basin.

Development of coalbed methane projects associated with the APLNG joint venture in Australia.      

In Europe, development activities in the Greater Ekofisk, Jasmine and Clair Ridge areas, and appraisal activities in the Greater Clair Area.

Oil sands development and ongoing liquids-focused plays in Canada.      

Alaska activities related to development in the Greater Kuparuk Area, the Greater Prudhoe Area, and the Western North Slope.

Exploration leases and wells in deepwater Gulf of Mexico.      

Continued development of offshore fields in Malaysia and ongoing exploration and development activity onshore and offshore Indonesia and Australia.
     
         61   

Table of Contents  

   2014 CAPITAL BUDGET      Our 2014 capital budget is $16.7 billion, essentially flat compared with our 2013 capital program.   
  We are directing approximately 55 percent of our 2014 capital expenditures budget for continuing operations to North America. These funds are expected to
be directed toward:       

Increased investment in the Company s successful development drilling programs in the Eagle Ford, Bakken and Permian.

Higher allocation of capital to Alaska compared to 2013, reflecting increased spending on the CD5 development and higher activity resulting from
improved fiscal terms from the passage of the More Alaska Production Act.      

Increased exploration and appraisal activity in several North American unconventional plays, including the Permian, Niobrara, Canol and Duvernay.

Higher levels of spending at Surmont Phase 2, in anticipation of first production in 2015.      

Increased conventional exploration drilling in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico.      
  We are directing approximately 45 percent of our 2014 capital expenditures budget for continuing operations to Europe, Asia Pacific and other
international businesses. These funds are expected to be directed toward:       

Peak spending at the APLNG Project, in anticipation of first LNG sales.      

Conventional exploration drilling offshore Angola, Senegal and the Browse Basin.      

Investments in Eldfisk II, Britannia Long-term Compression and Clair Ridge.         For information on proved undeveloped reserves and the associated costs to develop these reserves, see the  Oil and Gas Operations  section.   
   Contingencies       A number of lawsuits
involving a variety of claims arising in the ordinary course of business have been made against ConocoPhillips. We also may be required to remove or mitigate the effects on the environment of the placement, storage, disposal or release of certain
chemical, mineral and petroleum substances at various active and inactive sites. We regularly assess the need for accounting recognition or disclosure of these contingencies. In the case of all known contingencies (other than those related to income
taxes), we accrue a liability when the loss is probable and the amount is reasonably estimable. If a range of amounts can be reasonably estimated and no amount within the range is a better estimate than any other amount, then the minimum of the
range is accrued. We do not reduce these liabilities for potential insurance or third-party recoveries. If applicable, we accrue receivables for probable insurance or other third-party recoveries. With respect to income-tax-related contingencies, we
use a cumulative probability-weighted loss accrual in cases where sustaining a tax position is less than certain.      Based on currently
available information, we believe it is remote that future costs related to known contingent liability exposures will exceed current accruals by an amount that would have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial statements. As we
learn new facts concerning contingencies, we reassess our position both with respect to accrued liabilities and other potential exposures. Estimates particularly sensitive to future changes include contingent liabilities recorded for environmental
remediation, tax and legal matters. Estimated future environmental remediation costs are subject to change due to such factors as the uncertain magnitude of cleanup costs, the unknown time and extent of such remedial actions that may be required,
and the determination of our liability in proportion to that of other responsible parties. Estimated future costs related to tax and legal matters are subject to change as events evolve and as additional information becomes available during the
administrative and litigation processes. For information on other contingencies, see Note 14 Contingencies and Commitments, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   
         62   

Table of Contents  

     Legal and Tax Matters        Our legal organization applies its knowledge, experience and professional judgment to the specific characteristics of our cases, employing a litigation management process to manage and monitor the legal
proceedings against us. Our process facilitates the early evaluation and quantification of potential exposures in individual cases. This process also enables us to track those cases that have been scheduled for trial and/or mediation. Based on
professional judgment and experience in using these litigation management tools and available information about current developments in all our cases, our legal organization regularly assesses the adequacy of current accruals and determines if
adjustment of existing accruals, or establishment of new accruals, are required. See Note 20 Income Taxes, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information about income-tax-related contingencies.   
    Environmental        We are subject to
the same numerous international, federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations as other companies in our industry. The most significant of these environmental laws and regulations include, among others, the:   

U.S. Federal Clean Air Act, which governs air emissions.      

U.S. Federal Clean Water Act, which governs discharges to water bodies.      

European Union Regulation for Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH).      

U.S. Federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA), which imposes liability on generators, transporters and
arrangers of hazardous substances at sites where hazardous substance releases have occurred or are threatening to occur.      

U.S. Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), which governs the treatment, storage and disposal of solid waste.

U.S. Federal Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (OPA90), under which owners and operators of onshore facilities and pipelines, lessees or permittees of an area
in which an offshore facility is located, and owners and operators of vessels are liable for removal costs and damages that result from a discharge of oil into navigable waters of the United States.      

U.S. Federal Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act (EPCRA), which requires facilities to report toxic chemical inventories with local
emergency planning committees and response departments.      

U.S. Federal Safe Drinking Water Act, which governs the disposal of wastewater in underground injection wells.      

U.S. Department of the Interior regulations, which relate to offshore oil and gas operations in U.S. waters and impose liability for the cost of
pollution cleanup resulting from operations, as well as potential liability for pollution damages.      

European Union Trading Directive resulting in European Emissions Trading Scheme.      
  These laws and their implementing regulations set limits on emissions and, in the case of discharges to water, establish water quality limits. They also,
in most cases, require permits in association with new or modified operations. These permits can require an applicant to collect substantial information in connection with the application process, which can be expensive and time consuming. In
addition, there can be delays associated with notice and comment periods and the agency s processing of the application. Many of the delays associated with the permitting process are beyond the control of the applicant.   
  Many states and foreign countries where we operate also have, or are developing, similar environmental laws and regulations governing these same types of
activities. While similar, in some cases these regulations may impose additional, or more stringent, requirements that can add to the cost and difficulty of marketing or transporting products across state and international borders.   
  The ultimate financial impact arising from environmental laws and regulations is neither clearly known nor easily determinable as new standards, such as
air emission standards, water quality standards and stricter fuel regulations, continue to evolve. However, environmental laws and regulations, including those that may arise   
         63   

Table of Contents  

to address concerns about global climate change, are expected to continue to have an increasing impact on our operations in the United States and in other countries in which we operate. Notable
areas of potential impacts include air emission compliance and remediation obligations in the United States and Canada.      An example is the use
of hydraulic fracturing, an essential completion technique that facilitates production of oil and natural gas otherwise trapped in lower permeability rock formations. A range of local, state, federal or national laws and regulations currently govern
hydraulic fracturing operations, with hydraulic fracturing currently prohibited in some jurisdictions. Although hydraulic fracturing has been conducted for many decades, a number of new laws, regulations and permitting requirements are under
consideration by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the U.S. Department of the Interior, and others which could result in increased costs, operating restrictions, operational delays and/or limit the ability to develop oil and natural
gas resources. Governmental restrictions on hydraulic fracturing could impact the overall profitability or viability of certain of our oil and natural gas investments. We have adopted operating principles that incorporate established industry
standards designed to meet or exceed government requirements. Our practices continually evolve as technology improves and regulations change.   
  We also are subject to certain laws and regulations relating to environmental remediation obligations associated with current and past operations. Such
laws and regulations include CERCLA and RCRA and their state equivalents. Longer-term expenditures are subject to considerable uncertainty and may fluctuate significantly.      We occasionally receive requests for information or notices of potential liability from the EPA and state environmental agencies alleging that we are a potentially responsible party under CERCLA or an
equivalent state statute. On occasion, we also have been made a party to cost recovery litigation by those agencies or by private parties. These requests, notices and lawsuits assert potential liability for remediation costs at various sites that
typically are not owned by us, but allegedly contain wastes attributable to our past operations. As of December 31, 2012, we reported we had been notified of potential liability under CERCLA and comparable state laws at 11 sites around the
United States. At December 31, 2013, we had been notified of 4 new sites, bringing the number of unresolved sites with potential liability to 15 sites.      For most Superfund sites, our potential liability will be significantly less than the total site remediation costs because the percentage of waste attributable to us, versus that attributable to all other
potentially responsible parties, is relatively low. Although liability of those potentially responsible is generally joint and several for federal sites and frequently so for state sites, other potentially responsible parties at sites where we are a
party typically have had the financial strength to meet their obligations, and where they have not, or where potentially responsible parties could not be located, our share of liability has not increased materially. Many of the sites at which we are
potentially responsible are still under investigation by the EPA or the state agencies concerned. Prior to actual cleanup, those potentially responsible normally assess site conditions, apportion responsibility and determine the appropriate
remediation. In some instances, we may have no liability or attain a settlement of liability. Actual cleanup costs generally occur after the parties obtain EPA or equivalent state agency approval. There are relatively few sites where we are a major
participant, and given the timing and amounts of anticipated expenditures, neither the cost of remediation at those sites nor such costs at all CERCLA sites, in the aggregate, is expected to have a material adverse effect on our competitive or
financial condition.      Expensed environmental costs were $546 million in 2013 and are expected to be about $580 million per year in
2014 and 2015. Capitalized environmental costs were $357 million in 2013 and are expected to be about $480 million per year in 2014 and 2015.   
  Accrued liabilities for remediation activities are not reduced for potential recoveries from insurers or other third parties and are not discounted
(except those assumed in a purchase business combination, which we do record on a discounted basis).      Many of these liabilities result from
CERCLA, RCRA and similar state or international laws that require us to undertake certain investigative and remedial activities at sites where we conduct, or once conducted,   
         64   

Table of Contents  

operations or at sites where ConocoPhillips-generated waste was disposed. The accrual also includes a number of sites we identified that may require environmental remediation, but which are not
currently the subject of CERCLA, RCRA or other agency enforcement activities. If applicable, we accrue receivables for probable insurance or other third-party recoveries. In the future, we may incur significant costs under both CERCLA and RCRA.
     Remediation activities vary substantially in duration and cost from site to site, depending on the mix of unique site characteristics,
evolving remediation technologies, diverse regulatory agencies and enforcement policies, and the presence or absence of potentially liable third parties. Therefore, it is difficult to develop reasonable estimates of future site remediation costs.
     At December 31, 2013, our balance sheet included total accrued environmental costs of $348 million, compared with $364 million
at December 31, 2012, for remediation activities in the U.S. and Canada. We expect to incur a substantial amount of these expenditures within the next 30 years.      Notwithstanding any of the foregoing, and as with other companies engaged in similar businesses, environmental costs and liabilities are inherent concerns in our operations and products, and there can be
no assurance that material costs and liabilities will not be incurred. However, we currently do not expect any material adverse effect upon our results of operations or financial position as a result of compliance with current environmental laws and
regulations.        Climate Change        There has been a broad range of proposed or promulgated state, national and international laws focusing on greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction. These proposed or promulgated laws apply or could apply in
countries where we have interests or may have interests in the future. Laws in this field continue to evolve, and while it is not possible to accurately estimate either a timetable for implementation or our future compliance costs relating to
implementation, such laws, if enacted, could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Examples of legislation or precursors for possible regulation that do or could affect our operations include:   

European Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS), the program through which many of the European Union (EU) member states are implementing the Kyoto Protocol.
Our cost of compliance with the EU ETS in 2013 was approximately $2 million (net share pre-tax).      

A regulation issued by the Alberta government in 2007 under the Climate Change and Emissions Act. The regulation requires any existing facility with
emissions equal to or greater than 100,000 metric tonnes of carbon dioxide or equivalent per year to reduce the net emissions intensity beginning July 1, 2007 by 12 percent. New facilities must reduce 2 percent per year until they reach the
maximum target of 12 percent. We also incur a carbon tax for emissions from fossil fuel combustion in our British Columbia operations. The total cost of compliance with these Canadian regulations in 2013 was approximately $6 million.

The EPA s announcement on March 29, 2010 (published as  Interpretation of Regulations that Determine Pollutants Covered by Clean Air Act
Permitting Programs,  75 Fed. Reg. 17004 (April 2, 2010)), and the EPA s and U.S. Department of Transportation s joint promulgation of a Final Rule on April 1, 2010, that triggers regulation of GHGs under the Clean Air Act, may
trigger more climate-based claims for damages, and may result in longer agency review time for development projects.      

Carbon taxes in certain jurisdictions. Our cost of compliance with Norwegian carbon tax legislation in 2013 was approximately $44 million (net share
pre-tax).      

Cap and trade programs in certain jurisdictions, including the Australian Clean Energy Legislation, which took effect in July 2012. Our cost of
compliance with the Australian Clean Energy Legislation in 2013 was approximately $10 million (net share pre-tax).      
         65   

Table of Contents  

   In the United States, some additional form of regulation may be forthcoming in the future at the federal and
state levels with respect to GHG emissions. Such regulation could take any of several forms that may result in the creation of additional costs in the form of taxes, the restriction of output, investments of capital to maintain compliance with laws
and regulations, or required acquisition or trading of emission allowances. We are working to continuously improve operational and energy efficiency through resource and energy conservation throughout our operations.   
  Compliance with changes in laws and regulations that create a GHG emission trading scheme or GHG reduction policies could significantly increase our
costs, reduce demand for fossil energy derived products, impact the cost and availability of capital and increase our exposure to litigation. Such laws and regulations could also increase demand for less carbon intensive energy sources, including
natural gas. The ultimate impact on our financial performance, either positive or negative, will depend on a number of factors, including but not limited to:       

Whether and to what extent legislation is enacted.      

The nature of the legislation (such as a cap and trade system or a tax on emissions).      

The price placed on GHG emissions (either by the market or through a tax).      

The GHG reductions required.      

The price and availability of offsets.      

The amount and allocation of allowances.      

Technological and scientific developments leading to new products or services.      

Any potential significant physical effects of climate change (such as increased severe weather events, changes in sea levels and changes in
temperature).      

Whether, and the extent to which, increased compliance costs are ultimately reflected in the prices of our products and services.
        The Company has responded by putting in place a corporate Climate Change Action Plan, together with individual business
unit climate change management plans in order to undertake actions in four major areas:       

Equipping the Company for a low emission world, for example by integrating GHG forecasting and reporting into company procedures; utilizing GHG pricing
in planning economics; developing systems to handle GHG market transactions.      

Reducing GHG emissions In 2012 the Company reduced GHG emissions by approximately 1,000,000 metric tonnes by carrying out a range of programs
across a number of business units.      

Evaluating business opportunities such as the creation of offsets and allowances; carbon capture and storage; the use of low carbon energy and the
development of low carbon technologies.      

Engaging externally The Company is a sponsor of MIT s Joint Program on the Science and Policy of Global Change; constructively engages in the
development of climate change legislation and regulation; and discloses our progress and performance through the Carbon Disclosure Project and the Dow Jones Sustainability Index.      
  The Company uses an estimated market cost of GHG emissions in the range of $6 to $46 per tonne depending on the timing and country or region to evaluate
future opportunities.       Other    
  We have deferred tax assets related to certain accrued liabilities, loss carryforwards and credit carryforwards. Valuation allowances have been
established to reduce these deferred tax assets to an amount that will, more likely than not, be realized. Based on our historical taxable income, our expectations for the future, and available tax-planning strategies, management expects the net
deferred tax assets will be realized as offsets to reversing deferred tax liabilities and as reductions in future taxable income.   
         66   

Table of Contents  

    CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES       The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to select appropriate accounting policies and to make estimates and assumptions that
affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. See Note 1 Accounting Policies, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for descriptions of our major accounting policies. Certain of these accounting
policies involve judgments and uncertainties to such an extent there is a reasonable likelihood materially different amounts would have been reported under different conditions, or if different assumptions had been used. These critical accounting
estimates are discussed with the Audit and Finance Committee of the Board of Directors at least annually. We believe the following discussions of critical accounting estimates, along with the discussions of contingencies and of deferred tax asset
valuation allowances in this report, address all important accounting areas where the nature of accounting estimates or assumptions is material due to the levels of subjectivity and judgment necessary to account for highly uncertain matters or the
susceptibility of such matters to change.       Oil and Gas Accounting       Accounting for oil and gas exploratory activity is subject to special accounting rules unique to the oil and gas industry. The acquisition of geological and geophysical seismic information, prior to the
discovery of proved reserves, is expensed as incurred, similar to accounting for research and development costs. However, leasehold acquisition costs and exploratory well costs are capitalized on the balance sheet pending determination of whether
proved oil and gas reserves have been discovered on the prospect.        Property Acquisition Costs     
  For individually significant leaseholds, management periodically assesses for impairment based on exploration and drilling efforts to date. For leasehold
acquisition costs that individually are relatively small, management exercises judgment and determines a percentage probability that the prospect ultimately will fail to find proved oil and gas reserves and pools that leasehold information with
others in the geographic area. For prospects in areas that have had limited, or no, previous exploratory drilling, the percentage probability of ultimate failure is normally judged to be quite high. This judgmental percentage is multiplied by the
leasehold acquisition cost, and that product is divided by the contractual period of the leasehold to determine a periodic leasehold impairment charge that is reported in exploration expense.      This judgmental probability percentage is reassessed and adjusted throughout the contractual period of the leasehold based on favorable or unfavorable exploratory activity on the leasehold or on adjacent
leaseholds, and leasehold impairment amortization expense is adjusted prospectively. At year-end 2013, the book value of the pools of property acquisition costs that individually are relatively small and thus subject to the above-described periodic
leasehold impairment calculation was $1,830 million and the accumulated impairment reserve was $558 million. The weighted-average judgmental percentage probability of ultimate failure was approximately 56 percent, and the weighted-average
amortization period was approximately three years. If that judgmental percentage were to be raised by 5 percent across all calculations, pretax leasehold impairment expense in 2014 would increase by approximately $39 million. At year-end
2013, the remaining $6,708 million of gross capitalized unproved property costs consisted primarily of individually significant leaseholds, mineral rights held in perpetuity by title ownership, exploratory wells currently being drilled,
suspended exploratory wells, and capitalized interest. Management periodically assesses individually significant leaseholds for impairment based on the results of exploration and drilling efforts and the outlook for commercialization. Of this
amount, approximately $3 billion is concentrated in 10 major development areas, the majority of which are not expected to move to proved properties in 2014.        Exploratory Costs        For exploratory wells, drilling costs are temporarily
capitalized, or  suspended,  on the balance sheet, pending a determination of whether potentially economic oil and gas reserves have been discovered by the drilling effort to justify completion of the find as a producing well.   
         67   

Table of Contents  

   If exploratory wells encounter potentially economic quantities of oil and gas, the well costs remain
capitalized on the balance sheet as long as sufficient progress assessing the reserves and the economic and operating viability of the project is being made. The accounting notion of  sufficient progress  is a judgmental area, but the
accounting rules do prohibit continued capitalization of suspended well costs on the expectation future market conditions will improve or new technologies will be found that would make the development economically profitable. Often, the ability to
move into the development phase and record proved reserves is dependent on obtaining permits and government or co-venturer approvals, the timing of which is ultimately beyond our control. Exploratory well costs remain suspended as long as we are
actively pursuing such approvals and permits, and believe they will be obtained. Once all required approvals and permits have been obtained, the projects are moved into the development phase, and the oil and gas reserves are designated as proved
reserves. For complex exploratory discoveries, it is not unusual to have exploratory wells remain suspended on the balance sheet for several years while we perform additional appraisal drilling and seismic work on the potential oil and gas field or
while we seek government or co-venturer approval of development plans or seek environmental permitting. Once a determination is made the well did not encounter potentially economic oil and gas quantities, the well costs are expensed as a dry hole
and reported in exploration expense.      Management reviews suspended well balances quarterly, continuously monitors the results of the
additional appraisal drilling and seismic work, and expenses the suspended well costs as a dry hole when it determines the potential field does not warrant further investment in the near term. Criteria utilized in making this determination include
evaluation of the reservoir characteristics and hydrocarbon properties, expected development costs, ability to apply existing technology to produce the reserves, fiscal terms, regulations or contract negotiations, and our required return on
investment.      At year-end 2013, total suspended well costs were $994 million, compared with $1,038 million at year-end 2012. For
additional information on suspended wells, including an aging analysis, see Note 8 Suspended Wells, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.        Proved Reserves        Engineering estimates of the quantities of proved reserves are
inherently imprecise and represent only approximate amounts because of the judgments involved in developing such information. Reserve estimates are based on geological and engineering assessments of in-place hydrocarbon volumes, the production plan,
historical extraction recovery and processing yield factors, installed plant operating capacity and approved operating limits. The reliability of these estimates at any point in time depends on both the quality and quantity of the technical and
economic data and the efficiency of extracting and processing the hydrocarbons.      Despite the inherent imprecision in these engineering
estimates, accounting rules require disclosure of  proved  reserve estimates due to the importance of these estimates to better understand the perceived value and future cash flows of a company s operations. There are several
authoritative guidelines regarding the engineering criteria that must be met before estimated reserves can be designated as  proved.  Our reservoir engineering organization has policies and procedures in place consistent with these
authoritative guidelines. We have trained and experienced internal engineering personnel who estimate our proved reserves held by consolidated companies, as well as our share of equity affiliates.   
  Proved reserve estimates are adjusted annually in the fourth quarter and during the year if significant changes occur, and take into account recent
production and subsurface information about each field. Also, as required by current authoritative guidelines, the estimated future date when a field will be permanently shut down for economic reasons is based on 12-month average prices and current
costs. This estimated date when production will end affects the amount of estimated reserves. Therefore, as prices and cost levels change from year to year, the estimate of proved reserves also changes.   
  Our proved reserves include estimated quantities related to production sharing contracts, which are reported under the  economic interest 
method and are subject to fluctuations in commodity prices; recoverable operating expenses; and capital costs. If costs remain stable, reserve quantities attributable to recovery of costs will change inversely to changes in commodity prices. For
example, if prices increase, then our applicable reserve quantities would decline. The estimation of proved developed reserves also is important to the income   
         68   

Table of Contents  

statement because the proved developed reserve estimate for a field serves as the denominator in the
  unit-of-production   calculation of the DD A of the capitalized costs for that asset. At year-end 2013, the net book value of productive properties, plants
and equipment (PP E) subject to a unit-of-production calculation was approximately $59 billion and the DD A recorded on these assets in 2013 was approximately $7.0 billion. The estimated proved developed reserves for our
consolidated operations were 4.9 billion BOE at the end of 2012 and 4.9 billion BOE at the end of 2013. If the estimates of proved reserves used in the unit-of-production calculations had been lower by 5 percent across all calculations, pretax
DD A in 2013 would have increased by an estimated $370 million.       Impairments    
  Long-lived assets used in operations are assessed for impairment whenever changes in facts and circumstances indicate a possible significant
deterioration in future cash flows expected to be generated by an asset group and annually in the fourth quarter following updates to corporate planning assumptions. If there is an indication the carrying amount of an asset may not be recovered, the
asset is monitored by management through an established process where changes to significant assumptions such as prices, volumes and future development plans are reviewed. If, upon review, the sum of the undiscounted pretax cash flows is less than
the carrying value of the asset group, the carrying value is written down to estimated fair value. Individual assets are grouped for impairment purposes based on a judgmental assessment of the lowest level for which there are identifiable cash flows
that are largely independent of the cash flows of other groups of assets generally on a field-by-field basis for exploration and production assets. Because there usually is a lack of quoted market prices for long-lived assets, the fair value of
impaired assets is typically determined based on the present values of expected future cash flows using discount rates believed to be consistent with those used by principal market participants, or based on a multiple of operating cash flow
validated with historical market transactions of similar assets where possible. The expected future cash flows used for impairment reviews and related fair value calculations are based on judgmental assessments of future production volumes,
commodity prices, operating costs and capital decisions, considering all available information at the date of review. See Note 9 Impairments, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information.   
  Investments in nonconsolidated entities accounted for under the equity method are reviewed for impairment when there is evidence of a loss
in value and annually following updates to corporate planning assumptions. Such evidence of a loss in value might include our inability to recover the carrying amount, the lack of sustained earnings capacity which would justify the current
investment amount, or a current fair value less than the investment s carrying amount. When it is determined such a loss in value is other than temporary, an impairment charge is recognized for the difference
between the investment s carrying value and its estimated fair value. When determining whether a decline in value is other than temporary, management considers factors such as the length of time and extent of the
decline, the investee s financial condition and near-term prospects, and our ability and intention to retain our investment for a period that will be sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in the market value of the
investment. When quoted market prices are not available, the fair value is usually based on the present value of expected future cash flows using discount rates believed to be consistent with those used by principal market participants, plus market
analysis of comparable assets owned by the investee, if appropriate. Differing assumptions could affect the timing and the amount of an impairment of an investment in any period.  
   Asset Retirement Obligations and Environmental Costs       Under various contracts, permits and regulations, we have material legal obligations to remove tangible equipment and restore the land or seabed at the end of operations at operational sites. Our largest
asset removal obligations involve plugging and abandonment of wells, removal and disposal of offshore oil and gas platforms around the world, as well as oil and gas production facilities and pipelines in Alaska. The fair values of obligations for
dismantling and removing these facilities are recorded as a liability and an increase to PP E at the time of installation of the asset based on estimated discounted costs. Estimating future asset removal costs is difficult. Most of these removal
obligations are many years, or decades, in the future and the contracts and regulations often have vague descriptions of what removal practices and criteria must be met when the removal event actually occurs. Asset removal technologies and costs,
regulatory and other compliance   
         69   

Table of Contents  

considerations, expenditure timing, and other inputs into valuation of the obligation, including discount and inflation rates, are also subject to change.   
  Normally, changes in asset removal obligations are reflected in the income statement as increases or decreases to DD A over the remaining life of the
assets. However, for assets at or nearing the end of their operations, as well as previously sold assets for which we retained the asset removal obligation, an increase in the asset removal obligation can result in an immediate charge to earnings,
because any increase in PP E due to the increased obligation would immediately be subject to impairment, due to the low fair value of these properties.      In addition to asset removal obligations, under the above or similar contracts, permits and regulations, we have certain environmental-related projects. These are primarily related to remediation
activities required by Canada and various states within the United States at exploration and production sites. Future environmental remediation costs are difficult to estimate because they are subject to change due to such factors as the uncertain
magnitude of cleanup costs, the unknown time and extent of such remedial actions that may be required, and the determination of our liability in proportion to that of other responsible parties.   
   Projected Benefit Obligations    
  Determination of the projected benefit obligations for our defined benefit pension and postretirement plans are important to the recorded amounts for
such obligations on the balance sheet and to the amount of benefit expense in the income statement. The actuarial determination of projected benefit obligations and company contribution requirements involves judgment about uncertain future events,
including estimated retirement dates, salary levels at retirement, mortality rates, lump-sum election rates, rates of return on plan assets, future health care cost-trend rates, and rates of utilization of health care services by retirees. Due to
the specialized nature of these calculations, we engage outside actuarial firms to assist in the determination of these projected benefit obligations and company contribution requirements. For Employee Retirement Income Security Act-qualified
pension plans, the actuary exercises fiduciary care on behalf of plan participants in the determination of the judgmental assumptions used in determining required company contributions into the plan. Due to differing objectives and requirements
between financial accounting rules and the pension plan funding regulations promulgated by governmental agencies, the actuarial methods and assumptions for the two purposes differ in certain important respects. Ultimately, we will be required to
fund all promised benefits under pension and postretirement benefit plans not funded by plan assets or investment returns, but the judgmental assumptions used in the actuarial calculations significantly affect periodic financial statements and
funding patterns over time. Benefit expense is particularly sensitive to the discount rate and return on plan assets assumptions. A 1 percent decrease in the discount rate assumption would increase annual benefit expense by $120 million,
while a 1 percent decrease in the return on plan assets assumption would increase annual benefit expense by $60 million. In determining the discount rate, we use yields on high-quality fixed income investments matched to the estimated
benefit cash flows of our plans. We are also exposed to the possibility that lump sum retirement benefits taken from pension plans during the year could exceed the total of service and interest components of annual pension expense and
trigger accelerated recognition of a portion of unrecognized net actuarial losses and gains. These benefit payments are based on decisions by plan participants and are therefore difficult to predict. See Note
19 Employee Benefit Plans, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information.   
         70   

Table of Contents  

    CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR THE PURPOSES OF THE  SAFE HARBOR  PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES
LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995       This report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the
Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. You can identify our forward-looking statements by the words  anticipate,   estimate,   believe,   budget, 
 continue,   could,   intend,   may,   plan,   potential,   predict,   seek,   should,   will,   would,   expect, 
 objective,   projection,   forecast,   goal,   guidance,   outlook,   effort,   target  and similar expressions.   
  We based the forward-looking statements on our current expectations, estimates and projections about ourselves and the industries in which we operate in
general. We caution you these statements are not guarantees of future performance as they involve assumptions that, while made in good faith, may prove to be incorrect, and involve risks and uncertainties we cannot predict. In addition, we based
many of these forward-looking statements on assumptions about future events that may prove to be inaccurate. Accordingly, our actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what we have expressed or forecast in the forward-looking
statements. Any differences could result from a variety of factors, including the following:       

Fluctuations in crude oil, bitumen, natural gas, LNG and natural gas liquids prices.      

Potential failures or delays in achieving expected reserve or production levels from existing and future oil and gas developments due to operating
hazards, drilling risks and the inherent uncertainties in predicting reserves and reservoir performance.      

Unsuccessful exploratory drilling activities or the inability to obtain access to exploratory acreage.      

Unexpected changes in costs or technical requirements for constructing, modifying or operating exploration and production facilities.

Lack of, or disruptions in, adequate and reliable transportation for our crude oil, bitumen, natural gas, LNG and natural gas liquids.

Inability to timely obtain or maintain permits, including those necessary for drilling and/or development, construction of LNG terminals or
regasification facilities; comply with government regulations; or make capital expenditures required to maintain compliance.      

Failure to complete definitive agreements and feasibility studies for, and to timely complete construction of, announced and future exploration and
production and LNG development.      

Potential disruption or interruption of our operations due to accidents, extraordinary weather events, civil unrest, political events, terrorism, cyber
attacks or infrastructure constraints or disruptions.      

International monetary conditions and exchange controls.      

Substantial investment or reduced demand for products as a result of existing or future environmental rules and regulations.

Liability for remedial actions, including removal and reclamation obligations, under environmental regulations.      

Liability resulting from litigation.      

General domestic and international economic and political developments, including armed hostilities; expropriation of assets; changes in governmental
policies relating to crude oil, bitumen, natural gas, LNG and natural gas liquids pricing, regulation or taxation; other political, economic or diplomatic developments; and international monetary fluctuations.      

Changes in tax and other laws, regulations (including alternative energy mandates), or royalty rules applicable to our business.

Limited access to capital or significantly higher cost of capital related to illiquidity or uncertainty in the domestic or international financial
markets.      

Delays in, or our inability to, execute asset dispositions.      

Inability to obtain economical financing for development, construction or modification of facilities and general corporate purposes.

The operation and financing of our joint ventures.      

The factors generally described in Item 1A Risk Factors in this report.      
         71   

Table of Contents  

      Item 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET
RISK        Financial Instrument Market Risk       We and certain of our subsidiaries hold and issue derivative contracts and financial instruments that expose our cash flows or earnings to changes in commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates or
interest rates. We may use financial and commodity-based derivative contracts to manage the risks produced by changes in the prices of natural gas, crude oil and related products; fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates;
or to capture market opportunities.      Our use of derivative instruments is governed by an  Authority Limitations  document approved
by our Board of Directors that prohibits the use of highly leveraged derivatives or derivative instruments without sufficient liquidity. The Authority Limitations document also establishes the Value at Risk (VaR) limits for the company, and
compliance with these limits is monitored daily. The Chief Financial Officer monitors risks resulting from foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates and reports to the Chief Executive Officer. The Executive Vice President of Commercial,
Business Development and Corporate Planning monitors commodity price risk and also reports to the Chief Executive Officer. The Commercial organization manages our commercial marketing, optimizes our commodity flows and positions, and monitors risks.
       Commodity Price Risk     
  Our Commercial organization uses futures, forwards, swaps and options in various markets to accomplish the following objectives:   

Meet customer needs. Consistent with our policy to generally remain exposed to market prices, we use swap contracts to convert fixed-price sales
contracts, which are often requested by natural gas consumers, to floating market prices.      

Enable us to use market knowledge to capture opportunities such as moving physical commodities to more profitable locations and storing commodities to
capture seasonal or time premiums. We may use derivatives to optimize these activities.         We use a VaR model to estimate the
loss in fair value that could potentially result on a single day from the effect of adverse changes in market conditions on the derivative financial instruments and derivative commodity instruments we hold or issue, including commodity purchases and
sales contracts recorded on the balance sheet at December 31, 2013, as derivative instruments. Using Monte Carlo simulation, a 95 percent confidence level and a one-day holding period, the VaR for those instruments issued or held for
trading purposes at December 31, 2013 and 2012, was immaterial to our consolidated cash flows and net income attributable to ConocoPhillips. The VaR for instruments held for purposes other than trading at December 31, 2013 and 2012, was
also immaterial to our cash flows and net income attributable to ConocoPhillips.        Interest Rate Risk     
  The following table provides information about our financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in U.S. interest rates. The debt portion of the
table presents principal cash flows and related weighted-average interest rates by expected maturity dates. Weighted-average variable rates are based on effective rates at the reporting date. The carrying amount of our floating-rate debt
approximates its fair value. The fair value of the fixed-rate financial instruments is estimated based on quoted market prices. The joint venture acquisition obligation portion of the table presents principal cash flows of the fixed-rate 5.3 percent
joint venture acquisition obligation owed to FCCL Partnership. The fair value of the obligation at year-end 2012 was estimated based on the net present value of the future cash flows, discounted at an effective yield rate of 0.7 percent. The
discount rate was based on yields of U.S. Treasury securities of a similar average duration, adjusted for ConocoPhillips  average credit risk spread and the amortizing nature of the obligation principal. In December 2013, we paid the remaining
balance of the obligation, which totaled $2,810 million.   
         72   

Table of Contents  

Foreign Currency Exchange Risk        We have foreign currency exchange rate risk resulting from international operations. We do not comprehensively hedge the exposure to currency exchange rate changes although we may choose to selectively
hedge certain foreign currency exchange rate exposures, such as firm commitments for capital projects or local currency tax payments, dividends and cash returns from net investments in foreign affiliates to be remitted within the coming year.
  
         73   

Table of Contents  

   At December 31, 2013 and 2012, we held foreign currency exchange forwards hedging cross-border
commercial activity and foreign currency exchange swaps for purposes of mitigating our cash related exposures. Although these forwards and swaps hedge exposures to fluctuations in exchange rates, we elected not to utilize hedge accounting. As a
result, the change in the fair value of these foreign currency exchange derivatives is recorded directly in earnings. Since the gain or loss on the swaps is offset by the gain or loss from remeasuring the related cash balances, and since our
aggregate position in the forwards was not material, there would be no material impact to our income from an adverse hypothetical 10 percent change in the December 31, 2013, or 2012, exchange rates. The notional and fair market values of
these positions at December 31, 2013 and 2012, were as follows:       
       * Denominated in U.S. dollars (USD), euro (EUR), and British pound (GBP).    
   ** Denominated in U.S. dollars.       For
additional information about our use of derivative instruments, see Note 15 Derivative and Financial Instruments, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   
         74   

Table of Contents  

      Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA    
   CONOCOPHILLIPS          INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        
 
         75   

Table of Contents  

Report of Management       Management prepared, and is responsible for, the consolidated financial statements and the other information appearing in this annual report. The consolidated financial statements present fairly the
company s financial position, results of operations and cash flows in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. In preparing its consolidated financial statements, the company includes amounts that are based
on estimates and judgments management believes are reasonable under the circumstances. The company s financial statements have been audited by Ernst   Young LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm appointed by the Audit
and Finance Committee of the Board of Directors and ratified by stockholders. Management has made available to Ernst   Young LLP all of the company s financial records and related data, as well as the minutes of stockholders  and
directors  meetings.       Assessment of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting    
  Management is also responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. ConocoPhillips  internal control
system was designed to provide reasonable assurance to the company s management and directors regarding the preparation and fair presentation of published financial statements.      All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to
financial statement preparation and presentation.      Management assessed the effectiveness of the company s internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2013. In making this assessment, it used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in  Internal Control Integrated Framework (1992) . Based on our
assessment, we believe the company s internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2013.   
  Ernst   Young LLP has issued an audit report on the company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013, and
their report is included herein.       

/s/ Ryan M. Lance   

/s/ Jeff W. Sheets   

Ryan M. Lance    

Jeff W. Sheets    
 
    Chairman and   

Executive Vice President, Finance   
 
    Chief Executive Officer   

and Chief Financial Officer   
    February 25, 2014   
         76   

Table of Contents  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm       The Board of Directors and Stockholders      ConocoPhillips   
  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of ConocoPhillips as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, and the related consolidated
statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2013. Our audits also included the related condensed consolidating financial information listed in the
Index at Item 8 and financial statement schedule listed in Item 15(a). These financial statements, condensed consolidating financial information, and schedule are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is
to express an opinion on these financial statements, condensed consolidating financial information, and schedule based on our audits.      We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.      In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of ConocoPhillips at December 31, 2013 and 2012, and the
consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2013, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related condensed
consolidating financial information and financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.   
  We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), ConocoPhillips  internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013, based on criteria established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (1992 framework) and our
report dated February 25, 2014, expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.      /s/ ERNST   YOUNG
LLP      Houston, Texas   
  February 25, 2014   
         77   

Table of Contents  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm       The Board of Directors and Stockholders      ConocoPhillips   
  We have audited ConocoPhillips  internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013, based on criteria established in  Internal
Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (1992 framework) (the COSO criteria). ConocoPhillips  management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over
financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included under the heading  Assessment of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  in the accompanying  Report of
Management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.      We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material
weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a
reasonable basis for our opinion.      A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting
includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with
authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material
effect on the financial statements.      Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect
misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
deteriorate.      In our opinion, ConocoPhillips maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2013, based on the COSO criteria.      We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), the 2013 consolidated financial statements of ConocoPhillips and our report dated February 25, 2014, expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.   
  /s/ ERNST   YOUNG LLP      Houston, Texas      February 25, 2014   
         78   

Table of Contents  

Consolidated Income Statement  

ConocoPhillips   

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.    
         79   

Table of Contents  

Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income  

ConocoPhillips   

*Plans for which ConocoPhillips is not the primary obligor primarily those administered by equity affiliates.
       See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.    
         80   

Table of Contents  

Consolidated Balance Sheet  

ConocoPhillips   

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.    
         81   

Table of Contents  

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows  

ConocoPhillips    

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.    
         82   

Table of Contents  

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity  

ConocoPhillips    

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.    
         83   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
      
   ConocoPhillips    
 
    Note 1 Accounting Policies    

Consolidation Principles and Investments  Our consolidated financial statements include the accounts of majority-owned, controlled
subsidiaries and variable interest entities where we are the primary beneficiary. The equity method is used to account for investments in affiliates in which we have the ability to exert significant influence over the affiliates  operating and
financial policies. When we do not have the ability to exert significant influence, the investment is either classified as available-for-sale if fair value is readily determinable, or the cost method is used if fair value is not readily
determinable. Undivided interests in oil and gas joint ventures, pipelines, natural gas plants and terminals are consolidated on a proportionate basis. Other securities and investments are generally carried at cost.      
  As a result of the separation of Phillips 66 on April 30, 2012, the results of operations for our former refining, marketing and
transportation businesses; most of our former Midstream segment; our former Chemicals segment; and our power generation and certain technology operations included in our former Emerging Businesses segment (collectively, our  Downstream
business ), have been classified as discontinued operations for all periods presented. In addition, the results of operations for our interest in the North Caspian Sea Production Sharing Agreement (Kashagan) and our Algeria and Nigeria
businesses have been classified as discontinued operations for all periods presented. See Note 3 Discontinued Operations, for additional information.      We manage our operations through six operating segments, defined by geographic region: Alaska, Lower 48 and Latin America, Canada, Europe, Asia Pacific and Middle East, and Other International. For
additional information, see Note 25 Segment Disclosures and Related Information. Unless indicated otherwise, the information in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements relates to our continuing operations.   

Foreign Currency Translation  Adjustments resulting from the process of translating foreign functional currency financial statements into
U.S. dollars are included in accumulated other comprehensive income in common stockholders  equity. Foreign currency transaction gains and losses are included in current earnings. Most of our foreign operations use their local currency as the
functional currency.          

Use of Estimates  The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and the disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. Actual results could differ from these estimates.

Revenue Recognition  Revenues associated with sales of crude oil, bitumen, natural gas, liquefied natural gas (LNG), natural gas liquids and
other items are recognized when title passes to the customer, which is when the risk of ownership passes to the purchaser and physical delivery of goods occurs, either immediately or within a fixed delivery schedule that is reasonable and customary
in the industry.         Revenues associated with producing properties in which we have an interest with other
producers are recognized based on the actual volumes we sold during the period. Any differences between volumes sold and entitlement volumes, based on our net working interest, which are deemed to be nonrecoverable through remaining production, are
recognized as accounts receivable or accounts payable, as appropriate. Cumulative differences between volumes sold and entitlement volumes are generally not significant.      Revenues associated with transactions commonly called buy/sell contracts, in which the purchase and sale of inventory with the same counterparty are entered into  in contemplation  of one
another, are combined and reported net (i.e., on the same income statement line).   
         84   

Table of Contents  

Shipping and Handling Costs  We include shipping and handling costs in production and operating expenses for production activities.
Transportation costs related to marketing activities are recorded in purchased commodities. Freight costs billed to customers are recorded as a component of revenue.      

Cash Equivalents  Cash equivalents are highly liquid, short-term investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and have
original maturities of 90 days or less from their date of purchase. They are carried at cost plus accrued interest, which approximates fair value.          

Short-Term Investments  Investments in bank time deposits and marketable securities (commercial paper and government obligations) with
original maturities of greater than 90 days but less than one year are classified as short-term investments. See Note 15 Derivative and Financial Instruments, for additional information on these held-to-maturity financial instruments.

Inventories  We have several valuation methods for our various types of inventories and consistently use the following methods for each type
of inventory. Commodity-related inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market in the aggregate, primarily on the last-in, first-out (LIFO) basis. Any necessary lower-of-cost-or-market write-downs at year end are recorded as permanent
adjustments to the LIFO cost basis. LIFO is used to better match current inventory costs with current revenues. Costs include both direct and indirect expenditures incurred in bringing an item or product to its existing condition and location, but
not unusual/nonrecurring costs or research and development costs. Materials, supplies and other miscellaneous inventories, such as tubular goods and well equipment, are valued using various methods, including the weighted-average-cost method, and
the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method, consistent with industry practice.          

Fair Value Measurements  We categorize assets and liabilities measured at fair value into one of three different levels depending on the
observability of the inputs employed in the measurement. Level 1 inputs are quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2 inputs are observable inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 for the asset or
liability, either directly or indirectly through market-corroborated inputs. Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability reflecting significant modifications to observable related market data or our assumptions about pricing by
market participants.          

Derivative Instruments  Derivative instruments are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value. If the right of offset exists and certain
other criteria are met, derivative assets and liabilities with the same counterparty are netted on the balance sheet and the collateral payable or receivable is netted against derivative assets and derivative liabilities, respectively.
        Recognition and classification of the gain or loss that results from recording and adjusting a derivative
to fair value depends on the purpose for issuing or holding the derivative. Gains and losses from derivatives not accounted for as hedges are recognized immediately in earnings. For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as a fair
value hedge, the gains or losses from adjusting the derivative to its fair value will be immediately recognized in earnings and, to the extent the hedge is effective, offset the concurrent recognition of changes in the fair value of the hedged item.
Gains or losses from derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as a cash flow hedge or hedge of a net investment in a foreign entity are recognized in other comprehensive income and appear on the balance sheet in accumulated other
comprehensive income until the hedged transaction is recognized in earnings; however, to the extent the change in the value of the derivative exceeds the change in the anticipated cash flows of the hedged transaction, the excess gains or losses will
be recognized immediately in earnings.   
         85   

Table of Contents  

Oil and Gas Exploration and Development  Oil and gas exploration and development costs are accounted for using the successful efforts method
of accounting.          Property Acquisition Costs  Oil and gas leasehold acquisition costs are
capitalized and included in the balance sheet caption properties, plants and equipment (PP E). Leasehold impairment is recognized based on exploratory experience and management s judgment. Upon achievement of all conditions necessary for
reserves to be classified as proved, the associated leasehold costs are reclassified to proved properties.       Exploratory
Costs  Geological and geophysical costs and the costs of carrying and retaining undeveloped properties are expensed as incurred. Exploratory well costs are capitalized, or  suspended,  on the balance sheet pending further
evaluation of whether economically recoverable reserves have been found. If economically recoverable reserves are not found, exploratory well costs are expensed as dry holes. If exploratory wells encounter potentially economic quantities of oil and
gas, the well costs remain capitalized on the balance sheet as long as sufficient progress assessing the reserves and the economic and operating viability of the project is being made. For complex exploratory discoveries, it is not unusual to have
exploratory wells remain suspended on the balance sheet for several years while we perform additional appraisal drilling and seismic work on the potential oil and gas field or while we seek government or co-venturer approval of development plans or
seek environmental permitting. Once all required approvals and permits have been obtained, the projects are moved into the development phase, and the oil and gas resources are designated as proved reserves.   
  Management reviews suspended well balances quarterly, continuously monitors the results of the additional appraisal drilling and seismic
work, and expenses the suspended well costs as dry holes when it judges the potential field does not warrant further investment in the near term. See Note 8 Suspended Wells, for additional information on suspended wells.   
   Development Costs  Costs incurred to drill and equip development wells, including unsuccessful development wells, are
capitalized.       Depletion and Amortization  Leasehold costs of producing properties are depleted using the
unit-of-production method based on estimated proved oil and gas reserves. Amortization of intangible development costs is based on the unit-of-production method using estimated proved developed oil and gas reserves.   

Capitalized Interest  Interest from external borrowings is capitalized on major projects with an expected construction period of one year or
longer. Capitalized interest is added to the cost of the underlying asset and is amortized over the useful lives of the assets in the same manner as the underlying assets.      

Depreciation and Amortization  Depreciation and amortization of PP E on producing hydrocarbon properties and certain pipeline assets
(those which are expected to have a declining utilization pattern), are determined by the unit-of-production method. Depreciation and amortization of all other PP E are determined by either the individual-unit-straight-line method or the
group-straight-line method (for those individual units that are highly integrated with other units).          

Impairment of Properties, Plants and Equipment  PP E used in operations are assessed for impairment whenever changes in facts and
circumstances indicate a possible significant deterioration in the future cash flows expected to be generated by an asset group and annually in the fourth quarter following updates to corporate planning assumptions. If there is an indication the
carrying amount of an asset may not be recovered, the asset is monitored by management through an established process where changes to significant assumptions such as prices, volumes and future development plans are reviewed. If, upon review, the
sum of the undiscounted pre-tax cash flows is less than the carrying value of the asset group, the carrying value is written down to estimated fair value through additional amortization or      
         86   

Table of Contents  

depreciation provisions and reported as impairments in the periods in which the determination of the impairment is made. Individual assets are grouped for impairment purposes at the lowest level
for which there are identifiable cash flows that are largely independent of the cash flows of other groups of assets generally on a field-by-field basis for exploration and production assets. Because there usually is a lack of quoted market
prices for long-lived assets, the fair value of impaired assets is typically determined based on the present values of expected future cash flows using discount rates believed to be consistent with those used by principal market participants or
based on a multiple of operating cash flow validated with historical market transactions of similar assets where possible. Long-lived assets committed by management for disposal within one year are accounted for at the lower of amortized cost or
fair value, less cost to sell, with fair value determined using a binding negotiated price, if available, or present value of expected future cash flows as previously described.   
  The expected future cash flows used for impairment reviews and related fair value calculations are based on estimated future production
volumes, prices and costs, considering all available evidence at the date of review. The impairment review includes cash flows from proved developed and undeveloped reserves, including any development expenditures necessary to achieve that
production. Additionally, when probable reserves exist, an appropriate risk-adjusted amount of these reserves may be included in the impairment calculation.       

Impairment of Investments in Nonconsolidated Entities  Investments in nonconsolidated entities are assessed for impairment whenever changes
in the facts and circumstances indicate a loss in value has occurred and annually following updates to corporate planning assumptions. When such a condition is judgmentally determined to be other than temporary, the carrying value of the investment
is written down to fair value. The fair value of the impaired investment is based on quoted market prices, if available, or upon the present value of expected future cash flows using discount rates believed to be consistent with those used by
principal market participants, plus market analysis of comparable assets owned by the investee, if appropriate.          

Maintenance and Repairs  Costs of maintenance and repairs, which are not significant improvements, are expensed when incurred.

Property Dispositions  When complete units of depreciable property are sold, the asset cost and related accumulated depreciation are
eliminated, with any gain or loss reflected in the  Gain on dispositions  line of our consolidated income statement. When less than complete units of depreciable property are disposed of or retired, the difference between asset cost and
salvage value is charged or credited to accumulated depreciation.          

Asset Retirement Obligations and Environmental Costs  The fair value of legal obligations to retire and remove long-lived assets are
recorded in the period in which the obligation is incurred (typically when the asset is installed at the production location). When the liability is initially recorded, we capitalize this cost by increasing the carrying amount of the related
PP E. If, in subsequent periods, our estimate of this liability changes, we will record an adjustment to both the liability and PP E. Over time the liability is increased for the change in its present value, and the capitalized cost in
PP E is depreciated over the useful life of the related asset. For additional information, see Note 10 Asset Retirement Obligations and Accrued Environmental Costs.      
  Environmental expenditures are expensed or capitalized, depending upon their future economic benefit. Expenditures relating to an
existing condition caused by past operations, and those having no future economic benefit, are expensed. Liabilities for environmental expenditures are recorded on an undiscounted basis (unless acquired in a purchase business combination) when
environmental assessments or cleanups are probable and the costs can be reasonably estimated. Recoveries of environmental remediation costs from other parties are recorded as assets when their receipt is probable and estimable.   
         87   

Table of Contents  

Guarantees  The fair value of a guarantee is determined and recorded as a liability at the time the guarantee is given. The initial
liability is subsequently reduced as we are released from exposure under the guarantee. We amortize the guarantee liability over the relevant time period, if one exists, based on the facts and circumstances surrounding each type of guarantee. In
cases where the guarantee term is indefinite, we reverse the liability when we have information indicating the liability is essentially relieved or amortize it over an appropriate time period as the fair value of our guarantee exposure declines over
time. We amortize the guarantee liability to the related income statement line item based on the nature of the guarantee. When it becomes probable that we will have to perform on a guarantee, we accrue a separate liability if it is reasonably
estimable, based on the facts and circumstances at that time. We reverse the fair value liability only when there is no further exposure under the guarantee.      

Share-Based Compensation  We recognize share-based compensation expense over the shorter of the service period (i.e., the stated period of
time required to earn the award) or the period beginning at the start of the service period and ending when an employee first becomes eligible for retirement. We have elected to recognize expense on a straight-line basis over the service period for
the entire award, whether the award was granted with ratable or cliff vesting.          

Income Taxes  Deferred income taxes are computed using the liability method and are provided on all temporary differences between the
financial reporting basis and the tax basis of our assets and liabilities, except for deferred taxes on income and temporary differences related to cumulative translation adjustment (CTA) considered to be permanently reinvested in certain foreign
subsidiaries and foreign corporate joint ventures. Allowable tax credits are applied currently as reductions of the provision for income taxes. Interest related to unrecognized tax benefits is reflected in interest and debt expense, and penalties
related to unrecognized tax benefits are reflected in production and operating expenses.          

Taxes Collected from Customers and Remitted to Governmental Authorities  Sales and value-added taxes are recorded net.

Net Income Per Share of Common Stock  Basic net income per share of common stock is calculated based upon the daily weighted-average number
of common shares outstanding during the year, including unallocated shares held by the stock savings feature of the ConocoPhillips Savings Plan. Also, this calculation includes fully vested stock and unit awards that have not yet been issued as
common stock, along with an adjustment to net income for dividend equivalents paid on unvested unit awards that are considered participating securities. Diluted net income per share of common stock includes unvested stock, unit or option awards
granted under our compensation plans and vested but unexercised stock options, but only to the extent these instruments dilute net income per share, primarily under the treasury-stock method. Treasury stock and shares held by grantor trusts are
excluded from the daily weighted-average number of common shares outstanding in both calculations. The earnings per share impact of the participating securities is immaterial.      
    Note 2 Change in Accounting Principles    
   Effective January 1, 2013, we early adopted, on a prospective basis, Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting
Standards Update (ASU) No. 2013-05,  Parent s Accounting for the Cumulative Translation Adjustment upon Derecognition of Certain Subsidiaries or Groups of Assets within a Foreign Entity or of an Investment in a Foreign
Entity.  This ASU clarifies that the CTA should not be released into net income unless a parent sells a part of its investment within a foreign entity which represents the complete or substantially complete liquidation of the reporting
parent s investment in the broader foreign entity. The ASU also requires the release of all the related CTA into net income upon gaining control in a step acquisition of an equity method investment that is considered to be a stand-alone foreign
entity, and a pro rata release of the related CTA into net income upon a partial sale of an interest in an equity method investment that is considered to be a stand-alone foreign entity. There was no impact to our consolidated financial statements
from the early adoption of this standard.   
         88   

Table of Contents  

Note 3 Discontinued Operations    
    Separation of Downstream Business       On April 30, 2012, the separation of our Downstream business was completed, creating two independent energy companies: ConocoPhillips and Phillips 66. In connection with the separation, Phillips 66
distributed approximately $7.8 billion to us in a special cash distribution. The principal funds from the special cash distribution were designated solely to pay dividends, repurchase common stock, repay debt, or a combination of the foregoing,
within twelve months following the distribution. At December 31, 2012, the remaining balance of the cash distribution was $748 million and was included in the  Restricted cash  line on our consolidated balance sheet. No balance
remained from the cash distribution as of December 31, 2013. We also entered into several agreements with Phillips 66 in order to effect the separation and govern our relationship with Phillips 66.   
  Sales and other operating revenues and income from discontinued operations related to Phillips 66 during 2012 and 2011 were as follows:   
   
    Income from discontinued operations after-tax includes transaction, information systems and other costs incurred to
effect the separation of $70 million and $17 million for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. No separation costs were incurred in 2013.      Prior to the separation, commodity sales to Phillips 66 were $4,973 million and $15,822 million for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Commodity purchases from Phillips 66
prior to the separation were $166 million and $516 million for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Prior to May 1, 2012, commodity sales and related costs were eliminated in consolidation between ConocoPhillips
and Phillips 66. Beginning May 1, 2012, these revenues and costs represent third-party transactions with Phillips 66.       Other
Discontinued Operations       As part of our ongoing strategic asset disposition program, we agreed to sell our interest in Kashagan and our
Algeria and Nigeria businesses (collectively, the  Disposition Group ). The Disposition Group was previously part of the Other International operating segment.      On November 26, 2012, we notified government authorities in Kazakhstan and co-venturers of our intent to sell the Company s 8.4 percent interest in Kashagan to ONGC Videsh Limited (OVL). On
July 2, 2013, we received notification from the government of Kazakhstan indicating it was exercising its right to pre-empt the proposed sale to OVL and designating KazMunayGas (KMG) as the entity to acquire the interest. On October 31,
2013, we completed the transaction with KMG for total proceeds of $5,392 million and recognized a pre-tax gain of $22 million, which is included in the  Income from discontinued operations  line on the consolidated income statement. We
recorded pre-tax impairments of $43 million and $606 million in the first quarter of 2013 and the fourth quarter of 2012, respectively. At the time of disposition, the carrying value of the net assets related to our interest in Kashagan was $5,370
million, which included $212 million of other current assets, $239 million of long-term receivables, $5,149 million of PP E, $144 million of other current liabilities, and $86 million of asset retirement obligations (ARO).   
         89   

Table of Contents  

   On December 18, 2012, we entered into an agreement with Pertamina to sell our wholly owned subsidiary,
ConocoPhillips Algeria Ltd. On November 27, 2013, we completed the transaction with Pertamina, resulting in proceeds of $1,652 million, which included a $175 million deposit received in December 2012. We recognized a pre-tax gain of $938
million, which is included in the  Income from discontinued operations  line on the consolidated income statement. At the time of disposition, the net carrying value of our Algerian assets was $714 million, which included $48 million of
other current assets, $883 million of PP E, $41 million of other current liabilities, $37 million of ARO, and $139 million of deferred taxes.      On December 20, 2012, we entered into agreements with affiliates of Oando PLC to sell our Nigeria business. This includes its upstream affiliates and Phillips (Brass) Limited, which owns a 17 percent
interest in the Brass LNG Project. Brass LNG plans to construct an LNG facility in the Niger Delta. In order to provide additional time for Oando to obtain financing and government consents, we agreed to further extend the outside date, or the date
the sales agreements may terminate if closing has not occurred, for our Nigerian upstream affiliates to February 28, 2014. We anticipate extending the outside date to enable a March 2014 closing. The upstream sale is expected to generate
proceeds of approximately $1.5 billion, after customary adjustments, inclusive of deposits received. We received deposits of $15 million and $435 million in December 2013 and 2012, respectively. In February 2014, we received an additional $50
million deposit, bringing our total deposits received to $500 million. We may retain the deposits if closing does not occur due to default by the buyer or failure to obtain all consents required under Nigerian petroleum laws. The buyer has until
March 31, 2014, to close on Brass LNG. The sale of our Brass LNG interest would generate proceeds of approximately $0.16 billion, after customary adjustments. As of December 31, 2013, the net carrying value of our Nigerian assets was $409
million.      At December 31, 2013, we classified $7 million of loans and advances to related parties in the  Accounts and notes
receivable related parties  line and $1,215 million of noncurrent assets in the  Prepaid expenses and other current assets  line of our consolidated balance sheet. In addition, we classified $765 million of noncurrent deferred
income taxes in the  Accrued income and other taxes  line and $14 million of ARO in the  Other accruals  line of our consolidated balance sheet. The carrying amounts of the major classes of assets and liabilities associated with
the Disposition Group at December 31 were as follows:       
 
         90   

Table of Contents  

   Sales and other operating revenues and income (loss) from discontinued operations related to the Disposition
Group during 2013, 2012 and 2011 were as follows:       
 
    Note 4 Variable Interest Entities (VIEs)    
   We hold variable interests in VIEs that have not been consolidated because we are not considered the primary beneficiary. Information
on our significant VIEs follows:       Freeport LNG Development, L.P. (Freeport LNG)    
  We have an agreement with Freeport LNG to participate in an LNG receiving terminal in Quintana, Texas. We have no ownership in Freeport LNG; however, we
own a 50 percent interest in Freeport LNG GP, Inc. (Freeport GP), which serves as the general partner managing the venture. We entered into a credit agreement with Freeport LNG, whereby we agreed to provide loan financing for the construction of the
terminal. We also entered into a long-term agreement with Freeport LNG to use 0.9 billion cubic feet per day of regasification capacity, which expires in 2033. The terminal became operational in June 2008, and we began making payments under the
terminal use agreement. At December 31, 2013, the prepaid balance of the terminal use agreement was $282 million, which is primarily reflected in the  Other assets  line on our consolidated balance sheet. Freeport LNG began making
loan repayments in September 2008, and the loan balance outstanding was $506 million at December 31, 2013, and $565 million at December 31, 2012.      In July 2013, we reached an agreement with Freeport LNG to terminate our long-term agreement at the Freeport LNG Terminal, subject to Freeport LNG obtaining regulatory approval and project financing for
an LNG liquefaction and export facility in Texas, in which we are not a participant. Upon satisfaction of these conditions, currently expected to occur during the second half of 2014, we will pay Freeport LNG a termination fee of approximately
$600 million. Freeport LNG will repay the outstanding ConocoPhillips loan used by Freeport LNG to partially fund the original construction of the terminal. When the agreement becomes effective, we expect to recognize an after-tax charge to
earnings of approximately $540 million. At that time, our terminal regasification capacity will be reduced from 0.9 billion cubic feet per day to 0.4 billion cubic feet per day, until July 1, 2016, at which time it will be reduced to zero.
     Freeport LNG is a VIE because Freeport GP holds no equity in Freeport LNG, and the limited partners of Freeport LNG do not have any
substantive decision making ability. Since we do not have the unilateral power to direct the key activities which most significantly impact its economic performance, we are not the primary beneficiary of Freeport LNG. These key activities primarily
involve or relate to operating and maintaining the terminal. We also performed an analysis of the expected losses and determined we are not the primary beneficiary. This expected loss analysis took into account that the credit support arrangement
requires Freeport LNG to maintain sufficient commercial insurance to mitigate any loan losses. The loan to Freeport LNG is accounted for as a financial asset, and our investment in Freeport GP is accounted for as an equity investment.   
   Australia Pacific LNG Pty Ltd (APLNG)    
  APLNG is considered a VIE, as it has entered into certain contractual arrangements that provide it with additional forms of subordinated financial
support. We are not the primary beneficiary of APLNG because we share with Origin Energy and China Petrochemical Corporation (Sinopec) the power to direct the key activities of APLNG that most significantly impact its economic performance, which
involve activities related to the   
         91   

Table of Contents  

production and commercialization of coalbed methane, as well as LNG processing and export marketing. As a result, we do not consolidate APLNG, and it is accounted for as an equity method
investment.      As of December 31, 2013, we have not provided any financial support to APLNG other than amounts previously contractually
required. Unless we elect otherwise, we have no requirement to provide liquidity or purchase the assets of APLNG. See Note 7 Investments, Loans and Long-Term Receivables, and Note 13 Guarantees, for additional information.   
    Note 5 Inventories    
   Inventories at December 31 were:   
   
    Inventories valued on the LIFO basis totaled $343 million and $147 million at December 31, 2013 and 2012,
respectively. The estimated excess of current replacement cost over LIFO cost of inventories was approximately $160 million at December 31, 2013, and $200 million at December 31, 2012. In 2013, there were no liquidations of LIFO
inventory values impacting net income from continuing operations.   
    Note 6 Assets Held for Sale or Sold    
    Assets Held for Sale    
  Our interest in the Nigeria business was considered held for sale as of December 31, 2013. See Note 3 Discontinued Operations, for additional
information.       Assets Sold    
  All gains or losses are reported before-tax and are included net in the  Gain on dispositions  line on the consolidated income statement.
       2013        In March 2013,
we sold the majority of our producing zones in the Cedar Creek Anticline for $994 million and recognized a loss on disposition of $43 million. At the time of the disposition, the carrying value of our interest, which was included in the Lower 48 and
Latin America segment, was $1,037 million, which included primarily $1,066 million of PP E and $28 million of ARO.      In June 2013, we sold
a portion of our working interests in the Browse and Canning basins for $402 million. Because we retain a working interest in the unproved properties, proceeds were treated as a reduction of the carrying value of PP E with no gain or loss on
disposition recognized. Prior to the partial disposition, the carrying value of the PP E associated with our interests, included in our Asia Pacific and Middle East segment, was $486 million.   
  In August 2013, we sold our interest in the Clyden undeveloped oil sands leasehold for $724 million and recognized a gain on disposition of $614 million.
At the time of the disposition, the carrying value of our interest in Clyden, which was included in the Canada segment, was $110 million and was primarily classified as PP E.   
         92   

Table of Contents  

   In August 2013, we also sold our 39 percent interest in Phoenix Park Gas Processors Limited for $593 million
and recognized a gain on disposition of $417 million. At the time of the disposition, the carrying value of our equity investment in Phoenix Park, which was included in our Lower 48 and Latin America segment, was $176 million.   
  For information on the Kashagan and Algeria sales, which are included in the  Income from discontinued operations  line on the consolidated
income statement, see Note 3 Discontinued Operations.        2012        In March 2012, we sold our Vietnam business for $1,095 million and recognized a gain on disposition of $931 million. At the time of the disposition, the net carrying value of the business, which was
included in the Asia Pacific and Middle East segment, was approximately $164 million, which included $352 million of PP E, $69 million of ARO and $145 million of deferred income taxes.   
  In April 2012, we sold our interest in the Statfjord Field and associated satellites, all of which are located in the North Sea, for $228 million and
recognized a gain of $429 million. At the time of disposition, the carrying value of our interest, which was included in the Europe segment, was negative $201 million, which included $205 million of PP E and $445 million of ARO.   
  In May 2012, we sold our interest in the North Sea Alba Field for $220 million, and recognized a gain of $155 million. At the time of disposition,
the carrying value of our interest, which was included in the Europe segment, was $65 million, which included $160 million of PP E and $86 million of ARO.      In August 2012, we sold our 30 percent interest in Naryanmarneftegaz (NMNG) and certain related assets for $450 million, and recognized a gain of $206 million. At the time of the disposition, the carrying
value of our equity investment in NMNG, which was included in the Other International segment, was $244 million.        2011
       In the first quarter of 2011, we sold the remainder of our interest in LUKOIL for cash proceeds of $1,243 million, and recognized
a gain of $360 million. The cost basis for the shares, which were classified as available-for-sale, was average cost.   
         93   

Table of Contents  

Note 7 Investments, Loans and Long-Term Receivables   
   Components of investments, loans and long-term receivables at December 31 were:   
   
     Equity Investments       Affiliated companies in which we had a significant equity investment at December 31, 2013, included:       

APLNG 37.5 percent owned joint venture with Origin Energy (37.5 percent) and Sinopec (25 percent) to develop coalbed methane
production from the Bowen and Surat basins in Queensland, Australia, as well as process and export LNG.      

FCCL Partnership 50 percent owned business venture with Cenovus Energy Inc. produces bitumen in the Athabasca oil sands in northeastern
Alberta and sells the bitumen blend.      

Qatar Liquefied Gas Company Limited (3) (QG3) 30 percent owned joint venture with affiliates of Qatar Petroleum (68.5 percent) and
Mitsui   Co., Ltd. (1.5 percent) produces and liquefies natural gas from Qatar s North Field, as well as exports LNG.         Summarized 100 percent earnings information for equity method investments in affiliated companies, combined, was as follows (information includes equity investments disposed of in connection with the
separation of the Downstream business until the date of the separation):       
    Summarized 100 percent balance sheet information for equity method investments in affiliated companies, combined,
was as follows:       
    Our share of income taxes incurred directly by an equity company is reported in equity in earnings of affiliates, and as
such is not included in income taxes in our consolidated financial statements.   
         94   

Table of Contents  

   At December 31, 2013, retained earnings included $1,358 million related to the undistributed
earnings of affiliated companies. Dividends received from affiliates were $1,425 million, $1,351 million and $3,670 million in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.       APLNG       In 2008, we closed on a transaction with Origin Energy, an integrated Australian
energy company, to further enhance our long-term Australasian natural gas business. APLNG is focused on coalbed methane production from the Bowen and Surat basins in Queensland, Australia, and LNG processing and export sales. This transaction gives
us access to coalbed methane resources in Australia and enhances our LNG position with the expected creation of an additional LNG hub targeting the Asia Pacific markets. Origin is the operator of APLNG s production and pipeline system, while we
will operate the LNG facility.      In April 2011, APLNG and Sinopec signed definitive agreements for APLNG to supply up to 4.3 million
metric tonnes of LNG per year for 20 years. The agreements also specified terms under which Sinopec subscribed for a 15 percent equity interest in APLNG, with both our ownership interest and Origin Energy s ownership interest diluting to
42.5 percent. The Subscription Agreement was completed in August 2011, and we recorded a loss on disposition of $279 million before- and after-tax from the dilution. The book value of our investment in APLNG was reduced by $795 million, and we
reduced the currency translation adjustment associated with our investment by $516 million.      In January 2012, APLNG and Sinopec signed an
amendment to their existing LNG sales agreement for the sale and purchase of an additional 3.3 million metric tonnes of LNG per year through 2035. This agreement, in combination with the execution of an LNG sale and purchase agreement with The
Kansai Electric Power Co. Inc., in June 2012 for approximately 1.0 million metric tonnes of LNG per year through 2035, finalized the marketing of the second train.      In July 2012, the APLNG co-venturers sanctioned the development of a second 4.5-million-tonnes-per-year LNG production train. Upon sanctioning of the second train in July and in conjunction with the LNG
sales agreement, Sinopec subscribed to additional shares in APLNG, which increased its equity interest from 15 percent to 25 percent. As a result, on July 12, 2012, both our ownership interest and Origin s ownership interest diluted
from 42.5 percent to 37.5 percent. We recorded a before- and after-tax loss of $133 million from the dilution in the third quarter of 2012. The book value of our investment in APLNG was reduced by $453 million, and we reduced the foreign currency
translation adjustment associated with our investment by $320 million.      In addition, APLNG executed project financing agreements for an $8.5
billion project finance facility during the third quarter of 2012. The $8.5 billion project finance facility is composed of financing agreements executed by APLNG with the Export-Import Bank of the United States for approximately $2.9 billion, the
Export-Import Bank of China for approximately $2.7 billion, and a syndicate of Australian and international commercial banks for approximately $2.9 billion. At December 31, 2013, $7.3 billion had been drawn from the facility. In connection with
the execution of the project financing, we provided a completion guarantee for our pro-rata share of the project finance facility which will be released upon meeting certain completion milestones. See Note 13 Guarantees, for additional
information.      APLNG is considered a VIE, as it has entered into certain contractual arrangements that provide it with additional forms of
subordinated financial support. See Note 4 Variable Interest Entities (VIEs) for additional information.      At December 31, 2013, the
book value of our equity method investment in APLNG was $10,766 million, which includes $1,159 million of cumulative translation effects due to a strengthening Australian dollar relative to the U.S. dollar over time. The historical cost basis
of our 37.5 percent share of net assets on the books of APLNG under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles was $5,160 million, resulting in a basis difference of $5,606 million on our books. The amortizable portion of the basis
difference, $4,022 million associated with PP E, has been allocated on a relative fair value basis to individual exploration and production license areas owned by APLNG, most of which are not currently in production. Any future additional
payments are expected to be allocated in a similar manner. Each exploration license area will   
         95   

Table of Contents  

periodically be reviewed for any indicators of potential impairment, which, if required, would result in acceleration of basis difference amortization. As the joint venture produces natural gas
from each license, we amortize the basis difference allocated to that license using the unit-of-production method. Included in net income attributable to ConocoPhillips for 2013, 2012 and 2011 was after-tax expense of $16 million,
$19 million and $17 million, respectively, representing the amortization of this basis difference on currently producing licenses.   
   FCCL       FCCL Partnership, a Canadian
upstream 50/50 general partnership with Cenovus Energy Inc., produces bitumen in the Athabasca oil sands in northeastern Alberta and sells the bitumen blend. We account for our investment in FCCL under the equity method of accounting, with the
operating results of our investment in FCCL converted to reflect the use of the successful efforts method of accounting for oil and gas exploration and development activities.      At December 31, 2013, the book value of our investment in FCCL was $10,273 million. FCCL s operating assets consist of the Foster Creek and Christina Lake steam-assisted gravity drainage bitumen
projects, both located in the eastern flank of the Athabasca oil sands in northeastern Alberta. Cenovus is the operator and managing partner of FCCL. We were obligated to contribute $7.5 billion, plus accrued interest, to FCCL over a 10-year period
that began in 2007. In December 2013, we repaid the remaining balance of the obligation. See Note 12 Joint Venture Acquisition Obligation, for additional information on this obligation.       QG3       QG3 is a joint venture that owns an integrated large-scale LNG project located in
Qatar. We provided project financing, with a current outstanding balance of $1,005 million as described below under  Loans and Long-Term Receivables.  At December 31, 2013, the book value of our equity method investment in QG3,
excluding the project financing, was $1,041 million. We have terminal and pipeline use agreements with Golden Pass LNG Terminal and affiliated Golden Pass Pipeline near Sabine Pass, Texas, in which we have a 12.4 percent interest, intended to
provide us with terminal and pipeline capacity for the receipt, storage and regasification of LNG purchased from QG3. However, currently the LNG from QG3 is being sold to markets outside of the United States.   
   Loans and Long-Term Receivables       As part
of our normal ongoing business operations and consistent with industry practice, we enter into numerous agreements with other parties to pursue business opportunities. Included in such activity are loans and long-term receivables to certain
affiliated and non-affiliated companies. Loans are recorded when cash is transferred or seller financing is provided to the affiliated or non-affiliated company pursuant to a loan agreement. The loan balance will increase as interest is earned on
the outstanding loan balance and will decrease as interest and principal payments are received. Interest is earned at the loan agreement s stated interest rate. Loans and long-term receivables are assessed for impairment when events indicate
the loan balance may not be fully recovered.   
         96   

Table of Contents  

   At December 31, 2013, significant loans to affiliated companies include the following:   

$506 million in loan financing to Freeport LNG Development, L.P. for the construction of an LNG receiving terminal that became operational in June
2008. Freeport LNG began making repayments in 2008 and is required to continue making repayments through full repayment of the loan in 2026. Repayment by Freeport LNG is supported by  process-or-pay  capacity service payments made by us to
Freeport LNG under our terminal use agreement. See Note 4 Variable Interest Entities (VIEs), for additional information.          

$1,005 million in project financing to QG3. We own a 30 percent interest in QG3, for which we use the equity method of accounting. The other
participants in the project are affiliates of Qatar Petroleum and Mitsui. QG3 secured project financing of $4.0 billion in December 2005, consisting of $1.3 billion of loans from export credit agencies (ECA), $1.5 billion from commercial
banks, and $1.2 billion from ConocoPhillips. The ConocoPhillips loan facilities have substantially the same terms as the ECA and commercial bank facilities. On December 15, 2011, QG3 achieved financial completion and all project loan
facilities became nonrecourse to the project participants. Semi-annual repayments began in January 2011 and will extend through July 2022.         The long-term portion of these loans is included in the  Loans and advances related parties  line on our consolidated balance sheet, while the short-term portion is in  Accounts and
notes receivable related parties.    
    Note 8 Suspended Wells   
   The following table reflects the net changes in suspended exploratory well costs during 2013, 2012 and 2011:   

*Includes   
   $57 million of assets held for sale in Nigeria.      

**Includes   
   $190 million of assets held for sale $133 million in Kazakhstan and $57 million in Nigeria.      
  The following table provides an aging of suspended well balances at December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011:   

*Includes   
   $57 million of assets held for sale in Nigeria.      

**Includes   
   $190 million of assets held for sale $133 million in Kazakhstan and $57 million in Nigeria.      
         97   

Table of Contents  

   The following table provides a further aging of those exploratory well costs that have been capitalized for
more than one year since the completion of drilling as of December 31, 2013:       

(1)   
   Additional appraisal wells planned.      

(2)   
   Appraisal drilling complete; costs being incurred to assess development.      
 
    Note 9 Impairments    
   During 2013, 2012 and 2011, we recognized the following before-tax impairment charges:   
   
      2013        In 2013, we recorded property impairments of $216 million in our Canada segment, mainly as a result of lower natural gas price assumptions, reduced volume forecasts and higher costs.   
  In Europe, we recorded impairments of $301 million, primarily due to ARO revisions for properties in the United Kingdom which are nearing the end of
their useful lives or have ceased production.   
         98   

Table of Contents  

     2012        In 2012, we recorded a $192 million property impairment in the Lower 48 and Latin America segment related to the planned disposition of the majority of our producing zones in the Cedar Creek Anticline,
located in southwestern North Dakota and eastern Montana.      The Canada segment included a $213 million property impairment for the
carrying value of capitalized project development costs associated with our Mackenzie Gas Project. Advancement of the project was suspended indefinitely in the first quarter of 2012 due to a continued decline in market conditions and the lack of
acceptable commercial terms. We also recorded a $481 million impairment for the undeveloped leasehold costs associated with the project, which was included in the  Exploration expenses  line on our consolidated income statement.
Additionally, we recorded impairments on various producing and non-producing properties.      In Europe, we recorded impairments of $211 million,
mainly related to ARO revisions for properties which have ceased production or are nearing the end of their useful lives.        2011
       During 2011, we recorded property impairments of $289 million, primarily in our Lower 48 and Latin America and Canada segments,
largely as a result of lower natural gas price assumptions and reduced volume forecasts.       Note 10 Asset Retirement Obligations and
Accrued Environmental Costs       Asset retirement obligations and accrued environmental costs at December 31 were:   

*   
   Classified as a current liability on the balance sheet under  Other accruals  and includes $14 million and $158 million of liabilities associated with
assets held for sale at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.          Asset Retirement Obligations    
  We record the fair value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation when it is incurred (typically when the asset is installed at the production
location). When the liability is initially recorded, we capitalize the associated asset retirement cost by increasing the carrying amount of the related PP E. If, in subsequent periods, our estimate of this liability changes, we will record an
adjustment to both the liability and PP E. Over time, the liability increases for the change in its present value, while the capitalized cost depreciates over the useful life of the related asset.   
  We have numerous asset retirement obligations we are required to perform under law or contract once an asset is permanently taken out of service. Most of
these obligations are not expected to be paid until several years, or decades, in the future and will be funded from general company resources at the time of removal. Our largest individual obligations involve plugging and abandonment of wells and
removal and disposal of offshore oil and gas platforms around the world, as well as oil and gas production facilities and pipelines in Alaska.   
         99   

Table of Contents  

   During 2013 and 2012, our overall asset retirement obligation changed as follows:   
   
     Accrued Environmental Costs       Total accrued environmental costs at December 31, 2013 and 2012, were $348 million and $364 million, respectively.      We had accrued environmental costs of $271 million and $279 million at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, related to remediation activities in the United States and Canada. We had
also accrued in Corporate and Other $60 million and $70 million of environmental costs associated with sites no longer in operation at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. In addition, $17 million and $15 million were
included at both December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, where the Company has been named a potentially responsible party under the Federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, or similar state laws. Accrued
environmental liabilities are expected to be paid over periods extending up to 30 years.      Expected expenditures for environmental
obligations acquired in various business combinations are discounted using a weighted-average 5 percent discount factor, resulting in an accrued balance for acquired environmental liabilities of $124 million at December 31, 2013. The
expected future undiscounted payments related to the portion of the accrued environmental costs that have been discounted are: $19 million in 2014, $18 million in 2015, $10 million in 2016, $6 million in 2017, $4 million in 2018, and
$82 million for all future years after 2018.   
         100

Table of Contents  

Note 11 Debt   
   Long-term debt at December 31 was:       
 
         101

Table of Contents  

   Maturities of long-term borrowings, inclusive of net unamortized premiums and discounts, in 2014 through
2018 are: $589 million, $1,576 million, $2,202 million, $1,073 million and $873 million, respectively. At December 31, 2013, we classified $861 million of short-term debt as long-term debt, based on our ability and intent to refinance the
obligation on a long-term basis under our revolving credit facility.      During 2013, the following debt instruments were repaid at maturity:

In February 2014, the $400 million 4.75% Notes due 2014 were repaid at maturity.      At
December 31, 2013, we had a revolving credit facility totaling $7.5 billion expiring in August 2016. Our revolving credit facility may be used as direct bank borrowings, as support for issuances of letters of credit totaling up to $750 million,
or as support for our commercial paper programs. The revolving credit facility is broadly syndicated among financial institutions and does not contain any material adverse change provisions or any covenants requiring maintenance of specified
financial ratios or ratings. The facility agreement contains a cross-default provision relating to the failure to pay principal or interest on other debt obligations of $200 million or more by ConocoPhillips, or by any of its consolidated
subsidiaries.         Credit facility borrowings may bear interest at a margin above rates offered by certain designated banks in the London
interbank market or at a margin above the overnight federal funds rate or prime rates offered by certain designated banks in the United States. The agreements call for commitment fees on available, but unused, amounts. The agreements also contain
early termination rights if our current directors or their approved successors cease to be a majority of the Board of Directors.      We have two
commercial paper programs supported by our $7.5 billion revolving credit facility: the ConocoPhillips $6.35 billion program, primarily a funding source for short-term working capital needs, and the ConocoPhillips Qatar Funding Ltd. $1.15 billion
program, which is used to fund commitments relating to QG3. Commercial paper maturities are generally limited to 90 days.      At both
December 31, 2013 and 2012, we had no direct outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit facility, with no letters of credit as of December 31, 2013. In addition, under the ConocoPhillips Qatar Funding Ltd. commercial paper program,
there was $961 million of commercial paper outstanding at December 31, 2013, compared with $1,055 million at December 31, 2012. Since we had $961 million of commercial paper outstanding and had issued no letters of credit, we had access to
$6.5 billion in borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility at December 31, 2013.      During the second quarter of 2013, a lease
of a semi-submersible floating production system (FPS) commenced for the Gumusut development, located in Malaysia, in which we are a co-venturer. The FPS lease provides for an initial noncancelable term of 15 years, a subsequent 5-year cancelable
term with no required lease payments, and an additional 5-year term with terms and conditions to be agreed at a later date. The lease has no ongoing purchase options or escalation clauses. Certain contingent rental payments may be incurred if actual
commissioning costs exceed provisioned amounts. The lease does not impose any significant restrictions concerning dividends, debt or further leasing activities.      A capital lease asset and capital lease obligation were recognized for our proportionate interest in the FPS of $906 million, based on the present value of the future minimum lease payments using our
pre-tax incremental borrowing rate of 3.58 percent for debt with similar terms. As of December 31, 2013, the value of the lease asset and associated obligation is $906 million with commissioning activities continuing. Following the startup of
the FPS, the capital lease asset will be depreciated over a period consistent with the estimated proved reserves of Gumusut using the unit-of-production method with the associated depreciation included in the  Depreciation, depletion and
amortization  line on our consolidated income statement.   
         102

Table of Contents  

   At December 31, 2013, future minimum payments due under capital leases were:   
   
     Note 12 Joint Venture Acquisition Obligation       We were obligated to contribute $7.5 billion, plus interest, over a 10-year period that began in 2007, to FCCL. Quarterly principal and interest payments of $237 million began in the second quarter of
2007. The principal portion of these payments totaled $772 million in 2013. In December 2013, we paid the remaining balance of the obligation, which totaled $2,810 million and is included in the  Other  line in the financing activities
section of our consolidated statement of cash flows. Interest accrued at a fixed annual rate of 5.3 percent on the unpaid principal balance. Fifty percent of the quarterly interest payment is reflected as a capital contribution and is included in
the  Capital expenditures and investments  line on our consolidated statement of cash flows.       Note 13 Guarantees
      At December 31, 2013, we were liable for certain contingent obligations under various contractual arrangements as described below.
We recognize a liability at inception for the fair value of our obligation as a guarantor for newly issued or modified guarantees. Unless the carrying amount of the liability is noted below, we have not recognized a liability either because the
guarantees were issued prior to December 31, 2002, or because the fair value of the obligation is immaterial. In addition, unless otherwise stated, we are not currently performing with any significance under the guarantee and expect future
performance to be either immaterial or have only a remote chance of occurrence.       APLNG Guarantees    
  At December 31, 2013, we have outstanding multiple guarantees in connection with our 37.5 percent ownership interest in APLNG. The following is a
description of the guarantees with values calculated utilizing December 2013 exchange rates:       

We have guaranteed APLNG s performance with regard to a construction contract executed in connection with APLNG s issuance of the Train 1 and
Train 2 Notices to Proceed. We estimate the remaining term of this guarantee is 3 years. Our maximum potential amount of future payments related to this guarantee is approximately $130 million and would become payable if APLNG cancels the
applicable construction contract and does not perform with respect to the amounts owed to the contractor.          

We have issued a construction completion guarantee related to the third-party project financing secured by APLNG. Our maximum potential amount of
future payments under the guarantee is estimated to be $3.2 billion, which could be payable if the full debt financing capacity is utilized and completion of the project is not achieved. Our guarantee of the project financing will be released
     
         103

Table of Contents  

upon meeting certain completion tests with milestones, which we estimate would occur beginning in 2016. Our maximum exposure at December 31, 2013, is $2.8 billion based upon our pro-rata
share of the facility used at that date. At December 31, 2013, the carrying value of this guarantee is approximately $114 million.          

In conjunction with our original purchase of an ownership interest in APLNG from Origin Energy in October 2008, we agreed to guarantee an existing
obligation of APLNG to deliver natural gas under several sales agreements with remaining terms of 3 to 18 years. Our maximum potential amount of future payments, or cost of volume delivery, under these guarantees is estimated to be $0.8 billion
($1.9 billion in the event of intentional or reckless breach) and would become payable if APLNG fails to meet its obligations under these agreements and the obligations cannot otherwise be mitigated. Future payments are considered unlikely, as the
payments, or cost of volume delivery, would only be triggered if APLNG does not have enough natural gas to meet these sales commitments and if the co-venturers do not make necessary equity contributions into APLNG.      

We have guaranteed the performance of APLNG with regard to certain other contracts executed in connection with the project s continued
development. The guarantees have remaining terms of up to 32 years or the life of the venture. Our maximum potential amount of future payments related to these guarantees is approximately $170 million and would become payable if APLNG does not
perform.          Other Guarantees       We have other guarantees with maximum future potential payment amounts totaling approximately $260 million, which consist primarily of guarantees of the residual value of leased corporate aircraft,
guarantees to fund the short-term cash liquidity deficit of two joint ventures, a guarantee for our portion of a joint venture s debt obligations and a guarantee of minimum charter revenue for an LNG vessel. These guarantees have remaining
terms of up to 10 years or the life of the venture and would become payable if, upon sale, certain asset values are lower than guaranteed amounts, business conditions decline at guaranteed entities, or as a result of non-performance of contractual
terms by guaranteed parties.       Indemnifications       Over the years, we have entered into agreements to sell ownership interests in certain corporations, joint ventures and assets that gave rise to qualifying indemnifications. These agreements include
indemnifications for taxes, environmental liabilities, employee claims, and litigation. The terms of these indemnifications vary greatly. The majority of these indemnifications are related to environmental issues, the term is generally indefinite
and the maximum amount of future payments is generally unlimited. The carrying amount recorded for these indemnifications at December 31, 2013, was approximately $60 million. We amortize the indemnification liability over the relevant time
period, if one exists, based on the facts and circumstances surrounding each type of indemnity. In cases where the indemnification term is indefinite, we will reverse the liability when we have information the liability is essentially relieved or
amortize the liability over an appropriate time period as the fair value of our indemnification exposure declines. Although it is reasonably possible future payments may exceed amounts recorded, due to the nature of the indemnifications, it is not
possible to make a reasonable estimate of the maximum potential amount of future payments. Included in the recorded carrying amount at December 31, 2013 were approximately $50 million of environmental accruals for known contamination that
are included in the  Asset retirement obligations and accrued environmental costs  line on our consolidated balance sheet. For additional information about environmental liabilities, see Note 14 Contingencies and Commitments.
     In connection with the separation of the Downstream business, the Company entered into an Indemnification and Release Agreement with Phillips
66. This agreement provided for cross-indemnities between Phillips 66 and ConocoPhillips and established procedures for handling claims subject to indemnification and related matters. We evaluated the impact of the indemnifications given and
the Phillips 66 indemnifications received as of the separation date and concluded those fair values were immaterial.   
         104

Table of Contents  

    Note 14 Contingencies and Commitments       A number of lawsuits involving a variety of claims arising in the ordinary course of business have been made against ConocoPhillips. We also may be required to remove or mitigate the effects on the
environment of the placement, storage, disposal or release of certain chemical, mineral and petroleum substances at various active and inactive sites. We regularly assess the need for accounting recognition or disclosure of these contingencies. In
the case of all known contingencies (other than those related to income taxes), we accrue a liability when the loss is probable and the amount is reasonably estimable. If a range of amounts can be reasonably estimated and no amount within the range
is a better estimate than any other amount, then the minimum of the range is accrued. We do not reduce these liabilities for potential insurance or third-party recoveries. If applicable, we accrue receivables for probable insurance or other
third-party recoveries. With respect to income tax-related contingencies, we use a cumulative probability-weighted loss accrual in cases where sustaining a tax position is less than certain. See Note 20 Income Taxes, for additional information
about income tax-related contingencies.      Based on currently available information, we believe it is remote that future costs related to known
contingent liability exposures will exceed current accruals by an amount that would have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial statements. As we learn new facts concerning contingencies, we reassess our position both with respect
to accrued liabilities and other potential exposures. Estimates particularly sensitive to future changes include contingent liabilities recorded for environmental remediation, tax and legal matters. Estimated future environmental remediation costs
are subject to change due to such factors as the uncertain magnitude of cleanup costs, the unknown time and extent of such remedial actions that may be required, and the determination of our liability in proportion to that of other responsible
parties. Estimated future costs related to tax and legal matters are subject to change as events evolve and as additional information becomes available during the administrative and litigation processes.   
   Environmental       We are subject to
international, federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. When we prepare our consolidated financial statements, we record accruals for environmental liabilities based on management s best estimates, using all information that
is available at the time. We measure estimates and base liabilities on currently available facts, existing technology, and presently enacted laws and regulations, taking into account stakeholder and business considerations. When measuring
environmental liabilities, we also consider our prior experience in remediation of contaminated sites, other companies  cleanup experience, and data released by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) or other organizations. We
consider unasserted claims in our determination of environmental liabilities, and we accrue them in the period they are both probable and reasonably estimable.      Although liability of those potentially responsible for environmental remediation costs is generally joint and several for federal sites and frequently so for other sites, we are usually only one of many
companies cited at a particular site. Due to the joint and several liabilities, we could be responsible for all cleanup costs related to any site at which we have been designated as a potentially responsible party. We have been successful to date in
sharing cleanup costs with other financially sound companies. Many of the sites at which we are potentially responsible are still under investigation by the EPA or the agency concerned. Prior to actual cleanup, those potentially responsible normally
assess the site conditions, apportion responsibility and determine the appropriate remediation. In some instances, we may have no liability or may attain a settlement of liability. Where it appears that other potentially responsible parties may be
financially unable to bear their proportional share, we consider this inability in estimating our potential liability, and we adjust our accruals accordingly. As a result of various acquisitions in the past, we assumed certain environmental
obligations. Some of these environmental obligations are mitigated by indemnifications made by others for our benefit, and some of the indemnifications are subject to dollar limits and time limits.   
  We are currently participating in environmental assessments and cleanups at numerous federal Superfund and comparable state and international sites.
After an assessment of environmental exposures for cleanup and other costs, we make accruals on an undiscounted basis (except those acquired in a purchase business combination, which we record on a discounted basis) for planned investigation and
remediation activities for   
         105

Table of Contents  

sites where it is probable future costs will be incurred and these costs can be reasonably estimated. We have not reduced these accruals for possible insurance recoveries. In the future, we may
be involved in additional environmental assessments, cleanups and proceedings. See Note 10 Asset Retirement Obligations and Accrued Environmental Costs, for a summary of our accrued environmental liabilities.   
   Legal Proceedings       Our legal
organization applies its knowledge, experience and professional judgment to the specific characteristics of our cases, employing a litigation management process to manage and monitor the legal proceedings against us. Our process facilitates the
early evaluation and quantification of potential exposures in individual cases. This process also enables us to track those cases that have been scheduled for trial and/or mediation. Based on professional judgment and experience in using these
litigation management tools and available information about current developments in all our cases, our legal organization regularly assesses the adequacy of current accruals and determines if adjustment of existing accruals, or establishment of new
accruals, is required.       Other Contingencies       We have contingent liabilities resulting from throughput agreements with pipeline and processing companies not associated with financing arrangements. Under these agreements, we may be required to provide
any such company with additional funds through advances and penalties for fees related to throughput capacity not utilized. In addition, at December 31, 2013, we had performance obligations secured by letters of credit of $827
million (issued as direct bank letters of credit) related to various purchase commitments for materials, supplies, commercial activities and services incident to the ordinary conduct of business.   
  In 2007, we announced we had been unable to reach agreement with respect to our migration to an  empresa mixta  structure mandated by the Venezuelan
government s Nationalization Decree. As a result, Venezuela s national oil company, Petr leos de Venezuela S.A. (PDVSA), or its affiliates, directly assumed control over ConocoPhillips  interests in the Petrozuata and
Hamaca heavy oil ventures and the offshore Corocoro development project. In response to this expropriation, we filed a request for international arbitration on November 2, 2007, with the World Bank s International Centre for Settlement of
Investment Disputes (ICSID). An arbitration hearing was held before an ICSID tribunal during the summer of 2010. On September 3, 2013, an ICSID arbitration tribunal held that Venezuela unlawfully expropriated ConocoPhillips  significant
oil investments in June 2007. A separate arbitration phase will proceed to determine the amount of damages owed to ConocoPhillips for Venezuela s actions.      In 2008, Burlington Resources, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of ConocoPhillips, initiated arbitration before ICSID against The Republic of Ecuador, as a result of the newly enacted Windfall Profits Tax
Law and government-mandated renegotiation of our production sharing contracts. Despite a restraining order issued by the ICSID tribunal, Ecuador confiscated the crude oil production of Burlington and its co-venturer and sold the seized crude
oil. In 2009, Ecuador took over operations in Blocks 7 and 21, fully expropriating our assets. In June 2010, the ICSID tribunal concluded it has jurisdiction to hear the expropriation claim. On April 24, 2012, Ecuador filed supplemental
counterclaims asserting environmental damages, which we believe are not material. The ICSID tribunal issued a decision on liability on December 14, 2012, in favor of Burlington, finding that Ecuador s seizure of Blocks 7 and 21
was an unlawful expropriation in violation of the Ecuador-U.S. Bilateral Investment Treaty. An additional arbitration phase is now proceeding to determine the damages owed to ConocoPhillips for Ecuador s actions and to address
Ecuador s counterclaims.      ConocoPhillips served a Notice of Arbitration on the Timor-Leste Minister of Finance in October 2012 for
outstanding disputes related to a series of tax assessments. As of December 2013, ConocoPhillips paid, under protest, tax assessments totaling approximately $232 million, which are primarily recorded in the  Investments and long-term
receivables  line on our consolidated balance sheet. The arbitration will be conducted in Singapore under the United Nations Commission on International Trade Laws (UNCITRAL) arbitration rules, pursuant to the terms of the Tax Stability
Agreement with the Timor-Leste government. The arbitration process is currently underway. Future impacts on our business are not known at this time.   
         106

Table of Contents  

    Long-Term Throughput Agreements and Take-or-Pay Agreements    
  We have certain throughput agreements and take-or-pay agreements in support of financing arrangements. The agreements typically provide for natural gas or
crude oil transportation to be used in the ordinary course of the Company s business. The aggregate amounts of estimated payments under these various agreements are: 2014 $125 million; 2015 $117 million; 2016 $25 million;
2017 $25 million; 2018 $22 million; and 2019 and after $121 million. Total payments under the agreements were $127 million in 2013, $130 million in 2012 and $429 million in 2011.   
   Note 15 Derivative and Financial Instruments       We use futures, forwards, swaps and options in various markets to meet our customer needs and capture market opportunities. Our commodity business primarily consists of natural gas, crude oil, bitumen,
LNG and natural gas liquids.      Our derivative instruments are held at fair value on our consolidated balance sheet. Where these balances have
the right of setoff, they are presented on a net basis. Related cash flows are recorded as operating activities on the consolidated statement of cash flows. On our consolidated income statement, realized and unrealized gains and losses are
recognized either on a gross basis if directly related to our physical business or a net basis if held for trading. Gains and losses related to contracts that meet and are designated with the normal purchase normal sale exception are recognized upon
settlement. We generally apply this exception to eligible crude contracts. We do not use hedge accounting for our commodity derivatives.      The
following table presents the gross fair values of our commodity derivatives, excluding collateral, and the line items where they appear on our consolidated balance sheet:   
   
    The gains (losses) incurred from commodity derivatives, and the line items where they appear on our consolidated income
statement were:       
 
         107

Table of Contents  

   The table below summarizes our material net exposures resulting from outstanding commodity derivative
contracts:       
     Foreign Currency Exchange Derivatives       We have foreign currency exchange rate risk resulting from international operations. Our foreign currency exchange derivative activity primarily consists of transactions designed to mitigate our
cash-related and foreign currency exchange rate exposures, such as firm commitments for capital programs or local currency tax payments, dividends, and cash returns from net investments in foreign affiliates. We do not elect hedge accounting on our
foreign currency exchange derivatives.      The following table presents the gross fair values of our foreign currency exchange derivatives,
excluding collateral, and the line items where they appear on our consolidated balance sheet:       

Millions of Dollars          

2013   

2012   

Assets    

Prepaid expenses and other current assets   
      
   $   
       1   

32   

Liabilities    

Other accruals   

-   

2   

Other liabilities and deferred credits   

-   

1   

The (gains) losses from foreign currency exchange derivatives incurred, and the line items where they appear on our
consolidated income statement were:       
    We had the following net notional position of outstanding foreign currency exchange derivatives:   

*Primarily   
   Canadian dollar, euro and Norwegian krone.      
         108

Table of Contents  

    Financial Instruments       We invest excess cash in financial instruments with maturities based on our cash forecasts for the various currency pools we manage. The maturities of these investments may from time to time extend beyond
90 days. The types of financial instruments include:       

Time deposits: Interest bearing deposits placed with approved financial institutions.      

Commercial paper: Unsecured promissory notes issued by a corporation, commercial bank, or government agency purchased at a discount, maturing at par.
        These financial instruments appear in the  Cash and cash equivalents  line of our consolidated balance sheet if
the maturities at the time we made the investments were 90 days or less; otherwise, these held-to-maturity investments are included in the  Short-term investments  line. At December 31, we held the following financial instruments:
      
    In conjunction with the separation of our Downstream business, we received a special cash distribution from Phillips 66.
See Note 3 Discontinued Operations, for additional information. The balance of the special cash distribution was zero at December 31, 2013, and $748 million at December 31, 2012, and was included in  Restricted cash  on our
consolidated balance sheet. At December 31, 2012, the funds in the restricted cash account were invested in money market funds with maturities within 90 days from December 31, 2012.       Credit Risk       Financial instruments potentially exposed to concentrations of credit risk
consist primarily of cash equivalents, over-the-counter (OTC) derivative contracts and trade receivables. Our cash equivalents and short-term investments are placed in high-quality commercial paper, money market funds, government debt securities and
time deposits with major international banks and financial institutions.      The credit risk from our OTC derivative contracts, such as forwards
and swaps, derives from the counterparty to the transaction. Individual counterparty exposure is managed within predetermined credit limits and includes the use of cash-call margins when appropriate, thereby reducing the risk of significant
nonperformance. We also use futures, swaps and option contracts that have a negligible credit risk because these trades are cleared with an exchange clearinghouse and subject to mandatory margin requirements until settled; however, we are exposed to
the credit risk of those exchange brokers for receivables arising from daily margin cash calls, as well as for cash deposited to meet initial margin requirements.      Our trade receivables result primarily from our petroleum operations and reflect a broad national and international customer base, which limits our exposure to concentrations of credit risk. The majority
of these receivables have payment terms of 30 days or less, and we continually monitor this exposure and the creditworthiness of the counterparties. We do not generally require collateral to limit the exposure to loss; however, we will sometimes use
letters of credit, prepayments, and master netting arrangements to mitigate credit risk with counterparties that both buy from and sell to us, as these agreements permit the amounts owed by us or owed to others to be offset against amounts due us.
  
         109

Table of Contents  

   Certain of our derivative instruments contain provisions that require us to post collateral if the
derivative exposure exceeds a threshold amount. We have contracts with fixed threshold amounts and other contracts with variable threshold amounts that are contingent on our credit rating. The variable threshold amounts typically decline for lower
credit ratings, while both the variable and fixed threshold amounts typically revert to zero if we fall below investment grade. Cash is the primary collateral in all contracts; however, many also permit us to post letters of credit as collateral,
such as transactions administered through the New York Mercantile Exchange or IntercontinentalExchange.      The aggregate fair value of all
derivative instruments with such credit risk-related contingent features that were in a liability position on December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, was $57 million and $130 million, respectively. For these instruments, no collateral was
posted as of December 31, 2013 or December 31, 2012. If our credit rating had been lowered one level from its  A  rating (per Standard and Poor s) on December 31, 2013, we would be required to post no additional
collateral to our counterparties. If we had been downgraded below investment grade, we would be required to post $57 million of additional collateral, either with cash or letters of credit.       Note 16 Fair Value Measurement       We carry a portion of our assets and liabilities at
fair value that are measured at a reporting date using an exit price (i.e., the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability) and disclosed according to the quality of valuation inputs under the following hierarchy:

Level 1: Quoted prices (unadjusted) in an active market for identical assets or liabilities.      

Level 2: Inputs other than quoted prices that are directly or indirectly observable.      

Level 3: Unobservable inputs that are significant to the fair value of assets or liabilities.      
  The classification of an asset or liability is based on the lowest level of input significant to its fair value. Those that are initially classified as
Level 3 are subsequently reported as Level 2 when the fair value derived from unobservable inputs is inconsequential to the overall fair value, or if corroborated market data becomes available. Assets and liabilities that are initially reported as
Level 2 are subsequently reported as Level 3 if corroborated market data is no longer available. Transfers occur at the end of the reporting period. There were no material transfers in or out of Level 1 during 2013 and 2012.   
   Recurring Fair Value Measurement    
  Financial assets and liabilities reported at fair value on a recurring basis primarily include commodity derivatives and certain investments to support
nonqualified deferred compensation plans. The deferred compensation investments are measured at fair value using unadjusted prices available from national securities exchanges; therefore, these assets are categorized as Level 1 in the fair value
hierarchy. Level 1 derivative assets and liabilities primarily represent exchange-traded futures and options that are valued using unadjusted prices available from the underlying exchange. Level 2 derivative assets and liabilities primarily
represent OTC swaps, options and forward purchase and sale contracts that are valued using adjusted exchange prices, prices provided by brokers or pricing service companies that are all corroborated by market data. Level 3 derivative assets and
liabilities consist of OTC swaps, options and forward purchase and sale contracts that are long-term in nature and where a significant portion of fair value is calculated from underlying market data that is not readily available. The derived value
uses industry standard methodologies that may consider the historical relationships among various commodities, modeled market prices, time value, volatility factors and other relevant economic measures. The use of these inputs results in
management s best estimate of fair value. Level 3 activity was not material for all periods presented.   
         110

Table of Contents  

   The following table summarizes the fair value hierarchy for gross financial assets and liabilities (i.e.,
unadjusted where the right of setoff exists for commodity derivatives accounted for at fair value on a recurring basis):       
    The following table summarizes those commodity derivative balances subject to the right of setoff as presented on our
consolidated balance sheet:       
    At December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, we did not present any amounts gross on our consolidated balance
sheet where we had the right of setoff.   
         111

Table of Contents  

    Non-Recurring Fair Value Measurement       The following table summarizes the fair value hierarchy by major category for assets accounted for at fair value on a non-recurring basis:   

*Represents   
   the fair value at the time of the impairment.           Net PP E (held for use)        Net PP E held for use is comprised of various
producing properties impaired to their individual fair values. The fair values were determined by the use of internal discounted cash flow models using estimates of future production, prices from futures exchanges and pricing service companies,
costs and a discount rate believed to be consistent with those used by principal market participants.        Net PP E (held for sale)
       In 2012, net PP E held for sale was written down to fair value, less costs to sell. The fair value of each asset was determined by
its binding negotiated selling price.       Reported Fair Values of Financial Instruments    
  We used the following methods and assumptions to estimate the fair value of financial instruments:   

Cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash and short-term investments: The carrying amount reported on the balance sheet approximates fair value.

Accounts and notes receivable (including long-term and related parties): The carrying amount reported on the balance sheet approximates fair value. The
valuation technique and methods used to estimate the fair value of the current portion of fixed-rate related party loans is consistent with Loans and advances related parties.      

Loans and advances related parties: The carrying amount of floating-rate loans approximates fair value. The fair value of fixed-rate loan activity
is measured using market observable data and is categorized as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. See Note 7 Investments, Loans and Long-Term Receivables, for additional information.      

Accounts payable (including related parties) and floating-rate debt: The carrying amount of accounts payable and floating-rate debt reported on the
balance sheet approximates fair value. The valuation technique and methods used to estimate the fair value of the current portion of the joint venture acquisition obligation is consistent with the methodology below.      

Fixed-rate debt: The estimated fair value of fixed-rate debt is measured using prices available from a pricing service that is corroborated by market
data; therefore, these liabilities are categorized as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy.      

Joint venture acquisition obligation related party: Fair value at December 31, 2012, was estimated based on the net present value of the
future cash flows as a Level 2 fair value with an effective yield rate of 0.7 percent, based on yields of U.S. Treasury securities of similar average duration adjusted for our average credit risk spread and the amortizing nature of the
obligation principal. See Note 12 Joint Venture Acquisition Obligation, for additional information.      
         112

Table of Contents  

   The following table summarizes the net fair value of financial instruments (i.e., adjusted where the right
of setoff exists for commodity derivatives):       
    At December 31, 2013, commodity derivative assets and liabilities appear net of $6 million of obligations to return
cash collateral and $26 million of rights to reclaim cash collateral, respectively. At December 31, 2012, commodity derivative assets and liabilities appear net of $29 million of obligations to return cash collateral and $16 million
of rights to reclaim cash collateral.       Note 17 Equity       Common Stock       The changes in our shares of common stock, as categorized in the equity
section of the balance sheet, were:       
     Preferred Stock       We have authorized 500 million shares of preferred stock, par value $.01 per share, none of which was issued or outstanding at December 31, 2013 or 2012.   
         113

Table of Contents  

    Noncontrolling Interests       At December 31, 2013 and 2012, we had $402 million and $440 million outstanding, respectively, of equity in less-than-wholly owned consolidated subsidiaries held by noncontrolling interest owners.
For both periods, the amounts were related to the Darwin LNG and Bayu-Darwin Pipeline operating joint ventures we control, located in Australia s Northern Territory.       Note 18 Non-Mineral Leases       The company primarily leases drilling equipment and
office buildings, as well as ocean transport vessels, tugboats, barges, corporate aircraft, computers and other facilities and equipment. Certain leases include escalation clauses for adjusting rental payments to reflect changes in price indices, as
well as renewal options and/or options to purchase the leased property for the fair market value at the end of the lease term. There are no significant restrictions imposed on us by the leasing agreements with regard to dividends, asset dispositions
or borrowing ability. For additional information on leased assets under capital leases, see Note 11 Debt.      At December 31, 2013,
future minimum rental payments due under noncancelable leases were:       
    Operating lease rental expense for the years ended December 31 was:   
   
     *Includes $3 million and $29 million of contingent rentals in 2012 and 2011, respectively. Contingent rentals were
primarily related to drilling equipment and based on usage.    
         114

Table of Contents  

Note 19 Employee Benefit Plans    
    Pension and Postretirement Plans       In connection with the separation of the Downstream business in 2012, ConocoPhillips entered into an Employee Matters Agreement with Phillips 66, which provides that employees of Phillips 66 no longer
participate in benefit plans sponsored or maintained by ConocoPhillips as of the separation date. Upon separation, the ConocoPhillips pension and postretirement plans transferred assets and obligations to the Phillips 66 plans resulting in a net
decrease in sponsored pension and postretirement plan obligations of $1,127 million. Additionally, as a result of the transfer of unrecognized losses to Phillips 66, deferred income taxes and other comprehensive income decreased $335 million
and $570 million, respectively.      An analysis of the projected benefit obligations for our pension plans and accumulated benefit obligations
for our postretirement health and life insurance plans follows:       
 
         115

Table of Contents  

For both U.S. and international pensions, the overall expected long-term rate of return is developed from the expected
future return of each asset class, weighted by the expected allocation of pension assets to that asset class. We rely on a variety of independent market forecasts in developing the expected rate of return for each class of assets.   
  Included in accumulated other comprehensive income at December 31 were the following before-tax amounts that had not been recognized in net periodic
benefit cost:       
 
         116

Table of Contents  

*Includes settlement losses recognized during the period.       Amounts included in accumulated other comprehensive income at December 31, 2013, that are expected to be amortized into net periodic benefit cost during 2014 are provided below:   

Millions of Dollars  

Pension Benefits  

Other Benefits   

U.S.  

Int l.  

Unrecognized net actuarial loss (gain)   
      
  $  
  76  

58  

(3  
  )    
 
    Unrecognized prior service cost (credit)   

6  

(8  
  )   

(4  
  )    

For our tax-qualified pension plans with projected benefit obligations in excess of plan assets, the projected benefit
obligation, the accumulated benefit obligation, and the fair value of plan assets were $6,011 million, $5,393 million, and $5,151 million, respectively, at December 31, 2013, and $6,278 million, $5,602 million, and $4,537 million, respectively,
at December 31, 2012.      For our unfunded nonqualified key employee supplemental pension plans, the projected benefit obligation and the
accumulated benefit obligation were $581 million and $392 million, respectively, at December 31, 2013, and were $525 million and $382 million, respectively, at December 31, 2012.   
         117

Table of Contents  

   The components of net periodic benefit cost of all defined benefit plans are presented in the following
table:       
    We recognized pension settlement losses of $67 million in 2013, $181 million (including $24 million in discontinued
operations) in 2012 and $21 million in 2011. In 2013 and 2012, lump-sum benefit payments from the U.S. qualified pension plan exceeded the sum of service and interest costs for that plan and led to an increase in settlement losses.   
  In determining net pension and other postretirement benefit costs, we amortize prior service costs on a straight-line basis over the average remaining
service period of employees expected to receive benefits under the plan. For net actuarial gains and losses, we amortize 10 percent of the unamortized balance each year.      We have multiple nonpension postretirement benefit plans for health and life insurance. The health care plans are contributory and subject to various cost sharing features, with participant and company
contributions adjusted annually; the life insurance plans are noncontributory. The measurement of the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation assumes a health care cost trend rate of 7.25 percent in 2013 that declines to 5 percent by
2023. A one-percentage-point change in the assumed health care cost trend rate would be immaterial to ConocoPhillips.       Plan
Assets  We follow a policy of broadly diversifying pension plan assets across asset classes, investment managers, and individual holdings. As a result, our plan assets have no significant concentrations of credit risk. Asset classes that are
considered appropriate include U.S. equities, non-U.S. equities, U.S. fixed income, non-U.S. fixed income, real estate and private equity investments. Plan fiduciaries may consider and add other asset classes to the investment program from time to
time. The target allocations for plan assets are 59 percent equity securities, 37 percent debt securities and 4 percent real estate. Generally, the plan investments are publicly traded, therefore minimizing liquidity risk in the portfolio.
  
         118

Table of Contents  

   The following is a description of the valuation methodologies used for the pension plan assets. There have
been no changes in the methodologies used at December 31, 2013 and 2012.       

Fair values of equity securities and government debt securities categorized in Level 1 are primarily based on quoted market prices in active
markets for identical assets and liabilities.      

Fair values of corporate debt securities, agency and mortgage-backed securities and government debt securities categorized in Level 2 are estimated
using recently executed transactions and quoted market prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets and for identical assets and liabilities in markets that are not active. If there have been no market transactions in a particular
fixed income security, its fair value is calculated by pricing models that benchmark the security against other securities with actual market prices. When observable quoted market prices are not available, fair value is based on pricing models that
use something other than actual market prices (e.g., observable inputs such as benchmark yields, reported trades and issuer spreads for similar securities), and these securities are categorized in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.

Fair values of investments in common/collective trusts are determined by the issuer of each fund based on the fair value of the underlying assets.

Fair values of mutual funds are based on quoted market prices, which represent the net asset value of shares held.      

Cash is valued at cost, which approximates fair value. Fair values of international cash equivalents categorized in Level 2 are valued using observable
yield curves, discounting and interest rates. U.S. cash balances held in the form of short-term fund units that are redeemable at the measurement date are categorized as Level 2.      

Fair values of exchange-traded derivatives classified in Level 1 are based on quoted market prices. For other derivatives classified in Level 2, the
values are generally calculated from pricing models with market input parameters from third-party sources.      

Private equity funds are valued at net asset value as determined by the issuer based on the fair value of the underlying assets.

Fair values of insurance contracts are valued at the present value of the future benefit payments owed by the insurance company to the plans 
participants.      

Fair values of real estate investments are valued using real estate valuation techniques and other methods that include reference to third-party
sources and sales comparables where available.      

A portion of U.S. pension plan assets is held as a participating interest in an insurance annuity contract, which is calculated as the market value of
investments held under this contract, less the accumulated benefit obligation covered by the contract. The participating interest is classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy as the fair value is determined via a combination of quoted market
prices, recently executed transactions, and an actuarial present value computation for contract obligations. At December 31, 2013, the participating interest in the annuity contract was valued at $110 million and consisted of $312 million in
debt securities, less $202 million for the accumulated benefit obligation covered by the contract. At December 31, 2012, the participating interest in the annuity contract was valued at $133 million and consisted of $358 million in debt
securities, less $225 million for the accumulated benefit obligation covered by the contract. The net change from 2012 to 2013 is due to a decrease in the fair value of the underlying investments of $46 million and a decrease in the present
value of the contract obligation of $23 million. The participating interest is not available for meeting general pension benefit obligations in the near term. No future company contributions are required and no new benefits are being accrued under
this insurance annuity contract.      
         119

Table of Contents  

   The fair values of our pension plan assets at December 31, by asset class were as follows:  
   
     *Excludes the participating interest in the insurance annuity contract with a net asset value of $133 million and net
receivables related to security transactions of $7 million.       Level 3 activity was not material for all periods.   
  Our funding policy for U.S. plans is to contribute at least the minimum required by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 and the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Contributions to foreign plans are dependent upon local laws and tax regulations. In 2014, we expect to contribute approximately $350 million to our domestic qualified and nonqualified pension and
postretirement benefit plans and $210 million to our international qualified and nonqualified pension and postretirement benefit plans.   
         120

Table of Contents  

   The following benefit payments, which are exclusive of amounts to be paid from the insurance annuity
contract and which reflect expected future service, as appropriate, are expected to be paid:       
     Defined Contribution Plans       Most U.S. employees are eligible to participate in the ConocoPhillips Savings Plan (CPSP). Employees can deposit up to 75 percent of their eligible pay, subject to statutory limits, in the thrift feature
of the CPSP to a choice of approximately 37 investment funds. Starting in 2013, employees who participate in the CPSP and contribute 1 percent of their eligible pay receive a 9 percent Company cash match, subject to certain limitations. Prior to
2013, ConocoPhillips matched contribution deposits up to 1.25 percent of eligible pay. Company contributions charged to expense related to continuing and discontinued operations for the CPSP and predecessor plans, excluding the stock savings feature
(discussed below), were $101 million in 2013, $16 million in 2012, and $25 million in 2011.      The stock savings feature of the CPSP was a
leveraged employee stock ownership plan; however, beginning in 2013, the CPSP no longer has a stock savings feature. Prior to 2013, employees could elect to participate in the stock savings feature by contributing 1 percent of eligible pay and
receiving an allocation of shares of common stock proportionate to the amount of contribution.      In 1990, the Long-Term Stock Savings Plan of
Phillips Petroleum Company (subsequently the stock savings feature of the CPSP) borrowed funds that were used to purchase previously unissued shares of Company common stock. Since the Company guaranteed the CPSP s borrowings, the unpaid balance
was reported as a liability of the Company and unearned compensation was shown as a reduction of common stockholders  equity. Dividends on all shares were charged against retained earnings. The debt was serviced by the CPSP from Company
contributions and dividends received on certain shares of common stock held by the plan, including all unallocated shares. The shares held by the stock savings feature of the CPSP were released for allocation to participant accounts based on debt
service payments on CPSP borrowings. In 2012, the final debt service payment was made and all remaining unallocated shares were released for allocation to participant accounts. The total number of allocated CPSP stock savings feature shares as of
December 31, 2013 and 2012, were 9,280,837 and 11,246,660, respectively.      With the stock savings feature, we recognized interest expense
as incurred and compensation expense based on the fair value of the stock contributed or on the cost of the unallocated shares released, using the shares-allocated method. We recognized total CPSP expense related to continuing and discontinued
operations for the stock savings feature of $104 million and $77 million in 2012 and 2011, respectively, all of which was compensation expense. In 2012 and 2011, we made cash contributions to the CPSP of $5 million and $4 million,
respectively. In 2011, we contributed 660,775 shares of Company common stock from the Compensation and Benefits Trust. The shares had a fair value of $84 million. In 2012 and 2011, we contributed 1,554,355 and 475,696 shares, respectively, of
Company common stock from treasury stock. Dividends used to service debt were $10 million and $45 million in 2012 and 2011, respectively. These dividends reduced the amount of compensation expense recognized in each period. Interest
incurred on the CPSP debt in 2012 and 2011 was $0.1 million and $1 million, respectively.      We have several defined contribution
plans for our international employees, each with its own terms and   
         121

Table of Contents  

eligibility depending on location. Total compensation expense related to continuing and discontinued operations recognized for these international plans was approximately $60 million in 2013 and
$56 million in both 2012 and 2011.       Share-Based Compensation Plans       The 2011 Omnibus Stock and Performance Incentive Plan of ConocoPhillips (the Plan) was approved by shareholders in May 2011. Over its 10-year life, the Plan allows the issuance of up to 100 million
shares of our common stock for compensation to our employees and directors; however, as of the effective date of the Plan, (i) any shares of common stock available for future awards under the prior plans and (ii) any shares of common stock
represented by awards granted under the prior plans that are forfeited, expire or are canceled without delivery of shares of common stock or which result in the forfeiture of shares of common stock back to the Company shall be available for awards
under the Plan, and no new awards shall be granted under the prior plans. Of the 100 million shares available for issuance under the Plan, no more than 40 million shares of common stock are available for incentive stock options, and no
more than 40 million shares are available for awards in stock. The Human Resources and Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors is authorized to determine the types, terms, conditions, and limitations of awards granted. Awards may be
granted in the form of, but not limited to, stock options, restricted stock units, and performance share units to employees and nonemployee directors who contribute to the Company s continued success and profitability.   
  Total share-based compensation expense is measured using the grant date fair value for our equity-classified awards and the settlement date fair value
for our liability-classified awards. We recognize share-based compensation expense over the shorter of the service period (i.e., the stated period of time required to earn the award); or the period beginning at the start of the service period and
ending when an employee first becomes eligible for retirement, but not less than six months, as this is the minimum period of time required for an award to not be subject to forfeiture. Our share-based compensation programs generally provide
accelerated vesting (i.e., a waiver of the remaining period of service required to earn an award) for awards held by employees at the time of their retirement. Some of our share-based awards vest ratably (i.e., portions of the award vest at
different times) while some of our awards cliff vest (i.e., all of the award vests at the same time). We recognize expense on a straight-line basis over the service period for the entire award, whether the award was granted with ratable or cliff
vesting.       Separation-Related Adjustments  In connection with the separation of the Downstream business on April 30, 2012,
ConocoPhillips entered into an Employee Matters Agreement with Phillips 66, which provided that employees of Phillips 66 no longer participate in benefit plans sponsored or maintained by ConocoPhillips. Pursuant to the Employee Matters Agreement, we
made certain adjustments, using volumetric weighted-average prices for the 4-day period immediately prior to and immediately following the separation, to the exercise price and number of our share-based compensation awards, with the intention of
preserving the intrinsic value of the awards immediately prior to the separation. These adjustments are summarized as follows:       

Outstanding options to purchase common shares of ConocoPhillips stock that were exercisable prior to the separation were adjusted so that the holders
of the options would then hold one option to purchase common shares of Phillips 66 stock for every two adjusted stock options to purchase common shares of ConocoPhillips stock following the separation.      

Nonexercisable stock options and restricted stock units were converted to those of the entity where the employee holding them was working immediately
post-separation. Therefore, nonexercisable stock options to purchase common shares of ConocoPhillips stock and ConocoPhillips restricted stock units held by an employee who separated with the Downstream business were surrendered as a result of the
separation.          

In addition, former employee holders and a specified group of holders of stock options and restricted stock units who retired or terminated employment
upon or shortly after the separation received both adjusted ConocoPhillips awards and Phillips 66 awards.      
         122

Table of Contents  

ConocoPhillips restricted stock and performance share units awarded for completed performance periods under the Performance Share Program, as well as
vested restricted stock units held by current or former directors, were adjusted to provide holders one restricted share or restricted stock unit of Phillips 66 stock for every two restricted shares or restricted stock units of ConocoPhillips
stock.         The separation-related adjustments did not have a material impact on either compensation expense for the year ended
December 31, 2012, or the number of potentially dilutive securities as of December 31, 2012, to be considered in the calculation of diluted earnings per share of common stock.       Compensation Expense  Total share-based compensation expense recognized in income related to continuing and discontinued operations and the associated tax benefit for the years ended
December 31 were as follows:       
     Stock Options  Stock options granted under the provisions of the Plan and prior plans permit purchase of our
common stock at exercise prices equivalent to the average market price of ConocoPhillips common stock on the date the options were granted. The options have terms of 10 years and generally vest ratably, with one-third of the options awarded vesting
and becoming exercisable on each anniversary date following the date of grant. Options awarded to certain employees already eligible for retirement vest within six months of the grant date, but those options do not become exercisable until the end
of the normal vesting period.      The fair market values of the options granted over the past three years were measured on the date of grant
using the Black-Scholes-Merton option-pricing model. The weighted-average assumptions used were as follows:       
    There were no ranges in the assumptions used to determine the fair market values of our options granted over the past
three years.      For 2012 and 2011, expected volatility was based on historical volatility of the Company s stock using ConocoPhillips 
end-of-week closing stock prices over a period commensurate with the expected life of the options granted. Due to the separation of our Downstream business in 2012, expected volatility for grants of options in 2013 was based on a three-year average
historical stock price volatility of a group of peer companies. We believe our historical volatility for periods prior to the separation of our Downstream business is no longer relevant in estimating expected volatility.   
         123

Table of Contents  

   The following summarizes our stock option activity for the year ended December 31, 2013:   
   
    The weighted-average remaining contractual term of vested options and exercisable options at December 31, 2013, was
5.10 years and 4.57 years, respectively. The weighted-average grant date fair value of stock option awards granted during 2012 and 2011 was $15.69 and $16.70, respectively. The aggregate intrinsic value of options exercised during 2012 and 2011 was
$469 million and $416 million, respectively.      During 2013, we received $103 million in cash and realized a tax benefit related to both
continuing and discontinued operations of $47 million from the exercise of options. At December 31, 2013, the remaining unrecognized compensation expense from unvested options was $17 million, which will be recognized over a weighted-average
period of 1.84 years, the longest period being 2.10 years.       Stock Unit Program  Generally, restricted stock units are granted
annually under the provisions of the Plan. Restricted stock units granted prior to 2013 vest ratably in three equal annual installments beginning on the third anniversary of the grant date. Beginning in 2013, restricted stock units granted will vest
in an aggregate installment on the third anniversary of the grant date. In addition, beginning in 2012, restricted stock units granted under the Plan for a variable long-term incentive program vest ratably in three equal annual installments
beginning on the first anniversary of the grant date. Restricted stock units are also granted ad hoc to attract or retain key personnel, and the terms and conditions under which these restricted stock units vest vary by award. Upon vesting, the
restricted stock units are settled by issuing one share of ConocoPhillips common stock per unit. Units awarded to retirement eligible employees vest six months from the grant date; however, those units are not issued as common stock until the
earlier of separation from the Company or the end of the regularly scheduled vesting period. Until issued as stock, most recipients of the restricted stock units receive a quarterly cash payment of a dividend equivalent that is charged to retained
earnings. The grant date fair market value of these restricted stock units is deemed equal to the average ConocoPhillips stock price on the grant date. The grant date fair market value of units that do not receive a dividend equivalent while
unvested is deemed equal to the average ConocoPhillips stock price on the grant date, less the net present value of the dividends that will not be received.   
         124

Table of Contents  

   The following summarizes our stock unit activity for the year ended December 31, 2013:   
   
    At December 31, 2013, the remaining unrecognized compensation cost from the unvested units was $307 million,
which will be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.18 years, the longest period being 6.33 years. The weighted-average grant date fair value of stock unit awards granted during 2012 and 2011 was $60.62 and $67.54, respectively. The total
fair value of stock units issued during 2012 and 2011 was $187 million and $109 million, respectively.       Performance Share
Program  Under the Plan, we also annually grant restricted performance share units (PSUs) to senior management. These PSUs are authorized three years prior to their effective grant date (the performance period). Compensation expense is
initially measured using the average fair market value of ConocoPhillips common stock and is subsequently adjusted, based on changes in the ConocoPhillips stock price through the end of each subsequent reporting period, through the grant date for
stock-settled awards and the settlement date for cash-settled awards.        Stock-Settled     
  For performance periods beginning before 2009, PSUs do not vest until the employee becomes eligible for retirement by reaching age 55 with five years of
service, and restrictions do not lapse until the employee separates from the Company. With respect to awards for performance periods beginning in 2009 through 2012, PSUs do not vest until the earlier of the date the employee becomes eligible for
retirement by reaching age 55 with five years of service or five years after the grant date of the award, and restrictions do not lapse until the earlier of the employee s separation from the Company or five years after the grant date (although
recipients can elect to defer the lapsing of restrictions until separation). We recognize compensation expense for these awards beginning on the grant date and ending on the date the PSUs are scheduled to vest. Since these awards are authorized
three years prior to the grant date, for employees eligible for retirement by or shortly after the grant date, we recognize compensation expense over the period beginning on the date of authorization and ending on the date of grant. Until issued as
stock, recipients of the PSUs receive a quarterly cash payment of a dividend equivalent that is charged to retained earnings. Beginning in 2013, PSUs authorized for future grants will vest, absent employee election to defer, upon settlement
following the conclusion of the three-year performance period. We recognize compensation expense over the period beginning on the date of authorization and ending on the conclusion of the performance period. PSUs are settled by issuing one share of
ConocoPhillips common stock per unit.   
         125

Table of Contents  

   The following summarizes our stock-settled Performance Share Program activity for the year ended
December 31, 2013:       
    At December 31, 2013, the remaining unrecognized compensation cost from unvested stock-settled performance share
awards was $30 million, which includes $7 million related to unvested stock-settled performance share awards tied to Phillips 66 stock held by ConocoPhillips employees, which will be recognized over a weighted-average period of 3.35 years, the
longest period being 7.18 years. The weighted-average grant date fair value of stock-settled performance share units granted during 2012 and 2011 was $74.16 and $70.57, respectively. The total fair value of stock-settled PSUs issued during 2012 and
2011 was $71 million and $37 million, respectively.        Cash-Settled        In connection with and immediately following the separation of our Downstream business in 2012, new performance share units, subject to a shortened performance period, were authorized to be granted. Once
granted, these PSUs vest, absent employee election to defer, on the earlier of five years after the grant date of the award or the date the employee becomes eligible for retirement. For employees eligible for retirement by or shortly after the grant
date, we recognize compensation expense over the period beginning on the date of authorization and ending on the date of grant. Otherwise, we recognize compensation expense beginning on the grant date and ending on the date the PSUs are scheduled to
vest. These PSUs are settled in cash equal to the fair market value of a share of ConocoPhillips common stock per unit on the settlement date and thus are classified as liabilities on the balance sheet. Until settlement occurs, recipients of the
PSUs receive a quarterly cash payment of a dividend equivalent that is charged to compensation expense.      Beginning in 2013, PSUs authorized
for future grants will vest upon settlement following the conclusion of the three-year performance period. We recognize compensation expense over the period beginning on the date of authorization and ending on the conclusion of the performance
period. These PSUs will be settled in cash equal to the fair market value of a share of ConocoPhillips common stock per unit on the settlement date and are classified as liabilities on the balance sheet.   
  The following summarizes our cash-settled Performance Share Program activity for the year ended December 31, 2013:   

126

Table of Contents  

   At December 31, 2013, the remaining unrecognized compensation cost from unvested cash-settled
performance share awards was $4 million, which will be recognized over a weighted-average period of 3.13 years, the longest period being 4.10 years. There were no cash-settled performance share awards granted, issued or outstanding as of
December 31, 2012 or 2011.      From inception of the Performance Share Program through 2013, approved PSU awards were granted after the
conclusion of performance periods. Beginning in February 2014, initial target PSU awards will be issued near the beginning of new performance periods. These initial target PSU awards will terminate at the end of the performance periods and will be
settled after the performance periods have ended. Also in 2014, initial target PSU awards will be issued for open performance periods that began in prior years. For the open performance period beginning in 2012, the initial target PSU awards will
terminate at the end of the three-year performance period and will be replaced with approved PSU awards. For the open performance period beginning in 2013, the initial target PSU awards will terminate at the end of the three-year performance period
and will be settled after the performance period has ended. There is no effect on recognition of compensation expense.       Other  In
addition to the above active programs, we have outstanding shares of restricted stock and restricted stock units that were either issued to replace awards held by employees of companies we acquired or issued as part of a compensation program that
has been discontinued. Generally, the recipients of the restricted shares or units receive a quarterly dividend or dividend equivalent.      The
following summarizes the aggregate activity of these restricted shares and units for the year ended December 31, 2013:       
    At December 31, 2013, all outstanding restricted stock and restricted stock units were fully vested and there was no
remaining compensation cost to be recorded. The weighted-average grant date fair value of awards granted during 2012 and 2011 was $63.54 and $70.25, respectively. The total fair value of awards issued during 2012 and 2011 was $73 million and $10
million, respectively.   
         127

Table of Contents  

    Note 20 Income Tax       Income taxes charged to income from continuing operations were:       
    Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and
liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for tax purposes. Major components of deferred tax liabilities and assets at December 31 were:       
    Current assets, long-term assets, current liabilities and long-term liabilities included deferred taxes of
$703 million, $171 million, $766 million and $15,220 million, respectively, at December 31, 2013, and $461 million, $222 million, $958 million and $13,185 million, respectively, at December 31, 2012.
     We have loss and credit carryovers in multiple taxing jurisdictions. These attributes generally expire between 2015 and 2034 with some
carryovers having indefinite carryforward periods.   
         128

Table of Contents  

   Valuation allowances have been established to reduce deferred tax assets to an amount that will, more likely
than not, be realized. During 2013, valuation allowances decreased a total of $376 million. This primarily relates to a net utilization of loss carryforwards, a utilization of U.S. foreign tax credit carryforwards and relinquishment of assets.
Based on our historical taxable income, expectations for the future, and available tax-planning strategies, management expects remaining net deferred tax assets will be realized as offsets to reversing deferred tax liabilities and as offsets to the
tax consequences of future taxable income.      At December 31, 2013 and 2012, income considered to be permanently reinvested in certain
foreign subsidiaries and foreign corporate joint ventures totaled approximately $3,222 million and $2,286 million, respectively. Deferred income taxes have not been provided on this income, as we do not plan to initiate any action that would require
the payment of income taxes. It is not practicable to estimate the amount of additional tax that might be payable on this foreign income if distributed.      The following table shows a reconciliation of the beginning and ending unrecognized tax benefits for 2013, 2012 and 2011:       
    Included in the balance of unrecognized tax benefits for 2013, 2012 and 2011 were $440 million, $650 million and
$815 million, respectively, which, if recognized, would impact our effective tax rate.      At December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, accrued
liabilities for interest and penalties totaled $120 million, $129 million and $141 million, respectively, net of accrued income taxes. Interest and penalties resulted in a benefit to earnings in 2013 of $9 million, a benefit to
earnings in 2012 of $9 million, and a charge to earnings in 2011 of $10 million.      We and our subsidiaries file tax returns in the U.S. federal
jurisdiction and in many foreign and state jurisdictions. Audits in major jurisdictions are generally complete as follows: United Kingdom (2010), Canada (2006), United States (2008) and Norway (2012). Issues in dispute for audited years and
audits for subsequent years are ongoing and in various stages of completion in the many jurisdictions in which we operate around the world. As a consequence, the balance in unrecognized tax benefits can be expected to fluctuate from period to
period. It is reasonably possible such changes could be significant when compared with our total unrecognized tax benefits, but the amount of change is not estimable.   
         129

Table of Contents  

   The amounts of U.S. and foreign income from continuing operations before income taxes, with a reconciliation
of tax at the federal statutory rate with the provision for income taxes, were:       
    The change in the effective tax rate from 2012 to 2013 was primarily due to lower income in high tax jurisdictions in
2013. The change in the effective tax rate from 2011 to 2012 was primarily due to the effect of the Company s asset disposition program, partially offset by higher income in high tax jurisdictions in 2012.   
  Statutory tax rate changes did not have a significant impact on our income tax expense in 2013.      In the United Kingdom, legislation was enacted on July 17, 2012, restricting corporate tax relief on decommissioning costs to 50 percent, retroactively effective from March 21, 2012. Our 2012
earnings were reduced by $192 million due to remeasurement of deferred tax balances as of the effective date.      In the United Kingdom,
legislation was enacted on July 19, 2011, which increased the supplementary corporate tax rate applicable to U.K. Upstream activity from 20 to 32 percent, retroactively effective from March 24, 2011. This resulted in the overall U.K.
corporate rate increasing from 50 percent to 62 percent. The enactment resulted in increased U.K. corporate income tax expense of $316 million in 2011. This is comprised of $106 million due to remeasurement of U.K. deferred tax liabilities, and $210
million to reflect the new rate from March 24, 2011, through December 31, 2011.   
         130

Table of Contents  

    Note 21 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income    
  Accumulated other comprehensive income in the equity section of the balance sheet included:   
   
    The following table summarizes reclassifications out of accumulated other comprehensive income during the   
  year ended December 31, 2013:       
     Above amounts are included in the computation of net periodic benefit cost and are presented net of tax expense of $105
million for the year ended December 31, 2013. See Note 19 Employee Benefit Plans, for additional information.       There were no
items within accumulated other comprehensive income related to noncontrolling interests.       Note 22 Cash Flow Information
      Amounts included in continuing operations for the years ended December 31 were:   

*   
   Includes $212 million and $152 million in 2013 and 2012, respectively, primarily related to the impact of U.K. tax law changes on the deductibility of
decommissioning costs.      

**   
   2012 and 2011 have been revised to conform to current-year presentation to include only income tax payments related to continuing operations.
     
         131

Table of Contents  

    Note 23 Other Financial Information      Amounts included in continuing operations for the years ended December 31 were:       

132

Table of Contents  

Note 24 Related Party Transactions    
   We consider our equity method investments to be related parties. Significant transactions with related parties were:   

*   
   We paid interest to, or received interest from, various affiliates, including FCCL Partnership. See Note 7 Investments, Loans and Long-Term Receivables and Note
12 Joint Venture Acquisition Obligation, for additional information on loans to affiliated companies.          Note
25 Segment Disclosures and Related Information       We explore for, produce, transport and market crude oil, bitumen, natural gas, LNG
and natural gas liquids on a worldwide basis. We manage our operations through six operating segments, which are defined by geographic region: Alaska, Lower 48 and Latin America, Canada, Europe, Asia Pacific and Middle East, and Other International.
     On April 30, 2012, our Downstream business was separated into a stand-alone, publicly traded corporation, Phillips 66. In 2012, we also
agreed to sell our Nigeria and Algeria businesses and our interest in Kashagan. Accordingly, results for these operations have been reported as discontinued operations in all periods presented. Commodity sales to Phillips 66, which were previously
eliminated in consolidation prior to the separation, are now reported as third-party sales. For additional information, see Note 3 Discontinued Operations.      Our LUKOIL Investment represents our prior investment in the ordinary shares of OAO LUKOIL, an international, integrated oil and gas company headquartered in Russia. We completed the divestiture of our
entire interest in LUKOIL in the first quarter of 2011.      Corporate and Other represents costs not directly associated with an operating
segment, such as most interest expense, corporate overhead, costs associated with the separation and certain technology activities, including licensing revenues. Corporate assets include all cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and
restricted cash.      We evaluate performance and allocate resources based on net income attributable to ConocoPhillips. Segment accounting
policies are the same as those in Note 1 Accounting Policies. Intersegment sales are at prices that approximate market.   
         133

Table of Contents  

    Analysis of Results by Operating Segment    

134

Table of Contents  

135

Table of Contents  

* Includes LNG and bitumen.    
         136

Table of Contents  

    Geographic Information    
   
     (1)Sales and other operating revenues are attributable to countries based on the location of the operations generating
the revenues.        (2)Defined as net PP E plus investments in and advances to affiliated companies.    
   (3)Includes amounts related to the joint petroleum development area with shared ownership held by Australia and Timor-Leste.    
   (4)Represents the Downstream business.    
         137

Table of Contents  

Oil and Gas Operations  (Unaudited)        In accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification Topic 932,  Extractive Activities Oil and Gas,  and regulations of the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission (SEC), we are making certain supplemental disclosures about our oil and gas exploration and production operations.   
  These disclosures include information about our consolidated oil and gas activities and our proportionate share of our equity affiliates  oil and
gas activities in our operating segments. As a result, amounts reported as equity affiliates in Oil and Gas Operations may differ from those shown in the individual segment disclosures reported elsewhere in this report.   
  Our proved reserves include estimated quantities related to production sharing contracts (PSCs), which are reported under the  economic
interest  method and are subject to fluctuations in commodity prices; recoverable operating expenses; and capital costs. If costs remain stable, reserve quantities attributable to recovery of costs will change inversely to changes in commodity
prices. For example, if prices increase, then our applicable reserve quantities would decline. At December 31, 2013, approximately 7 percent of our total proved reserves were under PSCs, located in our Asia Pacific/Middle East geographic
reporting area.      Our disclosures by geographic area include the United States, Canada, Europe (primarily Norway and the United Kingdom), Asia
Pacific/Middle East, Africa and Other Areas. Other Areas primarily consists of the Russia and Caspian regions.      As part of our ongoing asset
disposition program, we agreed to sell our interest in Kashagan, and the Algeria and Nigeria businesses. These businesses have been considered held for sale since the fourth quarter of 2012 and have been reported as discontinued operations for all
periods presented. Accordingly, the Results of Operations, Average Sales Prices and Net Production tables included within the supplemental oil and gas disclosures reflect the associated earnings and production as discontinued operations.   
  During the fourth quarter of 2013, we completed the transactions for the sale of our interest in Kashagan and the Algeria business; accordingly, as of
December 31, 2013, we no longer held reserves for these assets. See Note 3 Discontinued Operations, for additional information.   
    Reserves Governance        The
recording and reporting of proved reserves are governed by criteria established by regulations of the SEC and FASB. Proved reserves are those quantities of oil and gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with
reasonable certainty to be economically producible from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods, and government regulations prior to the time at which contracts providing the
right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain, regardless of whether deterministic or probabilistic methods are used for the estimation. The project to extract the hydrocarbons must have commenced or the
operator must be reasonably certain that it will commence the project within a reasonable time.      Proved reserves are further classified as
either developed or undeveloped. Proved developed reserves are proved reserves that can be expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods or in which the cost of the required equipment is relatively
minor compared to the cost of a new well, and through installed extraction equipment and infrastructure operational at the time of the reserves estimate if the extraction is by means not involving a well. Proved undeveloped reserves are proved
reserves that are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage, or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is required for recompletion.   
         138

Table of Contents  

   We have a companywide, comprehensive, SEC-compliant internal policy that governs the determination and
reporting of proved reserves. This policy is applied by the geologists and reservoir engineers in our business units around the world. As part of our internal control process, each business unit s reserve processes and controls are reviewed
annually by an internal team which is headed by the Company s Manager of Reserves Compliance and Reporting. This team, composed of internal reservoir engineers, geologists, finance personnel and a senior representative from DeGolyer and
MacNaughton (D M), reviews the business units  reserves for adherence to SEC guidelines and company policy through on-site visits and review of documentation. In addition to providing independent reviews, this internal team also ensures
reserves are calculated using consistent and appropriate standards and procedures. This team is independent of business unit line management and is responsible for reporting its findings to senior management and our internal audit group. The team is
responsible for communicating our reserves policy and procedures and is available for internal peer reviews and consultation on major projects or technical issues throughout the year. All of our proved reserves held by consolidated companies and our
share of equity affiliates have been estimated by ConocoPhillips.      During 2013, our processes and controls used to assess over 90 percent of
proved reserves as of December 31, 2013, were reviewed by D M, a third-party petroleum engineering consulting firm. The purpose of their review was to assess whether the adequacy and effectiveness of our internal processes and controls used
to determine estimates of proved reserves are in accordance with SEC regulations. In such review, ConocoPhillips  technical staff presented D M with an overview of the reserves data, as well as the methods and assumptions used in estimating
reserves. The data presented included pertinent seismic information, geologic maps, well logs, production tests, material balance calculations, reservoir simulation models, well performance data, operating procedures and relevant economic criteria.
Management s intent in retaining D M to review its processes and controls was to provide objective third-party input on these processes and controls. D M s opinion was the general processes and controls employed by ConocoPhillips
in estimating its December 31, 2013, proved reserves for the properties reviewed are in accordance with the SEC reserves definitions. D M s report is included as Exhibit 99 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.   
  The technical person primarily responsible for overseeing the processes and internal controls used in the preparation of the Company s reserve
estimates is the Manager of Reserves Compliance and Reporting. This individual is a petroleum engineer with a bachelor s degree in civil engineering. He is a member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE) with over 30 years of oil and gas
industry experience, including drilling and production engineering assignments in several field locations. He has held positions of increasing responsibility in reservoir engineering, reserves reporting and compliance, and business management.
     Engineering estimates of the quantities of proved reserves are inherently imprecise. See the  Critical Accounting Estimates 
section of Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for additional discussion of the sensitivities surrounding these estimates.   
         139

Table of Contents  

     Proved Reserves     

140

Table of Contents  

Notable changes in proved crude oil reserves in the three years ended December 31, 2013, included:   

Extensions and discoveries  : In 2013 and 2012, extensions and discoveries in Lower 48 were primarily due to continued drilling success in
Eagle Ford and Bakken. In 2011, extensions and discoveries in Europe were primarily due to the sanctioning of the Ekofisk South and Clair Ridge developments in the North Sea.      

Sales  : In 2013, sales in Lower 48 primarily reflect the majority of our producing zones in the Cedar Creek Anticline, sales in Africa
reflect the sale of the Algeria business and sales in Other Areas reflect our interest in Kashagan.      
         141

Table of Contents  

142

Table of Contents  

Notable changes in proved natural gas liquids reserves in the three years ended December 31, 2013, included:

Extensions and discoveries  : In 2013 and 2012, extensions and discoveries in Lower 48 were primarily due to continued drilling success in
Eagle Ford, Barnett and Bakken.      
         143

Table of Contents  

144

Table of Contents  

Natural gas production in the reserves table may differ from gas production (delivered for sale) in our statistics
disclosure, primarily because the quantities above include gas consumed in production operations.      Natural gas reserves are computed at 14.65
pounds per square inch absolute and 60 degrees Fahrenheit.      Notable changes in proved natural gas reserves in the three years ended
December 31, 2013, included:       

Revisions  : In 2013, revisions were primarily due to higher prices in 2013 versus 2012, and improved well performance in Lower 48 and
Canada. In 2012, revisions in Lower 48 were primarily due to lower prices in 2012 versus 2011. In 2012, revisions in Canada were primarily due to lower prices in 2012 versus 2011, partially offset by improved well performance. In our consolidated
operations in Asia Pacific/Middle East, revisions in 2012 were primarily due to development activities in various fields. Revisions in Africa in 2012 were primarily due the execution of a gas sales agreement.      

Extensions and discoveries  : In 2013, 2012 and 2011, extensions and discoveries in Lower 48 were primarily due to continued drilling
success in Eagle Ford, Bakken and Barnett. In 2013, 2012 and 2011, for our equity affiliates in Asia Pacific/Middle East, extensions and discoveries were due to APLNG s ongoing development drilling onshore Australia.

Sales  : In 2012, for our equity affiliates in Asia Pacific/Middle East, sales were primarily due to the dilution of our interest in APLNG.
     
         145

Table of Contents  

146

Table of Contents  

Notable changes in proved bitumen reserves in the three years ended December 31, 2013, included:   

Revisions  : In 2013, for our consolidated operations, revisions were primarily related to ongoing project development at Surmont and
improved well performance. In 2012, for our equity affiliates, revisions were primarily due to well performance and denser well spacing at Foster Creek and Christina Lake. In 2011, for our equity affiliates, revisions were primarily due to new
subsurface interpretations, as well as the effects of higher prices on sliding scale royalty provisions.          

Extensions and discoveries  : In 2012, for our equity affiliates, extensions and discoveries were primarily related to the ongoing project
development of Christina Lake and sanctioning of Narrows Lake. In 2011, for our consolidated operations, extensions and discoveries were related to continued development of Surmont. In 2011, for our equity affiliates, extensions and discoveries
mainly reflect the continued development of FCCL.      
         147

Table of Contents  

148

Table of Contents  

Natural gas reserves are converted to barrels of oil equivalent (BOE) based on a 6:1 ratio: six thousand cubic feet of
natural gas converts to one BOE.       Proved Undeveloped Reserves       We had 3,314 million BOE of proved undeveloped reserves at year-end 2013, compared with 3,017 million BOE at year-end 2012. During 2013, we converted 330 million BOE of undeveloped reserves
to developed primarily through ongoing development activities, as well as from the startup of major development projects. In addition, we added 627 million BOE of undeveloped reserves in 2013, mainly through extensions and discoveries from
ongoing development progress, major project sanctions and exploration success, as well as through revisions. These additions were offset by the sale of our interest in Kashagan in 2013, which represented a decrease of 117 million BOE of
undeveloped reserves. As a result, at December 31, 2013, our proved undeveloped reserves represented 37 percent of total proved reserves, compared with 35 percent at December 31, 2012. Costs incurred for the year ended December 31,
2013, relating to the development of proved undeveloped reserves were $12.5 billion. A portion of our costs incurred each year relate to development projects where the proved undeveloped reserves will be converted to proved developed reserves
in future years.      Approximately 75 percent of our proved undeveloped reserves at year-end 2013 were associated with seven major
development areas. Six of the major development areas are currently producing and are expected to have proved undeveloped reserves convert to developed over time as development activities continue and/or production facilities are expanded or
upgraded, and include:       

FCCL oil sands Foster Creek and Christina Lake in Canada.      

The Surmont oil sands project in Canada.      

The Eagle Ford area in the Lower 48.      

The APLNG project onshore Australia.      

The Ekofisk Field in the North Sea.      
         149

Table of Contents  

   The remaining major development area, Narrows Lake in our FCCL oil sands in Canada, was sanctioned for
development in 2012.      At the end of 2013, approximately 20 percent of our total proved undeveloped reserves, located in the Athabasca oil
sands in Canada, have remained undeveloped for five years or more. The oil sands in Canada consist of the FCCL and Surmont steam-assisted gravity drainage (SAGD) projects. The majority of our remaining proved undeveloped reserves in this area were
recorded beginning in 2007. Our SAGD projects are large, multi-year projects with steady, long-term production at consistent levels. The associated undeveloped reserves are expected to be developed over the life of the project as additional well
pairs are drilled to maintain throughput at the central processing facilities.        Results of Operations     
  The Company s results of operations from oil and gas activities for the years 2013, 2012 and 2011 are shown in the following tables. Non-oil and gas
activities, such as pipeline and marine operations, liquefied natural gas operations, and crude oil and gas marketing activities are excluded. Additional information about selected line items within the results of operations tables is shown below:

Other revenues include gains and losses from asset sales, certain amounts resulting from the purchase and sale of hydrocarbons, and other miscellaneous
income.          

Taxes other than income taxes include production, property and other non-income taxes.      

Depreciation of support equipment is reclassified as applicable.      

Transportation costs include costs to transport our produced hydrocarbons to their points of sale, as well as processing fees paid to process natural
gas to natural gas liquids. The profit element of transportation operations in which we have an ownership interest is deemed to be outside oil and gas producing activities.      

Other related expenses include foreign currency transaction gains and losses and other miscellaneous expenses.      
         150

Table of Contents  

     Results of Operations    

151

Table of Contents  

* Certain amounts were reclassified between  Production costs excluding taxes  and  Other related
expenses.  Total Results of operations was unchanged.    
         152

Table of Contents  

* Certain amounts were reclassified between  Production costs excluding taxes  and  Other related
expenses.  Total Results of operations was unchanged.    
         153

Table of Contents  

     Statistics        
 
         154

Table of Contents  

155

Table of Contents  

* Includes bitumen.        ** Certain amounts have been restated to reflect revised Results of Operations.    
         156

Table of Contents  

     Development and Exploration Activities     
  The following two tables summarize our net interest in productive and dry exploratory and development wells in the years ended December 31, 2013,
2012 and 2011. A  development well  is a well drilled within the proved area of a crude oil or natural gas reservoir to the depth of a stratigraphic horizon known to be productive. An  exploratory well  is a well drilled to find
and produce crude oil or natural gas in an unknown field or a new reservoir within a proven field. Excluded from the exploratory well count are stratigraphic-type exploratory wells, primarily relating to oil sands delineation wells located in Canada
and coalbed methane test wells located in Asia Pacific/Middle East.       

(2)   
   Includes wells drilled in areas near or offsetting current production, or in areas where well density or production history have not achieved statistical certainty
of results, primarily located in the Lower 48.      

(3)   
   Productive wells from prior periods were reclassified between  Exploratory  and  Development.       

(4)   
   Prior periods have been restated to exclude sidetracks. Sidetracks and laterals, which are both excluded, are a significant part of the Alaska drilling program.

*   
   Our total proportionate interest was less than one.      
         157

Table of Contents  

   The table below represents the status of our wells drilling at December 31, 2013, and includes wells in
the process of drilling or in active completion. It also represents gross and net productive wells, including producing wells and wells capable of production at December 31, 2013.   
   
     * Includes 365 gross and 174 net multiple completion wells.    

158

Table of Contents  

     Costs Incurred     

159

Table of Contents  

160

Table of Contents  

     Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows Relating to Proved Oil and Gas Reserve
Quantities        In accordance with SEC and FASB requirements, amounts were computed using 12-month average prices and end-of-year
costs (adjusted only for existing contractual changes), appropriate statutory tax rates and a prescribed 10 percent discount factor. Twelve-month average prices are calculated as the unweighted arithmetic average of the
first-day-of-the-month price for each month within the 12-month period prior to the end of the reporting period. For all years, continuation of  year-end  economic conditions was assumed. The calculations were
based on estimates of proved reserves, which are revised over time as new data becomes available. Probable or possible reserves, which may become proved in the future, were not considered. The calculations also require assumptions as to the timing
of future production of proved reserves and the timing and amount of future development costs, including dismantlement, and future production costs, including taxes other than income taxes.      While due care was taken in its preparation, we do not represent that this data is the fair value of our oil and gas properties, or a fair estimate of the present value of cash flows to be obtained from
their development and production.       Discounted Future Net Cash Flows   

161

Table of Contents  

*   
   Canada consolidated operations were restated for a price revision impacting future cash inflows and certain assumptions regarding future income tax provisions.

Canada equity affiliates future development costs were restated to include certain expected capital expenditures related to facilities and certain assumptions
regarding future income tax provisions.      
         162

Table of Contents  

*   
   Canada consolidated operations and equity affiliates were restated for foreign currency exchange impacts on future cash inflows and certain assumptions regarding
future income tax provisions.      
         163

Table of Contents  

    Sources of Change in Discounted Future Net Cash Flows       

*   
   Certain amounts in Canada consolidated operations and equity affiliates were restated for price revisions and foreign currency exchange impacts on future cash
inflows, certain assumptions regarding future income tax provisions and to include certain expected capital expenditures related to facilities.          

The net change in prices and production and transportation costs is the beginning-of-year reserve-production forecast multiplied by the net annual
change in the per-unit sales price and production and transportation cost, discounted at 10 percent.          

Purchases and sales of reserves in place, along with extensions, discoveries and improved recovery, are calculated using production forecasts of the
applicable reserve quantities for the year multiplied by the  12-month  average sales prices, less future estimated costs, discounted at 10 percent.      

The accretion of discount is 10 percent of the prior year s discounted future cash inflows, less future production, transportation and development
costs.          

The net change in income taxes is the annual change in the discounted future income tax provisions.      
         164

Table of Contents  

      Selected Quarterly Financial Data
 (Unaudited)    
     
         165

Table of Contents  

Supplementary Information Condensed Consolidating Financial Information    
  We have various cross guarantees among ConocoPhillips, ConocoPhillips Company, ConocoPhillips Australia Funding Company and ConocoPhillips Canada Funding
Company I, with respect to publicly held debt securities. ConocoPhillips Company is 100 percent owned by ConocoPhillips. ConocoPhillips Australia Funding Company and ConocoPhillips Canada Funding Company I are indirect, 100 percent owned
subsidiaries of ConocoPhillips Company. ConocoPhillips and ConocoPhillips Company have fully and unconditionally guaranteed the payment obligations of ConocoPhillips Australia Funding Company and ConocoPhillips Canada Funding Company I, with respect
to their publicly held debt securities. Similarly, ConocoPhillips has fully and unconditionally guaranteed the payment obligations of ConocoPhillips Company with respect to its publicly held debt securities. In addition, ConocoPhillips Company has
fully and unconditionally guaranteed the payment obligations of ConocoPhillips with respect to its publicly held debt securities. All guarantees are joint and several. The following condensed consolidating financial information presents the results
of operations, financial position and cash flows for:       

ConocoPhillips, ConocoPhillips Company, ConocoPhillips Australia Funding Company and ConocoPhillips Canada Funding Company I (in each case, reflecting
investments in subsidiaries utilizing the equity method of accounting).      

All other nonguarantor subsidiaries of ConocoPhillips.      

The consolidating adjustments necessary to present ConocoPhillips  results on a consolidated basis.      
  In February 2009, we filed a universal shelf registration statement with the SEC under which ConocoPhillips, as a well-known seasoned issuer, has the
ability to issue and sell an indeterminate amount of various types of debt and equity securities, with certain debt securities guaranteed by ConocoPhillips Company. Also as part of that registration statement, ConocoPhillips Trust I and
ConocoPhillips Trust II have the ability to issue and sell preferred trust securities, guaranteed by ConocoPhillips. ConocoPhillips Trust I and ConocoPhillips Trust II have not issued any trust-preferred securities under this registration statement,
and thus have no assets or liabilities. Accordingly, columns for these two trusts are not included in the condensed consolidating financial information.      In 2013, we completed a legal amalgamation of ConocoPhillips Canada Funding Company I, ConocoPhillips Canada Funding Company II and Burlington Resources Finance Company, with the amalgamated company
continuing as ConocoPhillips Canada Funding Company I. The amalgamation did not significantly change the nature of the outstanding debt of these entities or the terms of parental guarantees, which remain full and unconditional, as well as joint and
several. The amalgamation did not impact our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.      This condensed
consolidating financial information should be read in conjunction with the accompanying consolidated financial statements and notes.   
         166

Table of Contents  

*   
    Interest and debt expense  for ConocoPhillips was revised to reflect contractually agreed interest rates, with offsetting adjustments in the  Equity
in earnings of affiliates  and  Intercompany revenues  lines for ConocoPhillips, ConocoPhillips Company and All Other Subsidiaries. There was no impact to Total Consolidated balances.      
         167

Table of Contents  

*   
    Interest and debt expense  for ConocoPhillips was revised to reflect contractually agreed interest rates, with offsetting adjustments in the  Equity
in earnings of affiliates  and  Intercompany revenues  lines for ConocoPhillips, ConocoPhillips Company and All Other Subsidiaries. There was no impact to Total Consolidated balances.      
         168

Table of Contents  

(1)   
   Includes intercompany loans.      

(2)   
   Revised to reflect adjustments to intercompany interest for ConocoPhillips, ConocoPhillips Company, and All Other Subsidiaries, and to reduce  Investments,
loans, and long-term receivables  and  Retained earnings  in the All Other Subsidiaries column to conform to current-year presentation. There was no impact to Total Consolidated balances.      
         169

Table of Contents  

*   
   Revised to reflect intercompany cash management activities previously presented as cash flows from continuing operating activities as both continuing activities and
discontinued operations in  Cash Flows From Investing Activities  and  Cash Flows From Financing Activities.  There was no impact to Total Consolidated balances.      
         170

Table of Contents  

*   
   Revised to reflect intercompany cash management activities previously presented as cash flows from continuing operating activities as both continuing activities and
discontinued operations in  Cash Flows From Investing Activities  and  Cash Flows From Financing Activities.  There was no impact to Total Consolidated balances.      

         171

Table of Contents  

Item 9.   
   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE         None.       

Item 9A.   
   CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES         We maintain
disclosure controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in reports we file or submit under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Act), is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the
time periods specified in Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to management, including our principal executive and principal financial officers, as appropriate, to allow
timely decisions regarding required disclosure. As of December 31, 2013, with the participation of our management, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (principal executive officer) and our Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief
Financial Officer (principal financial officer) carried out an evaluation, pursuant to Rule 13a-15(b) of the Act, of ConocoPhillips  disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the Act). Based upon that evaluation, our
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and our Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were operating effectively as of December 31, 2013.   
  There have been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Act, in the period covered by this
report that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.   
   Management s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting       This report is included in Item 8 on page 76 and is incorporated herein by reference.   
   Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm       This report is included in Item 8 on page 78 and is incorporated herein by reference.       

Item 9B.   
   OTHER INFORMATION         None.   
         172

Table of Contents  

      PART III    

Item 10.   
   DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE         Information regarding our executive officers appears in Part I of this report on pages   31 and 32.       Code of Business Ethics and Conduct for Directors and Employees       We have a Code of
Business Ethics and Conduct for Directors and Employees (Code of Ethics), including our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer and persons performing similar functions. We have posted a copy of our
Code of Ethics on the  Corporate Governance  section of our internet website at  www.conocophillips.com  (within the Investors Corporate Governance section) .  Any waivers of the Code of Ethics must be approved, in advance, by
our full Board of Directors. Any amendments to, or waivers from, the Code of Ethics that apply to our executive officers and directors will be posted on the  Corporate Governance  section of our internet website.   
  All other information required by Item 10 of Part III will be included in our Proxy Statement relating to our 2014 Annual Meeting of Stockholders,
to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A on or before April 30, 2014, and is incorporated herein by reference.*       

Item 11.   
   EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION         Information
required by Item 11 of Part III will be included in our Proxy Statement relating to our 2014 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A on or before April 30, 2014, and is incorporated herein by reference.*

Item 12.   
   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS      
  Information required by Item 12 of Part III will be included in our Proxy Statement relating to our 2014 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, to be filed
pursuant to Regulation 14A on or before April 30, 2014, and is incorporated herein by reference.*       

Item 13.   
   CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE         Information required by Item 13 of Part III will be included in our Proxy Statement relating to our 2014 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A on or before
April 30, 2014, and is incorporated herein by reference.*       

Item 14.   
   PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES      
  Information required by Item 14 of Part III will be included in our Proxy Statement relating to our 2014 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, to be filed
pursuant to Regulation 14A on or before April 30, 2014, and is incorporated herein by reference.*       
   *Except for information or data specifically incorporated herein by reference under Items 10 through 14, other information and data appearing in our
2014 Proxy Statement are not deemed to be a part of this Annual Report on  Form 10-K  or deemed to be filed with the Commission as a part of this report.    
         173

Table of Contents  

      PART IV    
     Item 15.     EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES    

(a)  
  1.        Financial Statements and Supplementary Data      
  The financial statements and supplementary information listed in the Index to Financial Statements, which appears on page 75, are filed as
part of this annual report.       

2.  
   Financial Statement Schedules         Schedule II Valuation and Qualifying Accounts, appears below. All other schedules are omitted because they are not required, not significant, not applicable or the information is shown in another
schedule, the financial statements or the notes to consolidated financial statements.       
    The exhibits
listed in the Index to Exhibits, which appears on pages 175 through 180, are filed as part of this annual report.       SCHEDULE
II VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS (Consolidated)        ConocoPhillips    
   
     (a)Represents acquisitions/dispositions/revisions and the effect of translating foreign financial statements.
       (b)Amounts charged off less recoveries of amounts previously charged off.        (c)Benefit payments.    
         174

Table of Contents  

    CONOCOPHILLIPS    
   INDEX TO EXHIBITS        
 
         175

Table of Contents  

176

Table of Contents  

177

Table of Contents  

178

Table of Contents  

179

Table of Contents  

180

Table of Contents  

      SIGNATURES    
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.       

CONOCOPHILLIPS    

February 25, 2014  

/s/ Ryan M. Lance    

Ryan M. Lance     Chairman of the Board of Directors     and Chief Executive Officer    
    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed, as of February 25,
2014, on behalf of the registrant by the following officers in the capacity indicated and by a majority of directors.       

Signature    
     
     Title     

/s/ Ryan M. Lance   
     
  Chairman of the Board of Directors   
 
  Ryan M. Lance  
     
    and Chief Executive Officer     (Principal executive officer)    

/s/ Jeff W. Sheets   
     
  Executive Vice President, Finance   
 
  Jeff W. Sheets  
     
    and Chief Financial Officer     (Principal financial officer)    

/s/ Glenda M. Schwarz   
     
  Vice President and Controller   
 
  Glenda M. Schwarz  
     
  (Principal accounting officer)    
         181

Table of Contents  

/s/ Richard L. Armitage   
      
  Director   
 
  Richard L. Armitage  

/s/ Richard H. Auchinleck   
      
  Director   
 
  Richard H. Auchinleck  

/s/ James E. Copeland, Jr.   
      
  Director   
 
  James E. Copeland, Jr.  

/s/ Gay Huey Evans   
      
  Director   
 
  Gay Huey Evans  

/s/ Jody L. Freeman   
      
  Director   
 
  Jody L. Freeman  

/s/ Robert A. Niblock   
      
  Director   
 
  Robert A. Niblock  

/s/ Harald J. Norvik   
      
  Director   
 
  Harald J. Norvik  

/s/ William E. Wade, Jr.   
      
  Director   
 
  William E. Wade, Jr.  

182

<EX-10.21>
 2
 d665238dex1021.htm
 EX-10.21

EX-10.21 

Exhibit 10.21  
  CONOCOPHILLIPS      KEY
EMPLOYEE CHANGE IN CONTROL SEVERANCE PLAN      (Amended and Restated Effective as of January 1, 2014)   
 The ConocoPhillips Key Employee Change in Control Severance Plan (the  Plan ) is hereby amended and restated effective as of
January 1, 2014.    Effective October 1, 2004, the Company adopted this Plan for the benefit of certain employees of the Company
and its Subsidiaries. This Plan was subsequently amended and restated effective December 31, 2008, then further amended and restated as of the Effective Time (as that term is used in the Employee Matters Agreement between ConocoPhillips and
Phillips 66 dated as of April 26, 2012). This Plan was subsequently amended and restated effective January 1, 2014, which restatement is wholly replaced by this further restatement, by approval of the Human Resources and Compensation
Committee of the Board of Directors of ConocoPhillips at its meeting on February 18, 2014.    All capitalized terms used herein are
defined in Section 1 hereof. This Plan is intended to be a plan maintained primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation for a select group of management or highly compensated employees, within the meaning of Title I of the
Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended and shall be interpreted in a manner consistent with such intention.    SECTION
1.    DEFINITIONS . As hereinafter used:    1.1       Affiliate  has the meaning ascribed
to such term in  Rule 12b-2  of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act, as in effect on the Effective Date.  
 1.2       Associate  means, with reference to any Person, (a) any corporation, firm, partnership,
association, unincorporated organization, or other entity (other than the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company) of which such Person is an officer or general partner (or officer or general partner of a general partner) or is, directly or
indirectly, the Beneficial Owner of 10% or more of any class of equity securities, (b) any trust or other estate in which such Person has a substantial beneficial interest or as to which such Person serves as trustee or in a similar fiduciary
capacity, and (c) any relative or spouse of such Person, or any relative of such spouse, who has the same home as such Person.    1.3
      Beneficial Owner  means, with reference to any securities, any Person if:  
 (a)      such Person or any of such Person s Affiliates and Associates, directly
or indirectly, is the  beneficial owner  of (as determined pursuant to  Rule 13d-3  of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act, as in effect on the Effective Date) such securities
or otherwise has the right to vote or dispose of such securities, including pursuant to any agreement, arrangement, or understanding (whether or not in writing); provided, however, that a Person shall not be deemed the  Beneficial Owner 
of, or to  beneficially own,  any security under this subsection (a) as a result of an  
      1  

agreement, arrangement, or understanding to vote such security if such agreement, arrangement, or understanding: (i) arises solely from a revocable proxy or consent given in response to a
public ( i.e. , not including a solicitation exempted by Rule 14a-2(b)(2) of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act) proxy or consent solicitation made pursuant to, and in accordance with, the applicable provisions of the
General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act, and (ii) is not then reportable by such Person on Schedule 13D under the Exchange Act (or any comparable or successor report);  
 (b)      such Person or any of such Person s Affiliates and Associates, directly
or indirectly, has the right or obligation to acquire such securities (whether such right or obligation is exercisable or effective immediately or only after the passage of time or the occurrence of an event) pursuant to any agreement, arrangement,
or understanding (whether or not in writing) or upon the exercise of conversion rights, exchange rights, other rights, warrants, or options, or otherwise; provided, however, that a Person shall not be deemed the Beneficial Owner of, or to
 beneficially own,  (i) securities tendered pursuant to a tender or exchange offer made by such Person or any of such Person s Affiliates or Associates until such tendered securities are accepted for purchase or exchange or
(ii) securities issuable upon exercise of Exempt Rights; or    (c)      such
Person or any of such Person s Affiliates or Associates (i) has any agreement, arrangement, or understanding (whether or not in writing) with any other Person (or any Affiliate or Associate thereof) that beneficially owns such securities for
the purpose of acquiring, holding, voting (except as set forth in the proviso to subsection (a) of this definition), or disposing of such securities or (ii) is a member of a group (as that term is used in
 Rule 13d-5(b)  of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act) that includes any other Person that beneficially owns such securities;  
 provided, however, that nothing in this definition shall cause a Person engaged in business as an underwriter of securities to be the
Beneficial Owner of, or to  beneficially own,  any securities acquired through such Person s participation in good faith in a firm commitment underwriting until the expiration of 40 days after the date of such acquisition. For
purposes hereof,  voting  a security shall include voting, granting a proxy, consenting or making a request or demand relating to corporate action (including, without limitation, a demand for a stockholder list, to call a stockholder
meeting or to inspect corporate books and records), or otherwise giving an authorization (within the meaning of section 14(a) of the Exchange Act) in respect of such security.  
 The terms  beneficially own  and  beneficially owning  have meanings that are correlative to this
definition of the term  Beneficial Owner.     1.4       Board  means the Board of Directors of
the Company.    1.5       Cause  means (i) the willful and continued failure by the Eligible
Employee to substantially perform the Eligible Employee s duties with the Employer (other than any such failure resulting from the Eligible Employee s incapacity due to physical or mental illness), or
 
      2  

(ii) the willful engaging, not in good faith, by the Eligible Employee in conduct which is demonstrably injurious to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, monetarily or otherwise.  
 1.6       Change in Control  means any of the following occurring on or after the Effective Date:  
 (a)      any Person (other than an Exempt Person) shall become the Beneficial Owner
of 20% or more of the shares of Common Stock then outstanding or 20% or more of the combined voting power of the Voting Stock of the Company then outstanding; provided, however, that no Change of Control shall be deemed to occur for purposes of this
subsection (a) if such Person shall become a Beneficial Owner of 20% or more of the shares of Common Stock then outstanding or 20% or more of the combined voting power of the Voting Stock of the Company then outstanding solely as a result of
(i) any acquisition directly from the Company or (ii) any acquisition by a Person pursuant to a transaction that complies with clauses (i), (ii), and (iii) of subsection (c) of this definition are satisfied;  
 (b)      individuals who, as of the Effective Date, constitute the Board (the
 Incumbent Board ) cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board; provided, however, that any individual becoming a director subsequent to the Effective Date, whose election, or nomination for election by the
Company s shareholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board; provided, further, that there shall
be excluded, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of any actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of
proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board;    (c)
     the Company shall consummate a reorganization, merger, statutory share, consolidation, or similar transaction involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries or sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of
the assets of the Company, or the acquisition of assets or securities of another entity by the Company or any of its subsidiaries (a  Business Combination ), in each case, unless, following such Business Combination, (i) 50% or more
of the then outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination and the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting Stock of such corporation are beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by all
or substantially all of the Persons who were the Beneficial Owners of the outstanding Common Stock immediately prior to such Business Combination in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such Business
Combination, of the outstanding Common Stock, (ii) no Person (excluding any Exempt Person or any Person beneficially owning, immediately prior to such Business Combination, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of the Common Stock then
outstanding or 20% or more of the combined voting power of the Voting Stock of the Company then outstanding) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of the then outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation resulting from such
Business Combination or the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting Stock of such  
      3  

corporation, and (iii) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination were members of the Incumbent Board at the
time of the initial agreement or initial action by the Board providing for such Business Combination; or  
 (d)      the shareholders of the Company shall approve a complete liquidation or
dissolution of the Company unless such liquidation or dissolution is approved as part of a transaction that complies with clauses (i), (ii), and (iii) of subsection (c) of this definition.  
 1.7       Code  means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as it may be amended from time to time.  
 1.8       Common Stock  means the common stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Company.  
 1.9       Company  means ConocoPhillips or any successors thereto.  
 1.10     Controlled Group  shall mean ConocoPhillips and its Subsidiaries.  
 1.11     Credited Compensation  of a Severed Employee means the aggregate of the Severed Employee s annual base
salary plus his or her annual incentive compensation, each as further described below. For purposes of this definition, (a) annual base salary shall be determined immediately prior to the Severance Date (without regard to any reductions therein
which constitute Good Reason) and (b) annual incentive compensation shall be deemed to equal the higher of (i) the Severed Employee s most recently established target (determined at one hundred percent of target) for annual incentive
compensation for such employee prior to such employee s Severance Date or (ii) the average of the most recent two annual incentive compensation payments to by such Severed Employee pursuant to the Variable Cash Incentive Program or its
successor program maintained by the Employer made before his or her Severance Date; provided, however, that for purposes of this clause (ii), (I) if such Severed Employee has been eligible to receive only one such annual incentive compensation
payment for a period ending before his or her Severance Date, the amount of annual incentive compensation for purposes of determining Credited Compensation shall be equal to the amount of such single annual incentive compensation payment (if any),
and (II) if such Severed Employee has not been eligible for any such annual incentive compensation payment, the amount of annual incentive compensation for purposes of determining Credited Compensation shall be equal to his or her most recently
established target (determined at one hundred percent of target) for annual incentive compensation for such employee prior to such employee s Severance Date.  
 1.12     Effective Date  means the effective date of this Plan as amended and restated as set forth in the preamble
to this Plan.    1.13     Eligible Employee  means any employee that is a Tier 1 Employee or a Tier 2
Employee.    1.14     Employer  means the Company or any of its Subsidiaries.  
      4  

1.15     Exchange Act  means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended.    1.16     Excise Tax  shall mean the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Code, together with
any interest or penalties imposed with respect to such excise tax.    1.17     Exempt Person  means any of the
Company, any entity controlled by the Company, any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any entity controlled by the Company, and any Person organized, appointed, or established by the Company or any
entity controlled by the Company for or pursuant to the terms of any such employee benefit plan.    1.18     Exempt
Rights  means any rights to purchase shares of Common Stock or other Voting Stock of the Company if at the time of the issuance thereof such rights are not separable from such Common Stock or other Voting Stock (i.e., are not transferable
otherwise than in connection with a transfer of the underlying Common Stock or other Voting Stock), except upon the occurrence of a contingency, whether such rights exist as of the Effective Date, or are thereafter issued by the Company as a
dividend on shares of Common Stock or other Voting Securities or otherwise.    1.19     Good Reason  means the
occurrence, on or after the date of a Change in Control, and without the Eligible Employee s written consent, of (i) the assignment to the Eligible Employee of duties in the aggregate that are inconsistent with the Eligible Employee s
level of responsibility immediately prior to the date of the Change in Control or any diminution in the nature of the Eligible Employee s responsibilities from those in effect immediately prior to the date of the Change in Control; (ii) a
reduction by the Employer in the Eligible Employee s annual base salary or any adverse change in the Eligible Employee s aggregate annual and long term incentive compensation opportunity from that in effect immediately prior to the Change
in Control which change is not pursuant to a program applicable to all comparably situated executives of the Employer; or (iii) the relocation of the Eligible Employee s principal place of employment to a location more than 50 miles from
the Eligible Employee s principal place of employment immediately prior to the date of the Change in Control; provided, however, that this clause (iii) shall not be considered to be Good Reason if the Employer undertakes to pay all
reasonable relocation expenses of the Eligible Employee in connection with such relocation, whether through a relocation plan, program, or policy of the Employer or otherwise.  
 1.20      Gross-Up  Payment  has the meaning set forth in Section 2.5
hereof.    1.21     Parachute Value  of a Payment shall mean the present value as of the date of the change of
control for purposes of Section 280G of the Code of the portion of such Payment that constitutes a  parachute payment  under Section 280G(b)(2), as determined by the Accounting Firm for purposes of determining whether and to what
extent the Excise Tax will apply to such Payment.    1.22     Payment  shall mean any payment or distribution in
the nature of compensation (within the meaning of Section 280G(b)(2) of the Code) to or for the benefit of an Eligible Employee,  
      5  

whether paid or payable pursuant to this Plan or otherwise, by any Employer or by a Person that is a party to the Change in Control.  
 1.23     Person  means any individual, firm, corporation, partnership, association, trust, unincorporated
organization, or other entity.    1.24     Plan  means the ConocoPhillips Key Employee Change in Control Severance
Plan, as set forth herein, as it may be amended from time to time.    1.25     Plan Administrator  means the person
or persons appointed from time to time by the Board, which appointment may be revoked at any time by the Board.    1.26
    Public Offering  means the initial sale of common equity securities of the Company pursuant to an effective registration statement (other than a registration on  Form S-4  or  S-8  or any successor or similar forms) filed under the Securities Act of 1933.    1.27
    Retirement Plans  means the ConocoPhillips Retirement Plan and the ConocoPhillips Key Employee Supplemental Retirement Plan.  
 1.28     Safe Harbor Amount  means, with respect to an Eligible Employee, 2.99 times the Eligible Employee s
 base amount,  within the meaning of Section 280G(b)(3) of the Code.    1.29     Separation from
Service  means the date on which the Participant separates from service with the Controlled Group within the meaning of Code section 409A, whether by reason of death, disability, retirement, or otherwise. In determining Separation from Service,
with regard to a bona fide leave of absence that is due to any medically determinable physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than six months, where such
impairment causes the Employee to be unable to perform the duties of his or her position of employment or any substantially similar position of employment, a 29-month period of absence shall be substituted for the six-month period set forth in
section 1.409A-1(h)(1)(i) of the regulations issued under section 409A of the Code, as allowed thereunder.    1.30
    Severance  means the termination of an Eligible Employee s employment with the Employer on or within two years following the date of a Change in Control, (i) by the Employer other than for Cause, or
(ii) by the Eligible Employee for Good Reason. An Eligible Employee will not be considered to have incurred a Severance if his employment is discontinued by reason of the Eligible Employee s death or a physical or mental condition causing
such Eligible Employee s inability to substantially perform his duties with the Employer and entitling him or her to benefits under any long-term sick pay or disability income policy or program of the Employer. Furthermore, an Eligible Employee
will not be considered to have incurred a Severance if employment with the Employer is discontinued after the Eligible Employee has been offered employment with another employer that has purchased a Subsidiary or division of the Company or all or
substantially all of the assets of an a Subsidiary or division of the Company and the offer of employment from the other employer is at the same or greater salary and the same or greater target bonus as the Eligible Employee has at that time from
the  
      6  

Employer. Still further, an Eligible Employee will not be considered to have incurred a Severance as a result of (i) the Distribution, (ii) the Eligible Employee s transfer to the
controlled group of Phillips 66 in connection with the Distribution, or (iii) the Eligible Employee s transfer to the Controlled Group in connection with the Distribution. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, Good Reason shall
not be deemed to have occurred unless the Company shall have been given (1) written notice of the Eligible Employee s assertion that an event constituting Good Reason has occurred, which notice shall be given not less than 30 days prior to
the Severance Date to which such notice relates, and (2) a reasonable opportunity to cure such occurrence during such  30-day  period. Furthermore, in order to be considered a Severance, the termination
must also meet the requirements of a Separation from Service.    1.31     Severance Date  means the date on which
an Eligible Employee incurs a Severance.    1.32     Severance Pay  means the payment determined pursuant to
Section 2.1 hereof.    1.33     Severed Employee  means an Eligible Employee who has incurred a Severance.
   1.34     Subsidiary  means any corporation or other entity that is treated as a single employer with
ConocoPhillips after the Distribution, under section 414(b) or (c) of the Code; provided, that in making this determination, in applying section 1563(a)(1), (2), and (3) of the Code for purposes of determining a controlled group of
corporations under section 414(b) of the Code and for purposes of determining trades or businesses (whether or not incorporated) under common control under regulation section 1.414(c)-2 for purposes of section 414(c) of the Code, the language
 at least 80%  shall be used without substitution as allowed under regulations pursuant to section 409A of the Code.    1.35
    Tier 1 Employee  means any employee of the Employer who is in salary grade 26 or above (under the salary grade schedule of the Company on the Effective Date, with appropriate adjustment for any subsequent change in such
salary grade schedule), at or subsequent to the time of the Change in Control.    1.36     Tier 2 Employee  means
any employee of the Employer, other than a Tier 1 Employee, who is in salary grade 23 or above (under the salary grade schedule of the Company on the Effective Date, with appropriate adjustment for any subsequent change in such salary grade
schedule) at or subsequent to the time of the Change in Control.    1.37     Value  of a Payment shall mean the
economic present value of a Payment as of the date of the change of control for purposes of Section 280G of the Code, as determined by the Accounting Firm using the discount rate required by Section 280G(d)(4) of the Code.  
 1.38     Voting Stock  means, (i) with respect to a corporation, all securities of such corporation of any class
or series that are entitled to vote generally in the election of, or to appoint by contract, directors of such corporation (excluding any class or series that would be entitled so to vote by reason of the occurrence of any contingency, so long as
such contingency has not occurred) and (ii) with respect to an entity which is not a corporation, all securities of any class  
      7  

or series that are entitled to vote generally in the election of, or to appoint by contract, members of the body which is most analogous to the board of directors of a corporation.  
 SECTION 2.    BENEFITS .  
 2.1    Subject to Section 2.9, each Severed Employee shall be entitled to receive Severance Pay equal to the sum of the
amounts determined under Sections 2.1(a), (b), and (c). Furthermore, for purposes of Employer compensation plans, programs, and arrangements, each Severed Employee shall be considered to have been laid off by the Employer.  

(a) 
   The amount that is the Severed Employee s Credited Compensation, multiplied by (i) 3, in the case of a Tier 1 Employee or
(ii) 2 in the case of a Tier 2 Employee.         

(b) 
   The amount that is the present value, determined as of the Severed Employee s Severance Date, of the increase in benefits under the Retirement
Plans that would result if the Severed Employee was credited with the following number of additional years of age and service under the Retirement Plans: (i) 3, in the case of a Tier 1 Employee or (ii) 2, in the case of a Tier 2
Employee; provided, however, that in calculating (b), if the Severed Employee is entitled under the Retirement Plans to any additional credited service due to the circumstances of the Severed Employee s termination, then the amount of the
present value of the increased benefits called for in the determination of (b) shall be reduced by the amount of the present value of the increased benefits under the Retirement Plans calculated after taking into account the circumstances of
the Severed Employee s termination, but not below zero. Present value shall be determined based on the assumptions utilized under the ConocoPhillips Retirement Plan for purposes of determining contributions under Code Section 412 for the
most recently completed plan year.         

(c) 
   The amount that is equal to either (i) or (ii), as applicable, plus either (iii) or (iv), as applicable, plus (v), if applicable, plus
(vi), if applicable:         

(i) 
 If the Severed Employee was enrolled in company-sponsored medical coverage on the Severance Date, an amount equal to 6 times the difference between the COBRA participant contribution rate and the active employee
contribution rate, each as of the Severance Date, for the type of coverage in which the Tier 2 Employee was enrolled.        

(ii) 
 If the Severed Employee was not enrolled in company-sponsored medical coverage on the Severance Date, an amount equal to 18 times the difference between the COBRA participant contribution rate and the active employee
contribution rate, each as of the Severance Date, for PPO medical coverage.        

(iii) 
   If the Severed Employee was enrolled in company-sponsored dental coverage on the Severance Date, an amount equal to 6 times the difference
    
      8  

between the COBRA participant contribution rate and the active employee contribution rate, each as of the Severance Date, for the type of coverage in which the Tier 2 Employee was enrolled.

(iv) 
 If the Severed Employee was not enrolled in company-sponsored dental coverage on the Severance Date, an amount equal to 18 times the difference between the COBRA participant contribution rate and the active employee
contribution rate, each as of the Severance Date, for dental coverage (using the CP dental option coverage).        

(v) 
 In the case of a Tier 1 Employee, an amount equal to the sum of 6 times the COBRA participant contribution rate, as of the Severance Date, for PPO medical coverage plus 6 times the COBRA participant contribution rate,
as of the Severance Date, for dental coverage (using the CP dental option coverage).        

(vi) 
 If any persons qualified as eligible dependents of the Severed Employee under the applicable company-sponsored medical or dental coverage in which the Severed Employee was enrolled on the Severance Date, an amount equal
to the sum of the differences, for each such eligible dependent, between the COBRA eligible dependent contribution rate and the eligible dependent contribution rate for eligible dependents of active employees, each as of the Severance Date, for the
medical and/or dental coverage in which the Severed Employee was enrolled on the Severance Date, as applicable, times the factor set forth in the applicable Section 2.1(c)(i) or (ii), (c)(iii) or (iv), and (c)(v); provided, that if the Severed
Employee was not enrolled for medical or dental coverage, then the eligibility and amount for each dependent shall be determined as if the Severed Employee had been enrolled in the PPO medical coverage or dental coverage (using the CP dental option
coverage), as applicable, on the Severance Date.      2.2      Severance Pay (as well as any amount payable pursuant to
Section 2.6 hereof) shall be paid to an eligible Severed Employee in a cash lump sum on the first business day immediately following 10 days after the end of the period for executing and delivering the Severed Employee s release, as set
forth in Section 2.9.    2.3      Subject to Section 2.9, for a period of (a) 36 months, in the case of a Tier 1
Employee or (b) 24 months, in the case of a Tier 2 Employee, beginning the first of the month following the termination of active employee benefits, the Company shall arrange to provide the Severed Employee and his dependents benefits similar
to those the Severed Employee and his dependents had immediately prior to the Severed Employee s Severance Date. Only those dependents who were eligible for coverage on the Severed Employee s Severance Date may be covered thereafter, but
no amendment to any plan or program providing these benefits made after the Severed Employee s Severance Date shall prevent eligibility for dependents who would otherwise have been eligible for coverage on the Severed Employee s Severance
Date. These benefits will be provided at no greater cost to the Severed Employee than active employee rates for the plan year  
      9  

of coverage provided the benefits continue to be offered by the Company to active employees and the Severed Employee and his dependents meet the same eligibility criteria for the benefits as an
active employee and dependents of an active employee. Depending on coverages prior to the Severed Employee s Severance Date, these benefits could include the following, but do not include any other benefits offered by the Company: Life
Insurance, which includes Basic, Executive Basic, Supplemental, and Dependent Life; and Personal Accident Insurance. Severed employees may also continue Long Term Care and Executive Life directly through the vendor to be paid for by the Severed
Employee. Nothing herein shall prevent a Severed Employee or eligible dependents of a Severed Employee from electing to receive COBRA continuation coverage of health benefits subject to COBRA, in accordance with the applicable provisions of the law
and the applicable plans. While as an active employee the Severed Employee may have been able to make employee contributions or pay premiums for certain coverage through a pre-tax salary reduction arrangement, that will not continue after the
Severed Employee s Severance Date. The cost of these benefits will not be adjusted to reflect that the Severed Employee s cost will no longer be pre-tax. All other active employee benefits, not specifically mentioned above, are excluded,
although if any of the benefits specifically mentioned above are replaced with a similar benefit after the Severed Employee s Severance Date, such replacement benefits are to be considered as mentioned specifically above even though their
names, terms, and conditions may have been changed. Such benefits shall not be provided (except to the extent as may be required by law) during any period when the Severed Employee is eligible to receive such benefits from another employer or from
an Employer or if the Severed Employee has resumed working for an Employer. The Severed Employee is obligated to inform the Company when or if they become eligible to receive such benefits from another employer.  
 2.4      Upon Change in Control, the following shall apply to equity awards made by the Company to an Eligible
Employee:      

(a) 
   Each Eligible Employee shall immediately become fully vested in all equity awards (i) that are outstanding on December 31, 2013,
(ii) that pertain to performance periods that began prior to 2014, or (iii) that are not assumed, or substituted for, by an acquirer in connection with the Change in Control (as such concept is described in the applicable equity award),
and such equity awards shall not thereafter be forfeitable for any reason (except that options shall expire and be cancelled ten years from the date of their grant).     

(b) 
   With regard to all other equity awards which do not directly provide otherwise, each Eligible Employee shall become fully vested in such equity
awards upon incurring a Severance following such Change in Control, and such equity awards shall not thereafter be forfeitable for any reason (except that options shall expire and be cancelled ten years from the date of their grant).

(c) 
   Any options granted to the Eligible Employee shall be exercisable at the times set forth in the applicable award documents. Each such option shall
remain outstanding until ten years from the date of grant, notwithstanding any provision of the option grant or any plan under which the option may have been granted to the contrary.     

(d) 
   The date of distribution of any stock or other value from such awards shall be as set forth in the applicable terms and conditions of the award.
    
      10  

2.5      The provisions of this Section 2.5 shall apply only to an
individual who was an Eligible Employee on May 1, 2012 (refer to Schedule A).      

(a) 
   Anything in this Plan to the contrary notwithstanding and except as set forth below, in the event it shall be determined that any Payment to an
Eligible Employee would be subject to the Excise Tax, then the Eligible Employee shall be entitled to receive an additional payment (the  Gross-Up Payment ) in an amount such that, after payment by the Eligible Employee of all taxes (and
any interest or penalties imposed with respect to such taxes), including, without limitation, any income taxes (and any interest and penalties imposed with respect thereto) and Excise Tax imposed upon the Gross-Up Payment, the Eligible Employee
retains an amount of the Gross-Up Payment equal to the Excise Tax imposed upon the Payments. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 2.5(a), if it shall be determined that an Eligible Employee is entitled to the Gross-Up
Payment, but that the Parachute Value of all Payments does not exceed 110% of the Safe Harbor Amount, then no Gross-Up Payment shall be made to the Eligible Employee and the amounts payable under this Plan shall be reduced so that the Parachute
Value of all Payments, in the aggregate, equals the Safe Harbor Amount. The reduction of the amounts payable hereunder, if applicable, shall be made by first reducing the payments under Section 2.1, unless an alternative method of reduction is
elected by the Eligible Employee, and in any event shall be made in such a manner as to maximize the Value of all Payments actually made to the Eligible Employee. For purposes of reducing the Payments to the Safe Harbor Amount, only amounts payable
under this Plan (and no other Payments) shall be reduced. If the reduction of the amount payable under this Plan to an Eligible Employee would not result in a reduction of the Parachute Value of all Payments to the Safe Harbor Amount, no amounts
payable to the Eligible Employee under the Plan shall be reduced pursuant to this Section 2.5(a). The Company s obligation to make Gross-Up Payments to an Eligible Employee under this Section 2.5 shall not be conditioned upon the
Eligible Employee s termination of employment.         

(b) 
   Subject to the provisions of Section 2.5(c), all determinations required to be made under this Section 2.5, including whether and when a
Gross-Up Payment is required, the amount of such Gross-Up Payment and the assumptions to be utilized in arriving at such determination, shall be made by a nationally recognized certified public accounting firm designated by the Plan Administrator
(the  Accounting Firm ). The Accounting Firm shall provide detailed supporting calculations both to the Company and each Eligible Employee Eligible Employee within 15 business days of the receipt of notice from the Eligible Employee that
there has been a Payment or such earlier time as is requested by the Company. All fees and expenses of the Accounting Firm shall be borne solely by the Company. Any Gross-Up Payment, as determined pursuant to this Section 2.5, shall be paid by
the Company to the Eligible Employee within 5 days of the receipt of the Accounting Firm s determination. Any determination by the     
      11  

Accounting Firm shall be binding upon the Company and the Eligible Employee. As a result of the uncertainty in the application of Section 4999 of the Code at the time of the initial
determination by the Accounting Firm hereunder, it is possible that Gross-Up Payments that will not have been made by the Company should have been made (the  Underpayment ), consistent with the calculations required to be made hereunder.
In the event the Company exhausts its remedies pursuant to Section 2.5(c) and the Eligible Employee thereafter is required to make a payment of any Excise Tax, the Accounting Firm shall determine the amount of the Underpayment that has occurred
and any such Underpayment shall be promptly paid by the Company to or for the benefit of the Eligible Employee.         

(c) 
   As a condition to being entitled to Gross-Up Payment hereunder, each Eligible Employee shall be required to notify the Company in writing of any
claim by the Internal Revenue Service that, if successful, would require the payment by the Company of the Gross-Up Payment. Such notification shall be given as soon as practicable, but no later than 10 business days after the Eligible Employee is
informed in writing of such claim. The Eligible Employee shall apprise the Company of the nature of such claim and the date on which such claim is requested to be paid. The Eligible Employee shall not pay such claim prior to the expiration of the
30-day period following the date on which the Eligible Employee gives such notice to the Company (or such shorter period ending on the date that any payment of taxes with respect to such claim is due). If the Company notifies the Eligible Employee
in writing prior to the expiration of such period that the Company desires to contest such claim, the Eligible Employee shall:         

(i) 
   give the Company any information reasonably requested by the Company relating to such claim,     

(ii) 
   take such action in connection with contesting such claim as the Company shall reasonably request in writing from time to time, including, without
limitation, accepting legal representation with respect to such claim by an attorney reasonably selected by the Company,         

(iii) 
   cooperate with the Company in good faith in order effectively to contest such claim, and     

(iv) 
   permit the Company to participate in any proceedings relating to such claim;     
 provided, however, that the Company shall bear and pay directly all costs and expenses (including additional interest and
penalties) incurred in connection with such contest, and shall indemnify and hold the Eligible Employee harmless, on an after-tax basis, for any Excise Tax or income tax (including interest and penalties) imposed as a result of such representation
and payment of costs and expenses. Without limitation on the foregoing provisions of this Section 2.5(c), the Company shall control all proceedings taken in connection with such contest, and, at its sole discretion, may pursue or forgo any and
all administrative appeals,  
      12  

proceedings, hearings and conferences with the applicable taxing authority in respect of such claim and may, at its sole discretion, either direct the Eligible Employee to pay the tax claimed and
sue for a refund or contest the claim in any permissible manner, and the Eligible Employee agrees to prosecute such contest to a determination before any administrative tribunal, in a court of initial jurisdiction and in one or more appellate
courts, as the Company shall determine; provided, however, that, if the Company directs the Eligible Employee to pay such claim and sue for a refund, the Company shall make such payment and shall indemnify and hold the Eligible Employee harmless, on
an after-tax basis, from any Excise Tax or income tax (including interest or penalties) imposed with respect to such payment or with respect to any imputed income in connection with such payment; and provided, further, that any extension of the
statute of limitations relating to payment of taxes for the taxable year of the Eligible Employee with respect to which such contested amount is claimed to be due is limited solely to such contested amount. Furthermore, the Company s control of
the contest shall be limited to issues with respect to which the Gross-Up Payment would be payable hereunder, and the Eligible Employee shall be entitled to settle or contest, as the case may be, any other issue raised by the Internal Revenue
Service or any other taxing authority.      

(d) 
   If, after the Company has made a Gross-Up Payment or a payment pursuant to Section 2.5(c), an Eligible Employee becomes entitled to receive
any refund with respect to the Excise Tax to which such Gross-Up Payment relates or with respect to the claim to which such payment relates, the Eligible Employee shall (subject to the Company s complying with the requirements of
Section 2.5(c), if applicable) promptly pay to the Company the amount of such refund (together with any interest paid or credited thereon after taxes applicable thereto). If, after the Company has paid any amount pursuant to
Section 2.5(c), a determination is made that the Eligible Employee shall not be entitled to any refund with respect to such claim and the Company does not notify the Eligible Employee in writing of its intent to contest such denial of refund
prior to the expiration of 30 days after such determination, then the amount of such payment shall offset, to the extent thereof, the amount of Gross-Up Payment required to be paid.     

(e) 
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section 2.5, the Company may, in its sole discretion, withhold and pay over to the Internal
Revenue Service or any other applicable taxing authority, for the benefit of any Eligible Employee, all or any portion of any Gross-Up Payment, and each Eligible Employee shall be required to consent to such withholding as a condition to being
entitled to any Gross-Up Payment.       2.6      Each Severed Employee shall be entitled to receive
the employee s full salary through the Severance Date and, subject to Section 2.9 but notwithstanding any provision of the Company s Variable Cash Incentive Program or similar annual bonus incentive plan to the contrary, shall be
eligible for consideration for an award under such program or plan when awards are made with regard to the fiscal year under such program or plan in which the Severance Date occurred.  
      13  

2.7      The Company will pay to each Eligible Employee all reasonable
legal fees and expenses incurred by such Eligible Employee in pursuing any claim under the Plan, unless the applicable finder of fact determines that the Eligible Employee s claim was frivolous or not maintained in good faith.  
 2.8      The Company shall be entitled to withhold and/or to cause to be withheld from amounts to be paid to the
Severed Employee hereunder any federal, state, or local withholding or other taxes or charges which it is from time to time required to withhold.  
 2.9      No Severed Employee shall be eligible to receive Severance Pay or other benefits under the Plan unless he or
she first executes a written release substantially in the form attached as Exhibit A hereto (or, if the Severed Employee was not a United States employee, a similar release which is in accordance with the applicable laws in the relevant
jurisdiction) and, to the extent such release is revocable by its terms, only if the Severed Employee does not revoke it. Such release must be executed and delivered to the Company within 30 days of the Employee s Severance Date.  
 SECTION 3.    PLAN ADMINISTRATION .  
 3.1      The Plan Administrator shall administer the Plan and may interpret the Plan, prescribe, amend, and rescind
rules and regulations under the Plan and make all other determinations necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan, subject to all of the provisions of the Plan.  
 3.2      In the event of a claim by an Eligible Employee as to the amount or timing of any payment or benefit, such
Eligible Employee shall present the reason for his or her claim in writing to the Plan Administrator. The Plan Administrator shall, within 14 days after receipt of such written claim, send a written notification to the Eligible Employee as to its
disposition. Except as provided in the preceding portion of this Section 3.2, all disputes under this Plan shall be settled exclusively by binding arbitration in Houston, Texas, in accordance with the rules of the American Arbitration
Association then in effect. Judgment may be entered on the arbitrator s award in any court having jurisdiction.    3.3
     The Plan Administrator may delegate any of its duties hereunder to such person or persons from time to time as it may designate.  
 3.4      The Plan Administrator is empowered, on behalf of the Plan, to engage accountants, legal counsel, and such
other personnel as it deems necessary or advisable to assist it in the performance of its duties under the Plan. The functions of any such persons engaged by the Plan Administrator shall be limited to the specified services and duties for which they
are engaged, and such persons shall have no other duties, obligations, or responsibilities under the Plan. Such persons shall exercise no discretionary authority or discretionary control respecting the management of the Plan. All reasonable expenses
thereof shall be borne by the Employer.    SECTION 4.    DURATION; AMENDMENT; AND TERMINATION .  
      14  

4.1      This Plan was effective on the Effective Date and was amended
and restated effective as of the Effective Time and conditioned on the Distribution. If a Change in Control has not occurred, this Plan shall continue in effect unless and until it is terminated as provided in Section 4.2. If a Change in
Control occurs, this Plan shall continue in full force and effect and shall not terminate or expire until after all Eligible Employees who become or may become entitled to any payments hereunder shall have received such payments in full and all
adjustments required to be made pursuant to Section 2 have been made.      

4.2 
   (a)      If a Change in Control has not occurred, this Plan may be amended from time to time during its term by the
Company acting through its Board of Directors or, to the extent authorized by the Board of Directors, its officers, provided that any such amendment which shall in any manner reduce, diminish, or otherwise adversely affect any benefit which is or
may at any time in the future become payable hereunder, or any such amendment which shall alter the definition of Change in Control shall be made effective not less than two years after the action of the Company authorizing such amendment, unless,
and then only to the extent that such amendment is or becomes necessary in order to assure continued compliance by this Plan with any applicable state or federal law or regulation.     

(b) 
   The Company may, by action of its Board of Directors, terminate this Plan, provided, however, that the effective date of such termination shall be
not less than two years from the date of such Board action. Provided further that in the event a Change in Control shall occur prior to the effective date of termination, the provisions of Section 4.2(c) shall apply.     

(c) 
   If a Change in Control shall occur while this Plan is in effect, no then-pending amendment or termination shall take effect, this Plan shall remain
in full force and effect as at the Change in Control, and this Plan shall terminate automatically without further action on behalf of the Company immediately following the making of all payments to Eligible Employees under this Plan.
      SECTION 5.    GENERAL PROVISIONS .  
 5.1      Except as otherwise provided herein or by law, no right or interest of any Eligible Employee under the Plan
shall be assignable or transferable, in whole or in part, either directly or by operation of law or otherwise, including without limitation by execution, levy, garnishment, attachment, pledge, or in any manner; no attempted assignment or transfer
thereof shall be effective; and no right or interest of any Eligible Employee under the Plan shall be liable for, or subject to, any obligation or liability of such Eligible Employee. When a payment is due under this Plan to a Severed Employee who
is unable to care for his or her affairs, payment may be made directly to his or her legal guardian or personal representative.    5.2
     If any Employer is obligated by law or by contract to pay severance pay, a termination indemnity, notice pay, or the like, to a Severed Employee, or if any Employer is obligated by law to provide advance notice of
separation ( Notice Period ) to a Severed Employee, then any Severance Pay hereunder to such Severed Employee shall be reduced by the amount of any such  
      15  

severance pay, termination indemnity, notice pay, or the like, as applicable, and by the amount of any compensation received during any Notice Period. This provision specifically includes any
payments or obligations under the Conoco Inc. Key Employee Severance Plan, as amended and restated effective October 1, 2001, and as subsequently amended, or under the ConocoPhillips Severance Pay Plan, as effective March 13, 2004, and as
subsequently amended, or under the ConocoPhillips Executive Severance Plan, as effective October 1, 2004, and as subsequently amended. Furthermore, if an Eligible Employee has willful and bad faith conduct demonstrably injurious to Company or
its Subsidiaries, monetarily or otherwise, after receiving Severance Pay, the Company may offset an amount equal to such Severance Pay against any other amounts due from other plans or programs, unless otherwise required by law.  
 5.3      Neither the establishment of the Plan, nor any modification thereof, nor the creation of any fund, trust, or
account, nor the payment of any benefits shall be construed as giving any Eligible Employee, or any person whomsoever, the right to be retained in the service of the Employer, and all Eligible Employees shall remain subject to discharge to the same
extent as if the Plan had never been adopted.    5.4      If any provision of this Plan shall be held invalid or
unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other provisions hereof, and this Plan shall be construed and enforced as if such provisions had not been included.  
 5.5      This Plan shall be binding upon the heirs, executors, administrators, successors, and assigns of the
parties, including each Eligible Employee, present and future, and any successor to the Employer.    5.6      The
headings and captions herein are provided for reference and convenience only, shall not be considered part of the Plan, and shall not be employed in the construction of the Plan.  
 5.7      The Plan shall not be funded. No Eligible Employee shall have any right to, or interest in, any assets of
any Employer that may be applied by the Employer to the payment of benefits or other rights under this Plan.    5.8
     Any notice or other communication required or permitted pursuant to the terms hereof shall have been duly given when delivered or mailed by United States Mail,  first-class, 
postage prepaid, addressed to the intended recipient at his, her or its last known address.    5.9      This Plan
shall be construed and enforced according to the laws of the State of Delaware.    The Plan is hereby amended and restated effective as of
the Effective Time.    Executed this 18 th  day of February 2014, by a duly authorized
officer of the Company.    CONOCOPHILLIPS      

By :    /s/ Sheila
Feldman                                        

Dated :   February 18,
2014                            
 
                 Sheila Feldman  

Vice President, Human Resources  

16  

Exhibit A  
    
  PLEASE READ CAREFULLY   
  THIS AGREEMENT INCLUDES A RELEASE OF   
  ALL KNOWN AND UNKNOWN CLAIMS   

   WAIVER AND RELEASE OF CLAIMS    
 In consideration of, and subject to, the payments to be made to me by ConocoPhillips, a Delaware corporation (the
 Company ) or any of its subsidiaries, pursuant to the ConocoPhillips Key Employee Change in Control Severance Plan (the  Plan ), which I acknowledge that I would not otherwise be entitled to receive, I hereby waive any claims I
may have for employment or re-employment by the Company or any subsidiary or parent of the Company after the date hereof, and I further agree to and do release and forever discharge the Company or any subsidiary or parent of the Company, and their
respective past and present officers, directors, shareholders, employees, and agents (the  Released Parties ) from any and all claims and causes of action, known or unknown, arising out of or relating to my employment with the Company or
any subsidiary or parent of the Company, or the termination thereof, including, but not limited to, wrongful discharge, breach of contract, tort, fraud, the Civil Rights Acts, Employee Retirement Income Security Act, Americans with Disabilities Act,
or any other federal, state, or local legislation or common law relating to employment or discrimination in employment or otherwise. Nothing in this Waiver and Release of Claims, however, will limit my rights to file a charge of discrimination with
the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission ( EEOC ) or participate in an EEOC investigation.    In consideration
for receiving certain supplemental benefits from the Company, I specifically waive all existing rights and claims I may have against the Released Parties under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, 29 USC  621 et seq., and any other
applicable federal or state statute or law involving age discrimination. I acknowledge that the supplemental benefits provided in the Plan constitute independent consideration for this Release of liability and are in addition to any other payment to
which I am entitled. I further acknowledge that I have been advised to consult with an attorney of my own choosing before executing this Waiver and Release of Claims.  
 Notwithstanding the foregoing or any other provision hereof, nothing in this Waiver and Release of Claims shall adversely
affect (i) my rights under the Plan; (ii) my rights to benefits other than severance benefits under plans, programs, and arrangements of the Company or any subsidiary or parent of the Company which are accrued but unpaid as of the date of
my termination; or (iii) my rights to  
      17  

indemnification under any indemnification agreement, applicable law and the certificates of incorporation and bylaws of the Company and any subsidiary or parent of the Company, and my rights
under any director s and officers  liability insurance policy covering me.    I acknowledge that I have been given
a period of twenty-one (21) calendar days within which to review and consider the provisions of this Waiver and Release of Claims, whether I choose to do so or not. I understand and acknowledge that the Company has advised me in writing that I have
seven (7) calendar days following the execution of this Waiver and Release of Claims to revoke my acceptance of this Waiver and Release of Claims. I understand the revocation can be made by delivering a written notice of revocation to
ConocoPhillips, Attn: James McMorran, 600 N. Dairy Ashford, Houston, Texas 77079. I understand that for the revocation to be effective, the Company must receive written notice no later than the close of business on the seventh day after I sign this
Waiver and Release of Claims. This Waiver and Release of Claims shall not become effective or enforceable, and the Plan benefits will not become payable until after the seven-day revocation period has expired, but in no event prior to the effective
date of my layoff. I acknowledge that I have had adequate time to read and consider this Waiver and Release of Claims before executing it. I acknowledge that I have signed this Waiver and Release of Claims voluntarily, knowingly, of my own free will
and without reservation or duress and that no promises or representations have been made to me by any person to induce me to do so other than the promise of payment set forth in the first paragraph above and the Company s acknowledgment of my
rights reserved under the second paragraph above.      

Signature:                            

Name:                             

Date:                             

18  

Schedule A    

Last Name  
     
   First Name  
     
   Middle  
     
   Employee Number    
      19  

</EX-10.21>

<EX-12>
 3
 d665238dex12.htm
 EX-12

EX-12 

Exhibit 12       CONOCOPHILLIPS AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES        TOTAL ENTERPRISE
      Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges   

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 4
 d665238dex21.htm
 EX-21

EX-21 

Exhibit 21       SUBSIDIARY LISTING OF CONOCOPHILLIPS       Listed below are subsidiaries of the registrant at
December 31, 2013. Certain subsidiaries are omitted since such companies considered in the aggregate do not constitute a significant subsidiary.       

Company Name   
      
     Incorporation       Location     

Ashford Energy Capital S.A.  
      
  Luxembourg   
 
  BR (Global) Holdings B.V.  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  BROG LP LLC  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Burlington Resources (Irish Sea) Limited  
      
  England   
 
  Burlington Resources (Netherlands) B.V.  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  Burlington Resources (UK) Holdings Limited  
      
  England   
 
  Burlington Resources Canada (Hunter) Ltd.  
      
  Alberta   
 
  Burlington Resources China LLC  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Burlington Resources Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Burlington Resources International Holdings LLC  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Burlington Resources International Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Burlington Resources Offshore Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Burlington Resources Oil   Gas Company
LP  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Burlington Resources Trading LLC  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Canadian Hunter Resources  
      
  Alberta   
 
  Conoco Funding Company  
      
  Nova Scotia   
 
  Conoco Orinoco Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  ConocoPhillips (03-12) Pty Ltd  
      
  Victoria   
 
  ConocoPhillips (Browse Basin) Pty Ltd  
      
  Western Australia   
 
  ConocoPhillips (Grissik) Ltd.  
      
  Bermuda   
 
  ConocoPhillips (Timor Sea) Pty Ltd  
      
  Western Australia   
 
  ConocoPhillips (U.K.) Eta Limited  
      
  England   
 
  ConocoPhillips (U.K.) Limited  
      
  England   
 
  ConocoPhillips (U.K.) Sigma Limited  
      
  England   
 
  ConocoPhillips (U.K.) Theta Limited  
      
  England   
 
  ConocoPhillips (U.K.) Zeta Limited  
      
  England   
 
  ConocoPhillips Alaska, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  ConocoPhillips Angola 36 Ltd.  
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
  ConocoPhillips ANS Marketing Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  ConocoPhillips Asia Ventures Pte. Ltd.  
      
  Singapore   
 
  ConocoPhillips Australia Gas Holdings Pty Ltd  
      
  Western Australia   
 
  ConocoPhillips Australia Holdings Pty Ltd  
      
  Australia   
 
  ConocoPhillips Australia Pacific LNG Pty Ltd  
      
  Western Australia   
 
  ConocoPhillips Australia Pty Ltd  
      
  Western Australia   
 
  ConocoPhillips Bohai Limited  
      
  Bahamas   
 
  ConocoPhillips Canada (BRC) Partnership  
      
  Alberta   
 
  ConocoPhillips Canada (North) Limited  
      
  Canada   
 
  ConocoPhillips Canada Energy Partnership  
      
  Alberta   
 
  ConocoPhillips Canada Funding Company I  
      
  Nova Scotia    

Company Name   
      
     Incorporation       Location     

ConocoPhillips Marketing   Trading ULC  
      
  Alberta   
 
  ConocoPhillips Canada Resources Corp.  
      
  Alberta   
 
  ConocoPhillips China Inc.  
      
  Liberia   
 
  ConocoPhillips Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  ConocoPhillips Funding Ltd.  
      
  Bermuda   
 
  ConocoPhillips Gulf of Paria B.V.  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  ConocoPhillips Hamaca B.V.  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  ConocoPhillips Holdings Limited  
      
  England   
 
  ConocoPhillips Indonesia Holding Ltd.  
      
  British Virgin Islands   
 
  ConocoPhillips Indonesia Inc. Ltd.  
      
  Bermuda   
 
  ConocoPhillips Libya Waha Ltd.  
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
  ConocoPhillips NGL Marketing (Canada) ULC  
      
  Alberta   
 
  ConocoPhillips Norge  
      
  Delaware   
 
  ConocoPhillips North Caspian Ltd.  
      
  Liberia   
 
  ConocoPhillips Norway Funding Ltd.  
      
  Bermuda   
 
  ConocoPhillips Petroleum Company U.K. Limited  
      
  England   
 
  ConocoPhillips Petroleum Holdings B.V.  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  ConocoPhillips Pipeline Australia Pty Ltd  
      
  Western Australia   
 
  ConocoPhillips Qatar Funding Ltd.  
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
  ConocoPhillips Qatar Ltd.  
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
  ConocoPhillips Russia Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  ConocoPhillips Sabah Gas Ltd.  
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
  ConocoPhillips Sabah Ltd.  
      
  Bermuda   
 
  ConocoPhillips Skandinavia AS  
      
  Norway   
 
  ConocoPhillips Surmont Partnership  
      
  Alberta   
 
  ConocoPhillips Transportation Alaska, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  ConocoPhillips WA-248 Pty Ltd  
      
  Western Australia   
 
  ConocoPhillips Western Canada Partnership  
      
  Alberta   
 
  COP Holdings Limited  
      
  England   
 
  Darwin LNG Pty Ltd  
      
  Western Australia   
 
  Inexco Oil Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Phillips Coal Company  
      
  Nevada   
 
  Phillips International Investments, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Phillips Investment Company LLC  
      
  Nevada   
 
  Phillips Oil Company Nigeria Ltd.  
      
  Nigeria   
 
  Phillips Petroleum International Corporation LLC  

Delaware   
 
  Phillips Petroleum International Investment Company
LLC  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Phillips-San Juan Partners, L.P.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Polar Tankers, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Sooner Insurance Company  
      
  Vermont   
 
  The Louisiana Land and Exploration Company LLC  
      
  Maryland   

</EX-21>

<EX-23.1>
 5
 d665238dex231.htm
 EX-23.1

EX-23.1 

Exhibit 23.1       CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       We consent to the incorporation
by reference of our reports dated February 25, 2014, with respect to the consolidated financial statements, condensed consolidating financial information, and financial statement schedule of ConocoPhillips, and the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting of ConocoPhillips, included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) for the year ended December 31, 2013, in the following registration statements and related prospectuses.   

/s/ ERNST   YOUNG LLP   
 
   Houston, Texas      February 25, 2014   

</EX-23.1>

<EX-23.2>
 6
 d665238dex232.htm
 EX-23.2

EX-23.2 

Exhibit 23.2      DeGolyer and MacNaughton      5001 Spring Valley Road   
  Suite 800 East      Dallas,
Texas 75244      February 25, 2014       
  ConocoPhillips      600 North Dairy Ashford
     Houston, Texas 77079      Ladies and
Gentlemen:      We hereby consent to the use of the name DeGolyer and MacNaughton, to references to DeGolyer and MacNaughton as an
independent petroleum engineering consulting firm under  Part II  under the heading  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,  under the subheading  Reserves Governance  and under  Part IV 
under the heading  Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules  under the subheading  Index to Exhibits  in ConocoPhillips  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013, and to the inclusion of
our process review letter report dated February 25, 2014, (our Report) as an exhibit to ConocoPhillips  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013. We also consent to the incorporation by reference of our Report
in the Registration Statements filed by ConocoPhillips on Form S-3 (No. 333-179626), Form S-4 (No. 333-130967) and Form S-8 (No. 333-98681, No. 333-116216, No. 333-133101, No. 333-159318, No. 333-171047,
and No. 333-174479).        

Very truly yours,   

/s/ DeGolyer and MacNaughton   
 
  DeGOLYER and MacNAUGHTON   
 
  Texas Registered Engineering Firm F-716   

</EX-23.2>

<EX-31.1>
 7
 d665238dex311.htm
 EX-31.1

EX-31.1 

Exhibit 31.1       CERTIFICATION       I, Ryan M. Lance, certify that:   

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of ConocoPhillips;         

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules  13a-15(f)  and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:     

(a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;     

(b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;     

(c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

(d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

(a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

(b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.        February 25, 2014   

/s/ Ryan M. Lance   
 
     Ryan M. Lance      Chairman and     Chief Executive Officer    

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 8
 d665238dex312.htm
 EX-31.2

EX-31.2 

Exhibit 31.2       CERTIFICATION       I, Jeff W. Sheets, certify that:   

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of ConocoPhillips;         

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules  13a-15(f)  and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:     

(a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;     

(b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;     

(c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

(d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

(a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

(b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.        February 25, 2014   

/s/ Jeff W. Sheets   
 
     Jeff W. Sheets      Executive Vice President, Finance and     Chief Financial Officer    

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32>
 9
 d665238dex32.htm
 EX-32

EX-32 

Exhibit 32       CERTIFICATIONS PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350       In connection with the Annual Report of
ConocoPhillips (the Company) on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2013, as filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the Report), each of the undersigned hereby certifies, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to their knowledge:       

(1)  
  The Report fully complies with the requirements of Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and     

(2)  
  The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.
       February 25, 2014        

/s/ Ryan M. Lance   
 
     Ryan M. Lance      Chairman and     Chief Executive Officer    

/s/ Jeff W. Sheets   
 
     Jeff W. Sheets      Executive Vice President, Finance and     Chief Financial Officer    

</EX-32>

<EX-99>
 10
 d665238dex99.htm
 EX-99

EX-99 

Exhibit 99       DeGolyer and MacNaughton       5001 Spring Valley Road   
  Suite 800 East      Dallas,
Texas 75244      February 25, 2014      ConocoPhillips      600 North Dairy Ashford      Houston, Texas 77079      Re: SEC Process Review   
  Ladies and Gentlemen:   
  Pursuant to your request, DeGolyer and MacNaughton has performed a process review of the processes and controls used within
ConocoPhillips in preparing its internal estimates of proved reserves, as of December 31, 2013. The process review, which is contemplated by Item 1202 (a) (8) of Regulation S-K of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), has
been performed specifically to address the adequacy and effectiveness of ConocoPhillips  internal processes and controls relative to its estimation of proved reserves in compliance with Rules 4 10(a) (1) (32) of Regulation
S X of the SEC.      DeGolyer and MacNaughton has participated as an independent member of the internal ConocoPhillips
Reserves Compliance Assessment Team in reviews and discussions with each of the relevant ConocoPhillips business units relative to SEC proved reserves estimation. DeGolyer and MacNaughton participated in the review of all major fields in all
countries where ConocoPhillips has proved reserves worldwide, which ConocoPhillips has indicated represents over 90 percent of its estimated total proved reserves as of December 31, 2013.   
  The reviews with ConocoPhillips  technical staff involved presentations and discussions of a) basic reservoir data, including
seismic data, well log data, pressure and production tests, core analysis, pressure-volume-temperature data, and production history, b) technical methods employed in SEC proved reserves estimation, including performance analysis, geology, mapping,
and volumetric estimates, c) economic analysis, and d) commercial assessment, including the legal   

2
      DeGolyer and MacNaughton   

basis for the interest in the reserves, primarily related to lease agreements and other petroleum license agreements, such as concession and production-sharing agreements.   
  A field examination of the properties was not considered necessary for the purposes of this review of ConocoPhillips  processes and
controls.      It is our opinion that ConocoPhillips  estimates of proved reserves for the properties reviewed were prepared
by the use of recognized geologic and engineering methods generally accepted by the petroleum industry. The method or combination of methods used in the analysis of each reservoir was tempered by ConocoPhillips  experience with similar
reservoirs, stage of development, quality and completeness of basic data, and production history. It is our opinion that the general processes and controls employed by ConocoPhillips in estimating its December 31, 2013, proved reserves for the
properties reviewed are in accordance with the SEC reserves definitions.      This process review of ConocoPhillips 
procedures and methods does not constitute a review, study, or independent audit of ConocoPhillips  estimated proved reserves and corresponding future net revenues. This report is not intended to indicate that DeGolyer and MacNaughton is
offering any opinion as to the reasonableness of reserves estimates reported by ConocoPhillips.      DeGolyer and MacNaughton is
an independent petroleum engineering consulting firm that has been providing petroleum consulting services throughout the world since 1936. DeGolyer and MacNaughton does not have any financial interest, including stock ownership, in ConocoPhillips.
Our fees were not contingent on the results of our evaluation.      Submitted,   
    /s/ DeGolyer and
MacNaughton                         DeGOLYER and MacNAUGHTON      Texas Registered Engineering Firm
F-716        /s/ R.M. Shuck,
P.E.                                         
   R. M. Shuck, P.E.       Senior Vice President      DeGolyer and MacNaughton   

</EX-99>

<EX-101.INS>
 11
 cop-20131231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 12
 cop-20131231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 13
 cop-20131231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 14
 cop-20131231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 15
 cop-20131231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 16
 cop-20131231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

