<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20130315_10-K_edgar_data_1551152_0001047469-13-002827_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>2332263</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>719675</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1301608</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>57</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>12</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001047469-13-002827.hdr.sgml : 20130315
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20130315150542
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001047469-13-002827
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		13
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20121231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20130315
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20130315

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			AbbVie Inc.
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001551152
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS [2834]
		IRS NUMBER:				320375147
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-35565
		FILM NUMBER:		13693701

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1 NORTH WAUKEGAN ROAD
		CITY:			NORTH CHICAGO
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			60064
		BUSINESS PHONE:		(847) 937-6100

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1 NORTH WAUKEGAN ROAD
		CITY:			NORTH CHICAGO
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			60064

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001047469-13-002827.txt : 20130315

10-K
 1
 a2213529z10-k.htm
 10-K

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

UNITED STATES       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION       WASHINGTON, D. C. 20549     

   FORM 10-K     

Commission file number 001-35565     

   AbbVie Inc.     

Securities
Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:   

Title of Each Class    
     
   Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered    

Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share  
     
  New York Stock Exchange 
Chicago Stock Exchange  

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.   

  Yes            No    

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act.   

  Yes            No       

          Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
past 90 days.   

  Yes            No    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to
be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit
and post such files).   

  Yes            No    

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K ( 229.405 of this chapter)
is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.       

          Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting
company. See the definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer" and "smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.   

Large Accelerated Filer      
     
   Accelerated Filer      
     
   Non-accelerated Filer        (Do not check if a 
smaller reporting company)  
     
   Smaller Reporting Company      

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).   

  Yes            No    

As of June 30, 2012, the registrant's common stock was not publicly traded.   

          Number
of common shares outstanding as of January 31, 2013: 1,577,334,090   

   DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE     

          Portions of the 2013 AbbVie Inc. Proxy Statement are incorporated by reference into Part III. The Proxy Statement will be filed on or about
March 15, 2013.   

PART I            

ITEM 1.    BUSINESS            

    Separation from Abbott Laboratories     

          On January 1, 2013, AbbVie(1) became an independent company as a result of the distribution by Abbott Laboratories (Abbott) of
100 percent of the outstanding common stock of AbbVie to Abbott's shareholders. Each Abbott shareholder of record as of the close of business on December 12, 2012 (the Record Date)
received one share of AbbVie common stock for each Abbott common share held as of the Record Date.   

AbbVie
was incorporated in Delaware on April 10, 2012 and is comprised of Abbott's former research-based pharmaceuticals business. AbbVie's Registration Statement on
Form 10 was declared
effective by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on December 7, 2012. AbbVie's common stock began trading "regular-way" under the ticker symbol "ABBV" on the New York
Stock Exchange on January 2, 2013.   

    Overview     

          AbbVie is a global, research-based biopharmaceutical company. AbbVie develops and markets advanced therapies that address some of the
world's most complex and serious diseases. AbbVie products are used to treat rheumatoid arthritis, psoriasis, Crohn's disease, HIV, cystic fibrosis complications, low testosterone, thyroid disease,
Parkinson's disease, ulcerative colitis, and complications associated with chronic kidney disease, among other indications. AbbVie also has a pipeline of promising new medicines, including more
than 20 compounds or indications in Phase II or Phase III development across such important medical specialties as immunology, renal care, hepatitis C, women's health, oncology, and
neuroscience, including multiple sclerosis and Alzheimer's disease.   

          The
2010 acquisitions of the U.S. pharmaceuticals business of Solvay Pharmaceuticals and of Facet Biotech Corporation added several new products to AbbVie's portfolio, including the U.S.
rights to AndroGel and Creon, and enhanced AbbVie's early- and mid-stage investigational pipeline by adding an investigational biologic for multiple sclerosis and compounds that complement
AbbVie's oncology program. These acquisitions are discussed more fully in Note 4, "Acquisitions, Collaborations and Other Arrangements", of the Notes to Combined Financial Statements.   

    Segments     

          AbbVie operates in one business segment pharmaceutical products. Incorporated herein by reference is Note 14
entitled "Segment and Geographic Area Information" of the Notes to Combined Financial Statements included under Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" and the sales information
related to HUMIRA included in "Financial Review."   

    Products     

          AbbVie's portfolio of proprietary products includes a broad line of adult and pediatric pharmaceuticals.   

(1)    As
used throughout the text of this report on Form 10-K, the term "AbbVie" refers to AbbVie Inc., a Delaware corporation, or
AbbVie Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, as the context requires.    
  1  

HUMIRA.        HUMIRA is a biologic therapy administered as a subcutaneous injection. It is approved to treat the following autoimmune
diseases in the
United States, Canada, and Mexico (collectively, North America), and in the European Union:   

Condition    
     
   Principal Markets    

Rheumatoid arthritis (moderate to severe)  
     
  North America, European Union  

Psoriatic arthritis  
     
  North America, European Union  

Ankylosing spondylitis  
     
  North America, European Union  

Crohn's disease (moderate to severe)  
     
  North America, European Union  

Plaque psoriasis (moderate to severe)  
     
  North America, European Union  

Juvenile idiopathic arthritis  
     
  North America, European Union  

Ulcerative colitis (moderate to severe)  
     
  United States, European Union  

Axial spondyloarthritis  
     
  European Union  

Pediatric Crohn's disease (severe)  
     
  European Union  

HUMIRA
is also approved in over 60 other markets, including Japan, Brazil, and Australia. HUMIRA was introduced to the market in January 2003. Its worldwide sales have grown to
approximately $9.3 billion in 2012, compared to $7.9 billion in 2011 and $6.5 billion in 2010. HUMIRA accounted for approximately 50 percent of AbbVie's total sales in
2012. The United States composition of matter (that is, compound) patent covering adalimumab is expected to expire in December 2016, and the equivalent European Union patent is expected to expire in
the majority of EU countries in April 2018.   

          AbbVie
continues to dedicate substantial research and development efforts to expanding indications for HUMIRA, including in the fields of rheumatology (peripheral spondyloarthritis,
axial spondyloarthritis and pediatric enthesitis related arthritis), gastroenterology (pediatric Crohn's disease and pediatric ulcerative colitis), dermatology (pediatric psoriasis and
hidradenitis suppurativa), and ophthalmology (uveitis). Phase III trials are ongoing in preparation for regulatory applications for: uveitis in the United States and the European Union;
peripheral and axial spondyloarthritis in the United States; peripheral spondyloarthritis in the European Union; and hidradenitis suppurativa in the United States and the European Union.   

Metabolics/Hormones products.        Metabolic and hormone products target a number of conditions, including exocrine pancreatic
insufficiency, testosterone
deficiency, and hypothyroidism, and generated combined sales of $2.1 billion in 2012. These products include:   

Synthroid.        Synthroid is used in the treatment of hypothyroidism. AbbVie's 2012 sales of Synthroid totaled $551 million.

AndroGel.       AndroGel is a daily testosterone replacement therapy that is available in two strengths: 1 percent and 1.62 percent.
AbbVie's 2012
sales of AndroGel totaled $1.2 billion.   

            Creon.        Creon is a pancreatic enzyme therapy for exocrine pancreatic insufficiency, a condition that occurs in patients with cystic
fibrosis, chronic
pancreatitis, and several other conditions. AbbVie's 2012 sales of Creon totaled $353 million.   

AbbVie
has the rights to sell Synthroid, AndroGel, and Creon only in the United States.   

Virology products.        AbbVie's virology products include two products for the treatment of HIV infection, Kaletra and Norvir.
Worldwide sales of these
products were $1.4 billion in 2012.   

Kaletra.        Kaletra (also marketed as Aluvia in emerging markets) is a prescription anti-HIV-1 medicine that contains two protease
inhibitors: lopinavir and ritonavir. Kaletra is used with other   

2  

anti-HIV-1
medications to increase the chance of treatment response in people with HIV-1. AbbVie's 2012 sales of Kaletra totaled $1.0 billion.   

            Norvir.        Norvir (ritonavir) is a protease inhibitor that is indicated in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the treatment
of HIV-1
infection. AbbVie's 2012 sales of Norvir totaled $389 million.   

Endocrinology products.        Lupron (also marketed as Lucrin and Lupron Depot) is a product for the palliative treatment of advanced
prostate cancer,
treatment of endometriosis and central precocious puberty, and for the preoperative treatment of patients with anemia caused by uterine fibroids. Lupron is approved for daily subcutaneous injection
and one-month, three-month, four-month and six-month intramuscular injection. Lupron generated sales of approximately $800 million in 2012 in select markets
worldwide.   

             Dyslipidemia products.        AbbVie's dyslipidemia products address the range of metabolic conditions characterized by high
cholesterol and/or high
triglycerides. These products, which generated sales of $2.1 billion in 2012, are primarily marketed to primary care physicians, and include:   

TriCor and TRILIPIX.        TriCor and TRILIPIX are fibric acid derivatives that are indicated as adjuncts to diet to reduce total
cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, and triglyceride
levels, which are key contributors to cardiovascular disease, and to increase HDL cholesterol levels. AbbVie has the rights to sell TriCor and TRILIPIX only in the United States. AbbVie's 2012
combined sales of TriCor and TRILIPIX totaled $1.1 billion.   

Niaspan.       Niaspan is an extended release form of niacin that is indicated as an adjunct to diet to reduce total cholesterol, LDL
cholesterol, and triglyceride
levels, and to increase HDL cholesterol levels. AbbVie has the rights to sell Niaspan only in the United States. AbbVie's 2012 sales of Niaspan totaled $911 million.   

Other products.        AbbVie's other products include the following:   

Synagis.       Synagis is a product marketed by AbbVie outside of the United States that protects at-risk infants from severe respiratory
disease, or
respiratory syncytial virus (RSV). AbbVie's 2012 sales of Synagis totaled $842 million.   

            Anesthesia products.        Sevoflurane (sold under the trademarks Ultane and Sevorane) is an anesthesia product that AbbVie sells worldwide
for human use. AbbVie's 2012 sales
of Sevoflurane totaled $602 million.   

Duodopa and Duopa.       Duodopa is a levodopa-carbidopa intestinal gel (LCIG) marketed outside of the United States to treat advanced
Parkinson's disease. AbbVie's 2012
sales of Duodopa totaled $149 million. The LCIG therapy has completed Phase III development for the United States under the name Duopa, and AbbVie is pursuing regulatory approval in 2013
in the United States.   

            Zemplar.        Zemplar is a product sold worldwide for the prevention and treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism associated with
Stage 3, 4, and 5
chronic kidney disease (CKD). AbbVie's 2012 sales of Zemplar totaled $383 million.   

Research and Development Activities     

          AbbVie has numerous compounds in clinical development, including potential treatments for highly prevalent conditions. Over the past
five years, AbbVie has more than doubled the number of compounds in its pipeline through a mix of internal development and external collaboration efforts. AbbVie's ability to discover and develop new
compounds is enhanced by the company's use of   

  3  

integrated
discovery and development project teams, which include chemists, biologists, physicians, and pharmacologists who work on the same compounds as a team.   

          The
research and development process generally begins with discovery research which focuses on the identification of a molecule that has a desired effect against a given disease. If
preclinical testing of an identified compound proves successful, the compound moves into clinical development which generally includes the following
phases:  

Phase I involves the first human tests in a small number of healthy volunteers or patients to assess
safety, tolerability and potential dosing.   
           Phase II tests the molecule's efficacy against the disease in a relatively small group of patients.    
           Phase III tests a molecule that demonstrates favorable results in the earlier phases in a significantly
larger patient population to further demonstrate efficacy and safety based on regulatory criteria.    

The
clinical trials from all of the development phases provide the data required to prepare and submit a New Drug Application (NDA), a Biological License Application (BLA) or other
submission for regulatory approval to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) or similar government agencies outside the U.S. The specific requirements (e.g., scope of clinical trials) for
obtaining regulatory approval vary across different countries and geographic regions.   

          The
research and development process from discovery through a new drug launch typically takes 8 - 12 years and can be even longer. There is a significant
amount of uncertainty inherent in the research and development of new pharmaceutical products and there is no guarantee when, or if, a molecule will receive the regulatory approval required to launch
a new drug or indication.   

          In
addition to the development of new products and new formulations, research and development projects also may include Phase IV trials, sometimes called
post-marketing studies. For such projects, clinical trials are designed and conducted to collect additional data regarding, among other parameters, the benefits and risks of an approved
drug.   

          AbbVie
spent approximately $2.8 billion in 2012, $2.6 billion in 2011, and $2.5 billion in 2010 on research to discover and develop new products, indications and
processes and to improve existing products and
processes. These expenses consisted primarily of collaboration fees and expenses, salaries and related expenses for personnel, license fees, consulting payments, contract research, manufacturing, and
the costs of laboratory equipment and facilities.   

    Intellectual Property Protection and Regulatory Exclusivity     

          Generally, upon approval, products in development may be entitled to exclusivity under applicable intellectual property and regulatory
regimes. AbbVie seeks patent protection, where available, in all significant markets and/or countries for each product in development. In the United States, the expiration date for patents filed on or
after June 8, 1995 is 20 years after the filing date. Given that patents relating to pharmaceutical products are often obtained early in the development process, and given the amount of
time needed to complete clinical trials and other development activities required for regulatory approval, the length of time between product launch and patent expiration is significantly less than
20 years. The Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984 (commonly known as the Hatch-Waxman Act) permits a patent holder to seek a patent extension, commonly called a
"patent term restoration," for patents on products (or processes for making the product) regulated by the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. The length of the patent extension is roughly based on
50 percent of the period of time from the filing of an Investigational New Drug Application for a compound to the submission of the NDA for such compound, plus 100 percent of the time
period from   

  4  

NDA
submission to regulatory approval. The extension, however, cannot exceed five years and the patent term remaining after regulatory approval cannot exceed 14 years.   

          Pharmaceutical
products may be entitled to other forms of legal or regulatory exclusivity upon approval. The scope, length, and requirements for each of these exclusivities varies both
in the United States and in other jurisdictions. In the United States, if the FDA approves a product that does not contain a previously-approved active ingredient, the product is typically entitled to
five years of market exclusivity. Other products may be entitled to three years of market exclusivity if approval was based on the FDA's reliance on new clinical studies submitted by the NDA
applicant. If the NDA applicant studies the product for use by children, the FDA may grant pediatric exclusivity, which extends by 180 days the longest existing exclusivity (patent or
regulatory) related to the product. For products that are either used to treat conditions that afflict a relatively small population or for which there is not a reasonable expectation that the
research and development costs will be recovered, the FDA may designate the pharmaceutical as an orphan drug and grant it seven years of market exclusivity.   

Applicable
laws and regulations dictate the market exclusivity to which the product is entitled upon its approval in any particular country. In certain instances, regulatory exclusivity
may protect a product where patent protection is no longer available or for a period of time in excess of patent protection. It is not possible to estimate for each product in development the total
period of exclusivity to which it may become entitled until regulatory approval is obtained. However, given the length of time required to complete clinical development of a pharmaceutical product,
the minimum and maximum periods of exclusivity that might be achieved in any individual case would not be expected to exceed three and 14 years, respectively. These estimates do not consider
other factors, such as the difficulty of recreating the manufacturing process for a particular product or other proprietary knowledge that may delay the introduction of a generic or other
follow-on product after the expiration of applicable patent and other regulatory exclusivity periods.   

          Biologics
such as HUMIRA are entitled to exclusivity under the Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act, which was passed on March 23, 2010 as Title VII to the Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act. The law provides a pathway for approval of biosimilars following the expiration of 12 years of exclusivity for the innovator biologic and a potential
additional 180 day-extension term for conducting pediatric studies. The law also includes an extensive process for the innovator biologic and biosimilar manufacturer to litigate
patent infringement, validity, and enforceability prior to the approval of the biosimilar. The European Union has also created a pathway for approval of biosimilars and has published guidelines for
approval of certain biosimilar products. The more complex nature of biologics and biosimilar products has led to greater regulatory scrutiny and more rigorous requirements for approval of
follow-on biosimilar products than for small-molecule generic pharmaceutical products, and it has also reduced the effect of biosimilars on sales of the innovator biologic as compared to
the sales erosion caused by generic versions of small molecule pharmaceutical products.   

          AbbVie
owns or has licensed rights to a substantial number of patents and patent applications. Principal trademarks and the products they cover are discussed above in the description of
AbbVie's products. AbbVie licenses or owns a patent portfolio of thousands of patent families, each of which includes United States patent applications and/or issued patents, and may also contain the
non-United States counterparts to these patents and applications.   

          These
patents and applications, including various patents that expire during the period 2013 to 2031, in the aggregate are believed to be of material importance in the operation of
AbbVie's business. However, AbbVie believes that no single patent, license, trademark (or related group of patents, licenses, or trademarks), except for those related to adalimumab (which is sold
under the trademark HUMIRA), are material in relation to the company's business as a whole. The United States composition of matter (that is, compound) patent covering adalimumab is expected to expire
in   

  5  

December
2016, and the equivalent European Union patent is expected to expire in the majority of EU countries in April 2018.   

          In
addition, the following patents, licenses, and trademarks are significant: those related to lopinavir/ritonavir (which is sold under the trademarks Kaletra and Aluvia), those related
to fibric acid derivatives (which are sold under the trademarks TriCor and TRILIPIX), those related to niacin (which is sold under the trademarks Niaspan and Simcor), and those related to testosterone
(which is sold under the trademark AndroGel). The United States composition of matter patent covering lopinavir is expected to expire in 2016. The principal United States non-composition
of matter patent covering lopinavir/ritonavir is expected to expire in 2016. The principal United States non-composition of matter patents covering the fibric acid derivative products are
expected to expire in 2018, 2020, 2023, and 2025. The principal United States non-composition of matter patents covering the niacin products are expected to expire in 2013, 2017, and 2018.
The principal non-composition of matter patent covering AndroGel is expected to expire in 2020 for the 1.62 percent formulation and, due to pediatric exclusivity, in 2021 for the
1 percent formulation. Agreements that may affect exclusivity are discussed in Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations Results of Operations."   

          AbbVie
may rely, in some circumstances, on trade secrets to protect its technology. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. AbbVie seeks to protect its technology and product
candidates, in part, by confidentiality agreements with its employees, consultants, advisors, contractors, and collaborators. These agreements may be breached and AbbVie may not have adequate remedies
for any breach. In addition, AbbVie's trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. To the extent that AbbVie's employees, consultants, advisors, contractors,
and collaborators use intellectual property owned by others in their work for the company, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions.   

    Sales, Marketing, and Distribution Capabilities     

          In 2012, AbbVie's products were sold in over 170 countries. AbbVie utilizes a combination of dedicated commercial resources, regional
commercial resources and distributorships to market, sell, and distribute its products worldwide.   

          In
the United States, AbbVie distributes pharmaceutical products principally through independent wholesale distributors, with some sales directly to pharmacies. In 2012, three wholesale
distributors accounted for substantially all of AbbVie's sales in the United States. Sales to McKesson Corporation,
Cardinal Health, Inc., and AmerisourceBergen Corporation accounted for 38 percent, 27 percent, and 26 percent, respectively, of AbbVie's 2012 gross sales in the United States.
These wholesalers purchase product from AbbVie under standard terms and conditions of sale.   

          AbbVie
directs its primary marketing efforts toward securing the prescription, or recommendation, of its brand of products by physicians, key opinion leaders, and other health care
providers. Managed care providers (for example, health maintenance organizations and pharmacy benefit managers), hospitals, and state and federal government agencies (for example, the United States
Department of Veterans Affairs and the United States Department of Defense) are also important customers. AbbVie also markets directly to consumers themselves, although all of the company's products
must be sold pursuant to a prescription in the United States. Outside of the United States, AbbVie focuses its marketing efforts on key opinion leaders, payors, physicians, and country regulatory
bodies. AbbVie also provides patient support programs closely related to its products.   

          AbbVie's
products are generally sold worldwide directly to wholesalers, distributors, government agencies, health care facilities, specialty pharmacies, and independent retailers from
AbbVie-owned distribution centers and public warehouses. Outside the United States, sales are made either directly to customers or through distributors, depending on the market served. Approximately
55-60 percent of   

  6  

sales
outside the United States are made through wholesalers or distributors. No wholesaler or distributor outside the United States accounts for more than 3 percent of AbbVie's sales. Certain
products are co-marketed or co-promoted with other companies. AbbVie has no single customer that, if the customer were lost, would have a material adverse effect on the
company's business.   

          No
material portion of AbbVie's business is subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts at the election of the government.   

Third Party Agreements      

AbbVie has agreements with third parties for process development, analytical services, and manufacturing of certain products. AbbVie
procures certain products and services from a limited number of suppliers and, in some cases, a single supply source. For example,
the filling and packaging of HUMIRA syringes to be sold outside of the United States and Puerto Rico is performed by a single supplier at its two different facilities. AbbVie does not currently
believe that this agreement is material because AbbVie's business is not substantially dependent upon it. AbbVie maintains significant inventory of HUMIRA syringes to reduce the risk of any supply
disruption and is awaiting regulatory approval for its own syringe-filling and packaging facility in the United States to supply syringes outside of the United States and Puerto Rico. This facility is
already approved to provide product to the United States and Puerto Rico. In addition, AbbVie has agreements with third parties for active pharmaceutical ingredient and product manufacturing,
formulation and development services, fill, finish, and packaging services, and distribution and logistics services for certain products. AbbVie does not believe that these manufacturing-related
agreements are material because AbbVie's business is not substantially dependent on any individual agreement. In most cases, AbbVie maintains alternate supply relationships that it can utilize without
undue disruption of its manufacturing processes if a third party fails to perform its contractual obligations. AbbVie also maintains sufficient inventory of product to minimize the impact of any
supply disruption.   

          AbbVie
also has collaboration agreements, as discussed in Note 4, "Acquisitions, Collaborations and Other Arrangements," of the Notes to Combined Financial Statements, and has
certain agreements with Abbott, as described in Item 13, "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence."   

Sources and Availability of Raw Materials      

AbbVie purchases, in the ordinary course of business, raw materials and supplies essential to its operations from numerous suppliers
around the world, including in the United States. There have been no recent significant availability problems or supply shortages.   

Orders      

Orders are generally filled on a current basis, and order backlog is not material to AbbVie's business.   

Environmental Matters      

AbbVie believes that its operations comply in all material respects with applicable laws and regulations concerning environmental
protection. Regulations under federal and state environmental laws impose stringent limitations on emissions and discharges to the environment from various manufacturing operations. AbbVie's capital
and operating expenditures for pollution control in 2012 were approximately $1.5 million and $13.2 million, respectively. Capital and operating expenditures for pollution control in 2013
are estimated to be approximately $2.2 million and $19.0 million, respectively.   

  7  

Abbott
was identified as one of many potentially responsible parties in investigations and/or remediations at several locations in the United States, including Puerto Rico, under the
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, commonly known as Superfund. Some of these locations were transferred to AbbVie in connection with the separation and
distribution, and AbbVie has become a party to these investigations and remediations. Abbott was also engaged in remediation at several other sites, some of which have been transferred to AbbVie in
connection with the separation and distribution, in cooperation with the Environmental Protection Agency or similar agencies. While it is not feasible to predict with certainty the final costs related
to those investigations and remediation activities, AbbVie believes that such costs, together with other expenditures to maintain compliance with applicable laws and regulations concerning
environmental protection, should not have a material adverse effect on the company's financial position, cash flows, or results of operations.   

    Competition     

          The markets for AbbVie's products are highly competitive. AbbVie competes with other research-based pharmaceuticals and biotechnology
companies that discover, manufacture, market, and sell proprietary pharmaceutical products and biologics. For example, HUMIRA competes with a number of anti-TNF and other products that are
approved for a number of disease states, AbbVie's virology products compete with protease inhibitors and other anti-HIV treatments, and AbbVie's dyslipidemia products face competition from
other fibrates and from statins. The search for technological innovations in pharmaceutical products is a significant aspect of competition. The introduction of new products by competitors and changes
in medical practices and procedures can result in product obsolescence. Price is also a competitive factor.
In addition, the substitution of generic pharmaceutical products for branded pharmaceutical products creates competitive pressures on AbbVie's products that do not have patent protection.   

             Biosimilars.        Competition for AbbVie's biologic products is affected by the approval of follow-on biologics, also known as
"biosimilars."
Biologics have added major therapeutic options for the treatment of many diseases, including some for which therapies were unavailable or inadequate. The advent of biologics has also raised complex
regulatory issues and significant pharmacoeconomic concerns because the cost of developing and producing biologic therapies is typically dramatically higher than for conventional (small molecule)
medications, and because many expensive biologic medications are used for ongoing treatment of chronic diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis or inflammatory bowel disease, or for the treatment of
previously untreatable cancer. Significant investments in biologics infrastructure and manufacturing are necessary to produce biologic products, as are significant investments in marketing,
distribution, and sales organization activities, which may limit the number of biosimilar competitors.   

In
the United States, the FDA regulates biologics under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the Public Health Service Act, and implementing regulations. While the enactment of
federal health care reform legislation in March 2010 was meant to provide a pathway for approval of biosimilars under the Public Health Service Act, recent regulatory guidance suggests that the
approval process for biosimilars will be far more extensive than the approval process for generic or other follow-on versions of small molecule products, in order to ensure that the safety
and efficacy of biosimilars is highly similar to that of an original biologic, such as HUMIRA. Ultimate approval by the FDA is dependent upon many factors, including a showing that the biosimilar is
"highly similar" to the original product and has no clinically meaningful differences from the original product in terms of safety, purity, and potency. The types of data that could ordinarily be
required in an application to show similarity would include analytical data and studies to demonstrate chemical similarity, animal studies (including toxicity studies), and clinical studies.
Applicable regulations also require that the biosimilar must be for the same indication as the original biologic and involve the same mechanism of action, and that the manufacturing facility meets the
standards necessary to assure that the biosimilar is safe, pure, and potent.   

  8  

Furthermore,
the new law provides that only a biosimilar product that is deemed to be "interchangeable" may be substituted for the original biologic product without the intervention of
the health care provider who prescribed the original biologic product. To prove that a biosimilar product is interchangeable, the applicant must demonstrate that the product can be expected to produce
the same clinical results as the original biologic product in any given patient, and if the product is administered more than once in a patient, that safety risks and potential for diminished efficacy
of alternating or switching between the use of the interchangeable biosimilar biologic product and the original biologic product is no greater than the risk of using the original biologic product
without switching. The new law is only beginning to be interpreted and implemented by the FDA. As a result, its ultimate impact, implementation, and meaning will likely be subject to substantial
uncertainty for years to come.   

          In
the European Union, while a pathway for the approval of biosimilars has existed since 2005, the products that have come to market to date have had a mixed impact on the market share
of incumbent products, with significant variation by product.   

             Other Competitive Products.        Although a number of competitive biologic branded products have been approved since HUMIRA was first
introduced in 2003,
most have gained only a modest share of the worldwide market. In addition, the first JAK inhibitor, part of a new class of orally administered class of products, was recently approved for use in
rheumatoid arthritis in the U.S. and is under regulatory review in Europe. AbbVie will continue to face competitive pressure from these biologics and orally administered products.   

    Regulation Discovery and Clinical Development     

             United States.        Securing approval to market a new pharmaceutical product in the United States requires substantial effort and
financial resources and
takes several years to complete. The applicant must complete preclinical tests, and obtain FDA approval before commencing clinical trials. Clinical trials are intended to establish the safety and
efficacy of the pharmaceutical product and typically are conducted in three sequential phases, although the phases may overlap or be combined. If the required clinical testing is successful, the
results are submitted to the FDA in the form of an NDA or Biologic Listing Application (BLA) requesting approval to market the product for one or more indications. The FDA reviews an NDA or BLA to
determine whether a product is safe and effective for its intended use and whether its manufacturing is compliant with current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP).   

          Even
if an NDA or a BLA receives approval, the applicant must comply with post-approval requirements. For example, holders of an approval must report adverse reactions,
provide updated safety and efficacy information, and comply with requirements concerning advertising and promotional labeling. Also, quality control and manufacturing procedures must continue to
conform to cGMP after approval. The FDA periodically inspects manufacturing facilities to assess compliance with cGMP, which imposes extensive procedural, substantive, and record keeping requirements.
In addition, as a condition of approval, the FDA may require post-marketing testing and surveillance to further assess and monitor the product's safety or efficacy after commercialization.
Any post-approval regulatory obligations, and the cost of complying with such obligations, could expand in the future.   

             Outside the United States.        AbbVie is subject to similar regulations outside the United States. AbbVie must obtain approval of a
clinical trial
application or product from the applicable regulatory authorities before it can commence clinical trials or marketing of the product. The approval requirements and process vary, and the time required
to obtain approval may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval. For example, AbbVie may submit marketing authorizations in the European Union under either a centralized or
decentralized procedure. The centralized procedure is mandatory for the approval of biotechnology products and many pharmaceutical products and provides for a single marketing authorization that is
valid for all European Union member states. Under the centralized procedure, a single marketing authorization application is submitted to the European   

  9  

Medicines
Agency. After the agency evaluates the application, it makes a recommendation to the European Commission, which then makes the final determination on whether to approve the application. The
decentralized procedure provides for mutual recognition of national approval decisions and is available for products that are not subject to the centralized procedure.   

          In
Japan, applications for approval of a new product are made through the Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices Agency (PMDA). Bridging studies to demonstrate that the foreign clinical data
applies to Japanese patients may be required. After completing a comprehensive review, the PMDA reports to the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, which then approves or denies the application.   

          The
regulatory process in many emerging markets continues to evolve. Many emerging markets, including those in Asia, generally require regulatory approval to have been obtained in a
large developed market (such as the United States) before the country will begin or complete its regulatory review process. Some countries also require that local clinical studies be conducted in
order to obtain regulatory approval in the country.   

          The
requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials and product licensing also vary. In addition, post-approval regulatory obligations such as adverse event reporting
and cGMP compliance generally apply and may vary by country. For example, after a marketing authorization has been granted in the EU, periodic safety reports must be submitted and other
pharmacovigilance measures must be implemented.   

    Regulation Commercialization, Distribution, and Manufacturing     

          The manufacture, marketing, sale, promotion, and distribution of AbbVie's products are subject to comprehensive government regulation.
Government regulation by various national, regional, federal, state, and local agencies, both in the United States and other countries, addresses (among other matters) inspection of, and controls
over, research and laboratory procedures, clinical investigations, product approvals and manufacturing, labeling, packaging, marketing and promotion, pricing and reimbursement, sampling, distribution,
quality control, post-marketing surveillance, record keeping, storage, and disposal practices. AbbVie's operations are also affected by trade regulations in many countries that limit the
import of raw materials and finished products and by laws and regulations that seek to prevent corruption and bribery in the marketplace (including the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and
the United Kingdom Bribery Act, which provide guidance on corporate interactions with government officials) and require safeguards for the protection of personal data. In addition, AbbVie is subject
to laws and
regulations pertaining to health care fraud and abuse, including state and federal anti-kickback and false claims laws in the United States. Prescription drug manufacturers such as AbbVie
are also subject to taxes, as well as application, product, user, establishment, and other fees.   

          Compliance
with these laws and regulations is costly and materially affects AbbVie's business. Among other effects, health care regulations substantially increase the time, difficulty,
and costs incurred in obtaining and maintaining approval to market newly developed and existing products. AbbVie expects compliance with these regulations to continue to require significant technical
expertise and capital investment to ensure compliance. Failure to comply can delay the release of a new product or result in regulatory and enforcement actions, the seizure or recall of a product, the
suspension or revocation of the authority necessary for a product's production and sale, and other civil or criminal sanctions, including fines and penalties.   

          In
addition to regulatory initiatives, AbbVie's business can be affected by ongoing studies of the utilization, safety, efficacy, and outcomes of health care products and their
components that are regularly conducted by industry participants, government agencies, and others. These studies can call into question the utilization, safety, and efficacy of previously marketed
products. In some cases, these studies have resulted, and may in the future result, in the discontinuance of, or limitations on,   

  10  

marketing
of such products domestically or worldwide, and may give rise to claims for damages from persons who believe they have been injured as a result of their use.   

          Access
to human health care products continues to be a subject of investigation and action by governmental agencies, legislative bodies, and private organizations in the United States
and other countries. A major focus is cost containment. Efforts to reduce health care costs are also being made in the private sector, notably by health care payors and providers, which have
instituted various cost reduction and containment measures. AbbVie expects insurers and providers to continue attempts to reduce the cost of health care products. Outside the United States, many
countries control the price of health care products directly or indirectly, through reimbursement, payment, pricing, coverage limitations, or compulsory licensing. Budgetary pressures in the United
States and in other countries may also heighten the scope and severity of pricing pressures on AbbVie's products for the foreseeable future.   

             United States.        Specifically, U.S. federal laws require pharmaceuticals manufacturers to pay certain statutorily-prescribed
rebates to state Medicaid
programs on prescription drugs reimbursed under state
Medicaid plans, and the efforts by states to seek additional rebates affect AbbVie's business. Similarly, the Veterans Health Care Act of 1992, as a prerequisite to participation in Medicaid and other
federal health care programs, requires that manufacturers extend additional discounts on pharmaceutical products to various federal agencies, including the Department of Veterans Affairs, Department
of Defense, and Public Health Service entities and institutions. In addition, recent legislative changes would require similarly discounted prices to be offered to TRICARE program beneficiaries. The
Act also established the 340B drug discount program, which requires pharmaceuticals manufacturers to provide products at reduced prices to various designated health care entities and facilities.   

In
the United States, most states also have generic substitution legislation requiring or permitting a dispensing pharmacist to substitute a different manufacturer's generic version of a
pharmaceutical product for the one prescribed. In addition, the federal government follows a diagnosis-related group (DRG) payment system for certain institutional services provided under Medicare or
Medicaid and has implemented a prospective payment system (PPS) for services delivered in hospital outpatient, nursing home, and home health settings. DRG and PPS entitle a health care facility to a
fixed reimbursement based on the diagnosis and/or procedure rather than actual costs incurred in patient treatment, thereby increasing the incentive for the facility to limit or control expenditures
for many health care products. Medicare reimburses Part B drugs based on average sales price (ASP) plus a certain percentage to account for physician administration costs, which have recently
been reduced in the hospital outpatient setting. End stage renal disease treatment is covered through a bundled payment that likewise creates incentives for providers to demand lower pharmaceutical
prices. Medicare enters into contracts with private plans to negotiate prices for most patient-administered medicine delivered under Part D.   

          In
March 2010, Congress enacted the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (together, the Affordable Care Act). Under the
Affordable Care Act, AbbVie pays a fee related to its pharmaceuticals sales to government programs. Also in 2011, AbbVie began providing a discount of 50 percent for branded prescription drugs
sold to patients who fall into the Medicare Part D coverage gap, or "donut hole."   

          The
Affordable Care Act also includes provisions known as the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, which require manufacturers of drugs and biologics covered under Medicare and Medicaid
starting in 2012 to record any transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals and to report this data beginning in 2013 to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services for subsequent public
disclosure. Similar reporting requirements have also been enacted on the state level in the United States, and an increasing number of countries worldwide either have adopted or are considering
similar laws requiring disclosure of interactions with health care professionals. Failure to report appropriate data may result in civil or criminal fines and/or penalties.   

  11  

AbbVie
expects debate to continue during 2013 at all government levels worldwide over the marketing, availability, method of delivery, and payment for health care products and services.
AbbVie believes that future legislation and regulation in the markets it serves could affect access to health care products and services, increase rebates, reduce prices or the rate of price increases
for health care products and services, change health care delivery systems, create new fees and obligations for the pharmaceuticals industry, or require additional reporting and disclosure. It is not
possible to predict the extent to which AbbVie or the health care industry in general might be affected by the matters discussed above.   

          AbbVie
is subject to a Corporate Integrity Agreement (CIA) entered into by Abbott on May 7, 2012 that requires enhancements to AbbVie's compliance program and contains reporting
obligations, including disclosure of financial payments to doctors. If AbbVie fails to comply with the CIA, the Office of Inspector General for the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services may
impose monetary penalties or exclude AbbVie from federal health care programs, including Medicare and Medicaid.   

European Union.        The EU has adopted directives and other legislation governing labeling, advertising, distribution, supply,
pharmacovigilance, and
marketing of pharmaceutical products. Such legislation provides mandatory standards throughout the EU and permits member states to supplement these standards with additional regulations. European
governments also regulate pharmaceutical product prices through their control of national health care systems that fund a large part of the cost of such products to consumers. As a result, patients
are unlikely to use a pharmaceutical product that is not reimbursed by the government. In many European countries, the government either regulates the pricing of a new product at launch or subsequent
to launch through direct price controls or reference pricing. In recent years, many countries have also imposed new or additional cost containment measures on pharmaceutical products. Differences
between national pricing regimes create price differentials within the EU that can lead to significant parallel trade in pharmaceutical products.   

          Most
governments also promote generic substitution by mandating or permitting a pharmacist to substitute a different manufacturer's generic version of a pharmaceutical product for the
one prescribed and by permitting or mandating that health care professionals prescribe generic versions in certain circumstances. In addition, governments use reimbursement lists to limit the
pharmaceutical products that are eligible for reimbursement by national health care systems.   

Japan.        In Japan, the National Health Insurance system maintains a Drug Price List specifying which pharmaceutical products are
eligible for
reimbursement, and the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare sets the prices of the products on this list. The government generally introduces price cut rounds every other year and also mandates
price decreases for specific products. New products judged innovative or useful, that are indicated for pediatric use, or that target orphan or small population diseases, however, may be eligible for
a pricing premium. The government has also promoted the use of generics, where available.   

Emerging Markets.        Many emerging markets take steps to reduce pharmaceutical product prices, in some cases through direct price
controls and in others
through the promotion of generic alternatives to branded pharmaceuticals.   

          Since
AbbVie markets its products worldwide, certain products of a local nature and variations of product lines must also meet other local regulatory requirements. Certain additional
risks are inherent in conducting business outside the United States, including price and currency exchange controls, changes in currency exchange rates, limitations on participation in local
enterprises, expropriation, nationalization, and other governmental action.   

  12  

Employees     

          AbbVie employed approximately 21,500 persons as of January 31, 2013. Outside the United States, some of AbbVie's employees are
represented by unions or works councils. AbbVie believes that it has good relations with its employees.   

Internet Information     

          Copies of AbbVie's Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports
on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge through
AbbVie's investor relations website (   www.abbvieinvestor.com   ) as soon as reasonably practicable after AbbVie electronically files the material with, or
furnishes it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.   

          AbbVie's
corporate governance guidelines, outline of directorship qualifications, code of business conduct and the charters of AbbVie's audit committee, compensation committee,
nominations and
governance committee, and public policy committee are all available on AbbVie's investor relations website (   www.abbvieinvestor.com   ).   

ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS            

             You should carefully consider the following risks and other information in this Form 10-K in
evaluating AbbVie and AbbVie's common stock. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect AbbVie's results of operations or financial condition. The risk factors generally have
been separated into three groups: risks related to AbbVie's business, risks related to AbbVie's recent separation from Abbott and risks related to AbbVie's common stock. Based on the information
currently known to it, AbbVie believes that the following information identifies the most significant risk factors affecting it in each of these categories of risks. However, the risks and
uncertainties AbbVie faces are not limited to those set forth in the risk factors described below and may not be in order of importance or probability of occurrence. Additional risks and uncertainties
not presently known to AbbVie or that AbbVie currently believes to be immaterial may also adversely affect its business. In addition, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of
future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods.   

If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events, these events could have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's business, financial
condition or results of operations. In such case, the trading price of AbbVie's common stock could decline.   

    Risks Related to AbbVie's Business     

     The expiration or loss of patent protection and licenses may adversely affect AbbVie's future revenues and operating income.      

AbbVie relies on patent, trademark and other intellectual property protection in the discovery, development, manufacturing, and sale of
its products. In particular, patent protection is, in the aggregate, important in AbbVie's marketing of pharmaceutical products in the United States and most major markets outside of the United
States. Patents covering AbbVie products normally provide market exclusivity, which is important for the profitability of many of AbbVie's products.   

          As
patents for certain of its products expire, AbbVie will or could face competition from lower priced generic products. The expiration or loss of patent protection for a product
typically is followed promptly by substitutes that may significantly reduce sales for that product in a short amount of time. If AbbVie's competitive position is compromised because of generics or
otherwise, it could have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's business and results of operations. In addition, proposals emerge   

  13  

from
time to time for legislation to further encourage the early and rapid approval of generic drugs. Any such proposals that are enacted into law could worsen the effect of generic competition.   

AbbVie's
principal patents and trademarks are described in greater detail in Item 1, "Business Intellectual Property Protection and Regulatory Exclusivity" and
Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations," and litigation regarding these patents is described in
Item 3, "Legal Proceedings." The U.S. composition of matter patent for HUMIRA, which is AbbVie's largest selling product and had worldwide sales of approximately $9.3 billion in 2012, is
expected to expire in December 2016, and the equivalent European Union patent is expected to expire in the majority of EU countries in April 2018. Because HUMIRA is a biologic and biologics cannot be
readily substituted, it is uncertain what impact the loss of patent protection would have on the sales of HUMIRA.   

     AbbVie's major products could lose patent protection earlier than expected, which could adversely affect AbbVie's future revenues and operating income.      

          Third parties or government authorities may challenge or seek to invalidate or circumvent AbbVie's patents and patent applications. For
example, manufacturers of generic pharmaceutical products file, and may continue to file, Abbreviated New Drug Applications (ANDAs) with the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) seeking to
market generic forms of AbbVie's products prior to the expiration of relevant patents owned or licensed by AbbVie by asserting that the patents are invalid, unenforceable and/or not infringed. For
example, certain companies have filed ANDAs seeking approval to market generic versions of fenofibric acid capsules (TRILIPIX) and niacin extended release tablets (Niaspan). These companies have
asserted that the AbbVie patents covering these products are invalid, unenforceable, and/or not infringed by their respective products. AbbVie has entered into settlement agreements resolving
substantially all of these challenges. For a description of other material pending challenges, please refer to Item 3, "Legal Proceedings."   

          Although
most of the challenges to AbbVie's intellectual property have come from other businesses, governments may also challenge intellectual property rights. For example, court
decisions and potential legislation relating to patents, such as legislation regarding biosimilars, and other regulatory initiatives may result in further erosion of intellectual property protection.
In addition, certain governments outside the United States have indicated that compulsory licenses to patents may be sought to further their domestic policies or on the basis of national emergencies,
such as HIV/AIDS. If triggered, compulsory licenses could diminish or eliminate sales and profits from those jurisdictions and negatively affect AbbVie's results of operations.   

          AbbVie
normally responds to challenges by vigorously defending its patents, including by filing patent infringement lawsuits. Patent litigation and other challenges to AbbVie's patents
are costly and unpredictable and may deprive AbbVie of market exclusivity for a patented product. To the extent AbbVie's intellectual property is successfully challenged or circumvented or to the
extent such intellectual property does not allow AbbVie to compete effectively, AbbVie's business will suffer. To the extent that countries do not enforce AbbVie's intellectual property rights or
require compulsory licensing of AbbVie's intellectual property, AbbVie's future revenues and operating income will be reduced.   

     A third party's intellectual property may prevent AbbVie from selling its products or have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's future profitability and financial
condition.      

          Third parties may claim that an AbbVie product infringes upon their intellectual property. Resolving an intellectual property
infringement claim can be costly and time consuming and may require AbbVie to enter into license agreements. AbbVie cannot guarantee that it would be able to obtain license agreements on commercially
reasonable terms. A successful claim of patent or other   

  14  

intellectual
property infringement could subject AbbVie to significant damages or an injunction preventing the manufacture, sale, or use of the affected AbbVie product or products. Any of these events
could have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's profitability and financial condition.   

     Any significant event that adversely affects HUMIRA revenues could have a material and negative impact on AbbVie's results of operations and cash flows.      

          HUMIRA generates approximately 50 percent of AbbVie's sales. Any significant event that adversely affects HUMIRA's revenues
could have a material adverse impact on AbbVie's operations and cash flows. These events could include loss of patent protection for HUMIRA, the approval of biosimilars of HUMIRA, the discovery of
previously unknown side effects or impaired efficacy, increased competition from the introduction of new, more effective or less expensive treatments, and discontinuation or removal from the market of
HUMIRA for any reason.   

     AbbVie's research and development efforts may not succeed in developing and marketing commercially successful products and technologies, which may cause its revenue and
profitability to decline.      

          To remain competitive, AbbVie must continue to launch new products and new indications and/or brand extensions for existing products,
and such launches must generate revenue sufficient both to cover its substantial research and development costs and to replace sales of profitable products that are lost to or displaced by competing
products or therapies. Failure to do so would have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's revenue and profitability. Accordingly, AbbVie commits substantial effort, funds, and other resources to
research and development and must make ongoing substantial expenditures without any assurance that its efforts will be commercially successful. For example, in 2012 AbbVie discontinued the development
of ABT-263, which was in Phase II development for the treatment of hematologic malignancies. A high rate of failure in the biopharmaceutical industry is inherent in the research and
development of new products, and failure can occur at any point in the research and development process, including after significant funds have been invested. Products that appear promising in
development may fail to reach the market for numerous reasons, including failure to demonstrate effectiveness, safety concerns, superior safety or efficacy of competing therapies, failure to achieve
positive clinical or pre-clinical outcomes beyond the current standard of care, inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals or delays in the approval of new products and new
indications, limited scope of approved uses, excessive costs to manufacture, the failure to obtain or maintain intellectual property rights, or infringement of the intellectual property rights of
others.   

          Decisions
about research studies made early in the development process of a pharmaceutical product candidate can affect the marketing strategy once such candidate receives approval. More
detailed studies may demonstrate additional benefits that can help in the marketing, but they also consume time and resources and may delay submitting the pharmaceutical product candidate for
approval. AbbVie cannot guarantee that a proper balance of speed and testing will be made with respect to each pharmaceutical product candidate or that decisions in this area would not adversely
affect AbbVie's future results.   

          Even
if AbbVie successfully develops and markets new products or enhancements to its existing products, they may be quickly rendered obsolete by changing clinical preferences, changing
industry standards, or competitors' innovations. AbbVie's innovations may not be accepted quickly in the marketplace because of existing clinical practices or uncertainty over third-party
reimbursement. AbbVie cannot state with certainty when or whether any of its products under development will be launched, whether it will be able to develop, license, or otherwise acquire compounds or
products, or whether any products will be commercially successful. Failure to launch successful new products or new indications for existing products may cause AbbVie's products to become obsolete,
causing AbbVie's revenues and operating results to suffer.   

  15  

A portion of AbbVie's near-term pharmaceutical pipeline relies on collaborations with third parties, which may adversely affect the development and sale of its
products.      

          AbbVie depends on alliances with pharmaceuticals and biotechnology companies for a portion of the products in its near-term
pharmaceutical pipeline. For example, AbbVie is collaborating with Biogen Idec to develop a treatment for the relapsing remitting form of MS. It is also collaborating with Bristol-Myers Squibb on a
treatment for multiple myeloma, and with Biotest AG on a compound for rheumatoid arthritis and psoriasis.   

          Failures
by these parties to meet their contractual, regulatory, or other obligations to AbbVie, or any disruption in the relationships between AbbVie and these third parties, could have
an adverse effect on AbbVie's pharmaceutical pipeline and business. In addition, AbbVie's collaborative relationships for research and development extend for many years and may give rise to disputes
regarding the relative rights, obligations and revenues of AbbVie and its collaboration partners, including the ownership of intellectual property and associated rights and obligations. This could
result in the loss of intellectual property rights or protection, delay the development and sale of potential pharmaceutical products, and lead to lengthy and expensive litigation or arbitration.   

     Biologics carry unique risks and uncertainties, which could have a negative impact on future results of operations.      

          The successful discovery, development, manufacturing and sale of biologics is a long, expensive and uncertain process. There are unique
risks and uncertainties with biologics. For example, access to and supply of necessary biological materials, such as cell lines, may be limited, and governmental regulations restrict access to and
regulate the transport and use of such
materials. In addition, the development, manufacturing, and sale of biologics is subject to regulations that are often more complex and extensive than the regulations applicable to other
pharmaceutical products. Manufacturing biologics, especially in large quantities, is often complex and may require the use of innovative technologies. Such manufacturing also requires facilities
specifically designed and validated for this purpose and sophisticated quality assurance and quality control procedures. Biologics are also frequently costly to manufacture because production inputs
are derived from living animal or plant material, and some biologics cannot be made synthetically. Failure to successfully discover, develop, manufacture and sell biologics including
HUMIRA could adversely impact AbbVie's business and results of operations.   

     New products and technological advances by AbbVie's competitors may negatively affect AbbVie's results of operations.      

          AbbVie competes with other research-based pharmaceuticals and biotechnology companies that discover, manufacture, market, and sell
proprietary pharmaceutical products and biologics. For example, HUMIRA competes with a number of anti-TNF products that are approved for a number of disease states, AbbVie's virology
products compete with protease inhibitors and other anti-HIV treatments, and AbbVie's dyslipidemia products face competition from other fibrates and from statins. These competitors may
introduce new products or develop technological advances that compete with AbbVie's products in therapeutic areas such as immunology, virology, renal disease, dyslipidemia, and neuroscience. AbbVie
cannot predict with certainty the timing or impact of the introduction by competitors of new products or technological advances. Such competing products may be safer, more effective, more effectively
marketed or sold, or have lower prices or superior performance features than AbbVie's products, and this could negatively impact AbbVie's business and results of operations.   

  16  

AbbVie's biologic products may become subject to competition from biosimilars.      

          The Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act was passed on March 23, 2010 as Title VII to the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act. The law created a framework for the approval of biosimilars in the United States and could allow competitors to reference data from biologic products already approved. In Europe,
the European Commission has granted marketing authorizations for several biosimilars pursuant to a set of general and product class-specific guidelines for biosimilar approvals issued over the past
few years. In addition, companies are developing biosimilars in other countries that could compete with AbbVie's biologic products. If competitors are able to obtain marketing approval for biosimilars
referencing AbbVie's biologic products, AbbVie's products may become subject to competition from such biosimilars, with the
attendant competitive pressure and consequences. Expiration or successful challenge of AbbVie's applicable patent rights could also trigger competition from other products, assuming any relevant
exclusivity period has expired. As a result, AbbVie could face more litigation with respect to the validity and/or scope of patents relating to its biologic products.   

The manufacture of many of AbbVie's products is a highly exacting and complex process, and if AbbVie or one of its suppliers encounters problems manufacturing AbbVie's
products, AbbVie's business could suffer.      

          The manufacture of many of AbbVie's products is a highly exacting and complex process, due in part to strict regulatory requirements.
Problems may arise during manufacturing for a variety of reasons, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, problems with raw materials, delays related to
the construction of new facilities or the expansion of existing facilities, including those intended to support future demand for AbbVie's products, changes in manufacturing production sites and
limits to manufacturing capacity due to regulatory requirements, changes in the types of products produced, physical limitations that could inhibit continuous supply, man-made or natural
disasters, and environmental factors. If problems arise during the production of a batch of product, that batch of product may have to be discarded and AbbVie may experience product shortages or incur
added expenses. This could, among other things, lead to increased costs, lost revenue, damage to customer relations, time and expense spent investigating the cause and, depending on the cause, similar
losses with respect to other batches or products. If problems are not discovered before the product is released to the market, recall and product liability costs may also be incurred.   

AbbVie relies on single sources of supply for certain products and services, and an interruption in the supply of those products and services could adversely affect AbbVie's
business and results of operations.      

          AbbVie has a single source of supply for certain products and services. For example, the filling and packaging of HUMIRA syringes to be
sold outside of the United States and Puerto Rico is performed by a single supplier at its two different facilities. AbbVie maintains significant inventory of HUMIRA syringes intended to reduce the
risk of supply disruption and is awaiting regulatory approval for its own syringe-filling and packaging facility in the United States to supply syringes outside of the United States and Puerto Rico.
AbbVie also uses a number of products in the manufacturing process for HUMIRA that are currently sourced from single suppliers. AbbVie believes alternative sources for all products used in the
manufacturing process for HUMIRA are currently available.   

          The
failure of a single-source supplier to fulfill its contractual obligations in a timely manner or as a result of regulatory noncompliance or physical disruption at a manufacturing
site may impair AbbVie's ability to deliver its products to customers on a timely and competitive basis, which could adversely affect AbbVie's business and results of operations. Finding an
alternative supplier could take a
significant amount of time and involve significant expense due to the nature of the services and the need to obtain regulatory approvals. AbbVie cannot guarantee that it will be able to reach
agreement with alternative providers or that regulatory authorities would approve AbbVie's use of such   

  17  

alternatives.
AbbVie does, however, carry business interruption insurance, which provides a degree of protection in the case of a failure by a single-source supplier.   

Significant safety or efficacy issues could arise for AbbVie's products, which could have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's revenues and financial condition.      

          Pharmaceutical products receive regulatory approval based on data obtained in controlled clinical trials of limited duration. Following
regulatory approval, these products will be used over longer periods of time in many patients. Investigators may also conduct additional, and perhaps more extensive, studies. In addition, due to
various product withdrawals and other significant safety issues related to pharmaceutical products, the amount of time to obtain regulatory approval has increased industrywide and some health
authorities are re-reviewing select products that are already marketed.   

          If
new safety or efficacy issues are reported or if new scientific information becomes available (including results of post-marketing Phase IV trials), or if there are
changes in government standards regarding safety, efficacy or labeling, AbbVie may be required to amend the conditions of use for a product. The FDA has authority, based on such new clinical or
scientific information, to require post-marketing studies, clinical trials and labeling changes and compliance with FDA-approved risk evaluation and mitigation strategies. The
FDA's exercise of this authority could result in delays or increased costs during product development, clinical trials and regulatory review, increased costs to comply with additional
post-approval regulatory requirements and potential restrictions on marketing of approved products. Regulatory agencies outside of the United States often have similar authority.   

          New
safety data may emerge from adverse event reports, post-marketing studies, whether conducted by AbbVie or by others and whether mandated by regulatory agencies or
voluntary, and other sources and may adversely affect sales of AbbVie's products. For example, AbbVie may voluntarily provide or be required to provide updated information on a product's label or
narrow its approved indication, either of which could reduce the product's market acceptance. If serious safety or efficacy issues with an AbbVie product arise, sales of the product could be halted by
AbbVie or by regulatory authorities. Safety or efficacy issues affecting suppliers' or competitors' products also may reduce the market acceptance of AbbVie's products.   

          New
data about AbbVie's products, or products similar to its products, could negatively impact demand for AbbVie's products due to real or perceived safety issues or uncertainty
regarding efficacy and, in some cases, could result in product withdrawal. Furthermore, new data and information, including information about product misuse, may lead government agencies, professional
societies, practice management groups or organizations involved with various diseases to publish guidelines or recommendations related to the use of AbbVie's products or the use of related therapies
or place restrictions on sales. Such guidelines or recommendations may lead to lower sales of AbbVie's products.   

     AbbVie is subject to product liability claims and lawsuits that may adversely affect its business and results of operations.      

          In the ordinary course of business, AbbVie is the subject of product liability claims and lawsuits alleging that AbbVie's products or
the products of other companies that it promotes have resulted or could result in an unsafe condition for or injury to patients. Product liability claims and lawsuits and safety alerts or product
recalls, regardless of their ultimate outcome, may have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's business and reputation and on its ability to attract and retain customers. Consequences may also include
additional costs, a decrease in market share for the products, lower income and exposure to other claims. Product liability losses are self-insured. Product liability claims could have a
material adverse effect on AbbVie's business and results of operations.   

  18  

AbbVie is subject to cost-containment efforts and pricing pressures that could cause a reduction in future revenues and operating income.      

          Cost-containment efforts by governments and private organizations are described in greater detail in Item 1,
"Business Regulation Commercialization, Distribution, and Manufacturing." To the extent these cost containment efforts are not offset by greater demand, increased patient
access to health care, or other factors, AbbVie's future revenues and operating income will be reduced. In the United States, the European Union and other countries, AbbVie's business has experienced
downward pressure on product pricing, and this pressure could increase in the future.   

          In
the United States, practices of managed care groups and institutional and governmental purchasers and U.S. federal laws and regulations related to Medicare and Medicaid, including the
Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 and the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, contribute to pricing pressures. Recently enacted changes to the health care
system in the United States and the increased purchasing power of entities that negotiate on behalf of Medicare, Medicaid, and private sector beneficiaries could result in additional pricing
pressures.   

          In
numerous major markets worldwide, the government plays a significant role in funding health care services and determining the pricing and reimbursement of pharmaceutical products.
Consequently, in those markets, AbbVie is subject to government decision-making and budgetary actions with respect to its products. In particular, there were government-mandated price reductions for
many pharmaceutical products in many European countries in 2010, 2011, and 2012, and AbbVie anticipates continuing pricing pressures in Europe. Differences between countries in pricing regulations
could lead to third-party cross-border trading in AbbVie's products that results in a reduction in future revenues and operating income.   

     AbbVie is subject to numerous governmental regulations, and it can be costly to comply with these regulations and to develop compliant products and processes.      

          AbbVie's products are subject to rigorous regulation by numerous international, supranational, federal, and state authorities, as
described in Item 1, "Business Regulation Discovery and Clinical Development." The process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a pharmaceutical product can be
costly and time-consuming, and approvals might not be granted for future products, or additional indications or uses of existing products, on a timely basis, if at all. Delays in the
receipt of, or failure to obtain approvals for, future products, or new indications and uses, could result in delayed realization of product revenues, reduction in revenues, and substantial additional
costs.   

          In
addition, AbbVie cannot guarantee that it will remain compliant with applicable regulatory requirements once approval has been obtained for a product. These requirements include,
among other things, regulations regarding manufacturing practices, product labeling, and advertising and post-marketing reporting, including adverse event reports and field alerts due to
manufacturing quality concerns. Many of AbbVie's facilities and procedures and those of its suppliers also are subject to ongoing regulation, including periodic inspection by regulatory authorities.
AbbVie must incur expense and spend time and effort to ensure compliance with these complex regulations.   

Possible
regulatory actions in the event of non-compliance could include warning letters, fines, damages, injunctions, civil penalties, recalls, seizures of AbbVie's
products, and criminal prosecution. These actions could result in substantial modifications to AbbVie's business practices and operations; refunds, recalls, or seizures of AbbVie's products; a total
or partial shutdown of production in one or more of AbbVie's or its suppliers' facilities while AbbVie or its supplier remedies the alleged violation; the inability to obtain future approvals; and
withdrawals or suspensions of current products
from the market. Any of these events could disrupt AbbVie's business and have a material adverse effect on its business and results of operations.   

  19  

Laws and regulations affecting government benefit programs could impose new obligations on AbbVie, require it to change its business practices, and restrict its operations
in the future.      

          The health care industry is subject to various federal, state, and international laws and regulations pertaining to government benefit
programs reimbursement, rebates, price reporting and regulation, and health care fraud and abuse. In the United States, these laws include anti-kickback and false claims laws, the Medicaid
Rebate Statute, the Veterans Health Care Act, and individual state laws relating to pricing and sales and marketing practices. Violations of these laws may be punishable by criminal and/or civil
sanctions, including, in some instances, substantial fines, imprisonment, and exclusion from participation in federal and state health care programs, including Medicare, Medicaid, and Veterans
Administration health programs. These laws and regulations are broad in scope and they are subject to evolving interpretations, which could require AbbVie to incur substantial costs associated with
compliance or to alter one or more of its sales or marketing practices. In addition, violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt AbbVie's business and result in a
material adverse effect on its business and results of operations.   

     Changes in laws and regulations may adversely affect AbbVie's business.      

          As described above, the development, manufacture, marketing, sale, promotion, and distribution of AbbVie's products are subject to
comprehensive government regulation. Changes in these regulations could affect AbbVie in various ways. For example, under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and
Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, AbbVie pays a fee related to its pharmaceuticals sales to government programs and, beginning in 2013, must record and report any transfers of value to physicians
and teaching hospitals. Similar reporting requirements have been enacted on a state level in the United States and within the European Union and an increasing number of countries worldwide have
adopted or are considering similar laws. Future legislation and regulation in the markets that AbbVie serves could affect access to health care products and services, increase rebates, reduce prices
or the rate of price increases for health care products and services, change health care delivery systems, create new fees and obligations for the pharmaceuticals industry, or require additional
reporting and disclosure. Such legislation and regulation could adversely affect AbbVie's business, results of operations, cash flow, financial condition and prospects.   

     AbbVie could be subject to increased monetary penalties and/or other sanctions, including exclusion from federal health care programs, if it fails to comply with the terms
of the May 7, 2012 resolution of the Department of Justice's investigation into sales and marketing activities for Depakote.      

          On May 7, 2012, Abbott settled U.S. federal and 49 state investigations into its sales and marketing activities for Depakote by
pleading guilty to a misdemeanor violation of the Food Drug   Cosmetic Act (FDCA) and agreeing to pay approximately $700 million in criminal fines and forfeitures and approximately
$900 million to resolve civil claims. A non-cash charge related to these investigations was previously recorded, as discussed in Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Under the plea agreement, Abbott submitted to a term of probation that was initially set at 5 years, but will be shortened to 3 years.
The obligations of the plea agreement have transferred to and become fully binding on AbbVie. The conditions of probation include certain reporting requirements, maintenance of certain compliance
measures, certifications of AbbVie's CEO and board of directors, and other conditions. If AbbVie violates the terms of its probation, it may face additional monetary sanctions and other such remedies
as the court deems appropriate. On October 2, 2012, the court accepted the guilty plea and imposed the agreed-upon sentence.   

In
addition, Abbott entered into a five-year Corporate Integrity Agreement (CIA) with the Office of Inspector General for the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
(OIG). The effective date of the CIA is October 11, 2012. The obligations of the CIA have transferred to and become fully   

  20  

binding
on AbbVie. The CIA requires enhancements to AbbVie's compliance program, fulfillment of reporting and monitoring obligations, management certifications, and resolutions from AbbVie's board of
directors, among other requirements. If AbbVie fails to comply with the CIA, the OIG may impose monetary penalties or exclude AbbVie from federal health care programs, including Medicare and Medicaid.
AbbVie and Abbott may be subject to third party claims and shareholder lawsuits in connection with the settlement, and AbbVie may be required to indemnify all or a portion of Abbott's costs.   

     AbbVie's compliance with the obligations of the May 7, 2012 resolution of the Department of Justice's investigation into the sales and marketing activities for
Depakote will impose additional costs and burdens on AbbVie.      

          On May 7, 2012 Abbott settled U.S. federal and 49 state investigations into its sales and marketing activities for Depakote by
pleading guilty to a misdemeanor violation of the FDCA, agreeing to pay criminal fines, forfeitures, and civil damages, and submitting to a term of probation. On October 2, 2012, the court
accepted the guilty plea and imposed the agreed-upon sentence. In addition, Abbott entered into a five-year CIA with the OIG, effective as of October 11, 2012. The
obligations of the plea agreement and the CIA have transferred to and become fully binding on AbbVie. Compliance with the requirements of the settlement will impose additional costs and burdens on
AbbVie, including in the form of employee training, third party reviews, compliance monitoring, reporting obligations, and management attention.   

     The international nature of AbbVie's business subjects it to additional business risks that may cause its revenue and profitability to decline.      

AbbVie's business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. Sales outside of the United States make up
approximately 45 percent of AbbVie's net sales. The risks associated with its operations outside the United States include:  

fluctuations in currency exchange rates;   
           changes in medical reimbursement policies and programs;   
           multiple legal and regulatory requirements that are subject to change and that could restrict AbbVie's ability to
manufacture, market, and sell its products;   
           differing local product preferences and product requirements;   
           trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements;   
           difficulty in establishing, staffing, and managing operations;   
           differing labor regulations;   
           potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws;    
           political and economic instability, including sovereign debt issues;   
           price and currency exchange controls, limitations on participation in local enterprises, expropriation, nationalization,
and other governmental action;   
           inflation, recession and fluctuations in interest rates;   
           compulsory licensing or diminished protection of intellectual property; and    
           potential penalties or other adverse consequences for violations of anti-corruption, anti-bribery
and other similar laws and regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act.    

Events
contemplated by these risks may, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's revenues and profitability.   

  21  

Further deterioration in the economic position and credit quality of certain European countries may negatively affect AbbVie's results of operations.      

          Financial instability and fiscal deficits in certain European countries, including Greece, Italy, Portugal, and Spain, may result in
additional austerity measures to reduce costs, including health care costs. If economic conditions continue to worsen, this could result in lengthening the time or reducing the collectability of
AbbVie's outstanding trade receivables and increasing government efforts to reduce health care spending, leading to reductions in drug prices and utilization of AbbVie's products. Ongoing sovereign
debt issues in these countries could increase AbbVie's collection risk given that a significant amount of AbbVie's receivables in these countries are with governmental health care systems.   

     AbbVie may not be able to realize the expected benefits of its investments in emerging markets.      

          AbbVie seeks to make investments in key emerging markets, including Brazil, China, India, Mexico, Russia, and Turkey, but cannot
guarantee that its efforts to expand sales in these markets will succeed. Some emerging markets may be especially vulnerable to periods of financial instability or may have very limited resources to
spend on health care. For AbbVie to successfully implement its emerging markets strategy, AbbVie must attract and retain qualified personnel or may be required to increase its reliance on third-party
distributors within certain emerging markets. Many of these countries have currencies that fluctuate substantially; if such currencies devalue and AbbVie cannot offset the devaluations, its financial
performance within such countries could be adversely affected. In addition, price and currency exchange controls, limitations on participation in local enterprises, expropriation, nationalization, and
other governmental actions could affect AbbVie's business and results of operations in emerging markets.   

AbbVie may acquire other businesses, license rights to technologies or products, form alliances, or dispose of assets, which could cause it to incur significant expenses and
could negatively affect profitability.      

          AbbVie may pursue acquisitions, technology licensing arrangements, and strategic alliances, or dispose of some of its assets, as part
of its business strategy. AbbVie may not complete these transactions in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, or at all, and may not realize the expected benefits. If AbbVie is
successful in making an acquisition, the products and technologies that are acquired may not be successful or may require significantly greater resources and investments than originally anticipated.
AbbVie may not be able to integrate acquisitions successfully into its existing business and could incur or assume significant debt and unknown or contingent liabilities. AbbVie could also experience
negative effects on its reported results of operations from acquisition or disposition-related charges, amortization of expenses related to intangibles and charges for impairment of
long-term assets. These effects could cause a deterioration of AbbVie's credit rating and result in increased borrowing costs and interest expense.   

          Additionally,
changes in AbbVie's structure, operations, revenues, costs, or efficiency resulting from major transactions such as acquisitions, divestitures, mergers, alliances,
restructurings or other strategic initiatives, may result in greater than expected costs, may take longer than expected to complete or encounter other difficulties, including the need for regulatory
approval where appropriate.   

     AbbVie is dependent on wholesale distributors for distribution of its products in the United States and, accordingly, its results of operations could be adversely affected
if they encounter financial difficulties.      

          In 2012, three wholesale distributors AmerisourceBergen Corporation, Cardinal Health, Inc. and McKesson
Corporation accounted for substantially all of AbbVie's sales in the United States. If one of its significant wholesale distributors encounters financial or other difficulties, such
distributor may decrease the amount of business that it does with AbbVie, and AbbVie may be unable to collect all the   

  22  

amounts
that the distributor owes it on a timely basis or at all, which could negatively impact AbbVie's business and results of operations.   

Changes in the terms of rebate and chargeback programs, which are common in the pharmaceuticals industry, could have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's operations.      

          Rebates related to government programs, such as fee-for-service Medicaid or Medicaid managed care programs,
arise from laws and regulations. AbbVie cannot predict if additional government initiatives to contain health care costs or other factors could lead to new or modified regulatory requirements that
include higher or incremental rebates or discounts. Other rebate and discount programs arise from contractual agreements with private payers. Various factors, including market factors and the ability
of private payers to control patient access to products, may provide payers the leverage to negotiate higher or additional rebates or discounts that could have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's
operations.   

     AbbVie is subject to evolving and complex tax laws, which may result in additional liabilities that may affect results of operations.      

          AbbVie is subject to evolving and complex tax laws in the jurisdictions in which it operates. Significant judgment is required for
determining AbbVie's tax liabilities, and AbbVie's tax returns will be periodically examined by various tax authorities. Although Abbott retains the risk for tax contingencies arising from operations
pre-separation, AbbVie bears risks for future tax contingencies arising from operations post-separation. Due to the complexity of tax contingencies, the ultimate resolution of
any tax matters related to operations post-separation may result in payments greater or less than amounts accrued.   

          In
addition, AbbVie may be impacted by changes in tax laws, including tax rate changes, changes to the laws related to the treatment and remittance of foreign earnings, new tax laws, and
subsequent interpretations of tax law in the United States and other jurisdictions.   

     AbbVie has debt obligations that could adversely affect its business and its ability to meet its obligations.      

The amount of debt that AbbVie has incurred and intends to incur could have important consequences to AbbVie and its investors,
including:  

requiring a portion of AbbVie's cash flow from operations to make interest payments on this debt;    
           increasing AbbVie's vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;    
           reducing the cash flow available to fund capital expenditures and other corporate purposes and to grow AbbVie's business;
and   
           limiting AbbVie's flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in AbbVie's business and the industry.    

To
the extent that AbbVie incurs additional indebtedness, the risks described above could increase. In addition, AbbVie's cash flow from operations may not be sufficient to repay all of
the outstanding debt as it becomes due, and AbbVie may not be able to borrow money, sell assets, or otherwise raise funds on acceptable terms, or at all, to refinance its debt.   

The
terms of AbbVie's debt contain covenants restricting its financial flexibility in a number of ways, including among other things, restrictions on AbbVie's ability and the ability of
certain of AbbVie's subsidiaries to incur mortgages with respect to principal domestic properties and to enter into sale and leaseback transactions with respect to principal domestic properties, and
restrictions on AbbVie's ability to merge or consolidate with any other entity or convey, transfer or lease AbbVie's   

  23  

properties
and assets substantially as an entirety. If AbbVie breaches a restrictive covenant under any of its indebtedness, or an event of default occurs in respect of such indebtedness, AbbVie's
lenders of such indebtedness may be entitled to declare all amounts owing in respect thereof to be immediately due and payable.   

     Challenges in the commercial and credit environment may adversely affect AbbVie's future access to capital.      

          AbbVie's ability to issue debt or enter into other financing arrangements on acceptable terms could be adversely affected if there is a
material decline in the demand for AbbVie's products or in the solvency of its customers or suppliers or other significantly unfavorable changes in economic conditions. Volatility in the world
financial markets could increase borrowing costs or affect AbbVie's ability to access the capital markets. These conditions may adversely affect AbbVie's ability to obtain and maintain investment
grade credit ratings.   

     The investment of AbbVie's cash balance and investments in marketable securities are subject to risks that may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments.      

          AbbVie's cash is currently invested in bank deposits and money market mutual funds, which typically hold debt securities issued by the
U.S. federal government or high-grade corporate issuers. These investments are, and AbbVie's future investments may be, subject to credit, liquidity, market, and interest rate risks. If
such investments suffer market price declines, AbbVie may recognize in its earnings the decline in the fair value of these investments below their cost basis when the decline is judged to be other
than temporary. The risks associated with AbbVie's expected cash balance and investment portfolio may have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's results of operations and financial condition.   

     AbbVie may need additional financing in the future to meet its capital needs or to make opportunistic acquisitions, and such financing may not be available on favorable
terms, if at all, and may be dilutive to existing stockholders.      

          AbbVie may need to seek additional financing for its general corporate purposes. For example, it may need to increase its investment in
research and development activities or need funds to make acquisitions. AbbVie may be unable to obtain any desired additional financing on terms favorable to it, if at all. If AbbVie loses its
investment grade credit rating or adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, AbbVie may be unable to fund its expansion, successfully develop or enhance products, or respond to competitive
pressures, any of which could negatively affect AbbVie's business. If AbbVie raises additional funds through the issuance of equity securities, its stockholders will experience dilution of their
ownership interest. If AbbVie raises additional funds by issuing debt or entering into credit facilities, it may be subject to limitations on its operations due to restrictive covenants. Failure to
comply with these covenants could adversely affect AbbVie's business.   

     AbbVie depends on information technology and a failure of those systems could adversely affect AbbVie's business.      

          AbbVie relies on sophisticated information technology systems to operate its business. These systems are potentially vulnerable to
malicious intrusion, random attack, loss of data privacy, or breakdown. Although AbbVie has invested in the protection of its data and information technology and also monitors its systems on an
ongoing basis, there can be no assurance that these efforts will prevent breakdowns or breaches in AbbVie's information technology systems that could adversely affect AbbVie's business.   

  24  

Other factors can have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's profitability and financial condition.      

          Many other factors can affect AbbVie's profitability and financial condition,
including:  

changes in or interpretations of laws and regulations, including changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements,
product marketing application standards, and environmental laws;   
           differences between the fair value measurement of assets and liabilities and their actual value, particularly for
pensions, retiree health care, stock compensation, intangibles, and goodwill; and for contingent liabilities such as litigation, the absence of a recorded amount, or an amount recorded at the minimum,
compared to the actual amount;   
           changes in the rate of inflation (including the cost of raw materials, commodities, and supplies), interest rates, market
value of AbbVie's equity investments, and the performance of investments held by it or its employee benefit trusts;   
           changes in the creditworthiness of counterparties that transact business with or provide services to AbbVie or its
employee benefit trusts; and   
           changes in business, economic, and political conditions, including: war, political instability, terrorist attacks, the
threat of future terrorist activity and related military action; natural disasters; the cost and availability of insurance due to any of the foregoing events; labor disputes, strikes,
slow-downs, or other forms of labor or union activity; and pressure from third-party interest groups.    

Risks Related to AbbVie's Separation from Abbott     

     AbbVie's historical financial information is not necessarily representative of the results that it would have achieved as a separate, publicly traded company and may not be
a reliable indicator of its future results.      

          The historical information about AbbVie in this Annual Report on Form 10-K refers to AbbVie's business as operated
by and integrated with Abbott. AbbVie's historical financial information is derived from the consolidated financial statements and accounting records of Abbott. Accordingly, the financial information
included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K does not necessarily reflect the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows that AbbVie would have achieved as a separate,
publicly traded company during the periods presented or those that AbbVie will achieve in the future primarily as a result of the factors described
below:  

Prior to the separation, AbbVie's business was operated by Abbott as part of its broader corporate organization, rather
than as an independent company. Abbott or one of its affiliates performed various corporate functions for AbbVie, such as accounting, information technology, and finance. Abbott currently provides
some of these functions to AbbVie, as described in Item 13, "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence." AbbVie's historical financial results reflect
allocations of corporate expenses from Abbott for such functions and are likely to be less than the expenses AbbVie would have incurred had it operated as a separate publicly traded company. AbbVie
will need to make significant investments to replicate or outsource from other providers certain facilities, systems, infrastructure, and personnel to which AbbVie no longer has access as a result of
its separation from Abbott. These initiatives to develop AbbVie's independent ability to operate without access to Abbott's existing operational and administrative infrastructure will be costly to
implement. AbbVie may not be able to operate its business efficiently or at comparable costs, and its profitability may decline;   
           Prior to the separation, AbbVie was able to use Abbott's size and purchasing power in procuring various goods and services
and shared economies of scope and scale in costs, employees, vendor relationships and customer relationships. Although AbbVie has entered into transition    
 
  25  

agreements
with Abbott, these arrangements may not fully capture the benefits AbbVie previously enjoyed as a result of being integrated with Abbott and may result in AbbVie paying higher charges than
in the past for these services. As a separate, independent company, AbbVie may be unable to obtain goods and services at the prices and terms obtained prior to the separation, which could decrease
AbbVie's overall profitability. As a separate, independent company, AbbVie also may not be as successful in negotiating favorable tax treatments and credits with governmental entities. This could have
an adverse effect on AbbVie's results of operations and financial condition;   

Generally, AbbVie's working capital requirements and capital for its general corporate purposes, including acquisitions,
research and development and capital expenditures, were historically satisfied as part of the corporate-wide cash management policies of Abbott. As a result of the separation, AbbVie may
need to obtain additional financing from banks, through public offerings or private placements of debt or equity securities, strategic relationships or other arrangements; and    
           The cost of capital for AbbVie's business may be higher than Abbott's cost of capital prior to the separation.    

Other
significant changes may occur in AbbVie's cost structure, management, financing and business operations as a result of operating as a company separate from Abbott. For additional
information about the past financial performance of AbbVie's business and the basis of presentation of the financial statements of AbbVie's business, see Item 7, "Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data."   

     As AbbVie builds its information technology infrastructure and transitions its data to its own systems, AbbVie could incur substantial additional costs and experience
temporary business interruptions.      

          AbbVie expects to install and implement information technology infrastructure to support its critical business functions, including
accounting and reporting, manufacturing process control, customer service, inventory control and distribution. AbbVie may incur temporary interruptions in business operations if it cannot transition
effectively from Abbott's existing transactional and operational systems, data centers and the transition services that support these functions as AbbVie replaces these systems. AbbVie may not be
successful in implementing its new systems and transitioning its data, and it may incur substantially higher costs for implementation than currently anticipated. AbbVie's failure to avoid operational
interruptions as it implements the new systems and replaces Abbott's information technology services, or its failure to implement the new systems and replace Abbott's services successfully, could
disrupt its business, adversely affect its ability to collect receivables from customers, and have a material adverse effect on its profitability. In addition, if AbbVie is unable to replicate or
transition certain systems, its ability to comply with regulatory requirements could be impaired.   

Abbott may fail to perform under various transaction agreements that have or will be executed as part of the separation or AbbVie may fail to have necessary systems and
services in place when certain of the transaction agreements expire.      

          In connection with the separation, AbbVie and Abbott entered into a separation and distribution agreement and various other agreements,
including transition services agreements, a tax sharing agreement, international commercial operations agreements, finished goods supply agreements, contract manufacturing agreements, an employee
matters agreement, a special products master agreement, an information technology agreement, and a transitional trademark license agreement. These agreements are discussed in greater detail in
Item 13, "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence." Certain of these agreements provide for the performance of services by each   

  26  

company
for the benefit of the other for a period of time after AbbVie's separation from Abbott. AbbVie relies on Abbott to satisfy its performance and payment obligations under these agreements. If
Abbott is unable to satisfy its obligations under these agreements, including its indemnification obligations, AbbVie could incur operational difficulties or losses.   

In
addition, AbbVie and Abbott entered into long-term arrangements under a special products master agreement relating to certain product rights and into an
ex-U.S. transition services agreement for Abbott to provide AbbVie with back office functions and other services in certain markets outside the United States until AbbVie has established
sufficient back office infrastructure to conduct operations in such markets. These arrangements could lead to disputes between Abbott and AbbVie over AbbVie's rights to certain intellectual property
and territorial commercialization rights and over the allocation of costs and revenues for AbbVie's products and operations outside of the United States.   

If
AbbVie does not have in place its own systems and services, or if AbbVie does not have agreements with other providers of these services when the transaction or long-term
agreements terminate, AbbVie may not be able to operate its business effectively and its profitability may decline. AbbVie is in the process of creating its own, or engaging third parties to provide,
systems and services to replace many of the systems and services Abbott currently provides to it. AbbVie may not be successful in effectively or efficiently implementing these systems and services or
in transitioning data from Abbott's systems to AbbVie's. These systems and services may also be more expensive or less efficient than the systems and services Abbott is expected to provide during the
transition period.   

          AbbVie
will be developing and implementing its own back office functions, administrative systems, personnel, and processes for markets outside the United States where Abbott will
initially provide such functions. There can be no assurance that AbbVie will be able to implement such functions effectively and without disrupting its business in those markets.   

     Potential indemnification liabilities to Abbott pursuant to the separation agreement could materially adversely affect AbbVie.      

          The separation agreement with Abbott provides for, among other things, the principal corporate transactions required to effect the
separation, certain conditions to the separation and provisions governing the relationship between AbbVie and Abbott with respect to and resulting from the separation. For a description of the
separation agreement, see Item 13, "Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence." Among other things, the separation agreement provides for indemnification obligations designed to make AbbVie financially
responsible for substantially all liabilities that may exist relating to its business activities, whether incurred prior to or after AbbVie's separation from Abbott, as well as those obligations of
Abbott assumed by AbbVie pursuant to the separation agreement, including those relating to Depakote. If AbbVie is required to indemnify Abbott under the circumstances set forth in the separation
agreement, AbbVie may be subject to substantial liabilities.   

     AbbVie may not be able to engage in certain corporate transactions during the two-year period following the distribution.      

          To preserve the tax-free treatment to Abbott of the separation and the distribution, under the tax sharing agreement that
AbbVie entered into with Abbott, AbbVie is restricted from taking any action that prevents the distribution and related transactions from being tax-free for U.S. federal income tax
purposes. Under the tax sharing agreement, for the two-year period following the distribution, AbbVie is prohibited, except in certain circumstances,
from:  

entering into any transaction resulting in the acquisition of 25 percent or more of its stock or substantially all
of its assets, whether by merger or otherwise;    
 
  27  

merging, consolidating, or liquidating;   
           issuing equity securities beyond certain thresholds;   
           repurchasing its capital stock; and   
           ceasing to actively conduct its business.    

These
restrictions may limit AbbVie's ability to pursue certain strategic transactions or other transactions that it may believe to be in the best interests of its stockholders or that
might increase the value of its business. In addition, under the tax sharing agreement, AbbVie is required to indemnify Abbott against any such tax liabilities as a result of the acquisition of
AbbVie's stock or assets, even if it did not participate in or otherwise facilitate the acquisition.   

     Certain of AbbVie's executive officers and directors may have actual or potential conflicts of interest because of their previous or continuing positions at Abbott.      

          Because of their former positions with Abbott, certain of these executive officers and directors own Abbott common shares, options to
purchase Abbott common shares or other equity awards. Even though AbbVie's board of directors consists of a majority of directors who are independent, and AbbVie's executive officers who were formerly
employees of Abbott ceased to be employees of Abbott, some AbbVie executive officers and directors continue to have a financial interest in Abbott common shares. In addition, four of AbbVie's
directors currently serve on the board of directors of Abbott. Continuing ownership of Abbott common shares and equity awards, or service as a director at both companies could create, or appear to
create, potential conflicts of interest if AbbVie and Abbott pursue the same corporate opportunities or face decisions that could have different implications for AbbVie and Abbott.   

     AbbVie may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of the separation, and the separation may adversely affect AbbVie's business.      

AbbVie may not be able to achieve the full strategic and financial benefits expected to result from the separation, or such benefits
may be delayed or not occur at all. The separation and distribution is expected to provide the following benefits, among others: (i) a distinct investment identity allowing investors to
evaluate the merits, performance, and future prospects of AbbVie separately from Abbott; (ii) more efficient allocation of capital for AbbVie; and (iii) direct access by AbbVie to the
capital markets.   

          AbbVie
may not achieve these and other anticipated benefits for a variety of reasons, including, among others: (a) AbbVie may be more susceptible to market fluctuations and other
adverse events than if it were still a part of Abbott; (b) AbbVie's business is less diversified than Abbott's business prior to the separation; and (c) the other actions required to
separate Abbott's and AbbVie's respective businesses
could have diverted management's attention from planning to grow and operate AbbVie's business or created disruptions of AbbVie's operations that could, in each case, impact AbbVie's performance in
the future. If AbbVie fails to achieve some or all of the benefits expected to result from the separation, or if such benefits are delayed, the business, financial conditions, and results of
operations of AbbVie could be adversely affected.   

     AbbVie may have received better terms from unaffiliated third parties than the terms it will receive in its agreements with Abbott.      

The agreements AbbVie entered into with Abbott in connection with the separation, including transition services agreements, a tax
sharing agreement, international commercial operations agreements, finished goods supply agreements, contract manufacturing agreements, an employee matters agreement, a special products master
agreement, an information technology agreement, and a   

  28  

transitional
trademark license agreement, were prepared in the context of the separation while AbbVie was still a wholly-owned subsidiary of Abbott. Accordingly, during the period in which the terms
of those agreements were prepared, AbbVie did not have an independent board of directors or a management team that was independent of Abbott. As a result, the terms of those agreements may not reflect
terms that would have resulted from arm's-length negotiations between unaffiliated third parties. Arm's-length negotiations between Abbott and an unaffiliated third party in another form of
transaction, such as a buyer in a sale of a business transaction, may have resulted in more favorable terms to the unaffiliated third party. See Item 13, "Certain Relationships and Related
Transactions, and Director Independence."   

    Risks Related to AbbVie's Common Stock     

     AbbVie's stock price may fluctuate significantly.      

          AbbVie cannot predict the prices at which shares of its common stock may trade. The market price of AbbVie's common stock may fluctuate
significantly due to a number of factors, some of which may be beyond AbbVie's control, including:  

actual or anticipated fluctuations in AbbVie's operating results;   
           changes in earnings estimated by securities analysts or AbbVie's ability to meet those estimates;    
           the operating and stock price performance of comparable companies;   
           changes to the regulatory and legal environment under which AbbVie operates; and    
           domestic and worldwide economic conditions.    

In
addition, when the market price of a company's common stock drops significantly, stockholders often institute securities class action lawsuits against the company. A lawsuit against
AbbVie could cause it to incur substantial costs and could divert the time and attention of its management and other resources.   

     AbbVie cannot guarantee the timing, amount, or payment of dividends on its common stock.      

          Although AbbVie expects to pay regular cash dividends, the timing, declaration, amount and payment of future dividends to stockholders
will fall within the discretion of AbbVie's board of directors. The board's decisions regarding the payment of dividends will depend on many factors, such as AbbVie's financial condition, earnings,
capital requirements, debt service obligations, industry practice, legal requirements, regulatory constraints, and other factors that the board deems relevant. For more information, see Item 5,
"Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities." AbbVie's ability to pay dividends will depend on its ongoing ability to generate cash
from operations and access capital markets. AbbVie cannot guarantee that it will pay a dividend in the future or continue to pay any dividend if AbbVie commences paying dividends.   

     Your percentage of ownership in AbbVie may be diluted in the future.      

          In the future, your percentage ownership in AbbVie may be diluted because of equity issuances for capital market transactions, equity
awards that AbbVie will be granting to AbbVie's directors, officers and employees, acquisitions, or other purposes. AbbVie's employees will have options to purchase shares of its common stock as a
result of conversion of their Abbott stock options (in whole or in part) to AbbVie stock options. AbbVie anticipates its compensation committee will grant additional stock options or other stock-based
awards to its employees. Such awards will have a dilutive effect on AbbVie's earnings per share, which could adversely affect the market price of AbbVie's common stock.   

  29  

From
time to time, AbbVie will issue additional options or other stock-based awards to its employees under AbbVie's employee benefits plans.   

          In
addition, AbbVie's amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes AbbVie to issue, without the approval of AbbVie's stockholders, one or more classes or series of
preferred stock having such designation, powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, including preferences over AbbVie's common stock respecting dividends and
distributions, as AbbVie's board of directors generally may determine. The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of AbbVie's
common stock. For example, AbbVie could grant the holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of AbbVie's directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to
veto specified
transactions. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences AbbVie could assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of the common stock.   

     Certain provisions in AbbVie's amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws, and of Delaware law, may prevent or delay an
acquisition of AbbVie, which could decrease the trading price of AbbVie's common stock.      

          AbbVie's amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws contain, and Delaware law
contains, provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices or bids unacceptably expensive to the bidder and to encourage
prospective acquirors to negotiate with AbbVie's board of directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include, among
others:  

the inability of AbbVie's stockholders to call a special meeting;   
           rules regarding how stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at stockholder meetings;    
           the right of AbbVie's board to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval;    
           the division of AbbVie's board of directors into three classes of directors, with each class serving a staggered
three-year term;   
           a provision that stockholders may only remove directors for cause;   
           the ability of AbbVie's directors, and not stockholders, to fill vacancies on AbbVie's board of directors; and    
           the requirement that the affirmative vote of stockholders holding at least 80 percent of AbbVie's voting stock is
required to amend certain provisions in AbbVie's amended and restated certificate of incorporation and AbbVie's amended and restated by-laws relating to the number, term and election of
AbbVie's directors, the filling of board vacancies, the calling of special meetings of stockholders and director and officer indemnification provisions.    

In
addition, because AbbVie has not chosen to be exempt from Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, this provision could also delay or prevent a change of control
that you may favor. Section 203 provides that, subject to limited exceptions, persons that acquire, or are affiliated with a person that acquires, more than 15 percent of the outstanding
voting stock of a Delaware corporation shall not engage in any business combination with that corporation, including by merger, consolidation or acquisitions of additional shares, for a
three-year period following the date on which that person or its affiliates becomes the holder of more than 15 percent of the corporation's outstanding voting stock.   

          AbbVie
believes these provisions protect its stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirors to negotiate with AbbVie's board of
directors and by   

  30  

providing
AbbVie's board of directors with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. These provisions are not intended to make the company immune from takeovers. However, these provisions apply
even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that AbbVie's board of directors determines is not in the best interests of AbbVie and
AbbVie's stockholders. These provisions may also prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors.   

          Several
of the agreements that AbbVie has entered into with Abbott require Abbott's consent to any assignment by AbbVie of its rights and obligations under the agreements. These
agreements will generally expire within two years of AbbVie's separation from Abbott, except for certain agreements that will continue for longer terms and in some cases for the life of the products
covered by the agreements. The consent and termination rights set forth in these agreements might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control that you may consider favorable. See Item 13,
"Certain Relationships
and Related Transactions, and Director Independence" for a more detailed description of these agreements and provisions.   

          In
addition, an acquisition or further issuance of AbbVie's stock could trigger the application of Section 355(e) of the Internal Revenue Code. Under the tax sharing agreement,
AbbVie would be required to indemnify Abbott for the resulting tax, and this indemnity obligation might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control that you may consider favorable.   

CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS            

          This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains certain forward looking statements regarding business strategies, market
potential, future financial performance and other matters. The words "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "project" and similar expressions, among others, generally identify "forward looking
statements," which speak only as of the date the statements were made. The matters discussed in these forward looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause
actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied in the forward looking statements. In particular, information included under Item 1, "Business," Item 1A,
"Risk Factors," and Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contain forward looking statements. Where, in any forward looking statement,
an expectation or belief as to future results or events is expressed, such expectation or belief is based on the current plans and expectations of AbbVie management and expressed in good faith and
believed to have a reasonable basis, but there can be no assurance that the expectation or belief will result or be achieved or accomplished. Factors that could cause actual results or events to
differ materially from those anticipated include the matters described under Item 1A, "Risk Factors" and Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations." AbbVie does not undertake any obligation to update the forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to reflect events or circumstances
after the date hereof, unless AbbVie is required by applicable securities law to do so.    

ITEM 1B.    UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS            

None.   

  31  

ITEM 2.    PROPERTIES            

          AbbVie's corporate offices are located at 1 North Waukegan Road, North Chicago, Illinois 60064-6400. AbbVie's
principal manufacturing plants are in the following locations:   

United States    
     
   Outside the United States    

Abbott Park, Illinois*  
     
  Campoverde di Aprilia, Italy  

Barceloneta, Puerto Rico  
     
  Cork, Ireland  

Jayuya, Puerto Rico  
     
  Ludwigshafen, Germany  

North Chicago, Illinois  
     
  Sligo, Ireland  

Worcester, Massachusetts  

*    Leased
property.    

In
addition to the above, AbbVie has other manufacturing facilities in the United States and worldwide. AbbVie believes its facilities are suitable and provide adequate production
capacity.   

          In
the United States, including Puerto Rico, AbbVie owns one distribution center. AbbVie also has four United States research and development facilities located at: Abbott Park,
Illinois; North Chicago, Illinois; Redwood City, California; and Worcester, Massachusetts. Outside the United States, AbbVie's principal research and development facilities are located in Shanghai,
China and Ludwigshafen, Germany.   

          Except
as noted, the principal plants in the United States listed above are owned by AbbVie or subsidiaries of AbbVie. The remaining manufacturing plants and all other facilities are
owned or leased by AbbVie or subsidiaries of AbbVie.    

ITEM 3.    LEGAL PROCEEDINGS            

          Subject to certain exceptions specified in the separation agreement, AbbVie assumed the liability for, and control of, all pending and
threatened legal matters related to its business, including liabilities for any claims or legal proceedings related to products that had been part of its business but were discontinued prior to the
distribution, as well as assumed or retained liabilities, and will indemnify Abbott for any liability arising out of or resulting from such assumed legal matters. As of January 31, 2013 (except
as noted below), AbbVie is involved in various claims, legal proceedings, and investigations, including those described below. While it is not feasible to predict the outcome of such pending claims,
proceedings and investigations with certainty, management is of the opinion that their ultimate resolution should not have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's financial position, cash flows, or
results of operations.   

          Several
cases are pending against AbbVie that generally allege Abbott and numerous other pharmaceutical companies reported false pricing information in connection with certain drugs that
are reimbursable under Medicare and Medicaid. These cases brought by state Attorneys General generally seek monetary damages and/or injunctive relief and attorneys' fees. The following cases are
pending in state courts:    Commonwealth of Kentucky   , filed in September 2003 in the Circuit Court of Franklin County, Kentucky;     State of Wisconsin   , filed in
June 2004 in the Circuit Court of Dane County, Wisconsin;    State of
Illinois   , filed in February 2005 in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois; and    State of Louisiana   , filed in October 2010 in
the Nineteenth Judicial District, Parish of Baton Rouge, Louisiana. All other previously reported cases that were pending against AbbVie in state courts have been settled. As previously reported,
certain federal court cases were consolidated for pre-trial purposes in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts under the Multi District Litigation Rules as     In re: Pharmaceutical Industry Average
Wholesale Price Litigation, MDL 1456   . In the fourth quarter of 2012, the only remaining MDL 1456 case, which was
filed in August 2006 on behalf of the State of South Carolina, was settled and dismissed with prejudice.   

  32  

AbbVie
is seeking to enforce its patent rights relating to testosterone gel (a drug AbbVie sells under the trademark AndroGel  1.62%). In a case filed in the United States
District Court for the District of Delaware in February 2013, AbbVie alleges that Perrigo Company's and Perrigo Israel
Pharmaceutical Ltd.'s proposed generic product infringes an AbbVie patent and seeks declaratory and injunctive relief.   

Several
pending lawsuits filed against Unimed Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Solvay Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (a company Abbott acquired in February 2010) et al. were consolidated for
pre-trial purposes in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Georgia under the Multi District Litigation Rules as    In re AndroGel Antitrust
Litigation   , MDL No. 2084. These cases, brought by private plaintiffs and the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), generally allege Solvay's 2006 patent litigation involving
AndroGel was sham litigation and the patent litigation settlement agreement and related agreements with three generic companies violate federal and state antitrust laws and state consumer protection
and unjust enrichment laws. Plaintiffs generally seek monetary damages and/or injunctive relief and attorneys' fees. MDL 2084 includes: (a) three individual plaintiff lawsuits:     Supervalu, Inc. v. Unimed Pharmaceuticals,
Inc. et al   ., filed in April 2010 in the United States District Court for the Northern District of
Georgia; and    Rite Aid Corp. et al. v. Unimed Pharmaceuticals, Inc. et al   . and    Walgreen Co. et al. v. Unimed
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. et al   ., both of which were filed in June 2009 in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Pennsylvania and subsequently
transferred to the United States District Court for the Northern District of Georgia; (b) seven purported class actions:    Meijer, Inc. et al. v. Unimed
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. et al   .,    Rochester Drug Co-Operative, Inc. et al. v. Unimed Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
et al   ., and    Louisiana Wholesale Drug Co., Inc. et al. v. Unimed Pharmaceuticals, Inc. et al   ., all of which
were filed in May 2009 in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Georgia;    Fraternal Order of Police v. Unimed Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
et al   ., filed in September 2009 in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Georgia;    Jabo's Pharmacy, Inc. v. Solvay
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. et al   ., filed in October 2009 in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Tennessee;    LeGrand v. Unimed
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. et al   ., filed in September 2010 in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Georgia; and    Health Net,
Inc. v. Solvay Pharmaceuticals, Inc   ., filed in February 2011 in the Northern District of Georgia; and (c) a lawsuit brought by the FTC,    Federal
Trade Commission v. Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc. et al   ., filed in May 2009 in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Georgia. In February 2010,
Solvay's motion to dismiss the cases was partially granted and all of the FTC's claims and all of the plaintiffs' claims except those alleging sham litigation were dismissed. In May 2012, that
decision was affirmed on appeal by the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit. In December 2012, the United States Supreme Court approved the FTC's October 2012 petition for review of
the Eleventh Circuit's decision. In September 2012, the District Court granted summary judgment in favor of Solvay on the remaining claims of the private plaintiffs.   

As
previously reported, Abbott was seeking to enforce its patent rights relating to fenofibrate tablets (a drug AbbVie sells under the trademark TriCor ). In a case filed in
the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey in August 2011, Abbott and the patent owner, Laboratoires Fournier, S.A. (Fournier), alleged infringement of three patents and sought
injunctive relief against Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc. and Mylan, Inc. (Mylan). In a related case where Abbott was involved as a result of its acquisition of Fournier Laboratories Ireland Ltd. (Fournier
Ireland), Abbott sought to enforce additional rights relating to fenofibrate tablets. In a case filed in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey in August 2011, Abbott's
subsidiary, Fournier Ireland, and joint patent owner, Alkermes Pharma Ireland Limited (Alkermes), alleged infringement of two jointly-owned patents and sought injunctive relief against Mylan. In the
fourth quarter of 2012, these cases were settled and dismissed without prejudice.   

          AbbVie
is seeking to enforce its patent rights relating to ritonavir/lopinavir tablets (a drug AbbVie sells under the trademark Kaletra ). In a case filed in the United
States District Court for the   

  33  

Northern
District of Illinois in March 2009, AbbVie alleges that Matrix Laboratories, Inc., Matrix Laboratories, Ltd., and Mylan, Inc.'s proposed generic products infringe AbbVie's patents and seeks
declaratory and injunctive relief. Upon Matrix's motion in November 2009, the court granted a five-year stay of the litigation unless good cause to lift the stay is shown.   

          AbbVie
is seeking to enforce its patent rights relating to ritonavir tablets (a drug AbbVie sells under the trademark Norvir ). In a case filed in the United States District
Court for the District of Delaware in April 2012, AbbVie alleges that Roxane Laboratories, Inc.'s (Roxane) proposed generic product infringes five AbbVie patents and seeks declaratory and injunctive
relief. Also in April 2012, Roxane filed a declaratory judgment action in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Ohio alleging that two of the five AbbVie patents are invalid
and not infringed by Roxane's proposed generic ritonavir product.   

          AbbVie
is seeking to enforce its patent rights relating to niacin extended release tablets (a drug AbbVie sells in the U.S. under the trademark Niaspan ). In a case filed in
the United States District Court for the District of Delaware in February 2010, AbbVie alleges that Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd.'s and Sun Pharma Global FZE's generic product infringes AbbVie's
patents and seeks declaratory and injunctive relief. In a second case filed in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware in June 2010, AbbVie alleges Sandoz Inc.'s proposed generic
product infringes AbbVie's patents and seeks declaratory and injunctive relief. In a third case filed in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware in January 2012, AbbVie alleges
Zydus Pharmaceuticals (USA), Inc.'s proposed generic product infringes AbbVie's patents and seeks declaratory and injunctive relief. In a fourth case filed in the United States District Court for the
District of Delaware in February 2012, AbbVie alleges that Amneal Pharmaceutical's proposed generic product infringes AbbVie's patents and seeks declaratory and injunctive relief. In a fifth case
filed in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware in March 2012, AbbVie alleges that Mylan Inc. and Mylan Pharmaceutical Inc.'s proposed generic product infringes AbbVie's patents
and seeks declaratory and injunctive relief. In a sixth case filed in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware in March 2012, AbbVie alleges that Watson Laboratories Inc.'s
proposed generic product infringes AbbVie's patents and seeks declaratory and injunctive relief. In a seventh case filed in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware in June 2012,
AbbVie alleges that Kremers Urban Pharmaceuticals Inc.'s proposed generic product infringes AbbVie's patents and seeks declaratory and injunctive relief.   

          AbbVie
is seeking to enforce certain patent rights that cover the use of fully human anti-TNF alpha antibodies with methotrexate to treat rheumatoid arthritis. In a case
filed in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts in May 2009, AbbVie alleges Centocor Ortho Biotech, Inc.'s (now Janssen Biotech, Inc.'s) product Simponi 
infringes AbbVie's patents and seeks damages and injunctive relief.   

          AbbVie
is seeking to enforce its patent rights relating to fenofibric acid capsules (a drug AbbVie sells in the U.S. under the trademark TRILIPIX ). In a case filed in the
United States District Court for the District of New Jersey in March 2011, AbbVie and its subsidiary Fournier Laboratories Ireland Ltd. allege that Sandoz Inc.'s proposed generic product infringes
AbbVie's patent and seek injunctive relief.    

ITEM 4.    MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES            

          Not applicable.   

  34  

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT            

          The following table lists AbbVie's executive officers, each of whom was appointed as an AbbVie corporate officer in December 2012.   

Name    
     
   Age    
     
   Position    

Richard A. Gonzalez  
     
  59  
     
  Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer  

Laura J. Schumacher  
     
  49  
     
  Executive Vice President, Business Development, External Affairs and General Counsel  

William J. Chase  
     
  45  
     
  Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer  

Carlos Alban  
     
  50  
     
  Executive Vice President, Commercial Operations  

John M. Leonard, M.D.  
     
  55  
     
  Senior Vice President, Chief Scientific Officer  

Timothy J. Richmond  
     
  46  
     
  Senior Vice President, Human Resources  

Azita Saleki-Gerhardt, Ph.D.  
     
  49  
     
  Senior Vice President, Operations  

Thomas A. Hurwich  
     
  52  
     
  Vice President, Controller  

Mr. Gonzalez
is AbbVie's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. He served as Abbott's Executive Vice President, Pharmaceutical Products Group from 2010 to 2012, and was responsible
for Abbott's worldwide pharmaceutical business, including commercial operations, research and development, and manufacturing. He has also served as President, Abbott Ventures Inc., Abbott's medical
technology investment arm, from 2009 to 2011. Mr. Gonzalez joined Abbott in 1977 and held various management positions before briefly retiring in 2007, including Abbott's President and Chief
Operating Officer, President, Chief Operating Officer of Abbott's Medical Products Group, Senior Vice President and President of Abbott's former Hospital Products Division (now Hospira, Inc.), Vice
President and President of Abbott's Health Systems Division, and Divisional Vice President and General Manager for Abbott's Diagnostics Operations in the United States and Canada.   

          Ms. Schumacher
is AbbVie's Executive Vice President, Business Development, External Affairs and General Counsel. She served as Abbott's Executive Vice President, General Counsel,
and Corporate Secretary from 2007 to 2012, and as Senior Vice President, Corporate Secretary, and General Counsel from 2005 to 2007. Ms. Schumacher was also responsible for Abbott's licensing
and acquisitions function and its Office of Ethics and Compliance. Prior to her appointment as General Counsel of Abbott, Ms. Schumacher headed Abbott's litigation department.
Ms. Schumacher joined Abbott in 1990.   

          Mr. Chase
is AbbVie's Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer. He served as Abbott's Vice President, Licensing and Acquisitions from 2010 to 2012, as Vice President,
Treasurer from 2007 to 2010, and as Divisional Vice President, Controller of Abbott International from 2004 to 2007. Mr. Chase joined Abbott in 1989.   

          Mr. Alban
is AbbVie's Executive Vice President, Commercial Operations. He served as Abbott's Senior Vice President, Proprietary Pharmaceutical Products, Global Commercial
Operations from 2011 to 2012, as Senior Vice President, International Pharmaceuticals from 2009 to 2011, as Vice President, Pharmaceuticals, Western Europe and Canada from 2008 to 2009, as Vice
President, Western Europe and Canada from 2007 to 2008, and as Vice President, European Operations from 2006 to 2007. Mr. Alban joined Abbott in 1986.   

          Dr. Leonard
is AbbVie's Senior Vice President, Chief Scientific Officer. He served as Abbott's Senior Vice President, Pharmaceuticals, Research and Development from 2008 to 2012,
and as Vice President, Global Pharmaceutical Research and Development from 2006 to 2008. Dr. Leonard joined Abbott in 1992.   

  35  

Mr. Richmond
is AbbVie's Senior Vice President, Human Resources. He served as Abbott's Divisional Vice President of Compensation   Benefits from 2008 to 2012, as Group Vice
President of Talent and Rewards from 2007 to 2008, and as Divisional Vice President of Talent Acquisition from 2006 to 2007. Mr. Richmond joined Abbott in 2006.   

Dr. Saleki-Gerhardt
is AbbVie's Senior Vice President, Operations. She served as Abbott's Vice President, Pharmaceuticals Manufacturing and Supply from 2011 to 2012, and as
Divisional Vice President, Quality Assurance, Global Pharmaceutical Operations from 2008 to 2011. Dr. Saleki-Gerhardt joined Abbott in 1993.   

          Mr. Hurwich
is AbbVie's Vice President, Controller. He served as Abbott's Vice President, Internal Audit from 2009 to 2012, and as Divisional Vice President, Controller, Abbott
Diagnostics Division from 2003 to 2009. Mr. Hurwich joined Abbott in 1983.   

          The
executive officers of AbbVie are elected annually by the board of directors. All other officers are elected by the board or appointed by the chairman of the board. All officers are
either elected at the first meeting of the board of directors held after the annual stockholder meeting or appointed by the chairman after that board meeting. Each officer holds office until a
successor has been duly elected or appointed and qualified or until the officer's death, resignation, or removal. There are no family relationships between any of the executive officers listed above.   

  36  

PART II            

ITEM 5.    MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES            

    Principal Market     

          The principal market for AbbVie's common stock is the New York Stock Exchange. A "when-issued" trading market for
AbbVie's common stock began on the NYSE on December 10, 2012, and "regular way" trading of AbbVie's common stock began on January 2, 2013. Prior to December 10, 2012 there was no
public market for AbbVie's common stock. AbbVie's common stock is also listed on the Chicago Stock Exchange and traded on various regional and electronic exchanges. Outside the United States, AbbVie's
common stock is listed on NYSE Euronext Paris and the SIX Swiss Exchange.   

          From
January 2, 2013 through January 31, 2013, the highest sales price for AbbVie's common stock on the NYSE was $38.52 per share, and the lowest sales price for AbbVie's
common stock on the NYSE was $33.33 per share.   

    Shareholders     

          There were 60,713 shareholders of record of AbbVie common stock as of January 31, 2013.   

    Dividends     

          AbbVie expects that it will pay a regular cash dividend at an annual rate of $1.60 per share, starting with the quarterly dividend paid
in February 2013. However, the timing, declaration, amount of, and payment of any dividends by AbbVie is within the discretion of its board of directors and will depend upon many factors, including
AbbVie's financial condition, earnings, capital requirements of its operating subsidiaries, covenants associated with certain of AbbVie's debt service obligations, legal requirements, regulatory
constraints, industry practice, ability to access capital markets, and other factors deemed relevant by its board of directors. Moreover, if AbbVie determines to pay any dividend in the future, there
can be no assurance that it will continue to pay such dividends or the amount of such dividends.   

          AbbVie Inc.
is an Illinois High Impact Business (HIB) and is located in a federal Foreign Trade Sub-Zone (Sub-Zone 22S). Dividends may be eligible for a
subtraction from base income for Illinois income tax purposes. If you have questions, please contact your tax advisor.   

  37  

ITEM 6.    SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA            

  The following table sets forth AbbVie's selected financial information derived from its (i) unaudited combined financial statements as of
December 31, 2009 and 2008 and for the year ended December 31, 2008; and (ii) audited combined financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, 2010 and
2009 and as of December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010. The historical financial information presented may not be indicative of the results of operations or financial position that would have been
obtained if AbbVie had been an independent company during the periods shown or of AbbVie's future performance as an independent company.   

  The
selected financial information should be read in conjunction with the combined financial statements and accompanying notes and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations."   

(a)    On
January 1, 2013, Abbott Laboratories distributed 1,577 million shares of AbbVie common stock. The computation of basic and diluted shares
for all periods through December 31, 2012 is calculated using the shares distributed on January 1, 2013. Refer to Note 2 to the combined financial statements for information
regarding earnings per common share.
      (b)    Also
includes current portion of long-term debt and lease obligations.    

38  

ITEM 7.    MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS            

The following is a discussion and analysis of the financial position and results of operations of AbbVie Inc. for each of the three years in
the period ended December 31, 2012. This commentary should be read in conjunction with the combined financial statements and accompanying notes appearing in Item 8, "Financial Statements
and Supplementary Data."   

    EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW     

    Company Overview     

  AbbVie Inc. (AbbVie or the company) is a global, research-based biopharmaceutical company. AbbVie develops and markets advanced therapies that
address some of the world's most complex and serious diseases. AbbVie products are used to treat rheumatoid arthritis, psoriasis, Crohn's disease, HIV, cystic fibrosis complications, low testosterone,
thyroid disease, Parkinson's disease, ulcerative colitis, and complications associated with chronic kidney disease, among other indications. AbbVie also has a pipeline of promising new
medicines, including more than 20 compounds or indications in Phase II or Phase III development across such important medical specialties as immunology, renal care, hepatitis C virus
(HCV), women's health, oncology, and neuroscience, including multiple sclerosis and Alzheimer's disease. AbbVie has approximately 21,500 employees and its products are sold in over
170 countries. AbbVie operates in one business segment pharmaceutical products.   

  On
January 1, 2013, AbbVie became an independent company as a result of the distribution by Abbott Laboratories (Abbott) of 100 percent of the outstanding common stock of AbbVie to
Abbott's shareholders. Each Abbott shareholder of record as of the close of business on December 12, 2012, received one share of AbbVie common stock for each Abbott common share held as of the
record date. AbbVie was incorporated in Delaware on April 10, 2012 and is comprised of Abbott's former research-based pharmaceuticals business. AbbVie's Registration Statement on Form 10
was declared effective by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on December 7, 2012. AbbVie's common stock began trading "regular-way" under the ticker symbol "ABBV" on the
New York Stock Exchange on January 2, 2013. Refer to the "Basis of Presentation" section below for further information.   

  AbbVie's
products include a broad line of adult and pediatric pharmaceuticals manufactured, marketed, and sold worldwide and are generally sold directly to wholesalers, distributors, government
agencies, health care facilities, specialty pharmacies, and independent retailers from distribution centers and public warehouses. Outside the United States, sales are made either directly to
customers or through distributors, depending on the market served. Certain products are co-marketed or co-promoted with other companies.   

HUMIRA's
worldwide sales increased to $9.3 billion in 2012 compared to $7.9 billion in 2011 and $6.5 billion in 2010. In 2003, AbbVie began the worldwide launch of HUMIRA for
rheumatoid arthritis, followed by launches for six additional indications in the United States and eight additional indications in the European Union. HUMIRA received approval for the treatment of
moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis in adult patients who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy from the European Commission in April 2012 and from the U.S. Food
and Drug Administration (FDA) in October 2012. In July 2012, HUMIRA received approval from the European Commission for the treatment of severe axial spondyloarthritis in adult patients who have no
X-ray evidence of structural damage, and in November 2012, it received approval from the European Commission for the treatment of pediatric patients aged 6 to 17 years with severe
active Crohn's disease who failed, are intolerant to, or have contraindications to conventional therapy. AbbVie is studying additional indications for HUMIRA. Substantial research and development and
selling support has been and continues to be dedicated to maximizing the worldwide potential of HUMIRA. AbbVie forecasts low double-digit growth for worldwide HUMIRA sales in 2013.   

  39  

The
acquisition of Solvay SA's U.S. pharmaceuticals business (Solvay) and certain other product rights for $1.9 billion in February 2010 added several new products, including the rights to
AndroGel and Creon, to AbbVie's portfolio. Generic competition began in November 2012 for TriCor and is expected to begin in the second half of 2013 for Niaspan and in the second half of 2013 or early
2014 for TRILIPIX. As a result, sales for AbbVie's combined lipid franchise including TriCor, TRILIPIX, Niaspan and Simcor, which were $2.1 billion in 2012 and $2.5 billion in 2011, are
expected to total less than $1.0 billion in 2013. The decrease in sales of Zemplar from $596 million in 2010 to $383 million in 2012 reflects the impact of changes in
reimbursement regulations resulting from health care reform legislation. Austerity measures implemented by several European countries reduced health care spending and affected pharmaceuticals pricing
in those countries in all years presented.   

    Strategic Objectives     

  AbbVie's long-term strategy is to maximize its existing portfolio through new indications, share gains, increased reach and geographic
expansion in underserved markets while also advancing its new product pipeline. To successfully execute its long-term strategy, AbbVie will focus on expanding HUMIRA sales, advancing the
pipeline, expanding its presence in emerging markets and managing its product portfolio to maximize value.   

  AbbVie
expects to continue to drive strong HUMIRA sales growth in several ways. AbbVie seeks to expand the HUMIRA patient base by applying for regulatory approval of new indications for HUMIRA,
treating conditions such as axial and peripheral spondyloarthritis and uveitis. AbbVie will also seek to drive HUMIRA sales growth by expanding its market share and its presence in underserved
markets.   

  Research
and development (R D) efforts will continue to focus a significant portion of expenditures on compounds for immunology, oncology, neuroscience, pain management, virology, renal disease and
women's health. AbbVie's goal is to bring to market products that demonstrate strong clinical performance for patients and economic value for payors. Current research and development projects are
described in the "Research and Development" section below.   

  AbbVie
plans to continue making investments in key emerging markets, including Brazil, China, Mexico and Russia. Continued penetration of HUMIRA and other leading products is expected to help drive
growth in these markets.   

  AbbVie
will continue its investment in products with durable sales, while making adjustments as necessary to increase the value of its product portfolio. AbbVie plans to achieve this objective in a
variety of ways depending on product and circumstances by, for example, identifying supply chain efficiencies, pursuing additional indications, and optimizing residual value as products reach the end
of exclusivity. AbbVie believes that its approach will allow the company to maintain a strong operating margin.   

    Research and Development     

  R D innovation and scientific productivity continue to be a key strategic priority for AbbVie. AbbVie's long-term success depends to a
great extent on its ability
to continue to discover and develop innovative pharmaceutical products and acquire or collaborate on compounds currently in development by other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies. AbbVie has a
pipeline of more than 20 compounds or indications in Phase II or III development individually or under collaboration or license agreements. R D is focused on therapeutic areas that include
virology, renal disease, neuroscience, oncology, immunology, and women's health, among others.   

  40  

Virology     

  AbbVie has released positive Phase II and Phase IIb results from interferon-free studies for the treatment of HCV. In
October 2012, AbbVie initiated a comprehensive Phase III program for genotype 1 HCV that involves combinations of ABT-450; a protease inhibitor for HCV infection;
ABT-333, a polymerase inhibitor; and ABT-267, a NS5A inhibitor.   

    Renal Disease     

  AbbVie's renal care pipeline includes atrasentan, for the treatment of diabetic chronic kidney disease (CKD). A Phase IIb study of atrasentan
in patients with diabetic kidney disease, which began in June 2011, has been completed, with results to be presented in 2013. Atrasentan will potentially be the first compound launched to treat
diabetic nephropathy by specifically targeting albuminuria and slowing the progression of CKD. AbbVie is also investigating ABT-719, in Phase IIb development, for the treatment of
acute kidney injury associated with major surgeries.   

  In
2010, AbbVie entered into an agreement with Reata Pharmaceuticals Inc. (Reata) for ex-U.S. rights, excluding certain Asian markets, to bardoxolone methyl, an investigational treatment
for CKD. A global Phase III clinical trial was initiated in June 2011. On October 17, 2012, Reata informed AbbVie that it is discontinuing the Phase III clinical study. The
discontinuation was based on a recommendation from the study's Independent Data Monitoring Committee regarding safety concerns due to excess serious adverse events and mortality in the bardoxolone
methyl arm. Reata and AbbVie will closely examine the data from this study to determine whether there is an appropriate path forward for the development of bardoxolone methyl in CKD or other
indications.   

    Neuroscience and Pain     

  AbbVie has clinical studies underway on multiple compounds that target receptors in the brain that help regulate mood, memory, and other neurological
functions and conditions, including schizophrenia, pain, Alzheimer's disease, and multiple sclerosis (MS).   

AbbVie is collaborating with Biogen Idec to develop daclizumab for the treatment of the relapsing remitting form of MS,
which is the most common form, and affects nearly 85 percent of newly diagnosed MS patients. Daclizumab, an anti-CD25 monoclonal antibody, is currently in Phase III
development.   
           AbbVie is investigating ABT-126, an  a 7-NNR modulator, in
both Alzheimer's disease and cognitive deficits of schizophrenia. Additional Phase IIb studies began in March 2012.   
           The development of ABT-110 for the treatment of multiple pain indications has been suspended based upon FDA
class-wide feedback.   
           A levodopa-carbidopa intestinal gel completed its Phase III program and AbbVie is pursuing regulatory approval in
the United States. This product is sold under the Duodopa name outside the United States.    

Oncology     

  AbbVie is focused on the development of targeted treatments that inhibit tumor growth and improve response to common cancer therapies. AbbVie's
oncology pipeline includes the following.   

Elotuzumab, an anti-CD37 antibody for the treatment of multiple myeloma under a collaboration with
Bristol-Myers Squibb. Phase III development began in June 2011.   
           Veliparib, a PARP-inhibitor. A Phase IIb study in BRCA-mutated breast cancer being treated
with chemotherapy was initiated in 2011. Veliparib is also in Phase II evaluation for the    
 
  41  

treatment
of a variety of other solid tumors, including brain metastases from non-small-cell lung cancer being treated with radiation therapy and
non-small-cell lung cancer in combination with chemotherapy.   

ABT-199, a next-generation Bcl-2 inhibitor in development for chronic lymphocytic
leukemia is expected to start Phase III evaluation in 2013.   
           Other molecular targets are being explored with Antibody-Drug Conjugate approaches linking
anti-target antibodies with potent cytotoxic agents.    

Women's Health     

  AbbVie is developing a novel oral gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) antagonist, elagolix, under a collaboration with Neurocrine Biosciences for
the treatment of endometriosis-related pain and uterine fibroids. A Phase III study in endometriosis began in mid-2012 and a Phase IIa study for uterine fibroids was
initiated in November 2011.   

    Immunology     

  AbbVie is developing several additional indications for HUMIRA and has a number of next-generation programs underway to address
immune-mediated conditions, including the following.   

Dual variable domain immunoglobulin (DVD-Ig) technology, which represents an approach that can target multiple
disease-causing antigens with a single biologic agent. This proprietary technology could lead to next-generation biologic treatments for complex conditions such as cancer or rheumatoid
arthritis, where multiple pathways are involved in the disease.   
           AbbVie is collaborating with Biotest AG on an anti-CD4 biologic known as tregalizumab. The compound is
currently in Phase IIb clinical trials for rheumatoid arthritis and psoriasis.   
           GLPG0634, a next-generation, oral Janus Kinase 1 (JAK1) inhibitor, is being developed with Galapagos NV
in a collaboration entered into during the first quarter of 2012. GLPG0634 is currently in Phase IIb development to treat rheumatoid arthritis and may be able to address other autoimmune
diseases.   
           In the fourth quarter of 2011, AbbVie entered into a collaboration with Reata for the joint development and
commercialization of second-generation, oral antioxidant inflammation modulators.    

Additional Indications and Formulations     

  AbbVie continues to dedicate R D efforts to expanding indications for HUMIRA, including in the fields of rheumatology (peripheral spondyloarthritis,
axial spondyloarthritis and pediatric enthesitis related arthritis), gastroenterology (pediatric Crohn's disease and pediatric ulcerative colitis), dermatology (pediatric psoriasis and
hidradenitis suppurativa), and ophthalmology (uveitis). Phase III trials are ongoing in preparation for regulatory applications for: uveitis in the United States and the European Union;
peripheral and axial spondyloarthritis in the United States; peripheral spondyloarthritis in the European Union and hidradenitis suppurativa in the United States and the European Union. The following
registrations and approvals have occurred since January 1, 2011.   

European Union approval for pediatric Crohn's disease was obtained in November 2012.    
           For ulcerative colitis, European Union approval was obtained in April 2012 and approval in the United States was
obtained in September 2012.   
           For axial spondyloarthritis, approval in the European Union was obtained in July 2012. The registration submission was
made in the United States in November 2012.    
 
  42  

In 2011, new formulations of some of AbbVie's existing pharmaceutical products were approved, including the
6-month and 3-month strengths of Lupron Depot in the United States in June and August, respectively. In the United States, a new strength for Creon was approved in June 2011
and AndroGel 1.62% was approved in April 2011. An additional registration submission for a new strength for Creon was made in September 2012.    

Given
the numerous sources for potential future growth, no individual project is expected to be material to cash flows or results of operations over the next five years. Factors considered included
R D expenses projected to be incurred for the project over the next year relative to AbbVie's total R D expenses as well as qualitative factors, such as marketplace perceptions and impact of a new
product on AbbVie's overall market position. There were no delays in AbbVie's 2012 R D activities that are expected to have a material impact on operations.   

  While
the aggregate cost to complete the numerous pharmaceutical projects currently in development is expected to be material, the total cost to complete will depend upon AbbVie's ability to
successfully complete each project, the rate at which each project advances, the nature and extent of cost-sharing arrangements, and the ultimate timing for completion. Given the potential
for significant delays and the high rate of failure inherent in the research and development of new pharmaceutical products, it is not possible to accurately estimate the total cost to complete all
projects currently in development. However, AbbVie plans to continue to manage its portfolio of projects to achieve research and development spend equal to approximately 14 to 16 percent of net
sales each year. AbbVie does not regularly accumulate or make management decisions based on the total expenses incurred for a particular development phase in a given period.   

    Basis of Presentation     

  AbbVie's historical combined financial statements have been prepared on a stand-alone basis and are derived from Abbott's consolidated financial
statements and accounting records as if the former research-based pharmaceuticals business of Abbott had been part of AbbVie for all periods presented. The combined financial statements reflect
AbbVie's financial position, results of operations, and cash flows as its business was operated as part of Abbott prior to the distribution, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles. The combined financial statements principally represent the historical results of operations and assets and liabilities of Abbott's Proprietary Pharmaceutical Products segment.   

  The
historical financial statements included the allocation of certain assets and liabilities that had historically been held at the Abbott corporate level but which were specifically identifiable or
allocable to AbbVie. Prior to 2012, cash and equivalents, short-term investments and restricted
funds held by Abbott were not allocated to AbbVie unless the cash or investments were held by an entity that was transferred to AbbVie. At December 31, 2012, cash and equivalents and
short-term investments reflected AbbVie's direct ownership of these assets. Prior to 2012, long-term debt and short-term borrowings were not allocated to AbbVie as
none of the debt recorded by Abbott was directly attributable to or guaranteed by AbbVie. In 2012, AbbVie issued $14.7 billion of long-term debt with maturities ranging from three
to 30 years and $1.0 billion of commercial paper, which was reflected on AbbVie's combined balance sheet at December 31, 2012.   

  All
intracompany AbbVie transactions have been eliminated. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, all intercompany transactions between AbbVie and Abbott were considered to be effectively settled in
the combined financial statements at the time the transactions were recorded. The total net effect of the settlement of these intercompany transactions was reflected in the combined statements of cash
flow as a financing activity and in the combined balance sheets as net parent company investment in AbbVie. At December 31, 2012, outstanding intercompany transactions between AbbVie and Abbott
are   

  43  

reflected
in Due to Abbott Laboratories and Due from Abbott Laboratories on the combined balance sheet.   

  AbbVie's
historical financial statements included an allocation of expenses related to certain Abbott corporate functions, including senior management, legal, human resources, finance, information
technology, and quality assurance. These expenses have been allocated to AbbVie based on direct usage or benefit where identifiable, with the remainder allocated on a pro rata basis of revenues,
headcount, square footage, number of transactions or other measures. AbbVie considers the expense allocation methodology and results to be a reasonable reflection of the utilization of services
provided to, or the benefit received by, the company during the periods presented. The allocations may not, however, reflect the expense the company would have incurred as an independent,
publicly-traded company for the periods presented. Subsequent to the separation, AbbVie expects to incur additional costs associated with being an independent, publicly-traded company, primarily from
higher charges than in the past from Abbott for various services that will continue to be provided on a transition basis and from newly established or expanded corporate functions. AbbVie expects to
incur one-time costs primarily to establish certain stand-alone AbbVie functions and information technology systems, further establish its infrastructure outside the United States and to
complete the separation in certain countries. A portion of these expenditures will be capitalized and depreciated over the assets' useful lives while the remainder will be expensed as incurred,
depending on the nature of the cost. AbbVie believes that cash flows from operations will be sufficient to fund these additional corporate expenses. The historical financial statements do not
necessarily include all of the expenses that would have been incurred had AbbVie been a separate, stand-alone entity and may not necessarily reflect AbbVie's results of operations, financial position
and cash flows had AbbVie been a stand-alone company during the periods presented. Refer to Note 13 for further description of transactions between AbbVie and Abbott.   

    RESULTS OF OPERATIONS     

    Net Sales     

44  

The
increase in sales was primarily due to higher HUMIRA sales, partially offset by the impact of unfavorable foreign currency and the entry of generic TriCor in the fourth quarter of
2012.   

  The
following table details the sales of key products.   

45  

The comparisons presented at constant currency rates reflect comparative local currency sales at the prior year's foreign exchange rates. This measure provides
information on the change in net sales assuming that foreign currency exchange rates have not changed between the prior and the current period. AbbVie believes that the non-GAAP measure of
change in net sales at constant currency rates, when used in conjunction with the GAAP measure of change in net sales at actual currency rates, may provide a more complete understanding of the
company's operations and can facilitate analysis of the company's results of operations, particularly in evaluating performance from one period to another.   

  The
increase in HUMIRA sales reflects market growth and higher market share across various countries as well as higher pricing in certain geographies. HUMIRA received approval from the European
Commission in April 2012 and from the FDA in October 2012 for the treatment of moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis in adult patients who have had an inadequate response to
conventional therapy. With its approval from the European Commission, HUMIRA became the first and only self-injectable biologic therapy for the treatment of moderately to severely
active ulcerative colitis in adults. In July 2012, HUMIRA received approval from the European Commission for the treatment of severe axial spondyloarthritis in adult patients who have no
X-ray evidence of structural damage. In November 2012, HUMIRA received approval from the European Commission for the treatment of pediatric patients aged 6 to 17 years with severe
active Crohn's disease who failed, are intolerant to, or have contraindications to conventional therapy. The approval marked the ninth indication for HUMIRA in the European Union.   

  The
decline in TriCor, TRILIPIX, and Niaspan sales reflects softness in the overall branded cholesterol market and the introduction of a generic version of TriCor in the United States market in
November 2012. As a result, sales for AbbVie's combined lipid franchise including TriCor, TRILIPIX and Niaspan declined 14 percent in 2012 compared to 2011. Under a license agreement for
TRILIPIX 45 mg and 135 mg, generic competition may begin in January 2014, except that under certain circumstances the license may commence as early as July 2013. Under an agreement
relating to AbbVie's niacin products acquired with the Kos Pharmaceuticals acquisition, Niaspan may become subject to generic competition in September 2013.   

  The
decline in Kaletra revenues was primarily due to lower market share in various countries due to the impact of competition.   

  The
increase in AndroGel sales reflected higher prices, market share gains, the launch of AndroGel 1.62% in the second quarter of 2011, and volume growth in the U.S. testosterone replacement market
where AndroGel holds the number one market share position. AndroGel 1% sales are expected to be impacted by generic competition in 2015.   

Sales
of Sevoflurane were impacted by generic competition in 2012 and 2011. Sales of Zemplar in 2011 and 2010 were impacted by changes in reimbursement regulations resulting from health care reform
legislation.   

  46  

Gross Margin     

The
increase in the gross profit margin in 2012 was primarily due to product mix, improved efficiencies, higher prices in certain geographies, and the favorable impact of foreign currency, partially
offset by pricing pressures in various other markets. The improvement also reflects lower amortization expense for intangible assets and the impact of restructuring programs implemented in 2011 to
realign various manufacturing operations. Changes in various governmental rebate programs continue to have a negative effect on the gross profit margins. The 2010 health care reform legislation in the
United States resulted in increased and additional Medicaid rebates beginning in 2010 and in additional rebates related to the Medicare Part D "donut hole" beginning in 2011, which negatively
affected AbbVie's business. The negative impact of the rebates resulting from the 2010 health care reform legislation grew from more than $200 million in 2010 to approximately
$300 million in 2011 and 2012.   

    Selling, General and Administrative     

Selling,
general and administrative (SG A) expenses in 2012 included $213 million of costs associated with the separation of AbbVie from Abbott. SG A expenses in 2012 and 2011 included
litigation charges of $100 million and $1.5 billion, respectively, related to the Depakote investigation. SG A expenses in 2011 and 2010 included $11 million and
$56 million, respectively, related to restructuring and integration projects associated with the 2010 acquisition of Solvay. Refer to Note 12 for information on the Depakote charge and
Note 4 for information on the Solvay acquisition.   

  Excluding
separation costs, litigation charges and Solvay-related restructuring and integration costs from all years, SG A expenses increased 7 percent, 16 percent and 12 percent
in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The increases in SG A expenses over the three-year period were due
primarily to increased selling and marketing support for new and existing products, including continued spending for HUMIRA, and in 2012 and 2011, the impact of the pharmaceutical fee imposed by U.S.
health care reform legislation.   

    Research and Development and Acquired In-Process Research and Development     

R D
increased in 2012 and 2011, reflecting continued pipeline spending on programs in biologics, neuroscience and virology as well as a $50 million R D milestone payment related to a product in
development for the treatment of chronic kidney disease in 2012. R D expenses also included restructuring charges of $169 million in 2012 and $69 million in 2011.   

  47  

Acquired
in-process research and development (IPR D) expense in 2012 included a charge of $110 million for the acquisition of ABT-719, a charge of $150 million as
a result of entering into a global collaboration to develop and commercialize an oral, next-generation JAK1 inhibitor, and a charge of $28 million as a result of entering into a
two-year collaboration agreement to research, develop and commercialize up to three compounds with Antibody-Drug Conjugate approaches. IPR D expenses in 2011 included a charge
of $188 million for the achievement of a developmental milestone under a licensing agreement for the treatment of CKD, and charges of $400 million and $85 million for entering
into collaboration agreements for second-generation oral antioxidant inflammation modulators and an anti-CD4 biologic for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and psoriasis, respectively.
IPR D expenses in 2010 included charges of $238 million and $75 million as a result of entering into a licensing agreement for the treatment of CKD and entering into a collaboration
agreement for the treatment of endometriosis, respectively.   

    Interest Expense     

  Interest expense, net in 2012 of $84 million was comprised primarily of interest expense on outstanding debt and bridge facility fees related
to the separation from Abbott, partially offset by interest income. In November 2012, AbbVie issued $14.7 billion of long-term debt with maturities ranging from three to
30 years. AbbVie entered into interest rate swaps with various financial institutions, which converted $8.0 billion of its fixed rate interest rate debt to floating interest rate debt.
In addition, AbbVie issued $1.0 billion of commercial paper in the fourth quarter of 2012. AbbVie expects to incur approximately $300 million of net interest expense in 2013.   

    Other (Income) Expense     

  Other (income) expense, net, for 2012 included income of $21 million from the resolution of a contractual agreement and a loss of
$52 million for the impairment of an equity security. Other (income) expense, net, included losses of $29 million in 2012 and $56 million in 2011 of fair value adjustments and
accretion in the contingent consideration related to the acquisition of Solvay. Other (income) expense, net, for 2012, 2011 and 2010 also included ongoing contractual payments from Takeda associated
with the conclusion of the TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. joint venture in 2008.   

    Income Tax Expense     

  The income tax rates were 7.9 percent in 2012, 6.4 percent in 2011 and 13.6 percent in 2010. Income taxes in 2012 and 2011
included the recognition of tax benefits totaling approximately $195 million and $410 million, respectively, as a result of favorable resolutions of various tax positions pertaining to
prior years. Income taxes in 2011 also reflected the non-deductibility of a litigation reserve. Excluding these discrete items, the effective tax rates are less than the statutory federal
income tax rate of 35 percent principally due to the benefit of lower statutory tax rates and tax exemptions in Puerto Rico and other foreign taxing jurisdictions that reduced the tax rates by
23.5, 25.4 and 22.5 percentage points in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   

  AbbVie
expects that its effective income tax rate in 2013 will be approximately 22 percent, excluding any discrete items.   

  In
October 2010, Puerto Rico enacted legislation that assesses an excise tax beginning in 2011 on certain products manufactured in Puerto Rico. The tax is levied on gross inventory purchases from
entities in Puerto Rico and was included in cost of products sold. The majority of the tax is creditable for U.S. income tax purposes. In 2012 and 2011, the excise tax totaled approximately
$180 million and $105 million, respectively.   

  48  

Transition from Abbott and Cost to Operate as an Independent Company     

  The combined financial statements reflect the operating results and financial position of AbbVie as it was operated by Abbott, rather than as an
independent company. AbbVie will incur additional ongoing operating expenses to operate as an independent company. These costs will include the cost of various corporate headquarters functions,
incremental information technology-related costs, and incremental costs to operate a stand-alone back office infrastructure outside the United States. In order to establish these stand-alone
functions, AbbVie will also incur non-recurring expenses and capital expenditures.   

  The
transition services agreement in the United States covers certain corporate support services that AbbVie has historically received from Abbott. Such services include information technology,
accounts payable, payroll, and other financial functions, as well as engineering support for various facilities, quality assurance support, and other administrative services. The term of the service
under the agreement varies by activity. This agreement facilitates the separation by allowing AbbVie to operate independently prior to establishing stand-alone back office systems across its
organization.   

  The
operating costs of various information technology systems maintained by Abbott have been allocated to AbbVie on bases which management believes are reasonable. Included in these allocations was
AbbVie's proportionate share of fixed operating costs. As an independent company, AbbVie's information technology operating costs may be higher than the costs allocated in the historical combined
financial statements. In addition, AbbVie will incur non-recurring expenses and capital expenditures to establish its independent information technology systems.   

In
markets outside the United States, AbbVie does not currently have sufficient back office infrastructure to operate without transition service agreements with Abbott. Abbott has entered into a
transition services agreement with AbbVie to provide services outside the United States, including back office services in certain countries, for up to two years after separation. The back office
services provided include information technology, accounts payable, payroll, receivables collection, treasury and other financial functions, as well as order entry, warehousing, and other
administrative services. This transition services agreement allows AbbVie to operate its international pharmaceuticals business independently prior to establishing a stand-alone back office
infrastructure for all countries. During the transition from Abbott, AbbVie will incur non-recurring expenses to expand its international infrastructure. In addition, in certain
international markets, the marketing authorizations to sell AbbVie's products will continue to be held by Abbott post-separation until the authorizations can be transferred through the
applicable regulatory channels.   

  It
is not practicable to estimate the costs that would have been incurred in each of the periods presented in the historical financial statements for the functions described above. Actual costs that
would have been incurred if AbbVie operated as a stand-alone company during these periods would have depended on various factors, including organizational design, outsourcing and other strategic
decisions related to corporate functions, information technology, and international back office infrastructure.   

    FINANCIAL POSITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES     

Strong
cash flows from operating activities in all three years were driven by higher net earnings and focused working capital management. In 2011, AbbVie recorded non-cash charges of
$1.5 billion in   

  49  

accrued
liabilities to accrue a litigation reserve related to claims on AbbVie's previous sales and marketing activities for Depakote. AbbVie made payments of $1.6 billion in 2012 to settle
these claims.   

  AbbVie
issued senior notes of $14.7 billion in November 2012 and $1.0 billion of commercial paper in December 2012. Abbott's guarantee of the senior notes terminated upon the
distribution of AbbVie common stock to the shareholders of Abbott upon the separation on January 1, 2013. The senior notes, which have maturities ranging from three to 30 years, may be
redeemed, at any time, except the floating rate notes and some of the senior notes of each series, at a redemption price equal to the principal amount plus a make-whole premium. The
balance of commercial paper outstanding at December 31, 2012, was $1.0 billion at a weighted-average interest rate of 0.4%. AbbVie may retire or issue additional commercial paper to meet
liquidity requirements as needed. Historically, cash flows from financing activities represented cash transactions with Abbott.   

  The
company's cash and equivalents and short-term investments increased from $653 million at December 31, 2011 to $7,976 million at December 31, 2012. During
2012, Abbott contributed approximately $4.4 billion of cash to newly formed AbbVie entities, and AbbVie distributed $13.2 billion in cash and debt securities to Abbott. Subsequent to the
separation, effective January 1, 2013, AbbVie no longer participates in cash management and funding arrangements with Abbott.   

While
a significant portion of cash and equivalents at December 31, 2012 are considered reinvested indefinitely in foreign subsidiaries, AbbVie does not expect such reinvestment to affect its
liquidity and capital resources. If these funds were needed for operations in the United States, AbbVie would be required to accrue and pay U.S. income taxes to repatriate these funds. AbbVie believes
that it has sufficient sources of liquidity to support its assumption that the disclosed amount of undistributed earnings at December 31, 2012 can be considered to be reinvested indefinitely.   

  On
February 15, 2013, the company announced a $1.5 billion stock repurchase program, which was effective immediately. Purchases of AbbVie shares may be made from time to time at
management's discretion. The plan has no time limit and can be discontinued at any time.   

  A
dividend of $0.40 per share was paid on February 15, 2013 to stockholders of record on January 15, 2013. The board of directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.40 per share
for stockholders of record on April 15, 2013, which will be payable May 15, 2013. AbbVie expects to pay a regular cash dividend at an annual rate of $1.60 per share; however, the timing,
declaration, amount of, and payment of any dividends is within the discretion of its board of directors and will depend upon many factors, including AbbVie's financial condition, earnings, capital
requirements of its operating subsidiaries, covenants associated with certain of AbbVie's debt service obligations, legal requirements, regulatory constraints, industry practice, ability to access
capital markets, and other factors deemed relevant by its board of directors.   

  Substantially
all of AbbVie's trade receivables in Greece, Portugal, Italy and Spain are with governmental health systems. Global economic conditions and liquidity issues in these countries have
resulted, and may continue to result, in delays in the collection of receivables and credit losses. The time to collect outstanding receivables increased in 2011; however, with the exception of
Greece, collection times improved in 2012 relative to 2011 and amounts over one year past due decreased in 2012 relative to 2011.   

  50  

Outstanding
net governmental receivables in these countries at December 31 were as follows.   

With
the exception of Greece, AbbVie historically has collected almost all of the outstanding receivables in these countries. AbbVie continues to monitor the creditworthiness of customers located in
these and other geographic areas and establishes an allowance against an accounts receivable when it is probable they will not be collected. In addition to closely monitoring economic conditions and
budgetary and other fiscal developments in these countries, AbbVie regularly communicates with its customers regarding the status of receivable balances, including their payment plans and obtains
positive confirmation of the validity of the receivables. AbbVie also monitors the potential for and periodically has utilized factoring arrangements to mitigate credit risk although the receivables
included in such arrangements have historically not been a material amount of total outstanding receivables. If government funding were to become unavailable in these countries or if significant
adverse changes in their reimbursement practices were to occur, AbbVie may not be able to collect the entire balance.   

    Credit Facility, Access to Capital and Credit Ratings     

    Credit Facility     

  AbbVie currently has a $2.0 billion unsecured five-year revolving credit facility from a syndicate of lenders, entered into in
July 2012, which also supports commercial paper borrowings. As of the date of separation, January 1, 2013, Abbott's obligations under this facility were relieved and AbbVie became the sole
obligor. The credit facility enables the company to borrow funds at floating interest rates. At December 31, 2012, the company was in compliance with all its credit facility covenants.
Commitment fees under the new credit facility are not material. There were no amounts outstanding on the credit facility on December 31, 2012.   

    Access to Capital     

  The company intends to fund short-term and long-term financial obligations as they mature through cash on hand, future cash
flows from operations or by issuing additional debt. The company's ability to generate cash flows from operations, issue debt or enter into financing arrangements on acceptable terms could be
adversely affected if there is a material decline in the demand for the company's products or in the solvency of its customers or suppliers, deterioration in the company's key financial ratios or
credit ratings or other material unfavorable changes in business conditions. At the current time, the company believes it has sufficient financial flexibility to issue debt, enter into other financing
arrangements and attract long-term capital on acceptable terms to support the company's growth objectives.   

    Credit Ratings     

  In late October 2012, Moody's Investor Service and Standard   Poor's Corporate assigned ratings of Baa1 and A, respectively, to AbbVie.
Unfavorable changes to the ratings may have an adverse impact on future financing arrangements; however, they would not affect the company's ability to draw on its   

  51  

credit
facility and would not result in an acceleration of the scheduled maturities of any of the company's outstanding debt.   

    Contractual Obligations     

  The following table summarizes AbbVie's estimated contractual obligations as of December 31, 2012.   

(a)    Includes
estimated future interest payments on long-term debt securities. Interest payments on debt are calculated for future periods using
interest rates in effect at the end of 2012. Projected interest payments include the related effects of interest rate swap agreements. Certain of these projected interest payments may differ in the
future based on changes in floating interest rates or other factors or events. The projected interest payments only pertain to obligations and agreements outstanding at December 31, 2012. Refer
to Notes 7 and 8 for further discussion regarding the company's debt instruments and related interest rate agreements outstanding at December 31, 2012.
      (b)    Includes
the company's significant unconditional purchase obligations. These commitments do not exceed the company's projected requirements and are made in
the normal course of business.
      (c)    Excludes
pension and other post-employment benefits and related deferred compensation cash outflows. Timing of funding is uncertain and
dependent on future movements in interest rates and investment returns, changes in laws and regulations, and other variables. Included in this amount are components of other long-term
liabilities including restructuring and the expected payment related to the contingent sales-based payment recognized as part of the acquisition of Solvay. Refer to Notes 4, 6 and 8 for further
information.    

AbbVie
enters into R D collaboration arrangements with third parties that may require future milestone payments to third parties contingent upon the achievement of certain development, regulatory or
commercial milestones. Individually, these arrangements are not material in any one annual reporting period. However, if milestones for multiple products covered by these arrangements would happen to
be reached in the same reporting period, the aggregate charge to expense could be material to the results of operations in that period. From a business perspective, the payments are viewed as positive
because they signify that the product is successfully moving through development and is now generating or is more likely to generate cash flows from product sales. It is not possible to predict with
reasonable certainty whether these milestones will be achieved or the timing for achievement. As a result, these potential payments are not included in the table of contractual obligations. Refer to
Note 4 for further discussion of these collaboration arrangements.   

    CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES     

The preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses. A summary of the company's significant   

  52  

accounting
policies is included in Note 2. Certain of these policies are considered critical as these most significantly impact the company's financial condition and results of operations and
require the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. Actual results may vary from
these estimates.   

    Revenue Recognition     

  AbbVie recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price is fixed or determinable, and
collectability of the sales price is reasonably assured. Revenue from product sales is recognized when title and risk of loss have passed to the customer.   

    Rebates     

  AbbVie provides rebates to pharmacy benefit management companies, state agencies that administer the federal Medicaid program, insurance companies
that administer Medicare drug plans, wholesalers, group purchasing organizations, and other government agencies and private entities. Rebate amounts are usually based upon the volume of purchases
using contractual or statutory prices for a product. For each type of rebate, the factors used in the calculations of the accrual for that rebate include the identification of which products have been
sold subject to the rebate, which customer or government agency price terms apply for that rebate, and the estimated lag time between sale and payment of the rebate. Using historical trends for that
rebate, adjusted for current changes, AbbVie estimates the amount of the rebate that will be paid, and records the liability as a reduction of gross sales when AbbVie records its sale of the product.
Settlement of the rebate generally occurs from two to eight months after sale. AbbVie regularly analyzes the historical rebate trends and makes adjustments to reserves for changes in trends and terms
of rebate programs.   

  Rebate
and chargeback accruals are recorded in the same period as the related sales, and are reflected as a reduction of sales. Rebates and chargebacks in 2012, 2011 and 2010 totaled
$4.3 billion, $3.7 billion and $3.4 billion, respectively, or 28 percent, 25 percent and 28 percent, respectively, of the gross sales subject to rebate. A
one-percentage point increase in the percentage of rebates to related gross sales would decrease net sales by $152 million in 2012. AbbVie considers a one-percentage
point increase to be a reasonably likely increase in the percentage of rebates to related gross sales. Other allowances for cash discounts and returns charged against gross sales were
$667 million, $617 million and $453 million in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   

  Management
analyzes the adequacy of ending rebate accrual balances each quarter. In the United States, the most significant charges against gross sales are for Medicaid and Medicare rebates, pharmacy
benefit manager rebates and wholesaler chargebacks. Medicaid rebates relate to the Federal Medicaid program, which is administered by state agencies, whereby rebates are provided to participating
state and local government entities under various laws and regulations and in some cases supplemental rebates are also provided to the states under contractual agreements. Medicare rebates are
negotiated with managed care organizations that manage prescription drug plans covering the Medicare Part D drug benefit. Pharmacy benefit manager rebates arise from contractual agreements with
private health care plans that seek to reduce costs by negotiating discounts with pharmaceuticals manufacturers. Under wholesaler chargeback programs, the wholesaler charges AbbVie back for the
difference between the price paid by the wholesaler to AbbVie and the price paid by the end customer to the wholesaler under contractual discount agreements negotiated between AbbVie and the end
customer. In order to evaluate the adequacy of the ending accrual balances, for each type of rebate, management uses both internal and external data to estimate the level of inventory in the
distribution channel and the rebate claims processing lag time for that rebate. External data sources used to estimate the inventory in the distribution channel include inventory levels periodically
reported by wholesalers. Management estimates the processing lag time based on periodic sampling of claims data. To estimate the price rebate percentage, systems and calculations are used to track
sales by product and   

  53  

by
customer and to estimate the contractual or statutory price. AbbVie's systems and calculations have developed over time as rebates have become more significant, and AbbVie believes they are
reliable.   

  The
following table is an analysis of the three largest rebate accruals and chargeback allowances, which comprise approximately 85 percent of the combined rebate provisions charged against
revenues in 2012. Remaining rebate provisions charged against gross sales are not significant in the determination of operating earnings.   

Historically,
adjustments to prior years' rebate accruals have not been material to net income. AbbVie employs various techniques to verify the accuracy of claims submitted to it, and where possible,
works with the organizations submitting claims to gain insight into changes that might affect the rebate amounts. For Medicaid, Medicare and other government agency programs, the calculation of a
rebate involves interpretations of relevant regulations, which are subject to challenge or change in interpretation.   

Cash Discounts and Returns     

  Cash discounts can be reliably estimated. Product returns can be reliably estimated because AbbVie's historical returns are low, and because sales
return terms and other sales terms have remained relatively unchanged for several periods.   

    Pension and Post-Employment Benefits     

  AbbVie employees participate in various pension and post-employment health care plans sponsored by Abbott. In AbbVie's financial
statements, these plans are accounted for as multiemployer benefit plans and no liabilities have been reflected in AbbVie's combined balance sheets as there were no unfunded contributions due at the
end of any reporting period. Effective January 1, 2013, in connection with the separation of AbbVie from Abbott, AbbVie will record the net benefit plan obligations transferred from Abbott.
AbbVie's
combined statements of earnings included expense allocations for these benefits. These expenses were funded through intercompany transactions with Abbott which are reflected within net parent company
investment in AbbVie.   

  Certain
pension plans in Germany, Puerto Rico, Canada, Ireland, United Kingdom and the United States are direct obligations of AbbVie and are recorded in the combined financial statements as of
December 31, 2012. AbbVie engages outside actuaries to assist in the determination of the obligations and costs under these plans. The valuation of the funded status and the net periodic
benefit cost for the plans are calculated using actuarial assumptions. The significant assumptions, which are reviewed annually, include the discount rate, the expected long-term rate of
return on plan assets and the health   

  54  

care
cost trend rates. The discount rate is selected based on current market rates on high-quality, fixed-income investments at December 31 each year. The expected
long-term rate of return is based on the asset allocation, historical performance and the current view of expected future returns. The health care cost trend rate is selected by reviewing
historical trends and current views on projected future health care cost increases. The significant assumptions used in determining these calculations are disclosed in Note 9 to the combined
financial statements.   

    Income Taxes     

  In AbbVie's combined financial statements, income tax expense and deferred tax balances have been calculated on a separate tax return basis although
AbbVie's operations have historically been included in the tax returns filed by the respective Abbott entities of which the AbbVie business was a part. In the future, as a stand-alone company, AbbVie
will file tax returns on its own behalf and its deferred taxes and the effective tax rate may differ from those in the historical periods.   

AbbVie
and Abbott have entered into a tax sharing agreement effective on the date of separation, January 1, 2013. For tax contingencies prior to the separation, Abbott will indemnify and hold
AbbVie harmless if the tax positions are settled for amounts in excess of recorded liabilities, and AbbVie will not benefit if prior tax positions are resolved more favorably than recorded amounts.   

    Litigation     

  The company is subject to contingencies, such as legal proceedings and claims that arise in the normal course of business. Refer to Note 12
for further information. Loss contingency provisions are recorded for probable losses at management's best estimate of a loss, or when a best estimate cannot be made, a minimum loss contingency amount
is recorded. Accordingly, AbbVie is often initially unable to develop a best estimate of loss, and therefore the minimum amount, which could be zero, is recorded. As information becomes known, either
the minimum loss amount is increased, resulting in additional loss provisions, or a best estimate can be made, also resulting in additional loss provisions. Occasionally, a best estimate amount is
changed to a lower amount when events result in an expectation of a more favorable outcome than previously expected. There were no significant litigation reserves at December 31, 2012.   

    Valuation of Intangible Assets and Goodwill     

  AbbVie has acquired and may continue to acquire significant intangible assets in connection with business combinations that AbbVie records at fair
value. Transactions involving the purchase or sale of intangible assets occur with some frequency between companies in the pharmaceuticals industry and valuations are usually based on a discounted
cash flow analysis incorporating the stage of completion. The discounted cash flow model requires assumptions about the timing and amount of future net cash flows, risk, cost of capital, terminal
values and market participants. Each of these factors can significantly affect the value of the intangible asset. IPR D acquired in a business combination is capitalized as an indefinite-lived
intangible asset until regulatory approval is obtained, at which time, it is accounted for as a definite-lived asset and amortized over its estimated useful life. IPR D acquired in transactions that
are not business combinations is expensed immediately, unless deemed to have an alternative future use. Payments made to third parties subsequent to regulatory approval are capitalized and amortized
over the remaining useful life.   

  AbbVie
reviews the recoverability of definite-lived intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. Goodwill and
indefinite-lived intangible assets, which relate to IPR D, are reviewed for impairment annually or when an event that could result in an impairment occurs. Refer to Note 2 to the combined
financial statements for further information.   

  55  

For
its impairment reviews, the company uses an estimated future cash flow approach that requires significant judgment with respect to future volume, revenue and expense growth rates, changes in
working capital use, foreign currency exchange rates, the selection of an appropriate discount rate, asset groupings and other assumptions and estimates. The estimates and assumptions used are
consistent with the company's business plans and a market participant's views of a company and similar companies. The use of alternative estimates and assumptions could increase or decrease the
estimated fair value of the assets, and potentially result in different impacts to the company's results of operations. Actual results may differ from the company's estimates.   

  At
December 31, 2012 and 2011, goodwill and other intangible assets totaled $8,453 million and $9,010 million, respectively, and amortization expense for intangible assets was
$625 million, $764 million and $708 million in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. There were no impairments of goodwill in 2012, 2011 or 2010 and the results of the last
impairment test indicated that the fair value of each reporting unit was substantially in excess of its carrying value. In 2012 and 2011, AbbVie recorded impairment charges of $13 million and
$46 million, respectively, for certain projects under development.   

    CERTAIN REGULATORY MATTERS     

    Legislative Issues     

  In the first quarter of 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (collectively
referred to herein as "health care reform legislation") were signed into law in the United States. Health care reform legislation included an increase in the basic Medicaid rebate rate from
15.1 percent to 23.1 percent and extended the rebate to drugs provided through Medicaid managed care organizations. Starting in 2011, additional rebates were incurred related to the
Medicare Part D coverage gap "donut hole." These Medicare and Medicaid rebate changes will continue to have a negative effect on AbbVie's gross profit margin in future years.   

  In
2011, AbbVie began recording the annual fee imposed by health care reform legislation on companies that sell branded prescription drugs to specified government programs. The amount of the annual
fee, which totaled approximately $100 million in both 2012 and 2011, is based on the ratio of certain of AbbVie's sales as compared to the total such sales of all covered entities multiplied by
a fixed dollar amount specified in the legislation by year. The fee is not tax deductible and is included in SG A expenses.   

  AbbVie's
markets are highly competitive and subject to substantial government regulations. AbbVie expects debate to continue over the availability, method of delivery, and payment for health care
products and services. It is not possible to predict the extent to which AbbVie or the health care industry in general might be adversely affected by these factors in the future. A more complete
discussion of these factors is contained in Item 1, "Business" and Item 1A, "Risk Factors."   

  56  

ITEM 7A.    QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK            

  The company is exposed to risk that its earnings, cash flows and equity could be adversely impacted by changes in foreign exchange rates and interest
rates. Certain derivative instruments are used when available on a cost-effective basis to hedge the company's underlying economic exposures. Refer to Note 8 for further information
regarding the company's financial instruments and hedging strategies.   

    Foreign Currency Risk     

  AbbVie's primary net foreign currency translation exposures are the euro, British pound, Japanese yen and Canadian dollar. Various AbbVie foreign
subsidiaries enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage exposures to changes in foreign exchange rates for anticipated intercompany transactions denominated in a currency other
than the functional currency of the local entity. These contracts are designated as cash flow hedges of the variability of the cash flows due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and are
marked-to-market with the resulting gains or losses reflected in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Deferred gains or losses on these contracts are included in cost
of products sold at the time the products are sold to a third party, generally within twelve months. At December 31, 2012 and 2011, AbbVie held $1.0 billion and $249 million,
respectively, of such contracts, which all mature in the following calendar year.   

  AbbVie
enters into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage its exposure to foreign currency denominated trade payables and receivables. The contracts, which are not designated as hedges,
are marked-to-market, and resulting gains or losses are reflected in income and are generally offset by losses or gains on the foreign currency exposure being managed. At
December 31, 2012 and 2011, AbbVie held $4.3 billion and $3.0 billion, respectively, of such foreign currency forward exchange contracts.   

  The
following table reflects the total foreign currency forward contracts outstanding at December 31.   

The
company estimates that a 10 percent appreciation in the underlying currencies being hedged from their levels against the U.S. dollar, with all other variables held constant, would decrease
the fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts by $526 million at December 31, 2012. If realized, this appreciation would negatively affect earnings over the remaining life of the
contacts. A 10 percent appreciation is believed to be a reasonably possible near-term change in foreign currencies.   

Currency
restrictions enacted in Venezuela require AbbVie to obtain approval from the Venezuelan government to exchange Venezuelan bolivars for U.S. dollars and require such exchange to be made at the
official exchange rate established by the government. Effective February 8, 2013, the Venezuelan   

  57  

government
devalued the official exchange rate from 4.3 to 6.3, which is not expected to have a material impact on the financial results of the company.   

Interest Rate Risk     

  Interest rate swaps are used to manage the company's exposure of changes in interest rates on fixed-rate debt. The effect of these hedges
is to change the fixed interest rate to a variable rate. AbbVie does not use derivative instruments, such as interest rate swaps, to manage its exposure to changes in interest rates for investment
securities. At December 31, 2012, AbbVie had interest rate hedge contracts totaling $8.0 billion. The company estimates that an increase in the interest rates of 100-basis
points would decrease the fair value of our interest rate swap contracts by approximately $510 million. If realized, the fair value reduction would affect earnings over the remaining life of
the contracts. The company estimates that an increase of 100-basis points in long-term interest rates would decrease the fair value of long-term debt by
$976 million. A 100-basis point change is believed to be a reasonably possible near-term change in rates.   

    Market Price Sensitive Investments     

  AbbVie holds available-for-sale equity securities from strategic technology acquisitions. The market value of these
investments was approximately $12 million and $58 million as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. AbbVie monitors these investments for other than temporary declines in
market value, and charges impairment losses to income when an other than temporary decline in value occurs. A hypothetical 20 percent decrease in the share prices of these investments would
have an immaterial decrease to their fair value at December 31, 2012. A 20 percent decrease is believed to be a reasonably possible near-term change in share prices.   

    Non-Publicly Traded Equity Securities     

  AbbVie holds equity securities from strategic technology acquisitions that are not traded on public stock exchanges. The carrying value of these
investments was approximately $72 million and $171 million as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. AbbVie monitors these investments for other than temporary declines in
market value, and charges impairment losses to income when an other than temporary decline in estimated value occurs.   

  58  

ITEM 8.    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA            

Page    

Combined Financial Statements   

Combined Statements of Earnings  
     
  60  

Combined Statements of Comprehensive Income  
     
  61  

Combined Statements of Cash Flows  
     
  62  

Combined Balance Sheets  
     
  63  

Combined Statements of Parent Company Equity  
     
  64  

Notes to Combined Financial Statements  
     
  65  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  
     
  95  

59  

AbbVie Inc. and Subsidiaries              Combined Statements of Earnings            

(a)    On
January 1, 2013, Abbott Laboratories distributed 1,577 million shares of AbbVie common stock. The computation of basic and diluted earnings
per common share for all periods through December 31, 2012 was calculated using the shares distributed on January 1, 2013.    

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these combined financial statements.   

  60  

AbbVie Inc. and Subsidiaries              Combined Statements of Comprehensive Income            

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these combined financial statements.   

  61  

AbbVie Inc. and Subsidiaries              Combined Statements of Cash Flows            

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these combined financial statements.   

  62  

AbbVie Inc. and Subsidiaries              Combined Balance Sheets            

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these combined financial statements.   

  63  

AbbVie Inc. and Subsidiaries              Combined Statements of Parent Company Equity            

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these combined financial statements.   

  64  

AbbVie Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Combined Financial Statements     

   Note 1  Basis of Presentation 

The principal business of AbbVie Inc. (AbbVie or the company) is the discovery, development, manufacture and sale of a broad line of proprietary
pharmaceutical products. Substantially all of AbbVie's U.S. sales are to three wholesalers. Outside the United States, products are sold primarily to health care providers or through distributors,
depending on the market served.   

  On
January 1, 2013, AbbVie became an independent company as a result of the distribution by Abbott Laboratories (Abbott) of 100 percent of the outstanding common stock of AbbVie to
Abbott's shareholders. AbbVie was incorporated in Delaware on April 10, 2012. Abbott's Board of Directors approved the distribution of its shares of AbbVie on November 28, 2012. AbbVie's
Registration Statement on Form 10 was declared effective by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on December 7, 2012. On January 1, 2013, Abbott's shareholders of record as
of the close of business on December 12, 2012, received one share of AbbVie common stock for every one share of Abbott's common stock held as of the record date. AbbVie's common stock began
trading "regular-way" under the ticker symbol "ABBV" on the New York Stock Exchange on January 2, 2013.   

The
accompanying combined financial statements have been prepared on a stand-alone basis and are derived from Abbott's consolidated financial statements and accounting records as if the former
research-based pharmaceutical business of Abbott had been part of AbbVie for all periods presented. The combined financial statements reflected AbbVie's financial position, results of operations and
cash flows as its business was operated as part of Abbott prior to the distribution, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.   

  The
combined financial statements included the allocation of certain assets and liabilities that have historically been held at the Abbott corporate level but which are specifically identifiable or
allocable to AbbVie. Prior to 2012, cash and equivalents, short-term investments and restricted funds held by Abbott were not allocated to AbbVie unless those assets were held by an entity
that was transferred to AbbVie. As of December 31, 2012, AbbVie's combined balance sheet reflected the direct holdings for AbbVie legal entities. All intracompany transactions and accounts have
been eliminated. Prior to 2012, all intercompany transactions between AbbVie and Abbott were considered to be effectively settled in the combined financial statements at the time the transaction was
recorded. As a result, the total net effect of settlement of these intercompany transactions was reflected in the combined statements of cash flows as a financing activity and in the combined balance
sheet as net parent company investment in AbbVie. As of December 31, 2012, outstanding intercompany transactions between AbbVie and Abbott are reflected as Due from Abbott Laboratories and Due
to Abbott Laboratories in the combined balance sheet.   

  AbbVie's
combined financial statements included an allocation of expenses related to certain Abbott corporate functions, including senior management, legal, human resources, finance, information
technology and quality assurance. These expenses have been allocated to AbbVie based on direct usage or benefit where identifiable, with the remainder allocated on a pro rata basis of revenues,
headcount, square footage, number of transactions or other measures. AbbVie considers the expense allocation methodology and results to be reasonable for all periods presented. However, the
allocations may not be indicative of the actual expenses that would have been incurred had AbbVie operated as an independent, publicly-traded company for the periods presented.   

AbbVie
employees participated in various benefit and stock-based compensation programs maintained by Abbott. A portion of the cost of those programs was included in AbbVie's financial statements.
However, AbbVie's combined balance sheet does not include any equity related to stock-based   

  65  

compensation
plans. See Note 9 and Note 10 for a further description of the accounting for post-employment benefits and stock-based compensation, respectively.   

Note 2  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 

Use of Estimates     

  The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and necessarily include
amounts based on estimates and assumptions by management. Actual results could differ from those amounts. Significant estimates include amounts for sales rebates, income taxes, pension and
post-employment benefits, valuation of intangible assets and goodwill, litigation, financial instruments, and inventory and accounts receivable exposures.   

    Revenue Recognition     

  AbbVie recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price is fixed or determinable and
collectability of the sales price is reasonably assured. Revenue from product sales is recognized when title and risk of loss have passed to the customer. Provisions for discounts, rebates and sales
incentives to customers and returns and other adjustments are provided for in the period the related sales are recorded. Sales incentives to customers are not material. Historical data is readily
available and reliable, and is used for estimating the amount of the reduction in gross sales. Revenue from the launch of a new product, from an improved version of an existing product, or for
shipments in excess of a customer's normal requirements are recorded when the conditions noted above are met. In those situations, management records a returns reserve for such revenue, if necessary.
Sales of product rights for marketable products are recorded as revenue upon disposition of the rights.   

    Research and Development Costs     

  Internal research and development (R D) costs are expensed as incurred. Clinical trial costs incurred by third parties are expensed as the contracted
work is performed. Where contingent milestone payments are due to third parties under research and development collaborations for pre-commercialization milestones, the milestone payment
obligations are expensed when the milestone results are achieved. Payments made to third parties subsequent to regulatory
approval are capitalized and amortized over the remaining useful life of the related product. Amounts capitalized for such payments are included in intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization.   

    Advertising     

  Costs associated with advertising are expensed in the year incurred and are included in selling, general and administrative expenses (SG A).
Advertising expenses were $506 million, $375 million and $290 million in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   

Pension and Post-Employment Benefits     

  AbbVie records annual expenses relating to its pension benefit and other post-employment plans based on calculations which include
various actuarial assumptions, including discount rates, assumed asset rates of return, compensation increases, turnover rates and health care cost trend rates. AbbVie reviews its actuarial
assumptions on an annual basis and makes modifications to the assumptions based on current rates and trends. Actuarial losses and gains are amortized over the remaining service attribution periods of
the employees under the corridor method, in accordance with the rules for accounting for post-employment benefits. Differences between the expected long-term return on plan
assets and the actual annual return are amortized over a five-year period.   

  66  

AbbVie
employees participate in defined benefit pension and other post-employment plans sponsored by Abbott, which include participants of Abbott's other businesses. Such plans are
accounted for as multiemployer plans in the historical financial statements for AbbVie and, as a result, no asset or liability was recorded by AbbVie in the historical combined balance sheets to
recognize the funded status of these plans. In 2013, subsequent to the separation from Abbott, AbbVie's portion of the defined benefit pension plans will be separated from the Abbott defined benefit
pension plans at which time the funded status for each plan will be reflected in the AbbVie combined balance sheets using a December 31, 2012 measurement date. In addition to participation in
defined benefit pension and other post-employment plans sponsored by Abbott, AbbVie is the sole sponsor for certain defined benefit pension and other post-employment plans. The
funded status of these plans have been recorded in the combined balance sheets for AbbVie at December 31, 2012.   

  Refer
to Note 9 for information regarding AbbVie's pension and post-employment plans.   

    Income Taxes     

  Income taxes on earnings reflect the annual effective rates, including charges for interest and penalties. Deferred income taxes are provided for the
tax effect of temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts in the financial statements based on enacted tax laws and rates. The combined balance
sheet as of December 31, 2011 has been appropriately revised to increase deferred tax liabilities in long-term liabilities by $156 million, decrease deferred tax assets in other assets
by $136 million, and decrease net parent company investment in AbbVie by $292 million to properly reflect temporary differences attributable to AbbVie assets.   

  In
AbbVie's combined financial statements, income tax expense and deferred tax balances have been calculated on a separate tax return basis although AbbVie's operations have historically been included
in the tax returns filed by the respective Abbott entities of which the AbbVie business is a part. In the future, as a stand-alone entity, AbbVie will file tax returns on its own behalf and its
deferred taxes and effective tax rate may differ from those in the historical periods.   

  AbbVie
does not maintain an income taxes payable to/from account with Abbott. With the exception of certain entities outside the United States that transferred to AbbVie at separation, AbbVie is
deemed to have settled current tax balances with the Abbott tax paying entities in the respective jurisdictions. These settlements were reflected as changes in net parent company investment.   

Cash and Equivalents     

  Cash and equivalents include time deposits and money market funds with original maturities of three months or less.   

    Investments     

  Short-term investments consist primarily of time deposits and U.S. Treasury securities and are carried at fair value. Investments in
marketable equity securities are classified as available-for-sale and are recorded at fair value with any unrealized holding gains or losses, net of tax, included in
accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Investments in equity securities that are not traded on public stock exchanges and held-to-maturity debt securities are recorded
at cost.   

  AbbVie
reviews the carrying value of investments each quarter to determine whether an other than temporary decline in market value exists. AbbVie considers factors affecting the investee, factors
affecting the industry the investee operates in and general equity market trends. The company considers the length of time an investment's market value has been below cost and the
near-term prospects for recovery. When AbbVie determines that an other than temporary decline has occurred, the cost basis investment is written down with a charge to income and the
available-for-sale securities'   

  67  

unrealized
loss is recognized as a charge to income and removed from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (AOCI).   

    Accounts Receivable     

  Accounts receivable are stated at their net realizable value. The allowance against gross accounts receivable reflects the best estimate of probable
losses inherent in the receivables portfolio determined on the basis of historical experience, specific allowances for known troubled accounts and other currently available information. Accounts
receivable are written off after all reasonable means to collect the full amount (including litigation, where appropriate) have been exhausted. The allowance was $178 million at
December 31, 2012 and $161 million at December 31, 2011.   

    Inventories     

  Inventories are valued at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out basis) or market. Cost includes material and conversion
costs. Inventories, net, consist of the following.   

Property and Equipment     

Depreciation
for property and equipment is recorded on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets. The estimated useful life for buildings ranges from 15 to
66 years, with an average depreciation period of 25 years, and five to 35 years for equipment, with an average depreciation period of 10 years. Leasehold improvements are
amortized over the life of the related facility lease (including any renewal periods, if appropriate) or the asset, whichever is shorter. Depreciation expense for the years ended December 31,
2012, 2011 and 2010 was $525 million, $508 million and $476 million, respectively. Equipment includes certain computer software and software development costs incurred in
connection with developing or obtaining software for internal use. Assets under capital leases included in property and equipment in the combined balance sheets are not material.   

    Litigation     

  Loss contingency provisions are recorded for probable losses at management's best estimate of a loss. When a best estimate cannot be made, a minimum
loss contingency amount is recorded. Legal fees are expensed as incurred.   

  68  

Product Liability     

  AbbVie accrues for product liability claims, on an undiscounted basis, when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the
liability can be reasonably estimated based on existing information. The liabilities are adjusted quarterly as additional information becomes available. Receivables for insurance recoveries for
product liability claims are recorded as assets, on an undiscounted basis, when it is probable that a recovery will be realized.   

    Business Combinations     

  Results of operations of acquired companies are included in AbbVie's results of operations as of the respective acquisition dates. Assets acquired
and liabilities assumed are recognized at the date of acquisition at their respective fair values. Any excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the net assets acquired is
recognized as goodwill. Contingent consideration is recognized at the estimated fair value on the acquisition date, which is determined by utilizing a probability weighted discounted cash flow model.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of contingent payments are recognized in earnings. The allocation of purchase price in certain cases may be subject to revision based on the final determination of
fair value. Legal costs, audit fees, business valuation costs and all other business acquisition costs are expensed when incurred.   

    Goodwill and Intangible Assets     

  Purchased intangible assets are recorded at fair value using a discounted cash flow model. The discounted cash flow model requires assumptions about
the timing and amount of future net cash flows, risk, the cost of capital, terminal values and market participants. Definite-lived intangibles are amortized over their estimated useful lives. AbbVie
reviews the recoverability of definite-lived intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. Impairment is reviewed by
comparing projected undiscounted cash flows to be generated by the asset to its carrying value. If the undiscounted cash flows of an intangible asset are less than the carrying value of an intangible
asset, the intangible asset is written down to its fair value, which is usually the discounted cash flow amount and a loss is recorded equal to the excess of the asset's net carrying value over its
fair value. Where cash flows cannot be identified for an individual asset, the review is applied at the lowest level for which cash flows are identifiable.   

  Goodwill
and indefinite-lived assets are not amortized but are subject to an impairment review annually and whenever indicators of impairment exist. An impairment of goodwill would occur if the
carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeded the fair value of that reporting unit, calculated using a weighting of the income approach and the market approach. The fair value under the income
approach is calculated as the present value of estimated cash flows discounted using a risk-free market rate adjusted for a market participant's view of similar companies and perceived
risks in cash flows. The fair value under the market approach is calculated using market multiples for peer groups applied to the operating results of the reporting units to determine fair value. The
implied fair value of goodwill is then determined by subtracting the fair value of all identifiable net assets other than goodwill from the fair value of the reporting units, with an impairment charge
recorded for the excess, if any, of the carrying amount of goodwill over the implied fair value. Based on the company's most recent annual impairment test performed in the third quarter, the fair
value of the reporting units was substantially in excess of their carrying value.   

  Indefinite-lived
assets are tested for impairment by comparing the fair value of each intangible asset with its carrying value. The value of indefinite-lived is based on the present value of projected
cash flows using an income approach. If the carrying value exceeds fair value, the intangible asset is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value.   

  69  

Acquired In-Process Research and Development     

  The initial costs of rights to acquired in-process research and development (IPR D) projects acquired in an asset acquisition are
expensed as IPR D unless the project has an alternative future use. These costs include initial payments incurred prior to regulatory approval in connection with research and development collaboration
agreements that provide rights to develop, manufacture, market and/or sell pharmaceutical products. The fair value of IPR D projects acquired in a business combination are capitalized and accounted
for as indefinite-lived intangible assets until the underlying project receives regulatory approval, at which point the intangible asset will be accounted for as a definite-lived intangible asset, or
discontinuation, at which point the intangible asset will be written off. Development costs incurred after the acquisition are expensed as incurred. Indefinite- and definite-lived assets are subject
to impairment reviews as discussed previously.   

    Foreign Currency Translation     

  Foreign subsidiary earnings are translated into U.S. dollars using average exchange rates. The net assets of foreign subsidiaries are translated into
U.S. dollars using current exchange rates. The U.S. dollar effects that arise from translating the net assets of these subsidiaries at changing rates are recognized in other comprehensive income
(OCI). The net assets of subsidiaries in highly inflationary economies are remeasured as if the functional currency were the reporting currency. The remeasurement is recognized in earnings and is
immaterial for all years presented.   

    Derivatives     

  All derivative instruments are recognized as either assets or liabilities at fair value in the combined balance sheets and are classified as current
or long-term based on the scheduled maturity of the instrument. The accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative instrument depends on whether it has been formally designated
and qualifies as part of a hedging relationship under the applicable accounting standards and, further, on the type of hedging relationship.   

For
derivatives formally designated as hedges, the company assesses at inception and quarterly thereafter, whether the hedging derivatives are highly effective in offsetting changes in the fair value
or cash flows of the hedged item. The changes in fair value of a derivative designated as a fair value hedge and of the hedged item attributable to the hedge risk are recognized in earnings
immediately. Fair value hedges are used to hedge the interest rate risk associated with certain of the company's
fixed-rate debt. The effective portions of changes in the fair value of a derivative designated as a cash flow hedge are reported in AOCI and are subsequently recognized in earnings
consistent with the underlying hedged item. Cash flow hedges are used to manage exposures from changes in foreign currency exchange rates.   

The
derivatives that are not designated and do not qualify as hedges are adjusted to fair value through current earnings. If it is determined that a derivative is no longer highly effective as a
hedge, the company discontinues hedge accounting prospectively. Gains or losses are immediately reclassified from AOCI to earnings relating to hedged forecasted transactions that are no longer
probable of occurring. Gains or losses relating to terminations of effective cash flow hedges in which the forecasted transactions are still probable of occurring are deferred and recognized
consistent with the income or loss recognition of the underlying hedged items. Terminations of a fair value hedge result in a cumulative fair value adjustment to the hedged items at the date of
termination which is amortized to earnings over the remaining term of the hedged item.   

  Derivatives,
including those that are not designated as a hedge, are principally classified in the operating section of the combined statements of cash flows, consistent with the underlying hedged
item.   

  Refer
to Note 8 for information regarding AbbVie's derivative and hedging activities.   

  70  

Earnings per Share     

  The numerator for both basic and diluted earnings per common share (EPS) is net earnings attributable to AbbVie. The denominator for basic and
diluted EPS is based on the number of shares of AbbVie common stock outstanding on the distribution date. On January 1, 2013, the distribution date, Abbott shareholders of record as of the
close of business on December 12, 2012 received one share of AbbVie common stock for every one share of Abbott's common stock held as of the record date.   

  Basic
and diluted earnings per common share and the average number of common shares outstanding were calculated using the number of AbbVie common shares outstanding immediately following the
distribution. The same number of shares was used to calculate basic and diluted earnings per share since no AbbVie equity awards were outstanding prior to the distribution.   

Note 3  Supplemental Financial Information 

Interest Expense, net     

Other (Income) Expense     

  Other (income) expense, net, for 2012 included income of $21 million from the resolution of a contractual agreement and a loss of
$52 million for the impairment of an equity security. Other (income) expense, net, included losses of $29 million in 2012 and $56 million in 2011 of fair value adjustments and
accretion in the contingent consideration related to the acquisition of Solvay SA's U.S. pharmaceuticals business (Solvay). Other (income) expense, net, for 2012, 2011 and 2010 also included ongoing
contractual payments from Takeda associated with the conclusion of the TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. joint venture in 2008.   

    Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities     

71  

Long-Term Liabilities     

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)     

  The net-of-tax components of AOCI, a component of parent company equity, were as follows.   

as of December 31 (in millions) (brackets denote loss)   
     
  2012   
     
  2011   

Cumulative foreign currency translation gain adjustments  
     
  $  
  181  
     
  $  
  8  

Pension and other post-employment benefits  

(511  
  )  
     
  (65  
  )  

Cumulative unrealized gains on marketable equity securities  

1  

26  

Cumulative losses/gains on derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges  

(21  
  )  
     
  6  

Accumulated other comprehensive loss  
     
  $  
  (350  
  )  
  $  
  (25  
  )  

Note 4  Acquisitions, Collaborations and Other Arrangements 

In 2012, 2011 and 2010, cash outflows related to acquisitions, collaborations and other arrangements totaled $688 million, $273 million and
$2.6 billion, respectively. AbbVie recorded IPR D charges of $288 million, $673 million and $313 million in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The following are the more
significant acquisitions and investments, including licensing and collaboration agreements, some of which require contingent milestone payments.   

    Acquisitions     

    Solvay SA Pharmaceuticals     

  In February 2010, AbbVie acquired Solvay and certain other product rights for approximately $1.9 billion, in cash, plus contingent payments of
up to EUR 100 million per year if certain sales milestones are met in 2011, 2012 and 2013. The total consideration was valued at $2.2 billion, which includes the $1.9 billion cash
payment plus the estimated fair value of the milestone-based contingent payments of approximately $290 million. The estimated fair value of the contingent consideration was based on the
estimated probability of achieving the specified sales milestones discounted based on the expected timing of payment. Subsequent changes to the fair value of contingent payments are recognized in
earnings.   

  This
transaction provides AbbVie with a complementary pharmaceutical product portfolio including the U.S. rights to AndroGel and Creon, worldwide rights to Duodopa, and various research and
development projects. AbbVie acquired control of this business on February 15, 2010, and the financial results of the acquired operations are included in these financial statements beginning on
that date. Net sales of the acquired operations were approximately $1.1 billion in 2010. Had the Solvay acquisition taken place on January 1, 2010, combined net sales and net earnings
would not have been significantly different from reported amounts. The acquisition was funded with cash and short-term investments.   

  72  

The
allocation of the fair value of the arrangement as of the acquisition date is shown in the table below.   

(in billions)   

Acquired intangible assets, non-deductible  
     
  $  
  1.8  

IPR D, non-deductible  

0.5  

Goodwill, non-deductible  

0.4  

Deferred income taxes  

(0.5  
  )  

Total consideration  
     
  $  
  2.2  

The
excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed of approximately $400 million was recorded as goodwill. Goodwill is attributable to expected
synergies and other benefits AbbVie believed would result from the acquisition. Acquired intangible assets consist primarily of product rights for currently marketed products and are amortized over 2
to 13 years (average of 8 years). Acquired IPR D projects are accounted for as indefinite-lived intangible assets until regulatory approval or discontinuation.   

Facet Biotech Corporation     

  In April 2010, AbbVie acquired the outstanding shares of Facet Biotech Corporation (Facet) for approximately $430 million, in cash, net of
cash held by Facet. The acquisition enhances AbbVie's early-and mid-stage pharmaceutical pipeline, including daclizumab, a biologic for multiple sclerosis, and an oncology
compound. A substantial portion of the fair value of the acquisition, including $381 million for daclizumab, has been allocated to acquired IPR D projects that are accounted for as
indefinite-lived intangible assets until regulatory approval or discontinuation. Had the Facet acquisition taken place on January 1, 2010, combined net sales and net earnings would not have
been significantly different from reported amounts.   

    Collaborations and Other Arrangements     

  The company enters into collaborative agreements with third parties to develop and commercialize drug candidates. Collaborative activities may
include joint research and development and commercialization of new products. AbbVie generally receives certain licensing rights under these arrangements. These collaborations often require upfront
payments and may include additional milestone, research and development cost sharing, royalty or profit share payments, contingent upon the occurrence of certain future events linked to the success of
the asset in development and commercialization. Upfront payments associated with collaborative arrangements during the development stage are expensed to IPR D. Subsequent payments made to the partner
for the achievement of milestones during the development stage are expensed to R D when the milestone is achieved. Milestone payments made to the partner subsequent to regulatory approval are
capitalized as intangible assets and amortized to cost of products sold over the estimated useful life of the related asset. Royalty and sales-based milestones are expensed as cost of products sold
when incurred.   

    Reata Pharmaceuticals, Inc.     

  During 2010 and 2011, AbbVie entered into a series of transactions with Reata Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Reata). AbbVie acquired equity interests in
Reata of $62 million each in 2011 and 2010. In 2010, AbbVie entered into an agreement to acquire licensing rights outside the United States, excluding certain Asian markets, to bardoxolone
methyl, a product in development for the treatment of chronic kidney disease, resulting in a charge to IPR D of $238 million. The achievement of certain development milestones under the license
agreement resulted in charges of $50 million in 2012 to R D and $188 million in 2011 to IPR D. Additional payments of up to $150 million could be   

  73  

required
for the achievement of certain development and regulatory milestones associated with the chronic kidney disease compound in development.   

In
the fourth quarter of 2011, AbbVie entered into a collaboration with Reata for the joint development and commercialization of second-generation oral antioxidant inflammation modulators resulting in
a charge to IPR D of $400 million, which was paid in the first quarter of 2012.   

  On
October 17, 2012, Reata informed AbbVie that it is discontinuing the Phase III clinical study for bardoxolone methyl for chronic kidney disease. Reata and AbbVie will closely examine
the data from this study to determine whether there is an appropriate path forward for the development of bardoxolone methyl in chronic kidney disease or other indications. In the fourth quarter of
2012, AbbVie recorded a charge of $52 million in other (income) expense, net for the impairment of the equity investment in Reata.   

Seattle Genetics, Inc.     

  In October 2012, AbbVie recorded a charge to IPR D of $28 million as a result of entering into a two-year collaboration agreement
with Seattle Genetics, Inc. to research, develop and commercialize up to three compounds with Antibody-Drug Conjugate approaches. Additional payments of up to $220 million for each
licensed compound may be required based on the achievement of specified development, regulatory and commercial milestones under this agreement.   

    Action Pharma A/S     

In May 2012, AbbVie recorded a charge to IPR D of $110 million as a result of the acquisition of ABT-719 (previously referred to
as AP214), a drug under development for the prevention of acute kidney injury associated with major cardiac surgery in patients at increased risk.   

    Galapagos NV     

  In February 2012, AbbVie recorded a charge to IPR D of $150 million as a result of entering into a global collaboration with
Galapagos NV to develop and commercialize a next-generation, oral Janus Kinase 1 (JAK1) inhibitor in Phase II development with the potential to treat multiple
autoimmune diseases. Additional payments of approximately $1.2 billion could be required for the achievement of certain development, regulatory and commercial milestones under this agreement.   

    Biotest AG     

  In June 2011, AbbVie entered into a global agreement with Biotest AG to develop and commercialize an anit-CD4, a treatment for rheumatoid
arthritis and psoriasis, resulting in an $85 million charge to IPR D. AbbVie could, in the future, be required to make additional payments totaling up to $395 million based on the
achievement of certain development, regulatory and commercial milestones under this agreement.   

Neurocrine Biosciences, Inc.     

  In June 2010, AbbVie entered into an exclusive worldwide agreement with Neurocrine Biosciences, Inc. to develop and commercialize a product for the
treatment of endometriosis, resulting in a $75 million charge to IPR D. AbbVie could, in the future, be required to make additional payments of up to $500 million based on the achievement of
certain development, regulatory and commercial milestones under this agreement.   

  74  

Note 5  Goodwill and Intangible Assets 

The carrying amount of goodwill at December 31, 2012 and 2011 was $6,130 million and $6,100 million, respectively. Changes in the goodwill
balance were due to foreign currency translation. As of December 31, 2012, there were no accumulated goodwill impairment losses.   

  The
following table summarizes AbbVie's intangible assets.   

The
indefinite-lived intangible assets relate to IPR D acquired in a business combination. Amortization expense for 2012, 2011 and 2010 was $625 million, $764 million and
$708 million, respectively. In 2012 and 2011, AbbVie recorded impairment charges of $13 million and $46 million, respectively, for certain projects under development. These
charges are included in R D expenses. At December 31, 2012, the anticipated annual amortization expense for intangible assets recorded as of December 31, 2012 was $511 million in
2013, $348 million in 2014, $267 million in 2015, $140 million in 2016 and $116 million in 2017. Intangible asset amortization is included in cost of products sold in the
combined statements of earnings. Amortizable intangible assets are amortized over 2 to 16 years with an average of 11 years for both developed product rights and license agreements.   

   Note 6  Restructuring Plans 

In 2012 and prior years, AbbVie management approved plans to realign its worldwide manufacturing operations and selected domestic and international commercial
and R D operations in order to reduce costs. In 2012, AbbVie recorded a charge of approximately $177 million for employee severance and contractual obligations, primarily related to the exit
from an R D facility with $169 million classified in R D and $8 million as SG A expenses. In 2011, AbbVie recorded a charge of $160 million reflecting employee severance and other
related charges, with $42 million classified as cost of products sold, $69 million as R D and $49 million as SG A expenses. The following summarizes the activity for these
restructurings.   

75  

An
additional $69 million, $26 million and $7 million were subsequently recorded in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, relating to these restructurings, primarily for accelerated
depreciation.   

    Solvay Plans     

  In 2010, AbbVie management approved restructuring plans primarily related to the acquisition of Solvay. This plan streamlined operations, improved
efficiencies and reduced costs in certain Solvay sites and functions as well as in certain AbbVie and Solvay commercial organizations in various countries. In 2010, AbbVie recorded a charge of
$147 million, with $6 million classified in cost of products sold, $126 million classified in R D and $15 million classified in SG A expenses. The following summarizes the
employee severance activity for this restructuring.   

An
additional $27 million and $17 million were recorded in 2011 and 2010, respectively, relating to this restructuring, primarily for accelerated depreciation and asset impairments.   

   Note 7  Debt, Credit Facilities, and Commitments and Contingencies 

Long-Term Debt     

  The following is a summary of long-term debt as of December 31, 2012.   

(a)    Excludes
the effect of any related interest rate swaps.    

In
November 2012, AbbVie issued $14.7 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes. Approximately $3.0 billion of these senior notes were issued to Abbott as partial consideration
for the transfer of assets from Abbott to AbbVie. AbbVie used part of the net proceeds from the sale of senior notes (other than the senior notes issued to Abbott) to finance the payment made in
November 2012   

  76  

of
a $10.2 billion distribution to Abbott, as provided by the terms of the separation agreement. The debt was guaranteed by Abbott until AbbVie separated from Abbott on January 1, 2013.   

  AbbVie
may redeem all of the senior notes of each series, other than the floating notes due in 2015, at any time, and some of the senior notes of each series, other than the floating notes due in
2015, from time to time, at a redemption price equal to the principal amount of the senior notes redeemed plus a make-whole premium. AbbVie may not redeem the floating notes due in 2015
prior to maturity.   

  Debt
issuance costs incurred in connection with the senior note debt offering, which totaled $63 million, are being amortized over the respective terms of the notes to interest expense in the
combined statements of earnings.   

  At
December 31, 2012, the company was in compliance with its senior note covenants.   

    Short-Term Borrowings     

At December 31, 2012, short-term borrowings included $1.0 billion of commercial paper borrowings. The weighted-average
interest rate on short-term borrowings was 0.4% at December 31, 2012. AbbVie has a $2.0 billion unsecured bank credit facility agreement, which backs the commercial paper
program, and matures in July 2017. Abbott was relieved of its obligations under the credit facility upon separation of AbbVie from Abbott on January 1, 2013, and AbbVie became the sole obligor
of this facility. The credit facility enables the company to borrow funds on an unsecured basis at floating interest rates. At December 31, 2012, the company was in compliance with its credit
facility covenants. Compensating balances and commitment fees are not material.   

    Leases     

  As part of the separation, AbbVie entered into agreements to lease certain facilities, including office, laboratory, and factory and warehouse space,
under principally non-cancelable operating leases. The leases generally provide for the company to pay taxes, maintenance, insurance and other operating costs of the leased property.
AbbVie also leases office space on a short-term basis typically under cancelable operating leases. The company has capital lease obligations principally for automobiles. As of
December 31, 2012, annual future minimum lease payments are not material.   

    Future Minimum Lease Payments and Long-Term Debt Maturities     

Contingencies and Guarantees     

  In connection with the distribution, AbbVie has indemnified Abbott for all liabilities resulting from the operation of AbbVie's business other than
income tax liabilities with respect to periods prior to the distribution date and other liabilities as agreed to by AbbVie and Abbott. AbbVie has no material exposures to off-balance sheet
arrangements, no special-purpose entities and no activities that included   

  77  

non-exchange-traded
contracts accounted for at fair value. In the ordinary course of business, AbbVie has periodically entered into third-party agreements, such as the assignment of
product rights, which have resulted in AbbVie becoming secondarily liable for obligations for which AbbVie had previously been primarily liable. Since AbbVie no longer maintains a business
relationship with the other parties, AbbVie is unable to develop an estimate of the maximum potential amount of future payments, if any, under these obligations. Based upon past experience, the
likelihood of payments under these agreements is remote. AbbVie periodically acquires a business or product rights in which AbbVie agrees to pay contingent consideration based on attaining certain
thresholds or based on the occurrence of certain events.   

   Note 8  Financial Instruments and Fair Value Measures 

Risk Management Policy     

  The company is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate risks related to its business operations. The company's hedging policy
attempts to manage these risks to an acceptable level based on the company's judgment of the appropriate trade-off between risk, opportunity and costs. The company uses derivative
instruments to reduce its exposure to foreign currency exchange rates. The company is also exposed to the risk that its earnings and cash flows could be adversely impacted by fluctuations in interest
rates. The company periodically enters into interest rate swaps, based on judgment, to manage interest costs in which the company agrees to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between
fixed and floating interest amounts calculated by reference to an agreed-upon notional amount. Derivative instruments are not used for trading purposes or to manage exposure to changes in
interest rates for investment securities, and none of the company's outstanding derivative instruments contain credit risk related contingent features.   

    Financial Instruments     

  Various AbbVie foreign subsidiaries enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage exposures to changes in foreign exchange rates
for anticipated intercompany transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the local entity. These contracts, totaling $1.0 billion and $249 million at
December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, are designated as cash flow hedges and are recorded at fair value. Accumulated gains and losses as of December 31, 2012 will be included in cost
of products sold at the time the products are sold, generally through the next twelve months.   

  The
company enters into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage its exposure to foreign currency denominated trade payables and receivables and intercompany loans. The contracts are
marked-to-market, and resulting gains or losses are reflected in income and are generally offset by losses or gains on the foreign currency exposure being managed. At
December 31, 2012 and 2011, AbbVie held $4.3 billion and $3.0 billion, respectively, of such foreign currency forward exchange contracts.   

  AbbVie
was a party to interest rate hedge contracts, designated as fair value hedges, totaling $8.0 billion at December 31, 2012. The effect of the hedge is to change a
fixed-rate interest obligation to a floating rate for that portion of the debt. AbbVie recorded the contracts at fair value and adjusted the carrying amount of the fixed-rate
debt by an offsetting amount.   

  78  

The
following table summarizes the amounts and location of AbbVie's derivative instruments as of December 31.   

The following table summarizes the activity for derivative instruments and the amounts and location of income (expense) and gain (loss) reclassified into income
and for certain other derivative instruments for the years ended December 31. The amount of hedge ineffectiveness was not significant in 2012, 2011 and 2010.   

The loss of $81 million related to fair value hedges recognized in net interest expense in 2012 was offset equally by $81 million in gains on the
underlying hedged item, the fixed-rate debt.   

    Fair Value Measures     

  The fair value hierarchy under the accounting standard for fair value measurements consists of the following three levels.   

Level 1 Valuations based on unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets that the
company has the ability to access;   
           Level 2 Valuations based on quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets, quoted prices for
identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active, and model-based valuations in which all significant inputs are observable in the market; and    
           Level 3 Valuations using significant inputs that are unobservable in the market and include the use of
judgment by the company's management about the assumptions market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability.    
 
  79  

The
following table summarizes the bases used to measure certain assets and liabilities that are carried at fair value on a recurring basis in the combined balance sheets as of December 31.   

Available-for-sale
equity securities consist of investments for which the fair value is determined by using the published market price per unit multiplied by the number of
units held, without consideration of transaction costs. The derivatives entered into by the company are valued using publicized spot and forward prices for foreign currency hedges and publicized swap
curves for interest rate hedges. The contingent payments are valued using a discounted cash flow technique that reflects management's expectations about probability of payment.   

Gross
unrealized holding gains on available-for-sale equity securities totaled $1 million and $44 million at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   

  80  

There
have been no transfers of assets or liabilities between the fair value measurement levels. The following table is a reconciliation of the fair value measurements that use significant
unobservable inputs (Level 3), which consist of contingent payments related to acquisitions.   

In
connection with the acquisition of Solvay's U.S. pharmaceuticals business in 2010, the achievement of a certain sales milestone resulted in a payment of approximately $134 million in 2012
for which a liability was previously established.   

  In
addition to the financial instruments that the company is required to recognize at fair value on the combined balance sheets, the company has certain financial instruments that are recognized at
historical cost or some basis other than fair value. The carrying values and fair values of certain financial instruments as of December 31 are shown in the table below.   

The
following table summarizes the bases used to measure the approximate fair values of the financial instruments as of December 31, 2012.   

81  

Investments
consist of cost method investments and held-to-maturity debt securities. In determining the fair value of cost method investments, the company takes into
consideration recent transactions, as well as the financial information of the investee, which represents a Level 3 basis of fair value measurement. The fair value of
held-to-maturity debt securities and long-term debt was estimated based upon the quoted market prices for the same or similar debt instruments. The fair values of
short-term and current borrowings approximate the carrying values due to the short maturities of these instruments. There were no material adjustments to fair value during the years ended
December 31, 2012 and 2011, of assets and liabilities that are not measured at fair value on a recurring basis, except as discussed in Note 4 regarding the impairment of the company's
investment in Reata. The counterparties to financial instruments consist of select major international financial institutions.   

    Concentrations of Risk     

  The company invests excess cash in time deposits, money market funds and U.S. Treasury securities and diversifies the concentration of cash among
different financial institutions. The company monitors concentrations of credit risk associated with deposits with financial institutions. Credit exposure limits have been established to limit a
concentration with any single issuer or institution.   

  Three
U.S. wholesalers accounted for 48 percent and 43 percent of total net accounts receivables as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and substantially all of AbbVie's
U.S. sales are to these three wholesalers. In addition, governmental accounts in Greece, Portugal, Italy and Spain accounted for 20 percent and 30 percent of total net accounts
receivable as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   

   Note 9  Post-Employment Benefits 

Abbott Sponsored Plans     

  AbbVie employees participated in certain U.S. and international defined benefit pension and other post-employment plans sponsored by
Abbott. These plans included participants of Abbott's other businesses and were accounted for as multiemployer plans in AbbVie's combined financial statements. As a result, no asset or liability was
recorded by AbbVie in the historical balance sheets through December 31, 2012 to recognize the funded status of these plans. Abbott made voluntary contributions to its defined benefit pension
funds that AbbVie accounts for as multiemployer plans totaling $310 million, $289 million and $439 million in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The multiemployer pension plans
were approximately 94 percent and 99 percent funded as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. In connection with the separation of AbbVie from Abbott on January 1,
2013, these plans will be separated and Abbott will transfer certain liabilities and assets of these plans to AbbVie. The estimated amounts that will be assumed by AbbVie in 2013 are shown in the
table below.   

For
Abbott sponsored defined benefit and post-employment benefit plans, AbbVie recorded expenses of $200 million in 2012 and $150 million in both 2011 and 2010.   

  82  

AbbVie Sponsored Plans     

  AbbVie is the sole sponsor for certain other defined benefit pension and other post-employment plans, which have been reflected in the
combined balance sheets as of December 31, 2012 and 2011. During 2012, in preparation for the separation from Abbott, certain pension and other post-employment benefit plans were
assumed by AbbVie and have been reflected in the December 31, 2012 combined balance sheet. AbbVie made voluntary contributions to the AbbVie sponsored pension plans of $46 million,
$64 million and $50 million in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. In the first quarter of 2013, AbbVie made a voluntary contribution of $145 million to its main domestic defined
benefit pension plan, which was assumed in 2013.   

  The
benefit plan information in the table below pertains to the AbbVie sponsored pension and other post-employment plans.   

The
projected benefit obligations (PBO) in the table above included $1.1 billion and $405 million at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, related to international defined
benefit pension plans which are generally not funded, in accordance with local regulations. Benefit payments for those plans are funded from company assets.   

  83  

For
plans reflected in the table above, the accumulated benefit obligations (ABO) were $1.5 billion and $620 million at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. For those plans
reflected in the table above in which the ABO exceeded plan assets at December 31, 2012, the ABO, PBO and aggregate plan assets were $951 million, $1.0 billion and
$278 million, respectively.   

    Amounts Recognized in AOCI and OCI     

  The pension and other post-employment plans' gains or losses and prior service costs or credits not yet recognized in net periodic
benefit cost are recognized on a net-of-tax basis in AOCI and will be amortized to net periodic benefit cost in the future. The following is a summary of the pretax losses
included in OCI for 2012 and 2011.   

(in millions)   

Actuarial loss  
     
  $  
  167  

Prior service cost  

9  

Amortization of prior service cost and actuarial losses  

(7  
  )  

Foreign exchange loss  

5  

Total pretax loss recognized in OCI at December 31, 2012  
     
  $  
  174  

Actuarial loss  
     
  $  
  19  

Amortization of prior service cost and actuarial losses  

(2  
  )  

Foreign exchange loss  

2  

Total pretax loss recognized in OCI at December 31, 2011  
     
  $  
  19  

The
pretax amount of actuarial losses and prior service cost included in AOCI at December 31, 2012 that is expected to be recognized in the net periodic benefit cost in 2013 is
$32 million for defined benefit plans and $3 million for other post-employment plans.   

    Net Periodic Benefit Cost     

Weighted-Average Assumptions Used in Determining Benefit Obligations at the Measurement Date     

The
assumptions above, which were used in calculating the December 31, 2012 measurement date benefit obligations, will be used in the calculation of net periodic benefit cost in 2013.   

  84  

Weighted-Average Assumptions Used in Determining Net Periodic Benefit Cost     

Pension Plan Assets     

(a)    A
mix of index funds that track the S P 500 (50 percent in 2012 and 45 percent in 2011) and separate actively managed equity accounts
that are benchmarked to the Russell 1000 (50 percent in 2012 and 55 percent in 2011).
      (b)    A
mix of index funds (75 percent) and separate actively managed equity accounts (25 percent) that track or are benchmarked to the
S P 400 midcap index.    

85  

(c)    Primarily
separate actively managed pooled investment accounts that are benchmarked to the MSCI emerging market and various local indices.
      (d)    Index
funds (50 percent in 2012 and 45 percent in 2011) and separate actively managed accounts (50 percent in 2012 and
55 percent in 2011).
      (e)    Index
funds (20 percent in 2012 and 40 percent in 2011) and separate actively managed accounts (80 percent in 2012 and
60 percent in 2011).
      (f)    Primarily
funds invested by managers that have a global mandate with the flexibility to allocate capital broadly across a wide range of asset classes and
strategies including, but not limited to equities, fixed income, commodities, interest rate futures, currencies and other securities to outperform an agreed upon benchmark with specific return and
volatility targets.
      (g)    Primarily
investments in liquid commodity future contracts, private energy funds, cash and cash equivalents.    

Equities
that are valued using quoted prices are valued at the published market prices. Equities in a common collective trust or a registered investment company that are valued using significant other
observable inputs are valued at the net asset value (NAV) provided by the fund administrator. The NAV is based on the value of the underlying assets owned by the fund minus its liabilities. Fixed
income securities that are valued using significant other observable inputs are valued at prices obtained from independent financial service industry-recognized vendors. Absolute return funds and
commodities are valued at the NAV provided by the fund administrator.   

  The
following table summarizes the change in the value of plan assets that are measured using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3).   

The
investment mix of equity securities, fixed income and other asset allocation strategies is based upon achieving a desired return, balancing higher return, more volatile equity securities, and
lower return, less volatile fixed income securities. Investment allocations are made across a range of markets, industry sectors, capitalization sizes, and in the case of fixed income securities,
maturities and credit quality. There are no known significant concentrations of risk in the plans' assets.   

  The
plans' expected return on assets, as shown above is based on management's expectations of long-term average rates of return to be achieved by the underlying investment portfolios. In
establishing this assumption, management considers historical and expected returns for the asset classes in which the plans are invested, as well as current economic and capital market conditions.   

  86  

Expected Pension and Other Post-Employment Payments     

The
above table reflects total benefit payments expected to be paid to participants, which includes payments funded from company assets as well as paid from the plans.   

    Other     

  AbbVie employees also participate in the Abbott Laboratories Stock Retirement Plan, which is Abbott's principal defined contribution plan. AbbVie
recorded expense of $67 million, $68 million and $65 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, related to this plan.   

AbbVie
provides certain other post-employment benefits, primarily salary continuation plans, to qualifying employees and accrues for the related cost over the service lives of the
employees.   

   Note 10  Stock-Based Compensation 

Prior to separation, AbbVie employees participated in Abbott's incentive stock program. In conjunction with the separation, the company adopted the AbbVie
Incentive Stock Program, which provides for the assumption of certain awards granted under the Abbott incentive stock program and authorizes the grant of several different forms of benefits including
nonqualified stock options, restricted stock awards (RSAs), and restricted stock units (RSUs). The AbbVie Incentive Stock Program initially reserved 100 million shares of common stock for
issuance with respect to awards for participants. Subsequent to year-end, this reserve was reduced by approximately 7 million shares for stock option, RSA and RSU awards granted by
AbbVie's Board of Directors.   

  The
following disclosures represent the portion of Abbott's incentive stock program in which AbbVie employees participated. All awards granted under the program consisted of Abbott common shares. As
such, all related equity account balances are reflected in Abbott's consolidated statements of stockholders' equity and have not been reflected in AbbVie's combined financial statements. AbbVie's
combined statements of earnings reflects compensation expense for these stock-based awards associated with the portion of Abbott's incentive stock program in which AbbVie employees participated;
accordingly, the amounts presented are not necessarily indicative of future performance and do not necessarily reflect the results that AbbVie would have experienced as an independent, publicly-traded
company for the periods presented.   

  All
equity award amounts presented below have not been converted to reflect the separation from Abbott. Upon the separation on January 1, 2013, holders of Abbott stock options, RSAs and RSUs
generally received one AbbVie stock-based award for each Abbott stock-based award outstanding. The value of the combined Abbott and AbbVie stock-based awards after separation was designed to generally
preserve the intrinsic value and the fair value of the award immediately prior to separation. The per share data presented in this Note has not been adjusted to reflect the impact of the separation.   

  87  

Stock Compensation Expense     

  Stock compensation expense recognized in the combined statements of earnings was $187 million, $163 million and $167 million in
2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The related tax benefit recognized was $56 million, $48 million and $51 million in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. More than half of
stock-compensation expense was classified in SG A, with the remainder classified in R D and cost of products sold. Compensation costs capitalized in the combined balance sheets at December 31,
2012 and 2011 was not significant.   

  Compensation
expense for stock-based awards is measured based on the fair value of the awards, as of the date the share-based awards are granted and adjusted to the estimated number of awards that are
expected to vest. Forfeitures are estimated based on historical experience at the time of grant and revised in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. Compensation cost
for stock-based awards are amortized over their service period, which could be shorter than the vesting period if an employee is retirement eligible, with a charge to compensation expense. For
stock-based awards granted to retirement-eligible employees, compensation expense is recognized immediately at the grant date because the employee is able to retain the award without continuing to
provide service.   

    Stock Options     

The exercise price for options granted is at least equal to 100 percent of the market value on the date of grant. Stock options typically have
a contractual term of 10 years and generally vest in one-third increments over a three-year period except for options with a replacement feature. Pre-2005
options were granted with a replacement option feature. The terms and conditions of the replacement option are the same in all material respects as those applicable to the original grant. When the
exercise price of an option with a replacement option feature is paid with the common shares held by the employee, a replacement option is granted for the number of shares used to make that payment.
The closing price of the common share on the business day before the exercise is used to determine the number of shares required to exercise the related option and the exercise price of the
replacement option. The replacement option is exercisable in full six months after the date of grant, and has a term expiring on the expiration date of the original option.   

  The
fair value of stock options is determined using the Black-Scholes model. The weighted-average assumptions used in estimating the fair value of stock options granted during each year, along with
weighted-average grant-date fair values, were as follows.   

The
risk-free interest rate is based on the rates available at the time of the grant for zero-coupon U.S. government issues with a remaining term equal to the option's expected
life. The average life of an option is based on both historical and projected exercise and lapsing data. Expected volatility is based on implied volatilities from traded options on Abbott's stock and
historical volatility of Abbott's stock over the expected life of the option. Dividend yield is based on the option's exercise price and annual dividend rate at the time of grant.   

  88  

The
following table summarizes stock option activity for the year ended December 31, 2012 and stock option outstanding balances at December 31, 2012 under Abbott's Incentive Stock
Programs for AbbVie employees.   

The
aggregate intrinsic value in the table above represents the difference between the exercise price and the closing stock price on the last day of trading of the year. The total intrinsic value of
options exercised in 2012, 2011 and 2010 was $170 million, $31 million and $20 million, respectively.   

  As
of December 31, 2012, $1 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to stock options is expected to be recognized as expense over the next three years.   

RSAs   RSUs     

  Restricted stock awards generally vest between three and five years. For restricted stock awards that vest over five years, no more than
one-third of the award vests in any one year. RSUs vest over three years and upon vesting, the recipient receives one share of common stock for each vested restricted stock unit. The fair
value of RSAs and RSUs is determined based on the number of shares granted and the quoted price of the common stock on the date of grant.   

The
following table summarizes RSAs and RSUs balances and activity under Abbott's Incentive Stock Programs for AbbVie employees.   

The
fair market value of restricted stock awards and units vested in 2012, 2011 and 2010 was $123 million, $74 million and $53 million, respectively. As of December 31,
2012, $90 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to RSAs and RSUs is expected to be recognized as expense over the next three years.   

  89  

Note 11  Income Taxes 

Earnings Before Income Taxes     

Income Taxes     

Effective Tax Rate Reconciliation     

Income
taxes in 2012 and 2011 included the recognition of tax benefits totaling approximately $195 million and $410 million, respectively, as a result of favorable resolutions of various
tax positions pertaining to prior years. Income taxes in 2011 also reflected the non-deductibility of a litigation reserve. Excluding these discrete items, the effective tax rates were
less than the statutory U.S. federal income tax rate of 35 percent principally due to the benefit of lower statutory tax rates and tax exemptions in Puerto Rico and other foreign taxing
jurisdictions, which reduced the tax rates by 23.5, 25.4 and 22.5 percentage points in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   

In
2010, Puerto Rico enacted legislation that assesses an excise tax beginning in 2011 on certain products manufactured in Puerto Rico. The tax is levied on gross inventory purchases from entities in
Puerto Rico and is included in cost of products sold in the combined statements of earnings. The majority of the tax is creditable for U.S. income tax purposes. In 2012 and 2011, the excise tax
totaled approximately $180 million and $105 million, respectively.   

  90  

At
December 31, 2012, U.S. income taxes have not been provided on approximately $19.4 billion of undistributed foreign earnings as these earnings have been indefinitely reinvested for
continued use in foreign operations. It is not practicable to determine the amount of deferred income taxes not provided on these earnings.   

Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities     

Unrecognized Tax Benefits     

AbbVie
and Abbott entered into a tax sharing agreement effective on the date of separation. For tax contingencies prior to the separation, Abbott will indemnify and hold AbbVie harmless if the tax
positions are settled for amounts in excess of recorded liabilities, and AbbVie will not benefit if prior
tax positions are resolved more favorably than recorded amounts. As a result, no liability for uncertain tax positions was recorded in the combined financial statements as of December 31, 2012,
2011 and 2010.   

   Note 12  Litigation 

There are a number of patent disputes with third parties who claim AbbVie's products infringe their patents. On February 21, 2012, the U.S. Supreme Court
denied Centocor Inc.'s and New York University's petition to review a February 2011 Federal Circuit Court of Appeals decision reversing a $1.67 billion judgment in favor of Centocor and
New York University on a patent they claimed AbbVie's HUMIRA infringed. This decision concludes the case.   

The
U.S. Department of Justice, through the U.S. Attorney for the Western District of Virginia, and various state Attorneys General investigated AbbVie's sales and marketing activities for Depakote.
The   

  91  

government
sought to determine whether any of these activities violated civil and/or criminal laws, including the Federal False Claims Act, the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, and the
Anti-Kickback Statute in connection with Medicare and/or Medicaid reimbursement to third parties. The state Attorneys General offices sought to determine whether any of these activities
violated various state laws, including state consumer fraud/protection statutes. AbbVie recorded charges of $1.5 billion in the third quarter of 2011 and $100 million in the first
quarter of 2012 related to civil and criminal claims arising from this matter. In May 2012, AbbVie reached resolution of all Depakote-related federal claims, Medicaid-related claims with
49 states and the District of Columbia, and consumer protection claims with 45 states and the District of Columbia. In 2012, AbbVie paid approximately $1.6 billion for the
settlement. The payments were material to AbbVie's cash flows in 2012.   

  The
recorded accrual balance for litigation at December 31, 2012 was not significant. Within the next year, other legal proceedings may occur that may result in a change in the estimated loss
accrued by AbbVie. While it is not feasible to predict the outcome of all other proceedings and exposures with certainty, management believes that their ultimate disposition should not have a material
adverse effect on AbbVie's financial position, cash flows, or results of operations.   

   Note 13  Related Party Transactions with Abbott 

In the historical financial statements, Abbott provided AbbVie certain services, which included administration of treasury, payroll, employee compensation and
benefits, travel and meeting services, public and investor relations, real estate services, internal audit, telecommunications, information technology, corporate income tax and selected legal
services. Some of these services will be provided to AbbVie on a temporary basis after the separation. The financial information in these combined financial statements does not necessarily include all
the expenses that would have been incurred had AbbVie been a separate, stand-alone entity. As such, the financial information herein may not necessarily reflect the combined financial position,
results of operations and cash flows of AbbVie in the future or what they would have been had AbbVie been a separate, stand-alone entity during the periods presented. Management believes that the
methods used to allocate expenses to AbbVie are reasonable. The allocation methods included relative sales, headcount, square footage, number of transactions or other measures. These allocations
totaled $838 million, $801 million and $677 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. In 2012, AbbVie incurred $288 million of
separation-related expenses, including legal, information technology and regulatory fees, which were principally classified in SG A. As of December 31, 2012, outstanding intercompany
transactions between AbbVie and Abbott are reflected as Due from Abbott Laboratories and Due to Abbott Laboratories in the combined balance sheet.   

  92  

Note 14  Segment and Geographic Area Information 

AbbVie operates in one business segment pharmaceutical products. Substantially all of AbbVie's U.S. sales are to three wholesalers. Outside the
United States, products are sold primarily to health care providers or through distributors, depending on the market served. Net sales of key products were as follows.   

Net
sales to external customers, based on the country that sold the product, were as follows.   

Long-lived
assets, consisting of net property and equipment in the United States and Puerto Rico, totaled approximately $1.6 billion and $1.5 billion as of
December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   

  93  

Note 15  Quarterly Financial Data (unaudited) 

The
computation of basic and diluted earnings per share for all periods was calculated using the shares distributed on January 1, 2013.   

  94  

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM            

  To
the Board of Directors and Shareholders of AbbVie Inc.:   

          We
have audited the accompanying combined balance sheets of AbbVie Inc. and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2012 and 2011 and the related combined
statements of earnings, comprehensive income, statement of parent company equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2012. These combined financial
statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.   

          We
conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit
to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the combined financial statements are free of material misstatement. The Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its
internal control over financial reporting. Our audits included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the
circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also
includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for
our opinion.   

          In
our opinion, such combined financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2012 and 2011 and the results
of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2012 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America.   

          As
described in Note 1, the accompanying combined financial statements have been derived from the consolidated financial statements and accounting records of Abbott Laboratories.
The combined financial statements also include expense allocations for certain corporate functions historically provided by Abbott Laboratories. These allocations may not be reflective of the actual
expense which would have been incurred had the Company operated as a separate legal entity apart from Abbott Laboratories.   

  /s/
Deloitte   Touche LLP   

  Chicago,
Illinois 
March 15, 2013   

  95  

ITEM 9.    CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE            

          As previously reported on AbbVie's Current Report on Form 8-K, dated December 20, 2012, the Audit Committee
of AbbVie's Board of Directors approved the dismissal of Deloitte   Touche LLP (Deloitte) as AbbVie's independent registered public accountant, effective as of the date of Deloitte's
completion of the audit services for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2012 and the filing of AbbVie's 2012 Annual Report on Securities and Exchange Commission Form 10-K,
and approved the appointment of Ernst   Young LLP as AbbVie's independent registered public accounting firm to perform independent audit services beginning with the fiscal year ending
December 31, 2013.   

          During
the fiscal years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, and through March 15, 2013, (i) there were no disagreements (as that term is defined in
Item 304(a)(1)(iv) of Regulation S-K and the related instructions) between AbbVie and Deloitte on any matter of accounting principles or practices, financial statement
disclosure, or auditing scope or procedure, which, if not resolved to the satisfaction of Deloitte, would have caused Deloitte to make reference to the subject matter of the disagreement in connection
with its reports on AbbVie's combined financial statements for such years, and (ii) there were no "reportable events" (as that term is defined in Item 304(a)(1)(v) of
Regulation S-K).    

ITEM 9A.    CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES            

     Disclosure Controls and Procedures      

             Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures.        The Chief Executive Officer, Richard A. Gonzalez, and the Chief Financial
Officer, William J.
Chase, evaluated the effectiveness of AbbVie's disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report, and concluded that AbbVie's disclosure controls and procedures
were effective to ensure that information AbbVie is required to disclose in the reports that it files or submits with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the Commission's rules and forms, and to ensure that information required to be disclosed by AbbVie in the reports
that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to AbbVie's management, including its principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to
allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.   

     Internal Control Over Financial Reporting      

Management's annual report on internal control over financial reporting.        This Annual Report on Form 10-K does not include a
report
of management's assessment regarding internal control over financial reporting or an attestation report of the company's registered public accounting firm due to a transition period established by
rules of the SEC for newly public companies.   

             Changes in internal control over financial reporting.        During the quarter ended December 31, 2012, there were no changes in
AbbVie's internal
control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act) that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, AbbVie's
internal control over financial reporting.   

             Inherent Limitations on Effectiveness of Controls.        AbbVie's management, including its Chief Executive Officer and its Chief
Financial Officer, do not
expect that AbbVie's disclosure controls or internal control over financial reporting will prevent or detect all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can
provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. The design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the
benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Further, because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide   

  96  

absolute
assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, have been detected. These inherent limitations include the
realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Controls can also be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by
collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls.   

The
design of any system of controls is based in part on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in
achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Projections of any evaluation of controls effectiveness to future periods are subject to risks. Over time, controls may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures.    

ITEM 9B.    OTHER INFORMATION            

          None.   

  97  

PART III            

ITEM 10.    DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE            

          Incorporated herein by reference are "Information Concerning Director Nominees," "The Board of Directors and its
Committees Committees of the Board of Directors," "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance," and "Procedure for Recommendation and Nomination of Directors and
Transaction of Business at Annual Meeting" to be included in the 2013 AbbVie Inc. Proxy Statement. The 2013 Proxy Statement will be filed on or about March 15, 2013. Also incorporated
herein by reference is the text found under the caption, "Executive Officers of the Registrant" on pages 35 through 36 hereof.   

          AbbVie's
code of business conduct requires all its business activities to be conducted in compliance with laws, regulations, and ethical principles and values. All directors, officers,
and employees of AbbVie are required to read, understand, and abide by the requirements of the code of business conduct applicable to them.   

          Any
waiver of the code of business conduct for directors or executive officers may be made only by AbbVie's audit committee. AbbVie will disclose any amendment to, or waiver from, a
provision of the code of conduct for the principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or controller, or persons performing similar functions, on its website
within four business days following the date of the amendment or waiver. In addition, AbbVie will disclose any waiver from the code of business conduct for the other executive officers and for
directors on the website.   

          AbbVie
has a chief ethics and compliance officer who reports to both the chief executive officer and to the public policy committee. The chief ethics and compliance officer is
responsible for overseeing, administering, and monitoring AbbVie's compliance program.    

ITEM 11.    EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION            

          The material to be included in the 2013 Proxy Statement under the headings "Director Compensation," "Executive Compensation," and
"Compensation Committee Report" is incorporated herein by reference. The 2013 Proxy Statement will be filed on or about March 15, 2013.    

ITEM 12.    SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS            

(a)     Equity Compensation Plan Information   .    AbbVie did not have any outstanding shares issued under a
company equity compensation plan as of December 31, 2012.
      (b)     Information Concerning Security Ownership   .    Incorporated herein by reference is the material
under the heading "Ownership of Securities Security Ownership of Executive Officers and Directors" in the 2013 Proxy Statement. The 2013 Proxy Statement will be filed on or about
March 15, 2013.     

ITEM 13.    CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE            

          The material to be included in the 2013 Proxy Statement under the headings "The Board of Directors and its Committees," "Corporate
Governance Materials," "Procedures for Approval of Related Person Transactions," and "Transactions with Abbott" is incorporated herein by reference. The 2013 Proxy Statement will be filed on or about
March 15, 2013.    

ITEM 14.    PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES            

          The material to be included in the 2013 Proxy Statement under the headings "Audit Information Audit Fees and
Non-Audit Fees" and "Audit Information Policy on Audit Committee Pre-Approval of Audit and Permissible Non-Audit Services of the Independent Auditor" is
incorporated herein by reference. The 2013 Proxy Statement will be filed on or about March 15, 2013.   

  98  

PART IV            

ITEM 15.    EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES            

(a)     Documents filed as part of this Form 10-K.   

(1)     Financial Statements:       See Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," on
page 59 hereof, for a list of financial statements.
      (2)     Financial Statement Schedules:       All schedules omitted are inapplicable or the information
required is shown in the combined financial statements or notes thereto.
      (3)     Exhibits Required by Item 601 of Regulation S-K:       The information
called for by this paragraph is incorporated herein by reference to the Exhibit Index on pages 101 through 103 of this Form 10-K.
     
   (b)     Exhibits filed (see Exhibit Index on pages 101 through 103).   
      (c)     Financial Statement Schedules:       None applicable.    
  99  

SIGNATURES            

          Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, AbbVie Inc. has duly caused
this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.   

AbbVie Inc.  

By:  
      
   /s/ RICHARD A. GONZALEZ 

Name:  
     
   Richard A. Gonzalez  

Title:  
     
   Chairman of the Board and 
Chief Executive Officer  

Date: March 15, 2013  

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of AbbVie Inc. on March 15, 2013
in the capacities indicated below.   

/s/ RICHARD A. GONZALEZ 

Richard A. Gonzalez 
Chairman of the Board and 
Chief Executive Officer 
(Principal Executive Officer)  
     
   /s/ WILLIAM J. CHASE 

William J. Chase 
Executive Vice President, 
Chief Financial Officer 
(Principal Financial Officer)  

/s/ THOMAS A. HURWICH 

Thomas A. Hurwich 
Vice President, Controller 
(Principal Accounting Officer)  

/s/ ROBERT J. ALPERN, M.D. 

Robert J. Alpern, M.D. 
Director of AbbVie Inc.  
      
    /s/ ROXANNE S. AUSTIN 

Roxanne S. Austin 
Director of AbbVie Inc.  

/s/ WILLIAM H.L. BURNSIDE 

William H.L. Burnside 
Director of AbbVie Inc.  
      
    /s/ EDWARD M. LIDDY 

Edward M. Liddy 
Director of AbbVie Inc.  

/s/ EDWARD J. RAPP 

Edward J. Rapp 
Director of AbbVie Inc.  
      
    /s/ ROY S. ROBERTS 

Roy S. Roberts 
Director of AbbVie Inc.  

/s/ GLENN F. TILTON 

Glenn F. Tilton 
Director of AbbVie Inc.  
      
    /s/ FREDERICK H. WADDELL 

Frederick H. Waddell 
Director of AbbVie Inc.  

100  

EXHIBIT INDEX   ABBVIE INC.   ANNUAL REPORT   FORM 10-K   2012            

Exhibits 32.1 and 32.2 are furnished herewith and should not be deemed to be "filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934."   

Exhibit 
Number    
     
   Exhibit Description    

2.1  
     
  *Separation and Distribution Agreement by and between Abbott Laboratories and AbbVie Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 of Amendment No. 6 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form 10
filed on November 30, 2012).  

3.1  
      
   *Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of AbbVie Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 2, 2013).  

3.2  
      
   *Amended and Restated By-Laws of AbbVie Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 of the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 2, 2013).  

4.1  
      
   *Indenture dated as of November 8, 2012 between AbbVie Inc. and U.S. Bank National Association (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of Amendment No. 5 to the Company's Registration Statement
on Form 10 filed on November 16, 2012).  

4.2  
      
   *Supplemental Indenture No. 1 dated as of November 8, 2012 among AbbVie Inc. and U.S. Bank National Association (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of Amendment No. 5 to the Company's
Registration Statement on Form 10 filed on November 16, 2012).  

4.3  
      
   *Registration Rights Agreement dated November 8, 2012 by and among AbbVie Inc., Abbott Laboratories, Morgan Stanley   Co. LLC, Barclays Capital Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities LLC
and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith Incorporated (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 of Amendment No. 5 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form 10 filed on November 16, 2012).  

10.1  
      
   *U.S. Transition Services Agreement by and between Abbott Laboratories and AbbVie Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 2,
2013).  

10.2  
      
   *Ex-U.S. Transition Services Agreement by and between Abbott Laboratories and AbbVie Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 2,
2013).  

10.3  
      
   *Tax Sharing Agreement by and between Abbott Laboratories and AbbVie Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 2,
2013).  

10.4  
      
   *Special Products Master Agreement by and between Abbott Laboratories and AbbVie Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 2,
2013).  

10.5  
      
   *Employee Matters Agreement by and between Abbott Laboratories and AbbVie Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 of the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 2,
2013).  

101  

Exhibit 
Number    
     
   Exhibit Description    

10.6  
     
  *International Commercial Operations Agreement by and between Abbott Laboratories and AbbVie Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 of the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on
January 2, 2013).  

10.7  
      
   *Luxembourg International Commercial Operations Agreement by and between Abbott Investments Luxembourg S. r.l. and AbbVie Investments S. r.l. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 of the
Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 2, 2013).  

10.8  
      
   *Information Technology Agreement by and between Abbott Laboratories and AbbVie Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 of the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 2,
2013).  

10.9  
      
   *Transitional Trademark License Agreement by and between Abbott Laboratories and AbbVie Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.9 of the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on
January 2, 2013).  

10.10  
      
   *Form of Finished Goods Supply Agreements by and between Abbott Laboratories and AbbVie Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11 of Amendment No. 2 to the Company's Registration Statement on
Form 10 filed on September 4, 2012).  

10.11  
      
   *Form of Contract Manufacturing Agreements by and between Abbott Laboratories and AbbVie Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12 of Amendment No. 2 to the Company's Registration Statement on
Form 10 filed on September 4, 2012).  

10.12  
      
   *Form of Agreement Regarding Change in Control (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.13 of Amendment No. 5 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form 10 filed on November 16,
2012).**  

10.13  
      
   *AbbVie 2013 Incentive Stock Program (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.14 of Amendment No. 6 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form 10 filed on November 30, 2012).**  

10.14  
      
   AbbVie 2013 Management Incentive Plan.**  

10.15  
      
   AbbVie 2013 Performance Incentive Plan.**  

10.16  
      
   AbbVie Deferred Compensation Plan.**  

10.17  
      
   AbbVie Non-Employee Directors' Fee Plan.**  

10.18  
      
   AbbVie Supplemental Pension Plan.**  

10.19  
      
   AbbVie Supplemental Savings Plan.**  

10.20  
      
   *Purchase Agreement dated November 5, 2012 between AbbVie Inc., Abbott Laboratories, as guarantor, and Morgan Stanley   Co. LLC, Barclays Capital Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities LLC,
 and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith Incorporated (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.21 of Amendment No. 6 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form 10 filed on November 30, 2012).  

21.1  
      
   Subsidiaries of AbbVie Inc.  

23.1  
      
   Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.  

31.1  
      
   Certification of Chief Executive Officer Required by Rule 13a-14(a) (17 CFR 240.13a-14(a)).  

31.2  
      
   Certification of Chief Financial Officer Required by Rule 13a-14(a) (17 CFR 240.13a-14(a)).  

102  

*    Incorporated
herein by reference. Commission file number 001-35565.
      **    Denotes
management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be filed as an exhibit hereto.    

AbbVie
will furnish copies of any of the above exhibits to a shareholder upon written request to the Secretary, AbbVie Inc., 1 North Waukegan Road, North Chicago, Illinois 60064.   

  103  

QuickLinks    
  PART I   
 
  ITEM 1. BUSINESS   

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS   

CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS   
 
  ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS   

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES   
  ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS   
  ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES   
 
  EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT   
  PART II   
 
  ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES   

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA   
  ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK   

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA   
 
  AbbVie Inc. and Subsidiaries Combined Statements of Earnings   
 
  AbbVie Inc. and Subsidiaries Combined Statements of Comprehensive Income   
 
  AbbVie Inc. and Subsidiaries Combined Statements of Cash Flows   
 
  AbbVie Inc. and Subsidiaries Combined Balance Sheets   
 
  AbbVie Inc. and Subsidiaries Combined Statements of Parent Company Equity   
 
  REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE   
  ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES   
  ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION   
 
  PART III   
 
  ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE   
  ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION   
  ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS   
  ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE   
  ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES   

PART IV   
 
  ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES   

SIGNATURES   
 
  EXHIBIT INDEX ABBVIE INC. ANNUAL REPORT FORM 10-K 2012   

<EX-10.14>
 2
 a2213529zex-10_14.htm
 EX-10.14

Exhibit 10.14   
     
   ABBVIE 2013 MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE PLAN   
     
  (Effective as of January 1, 2013 and conformed through the First Amendment)  

ABBVIE      2013 MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE PLAN   
     
   SECTION 1     INTRODUCTION   
     
  1.1                                   BACKGROUND AND PURPOSES.  This AbbVie 2013 Management Incentive Plan (the  Plan ) is established by AbbVie Inc. ( AbbVie ) for the following purposes:  
     
  (a)                                     To provide greater incentive for participants in the Plan to attain and maintain the highest standards of managerial performance by rewarding them for services rendered with compensation, in addition to their base salaries, in proportion to the success of AbbVie and to the participants  respective contribution to such success;  
     
  (b)                                     To attract and retain in the employ of AbbVie and its subsidiaries persons of outstanding competence.  
     
  1.2                                   EFFECTIVE DATE AND FISCAL YEAR.  The Plan is effective as of January 1, 2013 (the  Effective Date ).  The term  fiscal year,  as used in this Plan, means the fiscal period from time to time employed by AbbVie for the purpose of reporting earnings to stockholders.  
     
  1.3                                   ADMINISTRATION.  The Plan will be administered by the Compensation Committee (the  Committee ) appointed by the Board of Directors of AbbVie (the  Board of Directors ).  
     
   SECTION 2  ELIGIBILITY AND PARTICIPATION   
     
  2.1                                   PERSONS ELIGIBLE FOR PARTICIPATION.  Participation in the Plan will be limited to those Officers and managerial employees of AbbVie and its subsidiaries who, from time to time, shall be selected as participants by the Committee.  
     
  2.2                                   PARTICIPANTS.  The term  participant,  as used in the Plan, shall include both active participants and inactive participants.  
     
  2.3                                   ACTIVE PARTICIPANTS.  For each fiscal year, there shall be a group of active participants which, except as provided below, shall not exceed forty-five persons and shall consist of those persons eligible for participation who shall have been designated as active participants and notified of that fact by the Committee.  If, as a result of the growth of AbbVie and its subsidiaries or changes in AbbVie s organization, the Board of Directors deems it appropriate, the Board of Directors may, in its discretion, from time to time, increase the number of persons who may be designated as active participants for any fiscal year beyond the limit of forty-five persons provided for above.  Selection as an active participant for any fiscal year shall not confer upon any person a right to be an active participant in any subsequent fiscal year, nor shall it confer upon him the right to receive any allocation under the Plan, other than amounts allocated to him by the Committee pursuant to the Plan, and all such allocations shall be subject to all of the terms and conditions of the Plan.  
     
  1    

2.4                                   INACTIVE PARTICIPANTS.  Inactive participants shall consist of those persons, including beneficiaries of deceased participants, if any, for whom an allocation shall have been made for a prior fiscal year under this Plan, the payment of which was deferred and remains unpaid.  Status as an inactive participant shall not preclude a person from also being an active participant during any fiscal year.  
     
  2    

SECTION 3  MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE PLAN FUND   
     
  3.1                                   DETERMINATION OF MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE PLAN AMOUNT FOR ANY YEAR.  (a) For each fiscal year, the Committee shall determine a tentative amount as the Management Incentive Plan Amount for that year, which tentative amount shall not exceed an amount which equals 200 percent of the aggregate base salaries of all active participants for such year. For purposes of the Plan,  base salary  means the amount of salary paid to each active participant by AbbVie and its subsidiaries for such year and does not include bonuses, other awards or any other compensation of any kind.    
     
  (b) Following determination of the tentative Management Incentive Plan Amount described in (a) above, the Committee shall report in writing the amount of such tentative amount to the Board of Directors. At the meeting of the Board of Directors coincident with or next following receipt by it of the Committee s determination, the Board of Directors shall have the power to approve or reduce, but not to increase, the tentative amount reported to it by the Committee.  The amount approved by the Board of Directors shall be the Management Incentive Plan Amount for such year.  
     
  3.2                                   THE MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE PLAN FUND.  The Management Incentive Plan Fund at any time shall consist of an amount equal to the aggregate of the Management Incentive Plan Amounts established pursuant to subsection 3.1 of this Plan for all fiscal years during which this Plan shall have been operative, plus the amounts established as Management Incentive Plan Amounts for any prior fiscal year pursuant to any applicable predecessor plan, reduced  
     
  3    

by an amount equal to the aggregate of the amounts of awards which shall have been allocated to participants in accordance with this Plan or any applicable predecessor plan.  
     
   SECTION 4  ALLOCATION OF MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE FUND   
     
  4.1                                   ANNUAL ALLOCATION OF MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE FUND.  As soon as practicable after the close of each fiscal year, part or all of the amount then in the Management Incentive Plan Fund (including the Management Incentive Plan Amount for such fiscal year) will be allocated by the Committee among active participants in the Plan for such fiscal year, having due regard for the purposes for which the Plan was established, in the following manner and order:  
     
  (a)                                     First, if the Chairman of the Board of AbbVie shall be an active participant for such year, the members of the Committee, other than the Chairman of the Board, shall determine the amount, if any, to be allocated to the Chairman of the Board from such Fund for such year; and  
     
  (b)                                     Next, all or a part of the balance of such Fund may be allocated among the active participants (other than the Chairman of the Board) for such year, in such amounts and proportions as the Committee shall determine; provided, however, that the amount allocated to any active participant for any year shall not exceed 200 percent of such participant s base salary for that year.  
     
  4.2                                   COMMITTEE S DISCRETION IN ALLOCATIONS.  In making any allocations in accordance with subsection 4.1 for any year, the discretion of the Committee shall be absolute, and no active participants for any year, by reason of their designation as such, shall be entitled to any particular amounts or any amount whatsoever.  
     
   SECTION 5  PAYMENT OF AMOUNTS ALLOCATED TO PARTICIPANTS   
     
  5.1                                   TIME OF PAYMENT.  A participant shall direct the payment or deferral of an allocation made to him pursuant to subsection 4.1 (a  Plan Award ) at the time specified in subsection 5.2 (subject to such conditions relating to the right of the participant to receive payment of such amount as established by the Committee) by one or more of the following methods:  
     
  (a)                                     current payment in cash to the participant, which payment shall be made no later than the last day of the  applicable 2  month period,  as such term is defined in Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(A);  
     
  (b)                                     current payment of a portion in cash and deposited to a grantor trust (the  Grantor Trust ) established by the participant (in a form which the Committee determines is substantially similar to the trust in Exhibit A) and the balance withheld on behalf of the participant to satisfy the participant s aggregate federal, state and local individual income and employment taxes (determined in accordance with subsections 6.6 and 6.7); provided that all payments or contributions to the Grantor Trust and participant contemplated by this  
     
  4    

subsection 5.1(b) shall be made no later than the last day of the  applicable 2  month period,  as such term is defined in Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(A); or  
     
  (c)                                      deferral of payment until such time and in such manner as determined in accordance with subsection 5.14.  
     
  5.2                                   TIME OF ELECTION.  
     
  A participant must make the election described in subsection 5.1 by filing it with the Committee or its delegate on or before December 31 of the year prior to the fiscal year during which the incentive compensation is earned under the Plan.  
     
  (a)                                     Notwithstanding the timing requirements described above, an individual who newly becomes eligible to participate in the Plan by being designated as a participant under subsection 2.1 (and who was not eligible to participate in any other plan that would be aggregated with the Plan under Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(c)) may make an initial deferral election as described in subsection 5.1 by filing it with the Committee or its delegate within the thirty (30) day period immediately following the date he or she first is designated as participant, provided that the compensation deferred pursuant to such election relates solely to services performed after the date of such election.  For this purpose, an election shall be deemed to apply to compensation paid for services performed after the election if the election applies to no more than the amount prescribed by Treasury Regulation  1.409A-2(a)(7)(i).  
     
  (b)                                     Any election described in subsection 5.1 shall be irrevocable for the fiscal year to which the election applies.  
     
  5.3                                   SEPARATE ACCOUNTS.  The Committee shall establish accounts for participants who have made elections pursuant to subsection 5.1(b) or 5.1(c) as follows.  
     
  (a)                                     The Committee will maintain a  Deferred Account  in the name of each participant who has elected to defer payment of all or a portion of his or her Plan Award under subsection 5.1(c).  The Deferred Account shall consist of allocations deferred according to subsection 5.1(c) and any adjustments made in accordance with subsection 5.4; provided that for each Transferred Employee (as such term is defined in the Employee Matters Agreement by and between Abbott Laboratories and AbbVie, dated as of December 31, 2012), who participated in the Abbott MIP prior to the Effective Date, the Deferred Account shall be credited with a starting balance equal to the amount, if any, in such Transferred Employee s Deferred Account (as such term is used in the Abbott MIP) immediately prior to the Effective Date.  
     
  (b)                                     The Committee will maintain two separate Accounts, a  Pre-Tax Account  and an  After-Tax Account,  in the name of each participant who has elected to have a portion of his or her Plan Award deposited in cash to a Grantor Trust according to subsection 5.1(b).  The Pre-Tax Account shall consist of the aggregate of all allocations contemplated by subsection 5.1(b), whether deposited to the participant s Grantor Trust or made in cash to the participant, and any adjustments made in accordance with subsection 5.5.  The After-Tax Account shall consist of after-tax allocations deposited to the  
     
  5    

participant s Grantor Trust in cash according to subsection 5.1(b) and any adjustments made in accordance with subsection 5.6.  
     
  5.4                                   ADJUSTMENT OF DEFERRED ACCOUNTS.  As of the end of each fiscal year, each participant s Deferred Account shall be adjusted by the Committee as follows:  
     
  (a)                                     FIRST, reduced by an amount equal to any distributions made to the participant during that year pursuant to subsections 5.14 or 5.15;  
     
  (b)                                     NEXT, increased by an amount equal to the Plan Award for that year that is deferred pursuant to subsection 5.1(c); and  
     
  (c)                                      FINALLY, increased by an amount equal to the interest earned for that year according to subsection 5.7.  
     
  5.5                                   ADJUSTMENT OF PRE-TAX ACCOUNTS.  As of the end of each fiscal year, each participant s Pre-Tax Account shall be adjusted by the Committee as follows:  
     
  (a)                                     FIRST, reduced, in any year in which the participant receives a distribution from his or her Grantor Trust, by an amount equal to the distribution that would have been made to the participant if the aggregate amounts allocated according to subsection 5.1(b) had instead been deferred under subsection 5.1(c);  
     
  (b)                                     NEXT, increased by an amount equal to any Plan Award for that year that is withheld on behalf of the participant to satisfy the participant s aggregate federal, state and local individual income and employment taxes (including the amount deposited in the participant s Grantor Trust) according to subsection 5.1(b); and  
     
  (c)                                      FINALLY, increased by an amount equal to the pre-tax interest earned for that year according to subsection 5.7(a) and (c).  
     
  5.6                                   ADJUSTMENT OF AFTER-TAX ACCOUNTS.  As of the end of each fiscal year, each participant s After-Tax Account shall be adjusted by the Committee as follows:  
     
  (a)                                     FIRST, reduced, in any year in which the participant receives a benefit distribution from his or her Grantor Trust, by an amount calculated as provided in subsection 5.19 which represents the distribution for such year;  
     
  (b)                                     NEXT, increased by an amount equal to the Plan Award for that year that is deposited in the participant s Grantor Trust according to subsection 5.1(b); and  
     
  (c)                                      FINALLY, increased by an amount equal to the after-tax interest earned for that year according to subsection 5.7(b) and (c).  
     
  5.7                                   INTEREST ACCRUALS ON ACCOUNTS.  
     
  (a)                                     As of the end of each fiscal year, a participant s Deferred Account or Pre-Tax Account, as applicable, shall be credited with interest ( Interest ) at the following rate:  
     
  6    

(i)                                         the average of the  prime rate  of interest as set forth on the Bloomberg Screen BTMM or comparable successor quotation service on the first business day of January and the last business day of each month of the fiscal year; plus  
     
  (ii)                                      two hundred twenty-five (225) basis points.  
     
  (b)                                     As of the end of each fiscal year, a participant s After-Tax Account shall be credited with the amount of Interest provided above, multiplied by (one minus the aggregate of the applicable federal, state and local individual income tax rates and employment tax rate determined in accordance with subsections 6.6 and 6.7) (the  After-Tax Interest ).  
     
  (c)                                      This Interest and After-Tax Interest, as applicable, shall be credited on the conditions established by the Committee, provided that any award allocation shall be considered to have been made and credited to a participant s Account as of the first day of the fiscal year in which the award is made.  
     
  5.8                                   INTEREST PAYMENTS.  In addition to any Plan Award made to a participant for any fiscal year in accordance with subsection 5.1(b), AbbVie shall also make a payment (an  Interest Payment ) with respect to each participant who has established a Grantor Trust for each year in which the Grantor Trust is in effect.  The Interest Payment shall equal the excess, if any, of the pre-tax Interest credited to the participant s Pre-Tax Account pursuant to subsection 5.5(c), over the net earnings of the participant s Grantor Trust for the year, as adjusted by the amounts described in Schedule A, and shall be paid within the thirty (30)-day period beginning April 1 of the following fiscal year.  A portion of such Interest Payment, equal to the excess, if any, of the Net Interest Accrual over the net earnings of the participant s Grantor Trust shall be deposited in the participant s Grantor Trust, with the balance paid to, or withheld on behalf of, the Participant; provided, however, in the event that the net earnings of the participant s Grantor Trust exceeds the Net Interest Accrual, a distribution from the Grantor Trust shall be required in accordance with subsection 6.9. A participant s Net Interest Accrual for the year is an amount equal to the After-Tax Interest credited to the participant s After-Tax Account for that year in accordance with subsection 5.7.  
     
  5.9                                   GRANTOR TRUST ASSETS.  Each participant s Grantor Trust assets shall be invested solely in the instruments specified by investment guidelines established by the Committee.  Such investment guidelines, once established, may be changed by the Committee, provided that any change shall not take effect until the year following the year in which the change is made and provided further that the instruments specified shall be consistent with the provisions of subsection 3(b) of the form of Grantor Trust attached hereto as Exhibit A.  
     
  5.10                            DESIGNATION OF BENEFICIARIES.  Subject to the conditions and limitations set forth below, each participant and, after a participant s death, each primary beneficiary designated by a participant in accordance with the provisions of this subsection 5.10, shall have the right from time to time to designate a primary beneficiary or beneficiaries and, successive or contingent beneficiary or beneficiaries to receive unpaid amounts from the participant s Deferred Account under this Plan.  A beneficiary may be a natural person or persons or a fiduciary, such as a trustee of a trust or the legal representative of an estate.  Any such designation shall take effect  
     
  7    

upon the death of the participant or such beneficiary, as the case may be, or in the case of any fiduciary beneficiary, upon the termination of all of its duties (other than the duty to dispose of the right to receive amounts remaining to be paid under the Plan).  The conditions and limitations relating to the designation of beneficiaries are as follows:  
     
  (a)                                     A nonfiduciary beneficiary shall have the right to designate a further beneficiary or beneficiaries only if the original participant or the next preceding primary beneficiary, as the case may be, shall have expressly so provided in writing; and  
     
  (b)                                     A fiduciary beneficiary shall designate as a further beneficiary or beneficiaries only those persons or other fiduciaries who are entitled to receive the amounts payable from the participant s account under the trust or estate of which it is a fiduciary.  
     
  Any beneficiary designation or grant of any power to any beneficiary under this subsection may be exercised only by an instrument in writing, executed by the person making the designation or granting such power and filed with the Secretary of AbbVie during such person s lifetime or prior to the termination of a fiduciary s duties.  If a deceased participant or a deceased nonfiduciary beneficiary who had the right to designate a beneficiary as provided above dies without having designated a further beneficiary, or if no beneficiary designated as provided above is living or qualified and acting, the Committee, in its discretion, may direct distribution of the amount remaining from time to time to either:  
     
  (i)                                         any one or more or all of the next of kin (including the surviving spouse) of the participant or the deceased beneficiary, as the case may be, and in such proportions as the Committee determines; or  
     
  (ii)                                      the legal representative of the estate of the deceased participant or deceased beneficiary as the case may be.  
     
  5.11                            STATUS OF BENEFICIARIES.  Following a participant s death, the participant s beneficiary or beneficiaries will be considered and treated as an inactive participant for all purposes of this Plan.  
     
  5.12                            NON-ASSIGNABILITY AND FACILITY OF PAYMENT.  Amounts payable to participants and their beneficiaries under the Plan are not in any way subject to their debts and other obligations, and may not be voluntarily or involuntarily sold, transferred or assigned; provided that the preceding provisions of this subsection shall not be construed as restricting in any way a designation right granted to a beneficiary pursuant to the terms of subsection 5.10. When a participant or the beneficiary of a participant is under legal disability, or in the Committee s opinion is in any way incapacitated so as to be unable to manage his or her financial affairs, the Committee may direct that payments shall be made to the participant s or beneficiary s legal representative, or to a relative or friend of the participant or beneficiary for the benefit of the participant or beneficiary, or the Committee may direct the payment or distribution for the benefit of the participant or beneficiary in any manner that the Committee determines.  
     
  5.13                            PAYER OF AMOUNTS ALLOCATED TO PARTICIPANTS.  Any amount allocated to a participant in the Plan and any interest credited thereto will be paid by the employer (or such employer s successor) by whom the participant was employed during the fiscal year for  
     
  8    

which any amount was allocated, and for that purpose, if a participant shall have been employed by two or more employers during any fiscal year the amount allocated under this Plan for that year shall be an obligation of each of the respective employers in proportion to the respective amounts of base salary paid by each of them in that fiscal year.  
     
  5.14                            MANNER OF PAYMENT OF DEFERRED ACCOUNTS.  Subject to subsection 5.15, a participant shall elect to receive payment of his Deferred Account in substantially equal annual installments over a minimum period of ten years, or a longer period, at the time of his deferral election under subsection 5.1(c).  Payment of a participant s Deferred Account shall commence on the first business day of January of the year following the year in which the participant incurs a termination of employment.  
     
  5.15                            PAYMENTS UPON TERMINATION FOLLOWING CHANGE IN CONTROL.  Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan or the provisions of any award made under the Plan, if a participant incurs a termination of employment with AbbVie and its subsidiaries for any reason within two (2) years following the date of a Change in Control, provided that the event constituting a Change in Control is also a  change in control event , as such term is defined in Treasury Regulation  1.409A-3(i)(5): (a) with respect to a participant whose allocations under the Plan are deferred in accordance with subsection 5.1(c), the aggregate unpaid balance of the participant s Deferred Account shall be paid to such participant in a lump sum within thirty (30) days following the date of such termination of employment, and (b) with respect to a participant whose Plan Awards are made pursuant to subsection 5.1(b), (i) the aggregate of the participant s unpaid Plan Award under subsection 5.1(b) (if any) for the fiscal year in which the termination occurs and (ii) a pro rata portion of the unpaid Guaranteed Rate Payment under subsection 5.8 attributable to the portion of the year elapsed prior to the date of termination, shall be paid to such participant s Grantor Trust in a lump sum within thirty (30) days following the date of such termination of employment.  
     
  5.16                            CHANGE IN CONTROL.  A  Change in Control  shall be deemed to have occurred on the earliest of the following dates:  
     
  (a)                                     the date any Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of AbbVie (not including in the securities beneficially owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from AbbVie or its Affiliates) representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of AbbVie s then outstanding securities, excluding any Person who becomes such a Beneficial Owner in connection with a transaction described in clause (i) of paragraph (c) below; or  
     
  (b)                                     the date the following individuals cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the number of directors then serving: individuals who, on the Effective Date, constitute the Board of Directors and any new director (other than a director whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened election contest, including but not limited to a consent solicitation, relating to the election of directors of AbbVie) whose appointment or election by the Board of Directors or nomination for election by AbbVie s stockholders was approved or recommended by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who either were directors on the Effective Date or whose appointment, election or nomination for election was previously so approved or recommended; or  
     
  9    

(c)                                      the date on which there is consummated a merger or consolidation of AbbVie or any direct or indirect subsidiary of AbbVie with any other corporation or other entity, other than (i) a merger or consolidation (A) immediately following which the individuals who comprise the Board of Directors immediately prior thereto constitute at least a majority of the Board of Directors of AbbVie, the entity surviving such merger or consolidation or, if AbbVie or the entity surviving such merger or consolidation is then a subsidiary, the ultimate parent thereof and (B) which results in the voting securities of AbbVie outstanding immediately prior to such merger or consolidation continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity or any parent thereof), in combination with the ownership of any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of AbbVie or any subsidiary of AbbVie, at least 50% of the combined voting power of the securities of AbbVie or such surviving entity or any parent thereof outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation, or (ii) a merger or consolidation effected to implement a recapitalization of AbbVie (or similar transaction) in which no Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of AbbVie (not including in the securities Beneficially Owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from AbbVie or its Affiliates) representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of AbbVie s then outstanding securities; or  
     
  (d)                                     the date the stockholders of AbbVie approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of AbbVie or there is consummated an agreement for the sale or disposition by AbbVie of all or substantially all of AbbVie s assets, other than a sale or disposition by AbbVie of all or substantially all of AbbVie s assets to an entity, at least 50% of the combined voting power of the voting securities of which are owned by stockholders of AbbVie, in combination with the ownership of any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of AbbVie or any subsidiary of AbbVie, in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of AbbVie immediately prior to such sale.  
     
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a  Change in Control  shall not be deemed to have occurred by virtue of the consummation of any transaction or series of integrated transactions immediately following which the record holders of the common stock of AbbVie immediately prior to such transaction or series of transactions continue to have substantially the same proportionate ownership in an entity which owns all or substantially all of the assets of AbbVie immediately following such transaction or series of transactions.  
     
  For purposes of this Plan:  Affiliate  shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under Section 12 of the Exchange Act;  Beneficial Owner  shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 13d3 under the Exchange Act;  Exchange Act  shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time; and  Person  shall have the meaning given in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act, as modified and used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) thereof, except that such term shall not include (i) AbbVie or any of its subsidiaries, (ii) a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of AbbVie or any of its Affiliates, (iii) an underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities, or (iv) a corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the stockholders of AbbVie in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of AbbVie.  
     
  10    

5.17                            POTENTIAL CHANGE IN CONTROL.  A  Potential Change in Control  shall exist during any period in which the circumstances described in paragraphs (a), (b), (c) or (d), below, exist (provided, however, that a Potential Change in Control shall cease to exist not later than the occurrence of a Change in Control):  
     
  (a)                                     AbbVie enters into an agreement, the consummation of which would result in the occurrence of a Change in Control, provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this paragraph (a) shall cease to exist upon the expiration or other termination of all such agreements.  
     
  (b)                                     Any Person (without regard to the exclusions set forth in subsections (i) through (iv) of such definition) publicly announces an intention to take or to consider taking actions the consummation of which would constitute a Change in Control; provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this paragraph (b) shall cease to exist upon the withdrawal of such intention, or upon a determination by the Board of Directors that there is no reasonable chance that such actions would be consummated.  
     
  (c)                                      Any Person becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of AbbVie representing 10% or more of either the then outstanding shares of common stock of AbbVie or the combined voting power of AbbVie s then outstanding securities (not including any securities beneficially owned by such Person which are or were acquired directly from AbbVie or its Affiliates).  
     
  (d)                                     The Board of Directors adopts a resolution to the effect that, for purposes of this Agreement, a Potential Change in Control exists; provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this paragraph (d) shall cease to exist upon a determination by the Board of Directors that the reasons that gave rise to the resolution providing for the existence of a Potential Change in Control have expired or no longer exist.  
     
  5.18                            PROHIBITION AGAINST AMENDMENT.  The provisions of subsections 5.15, 5.16, 5.17 and this subsection 5.18 may not be amended or deleted, nor superseded by any other provision of this Plan, (i) during the pendency of a Potential Change in Control and (ii) during the period beginning on the date of a Change in Control and ending on the date five (5) years following such Change in Control.  
     
  5.19                            ADMINISTRATOR S CALCULATION OF GRANTOR TRUST DISTRIBUTIONS.  The Administrator shall calculate the amount to be distributed from a participant s Grantor Trust in any year in which the participant is entitled to a benefit distribution by multiplying (i) the amount of the reduction determined in accordance with subsection 5.5(a), by (ii) a fraction, the numerator of which is the balance in the participant s After-Tax Account as of the end of the prior fiscal year and the denominator of which is the balance of the participant s Pre-Tax Account as of that same date.  
     
   SECTION 6  MISCELLANEOUS   
     
  6.1                                   RULES.  The Committee may establish such rules and regulations as it may consider necessary or desirable for the effective and efficient administration of the Plan.  
     
  11    

6.2                                   MANNER OF ACTION BY COMMITTEE.  A majority of the members of the Committee qualified to act on any particular question may act by meeting or by writing signed without meeting, and may execute any instrument or document required or delegate to one of its members authority to sign.  The Committee from time to time may delegate the performance of certain ministerial functions in connection with the Plan, such as the keeping of records, to such person or persons as the Committee may select. Except as otherwise expressly provided in the Plan, the costs of administration of the Plan will be paid by AbbVie.  Any notice required to be given to, or any document required to be filed with the Committee, will be properly given or filed if mailed or delivered in writing to the Secretary of AbbVie.  
     
  6.3                                   RELIANCE UPON ADVICE.  The Board of Directors and the Committee may rely upon any information or advice furnished to it by any Officer of AbbVie or by AbbVie s independent auditors, or other consultants, and shall be fully protected in relying upon such information or advice.  No member of the Board of Directors or the Committee shall be liable for any act or failure to act on their part, excepting only any acts done or omitted to be done in bad faith, nor shall they be liable for any act or failure to act of any other member.  
     
  6.4                                   TAXES.  Any employer shall be entitled, if necessary or desirable, to pay or withhold the amount of any federal, state or local tax attributable to any amounts payable by it under the Plan, and may require payment or indemnification from the participant in an amount necessary to satisfy such taxes prior to remitting such taxes.  
     
  6.5                                   RIGHTS OF PARTICIPANTS.  Employment rights of participants with AbbVie and its subsidiaries shall not be enlarged or affected by reason of establishment of or inclusion as a participant in the Plan. Nothing contained in the Plan shall require AbbVie or any subsidiary to segregate or earmark any assets, funds or property for the purpose of payment of any amounts which may have been deferred.  The Deferred Account, Pre-Tax Account and After-Tax Account with respect to any participant established pursuant to subsection 5.2 are for the convenience of the administration of the Plan and no trust relationship with respect to such Accounts is intended or should be implied. Participant s rights shall be limited to payment to them at the time or times and in such amounts as are contemplated by the Plan.  Any decision made by the Board of Directors or the Committee, which is within the sole and uncontrolled discretion of either, shall be conclusive and binding upon the other and upon all other persons whomsoever.  
     
  6.6                                   EMPLOYMENT TAX ASSUMPTION.  For purposes of Sections 5 and 6, a participant s employment tax rate shall be deemed to be the highest marginal rate of Federal Insurance Contributions Act tax in effect in the calendar year in which a calculation under those Sections is to be made.  
     
  6.7                                   INCOME TAX ASSUMPTIONS.  For purposes of Sections 5 and 6, a participant s federal income tax rate shall be deemed to be the highest marginal rate of federal income individual tax in effect in the calendar year in which a calculation under those Sections is to be made, and state and local tax rates shall be deemed to be the highest marginal rates of individual income tax in effect in the state and locality of the participant s residence on the date such a calculation is made, net of any federal tax benefits without a benefit for any net capital losses.  
     
  6.8                                   CODE SECTION 409A.  To the extent applicable, it is intended that the Plan comply with the provisions of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended  
     
  12    

( Code Section 409A ).  The Plan will be administered and interpreted in a manner consistent with this intent, and any provision that would cause the Plan to fail to satisfy Code Section 409A will have no force and effect until amended to comply therewith (which amendment may be retroactive to the extent permitted by Code Section 409A).  Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, for all purposes of the Plan, a participant shall not be deemed to have had a termination of employment until the participant has incurred a separation from service as defined in Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(h) and, to the extent required to avoid accelerated taxation and/or tax penalties under Code Section 409A and applicable guidance issued thereunder, payment of the amounts payable under the Plan that would otherwise be payable during the six-month period after the date of termination shall instead be paid on the first business day after the expiration of such six-month period, plus interest thereon, at a rate equal to the rate specified in subsection 5.7 (to the extent that such interest is not already provided to the participant under subsection 5.6), from the respective dates on which such amounts would otherwise have been paid until the actual date of payment.  In addition, for purposes of the Plan, each amount to be paid and each installment payment shall be construed as a separate identified payment for purposes of Code Section 409A.  
     
  6.9                                   DOMESTIC RELATIONS ORDER.  In accordance with Treasury Regulation 1.409A-3(j)(4)(ii), distributions shall be made to an individual (other than to the participant) pursuant to the terms of a  domestic relations order  (as defined in Internal Revenue Code Section 414(p)(1)(B)), as determined and administered by the Senior Vice President, Human Resources of AbbVie or his or her delegate, provided, that such order (a) does not require the plan to provide any type or form of benefit, or any option not otherwise provided under the plan, (b) does not require the plan to provide increased benefits, and (c) does not require the payment of benefits to an alternate payee which are required to be paid to another alternate payee under another order.  
     
  6.10                            GRANTOR TRUSTS.  AbbVie, as the administrator of the participant s Grantor Trust, may direct the trustee to distribute to the participant from the income of such Grantor Trust an amount sufficient to pay the taxes on the Grantor Trust earnings for such year, to the extent a sufficient sum of money has not been paid to, or withheld on behalf of, the participant pursuant to Section 5.8.  The taxes shall be determined in accordance with Sections 6.6 and 6.7.  
     
   SECTION 7     AMENDMENT, TERMINATION AND CHANGE OF  CONDITIONS RELATING TO PAYMENTS   
     
  7.1                                   AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION.  The Plan will be effective from its effective date until terminated by the Board of Directors. During the fifth year after the Plan s effective date and during every fifth year thereafter, the Committee may recommend to the Board of Directors whether the Plan should be amended or terminated.  The Board of Directors reserves the right to amend the Plan from time to time and to terminate the Plan at any time, except that no such amendment or any termination of the Plan shall reduce any fixed or contingent obligations which shall have arisen under the Plan prior to the date of such amendment or termination, or change the terms and conditions of payment of any allocation theretofore made without the consent of the participant concerned.  
     
  7.2                                   CHANGE OF CONDITIONS RELATING TO PAYMENTS.  No change to the time of payment or the time of commencement of payment and any period over which payment  
     
  13    

shall be made shall be effected except in strict compliance with the subsequent election requirements of Treasury Regulation  1.409A-2(b) to the extent subject thereto.  
     
  14    

EXHIBIT A   
     
   IRREVOCABLE GRANTOR TRUST AGREEMENT   
     
  THIS AGREEMENT, made this           day of                       , 20    , by and between                                      of                , Illinois (the  grantor ), and The Northern Trust Company located at Chicago, Illinois, as trustee (the  trustee ),  
     
  WITNESSETH THAT:  
     
  WHEREAS, the grantor desires to establish and maintain a trust to hold certain benefits received by the grantor under the AbbVie 2013 Management Incentive Plan, as it may be amended from time to time;  
     
  NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows:  
     
   ARTICLE I             INTRODUCTION   
     
  I-1                                    NAME.  This agreement and the trust hereby evidenced (the  trust ) may be referred to as the                           20      Grantor Trust .  
     
  I-2                                    THE TRUST FUND.  The  trust fund  as at any date means all property then held by the trustee under this agreement.  
     
  I-3                                    STATUS OF THE TRUST.  The trust shall be irrevocable.  The trust is intended to constitute a grantor trust under Sections 671-678 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and shall be construed accordingly.  
     
  I-4                                    THE ADMINISTRATOR.  AbbVie Inc. ( AbbVie ) shall act as the  administrator  of the trust, and as such shall have certain powers, rights and duties under this agreement as described below.  AbbVie will certify to the trustee from time to time the person or persons authorized to act on behalf of AbbVie as the administrator.  The trustee may rely on the latest certificate received without further inquiry or verification.  
     
  I-5                                    ACCEPTANCE.  The trustee accepts the duties and obligations of the  trustee  hereunder, agrees to accept funds delivered to it by the grantor or the administrator, and agrees to hold such funds (and any proceeds from the investment of such funds) in trust in accordance with this agreement.  
     
   ARTICLE II     DISTRIBUTION OF THE TRUST FUND   
     
  II-1                               SEPARATE ACCOUNTS.  The administrator shall maintain two separate accounts under the trust, a  rollout account  and a  deferred account.   Funds delivered to the trustee shall be allocated between the accounts by the trustee as directed by the administrator.  As of the end of each calendar year, the administrator shall charge each account with all distributions made from such account during that year; and credit each account with its share of income and  
     
  1    

realized gains and charge each account with its share of expenses and realized losses for the year.  The trustee shall not be required to make any separate investment of the trust fund for the accounts, and may administer and invest all funds delivered to it under the trust as one trust fund.  
     
  II-2                               DISTRIBUTIONS FROM THE ROLLOUT ACCOUNT PRIOR TO THE GRANTOR S DEATH.  The trustee shall distribute principal and accumulated income credited to the rollout account to the grantor, if then living, at such times and in such amounts as the administrator shall direct.  
     
  II-3                               DISTRIBUTIONS FROM THE DEFERRED ACCOUNT PRIOR TO THE GRANTOR S DEATH.  Principal and accumulated income credited to the deferred account shall not be distributed from the trust prior to the grantor s retirement or other termination of employment with AbbVie or a subsidiary of AbbVie (the grantor s  settlement date  provided that, each year the administrator may direct the trustee to distribute to the grantor a portion of the income of the deferred account for that year, with the balance of such income to be accumulated in that account.  The administrator shall inform the trustee of the grantor s settlement date. Thereafter, the trustee shall distribute the amounts from time to time credited to the deferred account to the grantor, if then living, in a series of annual installments, with the amount of each installment computed by one of the following methods:  
     
  (a)                                     The amount of each installment shall be equal to the sum of: (i) the amount credited to the deferred account as of the end of the year in which the grantor s settlement date occurs, divided by the number of years over which installments are to be distributed; plus (ii) the net earnings credited to the deferred account for the preceding year  (excluding the year in which the grantor s settlement date occurs).  
     
  (b)                                     The amount of each installment shall be determined by dividing the amount credited to the deferred account as of the end of the preceding year by the difference between (i) the total number of years over which installments are to be distributed, and (ii) the number of annual installment distributions previously made from the deferred account.  
     
  (c)                                      Each installment (after the first installment) shall be approximately equal, with the amount comprised of the sum of: (i) the amount of the first installment, plus interest thereon at the rate determined under the AbbVie 2013 Management Incentive Plan, compounded annually; and (ii) the net earnings credited to the deferred account for the preceding year.  
     
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the final installment distribution made to the grantor under this paragraph II-3 shall equal the total principal and accumulated income then held in the trust fund.  The grantor, by writing filed with the trustee and the administrator on or before the end of the calendar year in which the grantor s settlement date occurs (or the end of the calendar year in which this trust is established, if the grantor s settlement date has already occurred), may select both the period (which may not be less than ten years from the end of the calendar year in which the grantor s settlement date occurred) over which the installment distributions are to be made and the method of computing the amount of each installment.  In the absence of such a written direction by the grantor, installment distributions shall be made over a period of ten years, and the amount of each installment shall be computed by using the method described in subparagraph (a)  
     
  2    

next above.  Installment distributions under this Paragraph II-3 shall be made as of January 1 of each year, beginning with the calendar year following the year in which the grantor s settlement date occurs.  The administrator shall inform the trustee of the amount of each installment distribution under this paragraph II-3, and the trustee shall be fully protected in relying on such information received from the administrator.  
     
  II-4                               DISTRIBUTIONS FROM THE TRUST FUND AFTER THE GRANTOR S DEATH.  The grantor, from time to time may name any person or persons (who may be named contingently or successively and who may be natural persons or fiduciaries) to whom the principal of the trust fund and all accrued or undistributed income therefrom shall be distributed in a lump sum or, if the beneficiary is the grantor s spouse (or a trust for which the grantor s spouse is the sole income beneficiary), in installments, as directed by the grantor, upon the grantor s death.  If the grantor directs an installment method of distribution to the spouse as beneficiary, any amounts remaining at the death of the spouse beneficiary shall be distributed in a lump sum to the executor or administrator of the spouse beneficiary s estate.  If the grantor directs an installment method of distribution to a trust for which the grantor s spouse is the sole income beneficiary, any amounts remaining at the death of the spouse shall be distributed in a lump sum to such trust.  Despite the foregoing, if (i) the beneficiary is a trust for which the grantor s spouse is the sole income beneficiary, (ii) payments are being made pursuant to this paragraph II-4 other than in a lump sum and (iii) income earned by the trust fund for the year exceeds the amount of the annual installment payment, then such trust may elect to withdraw such excess income by written notice to the trustee.  Each designation shall revoke all prior designations, shall be in writing and shall be effective only when filed by the grantor with the administrator during the grantor s lifetime.  If the grantor fails to direct a method of distribution, the distribution shall be made in a lump sum.  If the grantor fails to designate a beneficiary as provided above, then on the grantor s death, the trustee shall distribute the balance of the trust fund in a lump sum to the executor or administrator of the grantor s estate.  
     
  II-5                               FACILITY OF PAYMENT.  When a person entitled to a distribution hereunder is under legal disability, or, in the trustee s opinion, is in any way incapacitated so as to be unable to manage his or her financial affairs, the trustee may make such distribution to such person s legal representative, or to a relative or friend of such person for such person s benefit.  Any distribution made in accordance with the preceding sentence shall be a full and complete discharge of any liability for such distribution hereunder.  
     
  II-6                               PERPETUITIES.  Notwithstanding any other provisions of this agreement, on the day next preceding the end of 21 years after the death of the last to die of the grantor and the grantor s descendants living on the date of this instrument, the trustee shall immediately distribute any remaining balance in the trust to the beneficiaries then entitled to distributions hereunder.  
     
   ARTICLE III  MANAGEMENT OF THE TRUST FUND   
     
  III-1                          GENERAL POWERS.  The trustee shall, with respect to the trust fund, have the following powers, rights and duties in addition to those provided elsewhere in this agreement or by law:  
     
  3    

(a)                                     Subject to the limitations of subparagraph (b) next below, to sell, contract to sell, purchase, grant or exercise options to purchase, and otherwise deal with all assets of the trust fund, in such way, for such considerations, and on such terms and conditions as the trustee decides.  
     
  (b)                                     To retain in cash such amounts as the trustee considers advisable; and to invest and reinvest the balance of the trust fund, without distinction between principal and income, in obligations of the United States Government and its agencies or which are backed by the full faith and credit of the United States Government or in any mutual fund, common trust fund or collective investment fund which invests solely in such obligations; and any such investment made or retained by the trustee in good faith shall be proper despite any resulting risk or lack of diversification or marketability.  
     
  (c)                                      To deposit cash in any depositary (including the banking department of the bank acting as trustee) without liability for interest, and to invest cash in savings accounts or time certificates of deposit bearing a reasonable rate of interest in any such depositary.  
     
  (d)                                     To invest, subject to the limitations of subparagraph (b) above, in any common or commingled trust fund or funds maintained or administered by the trustee solely for the investment of trust funds.  
     
  (e)                                      To borrow from anyone, with the administrator s approval, such sum or sums from time to time as the trustee considers desirable to carry out this trust, and to mortgage or pledge all or part of the trust fund as security.  
     
  (f)                                       To retain any funds or property subject to any dispute without liability for interest and to decline to make payment or delivery thereof until final adjudication by a court of competent jurisdiction or until an appropriate release is obtained.  
     
  (g)                                      To begin, maintain or defend any litigation necessary in connection with the administration of this trust, except that the trustee shall not be obliged or required to do so unless indemnified to the trustee s satisfaction.  
     
  (h)                                     To compromise, contest, settle or abandon claims or demands.  
     
  (i)                                         To give proxies to vote shares of stock and other voting securities, to join in or oppose (alone or jointly with others) voting trusts, mergers, consolidations, foreclosures, reorganizations, liquidations, or other changes in the financial structure of any corporation, and to exercise or sell stock subscription or conversion rights.  
     
  (j)                                        To hold securities or other property in the name of a nominee, in a depositary or in any other way, with or without disclosing the trust relationship.  
     
  (k)                                     To divide or distribute the trust fund in undivided interests or wholly or partly in kind.  
     
  (l)                                         To pay any tax imposed on or with respect to the trust; to defer making payment of any such tax if it is indemnified to its satisfaction in the premises; and to require before  
     
  4    

making any payment such release or other document from any lawful taxing authority and such indemnity from the intended payee as the trustee consider necessary for its protection.  
     
  (m)                                 To deal without restriction with the legal representative of the grantor s estate or the trustee or other legal representative of any trust created by the grantor or a trust or estate in which a beneficiary has an interest, even though the trustee, individually, shall be acting in such other capacity without liability for any loss that may result.  
     
  (n)                                     To appoint or remove by written instrument any bank or corporation qualified to act as successor trustee, wherever located, as special trustee as to part or all of the trust fund, including property as to which the trustee does not act, and such special trustee, except as specifically limited or provided by this or the appointing instrument, shall have all of the rights, titles, powers, duties, discretions and immunities of the trustee, without liability for any action taken or omitted to be taken under this or the appointing instrument.  
     
  (o)                                     To appoint or remove by written instrument any bank, wherever located, as custodian of part or all of the trust fund, and each such custodian shall have such rights, powers, duties and discretions as are delegated to it by the trustee.  
     
  (p)                                     To employ agents, attorneys, accountants or other persons, and to delegate to them such powers as the trustee considers desirable, and the trustee shall be protected in acting or refraining from acting on the advice of persons so employed without court action.  
     
  (q)                                     To perform any and all other acts which in the trustee s judgment are appropriate for the proper management, investment and distribution of the trust fund.  
     
  III-2                          PRINCIPAL AND INCOME.  Any income earned on the trust fund which is not distributed as provided in Article II shall be accumulated and from time to time added to the principal of the trust. The grantor s interest in the trust shall include all assets or other property held by the trustee hereunder, including principal and accumulated income.  
     
  III-3                          STATEMENTS.  The trustee shall prepare and deliver monthly to the administrator and annually to the grantor, if then living, otherwise to each beneficiary then entitled to distributions under this agreement, a statement (or series of statements) setting forth (or which taken together set forth) all investments, receipts, disbursements and other transactions effected by the trustee during the reporting period; and showing the trust fund and the value thereof at the end of such period.  
     
  III-4                          COMPENSATION AND EXPENSES.  All reasonable costs, charges and expenses incurred in the administration of this trust, including compensation to the trustee, any compensation to agents, attorneys, accountants and other persons employed by the trustee, and expenses incurred in connection with the sale, investment and reinvestment of the trust fund shall be paid from the trust fund.  
     
  5    

ARTICLE IV  GENERAL PROVISIONS   
     
  IV-1                           INTERESTS NOT TRANSFERABLE.  The interests of the grantor or other persons entitled to distributions hereunder are not subject to their debts or other obligations and may not be voluntarily or involuntarily sold, transferred, alienated, assigned or encumbered.  
     
  IV-2                           DISAGREEMENT AS TO ACTS.  If there is a disagreement between the trustee and anyone as to any act or transaction reported in any accounting, the trustee shall have the right to a settlement of its account by any proper court.  
     
  IV-3                           TRUSTEE S OBLIGATIONS.  No power, duty or responsibility is imposed on the trustee except as set forth in this agreement.  The trustee is not obliged to determine whether funds delivered to or distributions from the trust are proper under the trust, or whether any tax is due or payable as a result of any such delivery or distribution. The trustee shall be protected in making any distribution from the trust as directed pursuant to Article II without inquiring as to whether the distributee is entitled thereto; and the trustee shall not be liable for any distribution made in good faith without written notice or knowledge that the distribution is not proper under the terms of this agreement.  
     
  IV-4                           GOOD FAITH ACTIONS.  The trustee s exercise or non-exercise of its powers and discretions in good faith shall be conclusive on all persons.  No one shall be obliged to see to the application of any money paid or property delivered to the trustee.  The certificate of the trustee that it is acting according to this agreement will fully protect all persons dealing with the trustee.  
     
  IV-5                           WAIVER OF NOTICE.  Any notice required under this agreement may be waived by the person entitled to such notice.  
     
  IV-6                           CONTROLLING LAW.  The laws of the State of Illinois shall govern the interpretation and validity of the provisions of this agreement and all questions relating to the management, administration, investment and distribution of the trust hereby created.  
     
  IV-7                           SUCCESSORS.  This agreement shall be binding on all persons entitled to distributions hereunder and their respective heirs and legal representatives, and on the trustee and its successors.  
     
   ARTICLE V  CHANGES IN TRUSTEE   
     
  V-1                                RESIGNATION OR REMOVAL OF TRUSTEE.  The trustee may resign at any time by giving thirty (30) days  advance written notice to the administrator and the grantor.  The administrator may remove a trustee by written notice to the trustee and the grantor.  
     
  V-2                                APPOINTMENT OF SUCCESSOR TRUSTEE.  The administrator shall fill any vacancy in the office of trustee as soon as practicable by written notice to the successor trustee; and shall give prompt written notice thereof to the grantor, if then living, otherwise to each beneficiary then entitled to payments or distributions under this agreement. A successor trustee shall be a bank (as defined in Section 581 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended).  
     
  6    

V-3                                DUTIES OF RESIGNING OR REMOVED TRUSTEE AND OF SUCCESSOR TRUSTEE.  A trustee that resigns or is removed shall furnish promptly to the administrator and the successor trustee an account of its administration of the trust from the date of its last account. Each successor trustee shall succeed to the title to the trust fund vested in its predecessor without the signing or filing of any instrument, but each predecessor trustee shall execute all documents and do all acts necessary to vest such title of record in the successor trustee.  Each successor trustee shall have all the powers conferred by this agreement as if originally named trustee.  No successor trustee shall be personally liable for any act or failure to act of a predecessor trustee. With the approval of the administrator, a successor trustee may accept the account furnished and the property delivered by a predecessor trustee without incurring any liability for so doing, and such acceptance will be complete discharge to the predecessor trustee.  
     
   ARTICLE VI  AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION   
     
  VI-1                           AMENDMENT.  With the consent of the administrator, this trust may be amended from time to time by the grantor, if then living, otherwise by a majority of the beneficiaries then entitled to payments or distributions hereunder, except as follows:  
     
  (a)                                     The duties and liabilities of the trustee cannot be changed substantially without its consent.  
     
  (b)                                     This trust may not be amended so as to make the trust revocable.  
     
  VI-2                           TERMINATION.  This trust shall not terminate, and all rights, titles, powers, duties, discretions and immunities imposed on or reserved to the trustee, the administrator, the grantor and the beneficiaries shall continue in effect, until all assets of the trust have been distributed by the trustee as provided in Article II.  
     
  *      *      *  
     
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the grantor and the trustee have executed this agreement as of the day and year first above written.  

Grantor           

The Northern Trust   Company as Trustee           

By           

Its              
     
  7    

</EX-10.14>

<EX-10.15>
 3
 a2213529zex-10_15.htm
 EX-10.15

Exhibit 10.15   
     
   ABBVIE 2013 PERFORMANCE INCENTIVE PLAN   
     
  (Effective as of January 1, 2013)  

ABBVIE   
   2013 PERFORMANCE INCENTIVE PLAN   
     
   SECTION 1   
   INTRODUCTION   
     
  1.1                                   ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PLAN.  AbbVie Inc. ( AbbVie ) hereby establishes the AbbVie 2013 Performance Incentive Plan (the  Plan ) as set forth in this document.  The Plan is effective as of January 1, 2013 (the  Effective Date ).  
     
  1.2                                   PURPOSES OF THE PLAN.  The purposes of the Plan are to:  
     
  (a)                                     Provide flexibility to AbbVie in its ability to attract, motivate, and retain the services of participants in the Plan ( Participants ) who make significant contributions to AbbVie s success and to allow Participants to share in the success of AbbVie;  
     
  (b)                                     Optimize the profitability and growth of AbbVie through incentives which are consistent with AbbVie s goals and which link the performance objectives of Participants to those of AbbVie s stockholders; and  
     
  (c)                                      Provide Participants with an incentive for excellence in individual performance.  
     
   SECTION 2   
   ADMINISTRATION   
     
  2.1                                   GENERAL.  The Plan shall be administered by the Compensation Committee (the  Committee ) appointed by the Board of Directors of AbbVie (the  Board ).  
     
  2.2                                   AUTHORITY OF THE COMMITTEE.  The Committee will have full authority to administer the Plan, including the authority to interpret and construe any provision of the Plan, and all rules, regulations and interpretations shall be conclusive and binding on all persons.  The Committee has sole responsibility for selecting Participants, establishing performance objectives, setting award targets, and determining award amounts.  
     
  2.3                                   DELEGATION BY THE COMMITTEE.  The Committee from time to time may delegate the performance of certain ministerial functions in connection with the Plan, such as the keeping of records, to such person or persons as the Committee may select.  The cost of administration of the Plan will be paid by AbbVie.  
     
  2.4                                   PERFORMANCE INCENTIVE PLAN RULES.  The Plan shall be administered in accordance with the Performance Incentive Plan ( PIP ) Rules, which are attached hereto as Supplement A.  
     
  1    

SECTION 3   
   ELIGIBILITY AND PARTICIPATION   
     
  3.1                                   ELIGIBILITY AND PARTICIPATION.  Eligibility for participation in the Plan shall be limited to senior officers of AbbVie and its subsidiaries. Participants in the Plan will be determined annually by the Committee from those senior officers eligible to participate in the Plan.  
     
   SECTION 4   
   PERFORMANCE OBJECTIVES   
     
  4.1                                   PERFORMANCE OBJECTIVES.  The Plan s performance objectives (the  Performance Objectives ) shall be determined with reference to AbbVie s consolidated net earnings prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  
     
  4.2                                   INDIVIDUAL BASE AWARD ALLOCATION   DEFINED.  The base award allocation for the Chief Executive Officer, if a Participant for such fiscal year, shall be .0015 of the consolidated net earnings of AbbVie for that fiscal year.  The base award allocation for the Chief Operating Officer, if a Participant for such fiscal year, shall be .0010 of the consolidated net earnings of AbbVie for that fiscal year.  The base award allocation for any other Participant shall be .00075 of the consolidated net earnings of AbbVie for that fiscal year.  Each such base award will be increased by interest, at prevailing market rates, accrued on awards deferred or paid to grantor trusts.  
     
   SECTION 5   
   FINAL AWARDS   
     
  5.1                                   FINAL AWARD ALLOCATION.  As soon as practical after the close of each fiscal year, a Participant s final award allocation will be determined solely on the basis of the Performance Objectives.  In determining a Participant s final award allocation, the Committee will have the discretion to reduce but not increase a Participant s base award allocation (as increased by the last sentence of Section 4.2), provided that a Participant s individual performance will be considered by the Committee in exercising that discretion.  
     
  5.2                                   PAYMENT OF AWARDS.  A Participant s final award allocation will be paid or deferred in accordance with rules adopted by the Committee which are intended to comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.  
     
   SECTION 6   
   DURATION, AMENDMENT, AND TERMINATION   
     
  6.1                                   DURATION OF THE PLAN.  The Plan shall commence on the Effective Date, as described in Section 1.1 hereof, and shall remain in effect until terminated by the Board.  
     
  6.2                                   AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION.  The Board, in its sole discretion, may modify or amend any or all of the provisions of the Plan at any time and, without notice, may suspend or terminate it entirely.  However, no such modification may, without the consent of the  
     
  2    

Participant, reduce the right of a Participant to a payment or distribution to which the Participant is entitled by reason of an outstanding award allocation.  
     
   SECTION 7   
   SUCCESSORS   
     
  7.1                                   OBLIGATIONS.  All obligations of AbbVie under the Plan with respect to awards granted hereunder shall be binding on any successor to AbbVie, whether the existence of such successor is the result of a direct or indirect purchase, merger, consolidation, or otherwise, of all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of AbbVie.  
     
  3    

SUPPLEMENT A   
     
      PERFORMANCE INCENTIVE PLAN (PIP) RULES   
     
  The following rules (the  Rules ) shall govern the administration of the AbbVie 2013 Performance Incentive Plan ( PIP ) and any comparable successor plan.  Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined in these Rules shall have the meaning provided in the PIP.  These Rules are effective as of January 1, 2013 (the  Effective Date ) and shall remain in effect until amended by the Committee:  
     
  1.                                           Fiscal Year   .  The term  fiscal year,  as used in the PIP, means the fiscal period from time to time employed by AbbVie for the purpose of reporting earnings to stockholders.  
     
  2.                                           Consolidated Net Earnings   .   Consolidated Net Earnings  shall be the consolidated net earnings for such fiscal year as stated in AbbVie s Audited Financial Statements, shall reflect the incremental cost of FAS 123(R) in the current year and may, at the Compensation Committee s   discretion, be adjusted to exclude acquired in-process research and development costs, and other specified items, net of income taxes.  
     
  3.                                           Naming of Participants   .  For any fiscal year, all participants in the PIP must be named by the Committee prior to the completion of the immediately preceding fiscal year.  A PIP participant may not be an active participant in the AbbVie 2013 Management Incentive Plan (the  MIP ) in the same fiscal year.  
     
  4.                                           Inclusion in Pensionable Earnings   .  The full amount of any PIP award earned under Rule 5 will be included in the participant s pensionable earnings.  
     
  5.                                           Time of Payment   .  A participant must direct payment or deferral of an allocation made to the participant under the PIP by one or more of the following methods:  
     
  (a)                                     In cash to the participant, which payment shall be made no later than the last day of the  applicable 2  month period,  as such term is defined in Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(A);  
     
  (b)                                     A portion in cash and deposited to a grantor trust (the  Grantor Trust ) established by the participant (in a form which the Committee determines is substantially similar to the trust in Exhibit A) and the balance withheld on behalf of the participant to satisfy the participant s aggregate federal, state and local individual income and employment taxes; provided that all payments or contributions to the Grantor Trust and participant contemplated by this Rule 5(b) shall be made no later than the last day of the  applicable 2  month period,  as such term is defined in Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(A); or  
     
  (c)                                      Deferral of payment until the time, and in the manner determined in Rule 17.  
     
  1    

Amounts paid under the PIP will not be considered amounts paid under the MIP for purposes of subsections 3.3 and 3.4 and Section 4 of the MIP.  The base salaries of PIP participants will not be considered for determination of the MIP amount in subsection 3.3 of the MIP.  
     
  6.                                           Time of Election   .  
     
  (a)                                     A participant must make the election described in Rule 5 by filing it with the Committee before expiration of the election period established by the Committee, which period shall end    no later than December 31 of the fiscal year prior to the year during which the performance incentive compensation is earned under the PIP.  
     
  (b)                                     Notwithstanding the timing requirements of Rule 6(a), an individual who newly becomes eligible to participate in the PIP by being designated as a participant under subsection 3.1 of the PIP (and who was not eligible to participate in any other plan that would be aggregated with the Plan under Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(c)) may make the an initial deferral election described in Rule 5 by filing it with the Committee or its delegate within the thirty (30) day period immediately following the date he or she first is designated as participant, provided that the compensation deferred pursuant to such election relates solely to services performed after the date of such election.  For this purpose, an election shall be deemed to apply to compensation paid for services performed after the election if the election applies to no more than the amount prescribed by Treasury Regulation  1.409A-2(a)(7)(i).  
     
  (c)                                      Any election described in Rule 5 shall be irrevocable for the fiscal year to which the election applies.  
     
  7.                                           Accounts   .  The Committee shall establish accounts for participants who have made elections pursuant to Rule 5(b) or 5(c) as follows.  
     
  (a)                                     The Committee will maintain a  Deferred Account  in the name of each participant who has elected to defer payment of all or a portion of his or her PIP award under Rule 5(c).  The Deferred Account shall consist of allocations deferred according to Rule 5(c) and any adjustments made in accordance with Rule 8.  For each Transferred Employee (as such term is defined in the Employee Matters Agreement by and between Abbott Laboratories and AbbVie, dated as of December 31, 2012) who participated in the 1998 Abbott Laboratories Performance Incentive Plan and the rules thereunder (the  Abbott PIP ) prior to the Effective Date, the Deferred Account shall be credited with a starting balance equal to the amount, if any, in such Transferred Employee s Deferred Account (as such term is used in the Abbott PIP) immediately prior to the Effective Date.  
     
  (b)                                     The Committee will maintain two separate Accounts, a  Pre-Tax Account  and an  After-Tax Account,  in the name of each participant who has declined to defer allocations by electing to have a portion of his or her PIP award deposited in cash to a Grantor Trust according to Rule 5(b).  The Pre-Tax Account shall consist of  
     
  2    

the aggregate of all allocations contemplated by Rule 5(b), whether deposited to the participant s Grantor Trust or withheld on behalf of the participant to satisfy the participant s aggregate federal, state and local individual income and employment taxes, and any adjustments made in accordance with Rule 9.  The After-Tax Account shall consist of after-tax allocations deposited to the participant s Grantor Trust in cash according to Rule 5(b) and any adjustments made in accordance with Rule 10.  
     
  8.                                           Adjustment of Deferred Accounts   .  At the end of each fiscal year, a participant s Deferred Account will be adjusted as follows:  
     
  (a)                                     First, reduced by an amount equal to any distribution made to the participant during the year according to Rule 17 or Rule 18;  
     
  (b)                                     Next, increased by an amount equal to any allocation for that year that is deferred according to Rule 5(c); and  
     
  (c)                                      Last, increased by an amount equal to the interest earned for that year according to Rule 11.  
     
  9.                                           Adjustment of Pre-Tax Accounts   .  At the end of each fiscal year, a participant s Pre-Tax Account will be adjusted as follows:  
     
  (a)                                     First, reduced, in any year in which the participant is entitled to receive a distribution from his or her Grantor Trust, by an amount equal to the distribution that would have been made to the participant if the aggregate amounts allocated according to Rule 5(b) had instead been deferred under Rule 5(c);  
     
  (b)                                     Next, increased by an amount equal to any allocation for that year that is paid to the participant and withheld on behalf of the participant to satisfy the participant s aggregate federal, state and local individual income and employment taxes (including the amount paid to the participant s Grantor Trust) according to Rule 5(b); and  
     
  (c)                                      Last, increased by an amount equal to the interest earned for that year according to Rule 11.  
     
  10.                                    Adjustment of After-Tax Accounts   .  At the end of each fiscal year, a participant s After-Tax Account will be adjusted as follows:  
     
  (a)                                     First, reduced, in any year in which the participant is in receipt of a distribution from his or her Grantor Trust, by an amount calculated as provided in Rule 28 which represents the distribution for such year;  
     
  (b)                                     Next, increased by an amount equal to the allocation for that year that is deposited in the participant s Grantor Trust according to Rule 5(b); and  
     
  (c)                                      Last, increased by an amount equal to the interest earned for that year according to Rule 11.  
     
  3    

11.                                    Interest Accruals on Accounts   .  
     
  (a)                                     As of the end of each fiscal year, a participant s Deferred Account or Pre-Tax Account, as applicable, shall be credited with interest ( Interest ) at the following rate:  
     
  (i)                           the average of the  prime rate  of interest set forth on the Bloomberg Screen BTMM or comparable successor quotation service on the first business day of January and the last business day of each month of the fiscal year; plus  
     
  (ii)                        two hundred twenty-five (225) basis points.  
     
  (b)                                     As of the end of each fiscal year, a participant s After-Tax Account shall be credited with the amount of Interest set forth above, multiplied by (one minus the aggregate of the applicable federal, state and local individual income tax rates and employment tax rate, determined in accordance with Rules 25 and 26) (the  After-Tax Interest ).  
     
  (c)                                      The Interest and After-Tax Interest, as applicable, shall be credited on the conditions established by the Committee, provided that any award allocation shall be considered to have been made and credited to a participant s Account as of the first day of the fiscal year in which the award is made.  
     
  12.                                    Interest Payments   .  In addition to any allocation made to a participant for any fiscal year in accordance with Rule 5(b), AbbVie shall also make a payment (an  Interest Payment ) with respect to each participant who has established a Grantor Trust for each year in which the Grantor Trust is in effect.  The Interest Payment shall equal the excess, if any, of the participant s adjustment in Rule 9(c), over the net earnings of the participant s Grantor Trust for the year, as adjusted by the amounts described in Schedule A, and shall be paid within the thirty (30)-day period beginning April 1 of the following fiscal year.  A portion of such Interest Payment, equal to the excess, if any, of the Net Interest Accrual over the net earnings of the participant s Grantor Trust, shall be deposited in the participant s Grantor Trust, with the balance paid to, or withheld on behalf of, the Participant; provided, however, in the event that the net earnings of the participant s Grantor Trust exceed the Net Interest Accrual, a distribution from the Grantor Trust shall be required in accordance with Rule 31.  A participant s Net Interest Accrual for a year is an amount equal to the After-Tax Interest credited to the participant s After-Tax Account for that year in accordance with Rule 11(b).  
     
  13.                                    Grantor Trust Assets   .  Each participant s Grantor Trust assets shall be invested solely in the instruments specified by investment guidelines established by the Committee.  Such investment guidelines, once established, may be changed by the Committee, provided that any change shall not take effect until the year following the year in which the change is made and provided further that the instruments specified shall be consistent with the provisions of Section 3(b) of the form of Grantor Trust attached hereto as Attachment A.  
     
  4    

14.                                    Designation of Beneficiaries   .  Subject to the conditions and limitations set forth below, each participant, and after a participant s death, each primary beneficiary designated by a participant in accordance with the provisions of this Rule 14, shall have the right from time to time to designate a primary beneficiary or beneficiaries and, successive or contingent beneficiary or beneficiaries to receive unpaid amounts from the participant s Deferred Account under the PIP.  Beneficiaries may be a natural person or persons or a fiduciary, such as a trustee of a trust or the legal representative of an estate.  Any such designation shall take effect upon the death of the participant or such beneficiary, as the case may be, or in the case of any fiduciary beneficiary, upon the termination of all of its duties (other than the duty to dispose of the right to receive amounts remaining to be paid under the PIP).  The conditions and limitations relating to the designation of beneficiaries are as follows:  
     
  (a)                                     A nonfiduciary beneficiary shall have the right to designate a further beneficiary or beneficiaries only if the original participant or the next preceding primary beneficiary, as the case may be, shall have expressly so provided in writing; and  
     
  (b)                                     A fiduciary beneficiary shall designate as a further beneficiary or beneficiaries only those persons or other fiduciaries that are entitled to receive the amounts payable from the participant s account under the trust or estate of which it is a fiduciary.  
     
  Any beneficiary designation or grant of any power to any beneficiary under this Rule 14 may be exercised only by an instrument in writing, executed by the person making the designation or granting such power and filed with the Secretary of AbbVie during the person s lifetime or prior to the termination of a fiduciary s duties.  If a deceased participant or a deceased nonfiduciary beneficiary who had the right to designate a beneficiary as provided above dies without having designated a further beneficiary, or if no beneficiary designated as provided above is living or qualified and acting, the Committee, in its discretion, may direct distribution of the amount remaining from time to time to either: (i)  any one or more or all of the next of kin (including the surviving spouse) of the participant or the deceased beneficiary, as the case may be, and in such proportions as the Committee determines; or (ii)  the legal representative of the estate of the deceased participant or deceased beneficiary as the case may be.  
     
  15.                                    Non-assignability and Facility of Payment   .  Amounts payable to participants and their beneficiaries under the PIP are not in any way subject to their debts and other obligations, and may not be voluntarily or involuntarily sold, transferred or assigned; provided that the provisions of these Rules shall not be construed as restricting in any way a designation right granted to a beneficiary under Rule 14.  When a participant or the beneficiary of a participant is under legal disability, or in the Committee s opinion is in any way incapacitated so as to be unable to manage his or her financial affairs, the Committee may direct that payments shall be made to the participant s or beneficiary s legal representative, or to a relative or friend of the participant or beneficiary for the benefit of the participant or beneficiary, or the Committee may direct the payment or distribution for the benefit of the participant or beneficiary in any manner that the Committee determines.  
     
  5    

16.                                    Payer of Amounts Allocated to Participants   .  Any amount allocated to a participant in the PIP and any interest credited thereto will be paid by the employer (or such employer s successor) by whom the participant was employed during the fiscal year for which any amount was allocated, and for that purpose, if a participant shall have been employed by two or more employers during any fiscal year the amount allocated under the PIP for that year shall be an obligation of each of the respective employers in proportion to the respective amounts of base salary paid by each of them in that fiscal year.  
     
  17.                                    Manner of Payment of Deferred Accounts   .  Subject to Rule 18, a participant shall elect to receive payment of his Deferred Account in substantially equal annual installments over a minimum period of ten years, or a longer period, at the time of his deferral election under Rule 5.  Payment of a participant s Deferred Account shall commence on the first business day of January of the year following the year in which the participant incurs a termination of employment.  
     
  18.                                    Payment Upon Termination Following Change in Control   .  Notwithstanding any other provision of the PIP or the provisions of any award made under the PIP, if a participant incurs a termination of employment with AbbVie and its subsidiaries for any reason within two (2) years following the date of a Change in Control, provided that the event constituting a Change in Control is also a  change in control event , as such term is defined in Treasury Regulation  1.409A-3(i)(5): (a) with respect to a participant whose allocations under the PIP are deferred in accordance with Rule 5(c), the aggregate unpaid balance of the participant s Deferred Account shall be paid to such participant in a lump sum within thirty (30) days following the date of such termination of employment, and (b) with respect to a participant whose allocations under the PIP are made pursuant to Rule 5(b), (i) the aggregate of the participant s unpaid allocation under Rule 5(b) (if any) for the fiscal year in which the termination occurs and (ii) a pro rata portion of the unpaid Guaranteed Rate Payment under Rule 12 attributable to the portion of the year elapsed prior to the date of termination, shall be paid to such participant s Grantor Trust in a lump sum within thirty (30) days following the date of such termination of employment.  
     
  19.                                    Change in Control   .  A  Change in Control  shall be deemed to have occurred on the earliest of the following dates:  
     
  (a)                                     the date any Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of AbbVie (not including in the securities beneficially owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from AbbVie or its Affiliates) representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of AbbVie s then outstanding securities, excluding any Person who becomes such a Beneficial Owner in connection with a transaction described in clause (i) of paragraph (c) below; or  
     
  (b)                                     the date the following individuals cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the number of directors then serving: individuals who, on the Effective Date, constitute the Board and any new director (other than a director whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened election contest, including but not limited to a consent solicitation, relating to the election of directors of AbbVie) whose appointment or election by the Board or nomination for election by AbbVie s stockholders was approved or recommended by a vote  
     
  6    

of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who either were directors on the Effective Date or whose appointment, election or nomination for election was previously so approved or recommended; or  
     
  (c)                                      the date on which there is consummated a merger or consolidation of AbbVie or any direct or indirect subsidiary of AbbVie with any other corporation or other entity, other than (i) a merger or consolidation (A) immediately following which the individuals who comprise the Board immediately prior thereto constitute at least a majority of the Board of Directors of AbbVie, the entity surviving such merger or consolidation or, if AbbVie or the entity surviving such merger or consolidation is then a subsidiary, the ultimate parent thereof and (B) which results in the voting securities of AbbVie outstanding immediately prior to such merger or consolidation continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity or any parent thereof), in combination with the ownership of any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of AbbVie or any subsidiary of AbbVie, at least 50% of the combined voting power of the securities of AbbVie or such surviving entity or any parent thereof outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation, or (ii) a merger or consolidation effected to implement a recapitalization of AbbVie (or similar transaction) in which no Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of AbbVie (not including in the securities Beneficially Owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from AbbVie or its Affiliates) representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of AbbVie s then outstanding securities; or  
     
  (d)                                     the date the stockholders of AbbVie approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of AbbVie or there is consummated an agreement for the sale or disposition by AbbVie of all or substantially all of AbbVie s assets, other than a sale or disposition by AbbVie of all or substantially all of AbbVie s assets to an entity, at least 50% of the combined voting power of the voting securities of which are owned by stockholders of AbbVie, in combination with the ownership of any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of AbbVie or any subsidiary of AbbVie, in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of AbbVie immediately prior to such sale.  
     
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a  Change in Control  shall not be deemed to have occurred by virtue of the consummation of any transaction or series of integrated transactions immediately following which the record holders of the common stock of AbbVie immediately prior to such transaction or series of transactions continue to have    substantially the same proportionate ownership in an entity which owns all or substantially all of the assets of AbbVie immediately following such transaction or series of transactions.  
     
  For purposes of these Rules:  Affiliate  shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under Section 12 of the Exchange Act;  Beneficial Owner  shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act;  Exchange Act  shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time; and  Person  shall have the meaning given in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act, as modified and used in  
     
  7    

Sections 13(d) and 14(d) thereof, except that such term shall not include (i) AbbVie or any of its subsidiaries, (ii) a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of AbbVie or any of its Affiliates, (iii) an underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities, or (iv) a corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the stockholders of AbbVie in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of AbbVie.  
     
  20.                                    Potential Change in Control   .  A  Potential Change in Control  shall exist during any period in which the circumstances described in paragraph (a), (b), (c) or (d), below, exist (provided, however, that a Potential Change in Control shall cease to exist not later than the occurrence of a Change in Control):  
     
  (a)                                     AbbVie enters into an agreement, the consummation of which would result in the occurrence of a Change in Control, provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this paragraph (a) shall cease to exist upon the expiration or other termination of all such agreements.  
     
  (b)                                     Any Person (without regard to the exclusions set forth in subsections (i) through (iv) of such definition) publicly announces an intention to take or to consider taking actions the consummation of which would constitute a Change in Control; provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this paragraph (b) shall cease to exist upon the withdrawal of such intention, or upon a determination by the Board that there is no reasonable chance that such actions would be consummated.  
     
  (c)                                      Any Person becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of AbbVie representing 10% or more of either the then outstanding share of common stock of AbbVie or the combined voting power of AbbVie s then outstanding securities (not including any securities beneficially owned by such Person which are or were acquired directly from AbbVie or its Affiliates).  
     
  (d)                                     The Board adopts a resolution to the effect that, for purposes of this Agreement, a Potential Change in Control exists; provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this paragraph (d) shall cease to exist upon a determination by the Board that the reasons that gave rise to the resolution providing for the existence of a Potential Change in Control have expired or no longer exist.  
     
  21.                                    Prohibition Against Amendment   .  The provisions of Rules 18, 19, 20 and this Rule 21 may not be amended or deleted, or superseded by any other Rule, (i) during the pendency of a Potential Change in Control and (ii) during the period beginning on the date of a Change in Control and ending on the date five (5) years following such Change in Control.  
     
  22.                                    Reliance Upon Advice   .  The Board and the Committee may rely upon any information or advice furnished to it by any officer of AbbVie or by AbbVie s independent auditors, or other consultants, and shall be fully protected in relying upon such information or advice.  No member of the Board or the Committee shall be liable for any act or failure to act on  
     
  8    

their part, excepting only any acts done or omitted to be done in bad faith, nor shall they be liable for any act or failure to act of any other member.  
     
  23.                                    Taxes   .  Any employer shall be entitled, if necessary or desirable, to pay or withhold the amount of any federal, state or local tax attributable to any amounts payable by it under the PIP, and may require payment from the participant in an amount necessary to satisfy such taxes prior to remitting such taxes.  
     
  24.                                    Rights of Participants   .  Employment rights of participants with AbbVie and its subsidiaries shall not be enlarged or affected by reason of establishment of or inclusion as a participant in the PIP.  Nothing contained in the PIP shall require AbbVie or any subsidiary to segregate or earmark any assets, funds or property for the purpose of payment of any amounts which may have been deferred.  The Deferred, Pre-Tax and After-Tax Accounts established in accordance with Rule 7 are for the convenience of the administration of the PIP and no trust relationship with respect to such Accounts is intended or should be implied.  Participant s rights shall be limited to payment to them at the time or times and in such amounts as are contemplated by the PIP and these Rules.  Any decision made by the Board or the Committee, which is within the sole and uncontrolled discretion of either, shall be conclusive and binding upon the other and upon all other persons whomsoever.  
     
  25.                                    Employment Tax Assumptions   .  For purposes of these Rules, a participant s employment tax rate shall be deemed to be the highest marginal rate of Federal Insurance Contribution Act taxes in effect in the calendar year in which a calculation under the applicable Rule is to be made.  
     
  26.                                    Income Tax Assumptions   .  For purposes of these Rules, a participant s federal income tax rate shall be deemed to be the highest marginal rate of federal income individual tax in effect in the calendar year in which a calculation under the Rules is to be made, and state and local tax rates shall be deemed to be the highest marginal rates of individual income tax in effect in the state and locality of the participant s residence on the date such a calculation is made, net of any federal tax benefits without a benefit for any net capital losses.  
     
  27.                                    Change of Conditions Relating to Payments   .  No change to the time of payment or the time of commencement of payment and any period over which payment shall be made shall be effected except in strict compliance with the subsequent election requirements of Treasury Regulation  1.409A-2(b) to the extent subject thereto.  
     
  28.                                    Administrator s Calculation of Grantor Trust Distributions   . The administrator shall calculate the amount to be distributed from a participant s Grantor Trust in any year in which the participant is entitled to a benefit distribution by multiplying (i) the amount of the reduction determined in accordance with Rule 9(a), by (ii) a fraction, the numerator of which is the balance in the participant s After-Tax Account as of the end of the prior fiscal year and the denominator of which is the balance of the participant s Pre-Tax Account as of that same date.  
     
  9    

29.                                    Code Section 409A   .  To the extent applicable, it is intended that these Rules comply with the provisions of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ( Code Section 409A ).  The Rules will be administered and interpreted in a manner consistent with this intent, and any provision that would cause the Rules to fail to satisfy Code Section 409A will have no force and effect until amended to comply therewith (which amendment may be retroactive to the extent permitted by Code Section 409A).  Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, for all purposes of these Rules, a participant shall not be deemed to have had a termination of employment until the participant has incurred a separation from service as defined in Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(h) and, to the extent required to avoid accelerated taxation and/or tax penalties under Code Section 409A and applicable guidance issued thereunder, payment of the amounts payable under the Rules that would otherwise be payable during the six-month period after the date of termination shall instead be paid on the first business day after the expiration of such six-month period, plus interest thereon, at a rate equal to the rate specified in Rule 11 (to the extent that such interest is not already provided to the participant under Rule 12), from the respective dates on which such amounts would otherwise have been paid until the actual date of payment.  In addition, for purposes of these Rules, each amount to be paid and each installment payment shall be construed as a separate identified payment for purposes of Code Section 409A.  
     
  30.                                    Domestic Relations Order   .  In accordance with Treasury Regulation  1.409A-3(j)(4)(ii), distributions shall be made to an individual (other than to the participant) pursuant to the terms of a  domestic relations order  (as defined in Section 414(p)(1)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended), as determined and administered by the AbbVie Senior Vice President, Human Resources (or the individual holding equivalent duties and responsibilities) or his or her delegate, provided that such order (a) does not require the plan to provide any type or form of benefit, or any option not otherwise provided under the plan, (b) does not require the plan to provide increased benefits, and (c) does not require the payment of benefits to an alternate payee which are required to be paid to another alternate payee under another order.  
     
  31.                                    Grantor Trusts   .  AbbVie, as the administrator of the participant s Grantor Trust, may direct the trustee to distribute to the participant from the income of such Grantor Trust, a sum of money sufficient to pay the taxes on the Grantor Trust earnings for such year, to the extent a sufficient sum of money has not been paid to, or withheld on behalf of, the participant pursuant to Rule 12.  The taxes shall be determined in accordance with Rules 25 and 26.  
     
  10    

EXHIBIT A   
     
   IRREVOCABLE GRANTOR TRUST AGREEMENT   
     
  THIS AGREEMENT, made this            day of                         , 20    , by and between                                                of                       , Illinois (the  grantor ), and The Northern Trust Company located at Chicago, Illinois, as trustee (the  trustee ),  
     
  WITNESSETH THAT:  
     
  WHEREAS, the grantor desires to establish and maintain a trust to hold certain benefits received by the grantor under the AbbVie 2013 Performance Incentive Plan, as it may be amended from time to time;  
     
  NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows:  
     
   ARTICLE I             INTRODUCTION   
     
  I-1           NAME.  This agreement and the trust hereby evidenced (the  trust ) may be referred to as the                               20     Grantor Trust .  
     
  I-2           THE TRUST FUND.  The  trust fund  as at any date means all property then held by the trustee under this agreement.  
     
  I-3           STATUS OF THE TRUST.  The trust shall be irrevocable.  The trust is intended to constitute a grantor trust under Sections 671-678 of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, and shall be construed accordingly.  
     
  I-4           THE ADMINISTRATOR.  AbbVie Inc. ( AbbVie ) shall act as the  administrator  of the trust, and as such shall have certain powers, rights and duties under this agreement as described below.  AbbVie will certify to the trustee from time to time the person or persons authorized to act on behalf of AbbVie as the administrator.  The trustee may rely on the latest certificate received without further inquiry or verification.  
     
  I-5           ACCEPTANCE.  The trustee accepts the duties and obligations of the  trustee  hereunder, agrees to accept funds delivered to it by the grantor or the administrator, and agrees to hold such funds (and any proceeds from the investment of such funds) in trust in accordance with this agreement.  
     
   ARTICLE II     DISTRIBUTION OF THE TRUST FUND   
     
  II-1         SEPARATE ACCOUNTS.  The administrator shall maintain two separate accounts under the trust, a  rollout account  and a  deferred account.   Funds delivered to the trustee shall be allocated between the accounts by the trustee as directed by the administrator.  As of the end of each calendar year, the administrator shall charge each account with all distributions made from such account during that year; and credit each account with its share of  
     
  1    

income and realized gains and charge each account with its share of expenses and realized losses for the year.  The trustee shall not be required to make any separate investment of the trust fund for the accounts, and may administer and invest all funds delivered to it under the trust as one trust fund.  
     
  II-2         DISTRIBUTIONS FROM THE ROLLOUT ACCOUNT PRIOR TO THE GRANTOR S DEATH.  The trustee shall distribute principal and accumulated income credited to the rollout account to the grantor, if then living, at such times and in such amounts as the administrator shall direct.  
     
  II-3         DISTRIBUTIONS FROM THE DEFERRED ACCOUNT PRIOR TO THE GRANTOR S DEATH.  Principal and accumulated income credited to the deferred account shall not be distributed from the trust prior to the grantor s retirement or other termination of employment with AbbVie or a subsidiary of AbbVie (the grantor s  settlement date  provided that, each year the administrator may direct the trustee to distribute to the grantor a portion of the income of the deferred account for that year, with the balance of such income to be accumulated in that account.  The administrator shall inform the trustee of the grantor s settlement date. Thereafter, the trustee shall distribute the amounts from time to time credited to the deferred account to the grantor, if then living, in a series of annual installments, with the amount of each installment computed by one of the following methods:  
     
  (a)           The amount of each installment shall be equal to the sum of: (i) the amount credited to the deferred account as of the end of the year in which the grantor s settlement date occurs, divided by the number of years over which installments are to be distributed; plus (ii) the net earnings credited to the deferred account for the preceding year (excluding the year in which the grantor s settlement date occurs).  
     
  (b)           The amount of each installment shall be determined by dividing the amount credited to the deferred account as of the end of the preceding year by the difference between (i) the total number of years over which installments are to be distributed, and (ii) the number of annual installment distributions previously made from the deferred account.  
     
  (c)           Each installment (after the first installment) shall be approximately equal, with the amount comprised of the sum of: (i) the amount of the first installment, plus interest thereon at the rate determined under the AbbVie 2013 Performance Incentive Plan, compounded annually; and (ii) the net earnings credited to the deferred account for the preceding year.  
     
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the final installment distribution made to the grantor under this paragraph II-3 shall equal the total principal and accumulated income then held in the trust fund.  The grantor, by writing filed with the trustee and the administrator on or before the end of the calendar year in which the grantor s settlement date occurs (or the end of the calendar year in which this trust is established, if the grantor s settlement date has already occurred), may select both the period (which may not be less than ten years from the end of the calendar year in which the grantor s settlement date occurred) over which the installment distributions are to be made and the method of computing the amount of each installment.  In the absence of such a  
     
  2    

written direction by the grantor, installment distributions shall be made over a period of ten years, and the amount of each installment shall be computed by using the method described in subparagraph (a) next above.  Installment distributions under this Paragraph II-3 shall be made as of January 1 of each year, beginning with the calendar year following the year in which the grantor s settlement date occurs.  The administrator shall inform the trustee of the amount of each installment distribution under this paragraph II-3, and the trustee shall be fully protected in relying on such information received from the administrator.  
     
  II-4         DISTRIBUTIONS FROM THE TRUST FUND AFTER THE GRANTOR S DEATH.  The grantor, from time to time may name any person or persons (who may be named contingently or successively and who may be natural persons or fiduciaries) to whom the principal of the trust fund and all accrued or undistributed income therefrom shall be distributed in a lump sum or, if the beneficiary is the grantor s spouse (or a trust for which the grantor s spouse is the sole income beneficiary), in installments, as directed by the grantor, upon the grantor s death.  If the grantor directs an installment method of distribution to the spouse as beneficiary, any amounts remaining at the death of the spouse beneficiary shall be distributed in a lump sum to the executor or administrator of the spouse beneficiary s estate.  If the grantor directs an installment method of distribution to a trust for which the grantor s spouse is the sole income beneficiary, any amounts remaining at the death of the spouse shall be distributed in a lump sum to such trust.  Despite the foregoing, if (i) the beneficiary is a trust for which the grantor s spouse is the sole income beneficiary, (ii) payments are being made pursuant to this paragraph II-4 other than in a lump sum and (iii) income earned by the trust fund for the year exceeds the amount of the annual installment payment, then such trust may elect to withdraw such excess income by written notice to the trustee.  Each designation shall revoke all prior designations, shall be in writing and shall be effective only when filed by the grantor with the administrator during the grantor s lifetime.  If the grantor fails to direct a method of distribution, the distribution shall be made in a lump sum.  If the grantor fails to designate a beneficiary as provided above, then on the grantor s death, the trustee shall distribute the balance of the trust fund in a lump sum to the executor or administrator of the grantor s estate.  
     
  II-5         FACILITY OF PAYMENT.  When a person entitled to a distribution hereunder is under legal disability, or, in the trustee s opinion, is in any way incapacitated so as to be unable to manage his or her financial affairs, the trustee may make such distribution to such person s legal representative, or to a relative or friend of such person for such person s benefit.  Any distribution made in accordance with the preceding sentence shall be a full and complete discharge of any liability for such distribution hereunder.  
     
  II-6         PERPETUITIES.  Notwithstanding any other provisions of this agreement, on the day next preceding the end of 21 years after the death of the last to die of the grantor and the grantor s descendants living on the date of this instrument, the trustee shall immediately distribute any remaining balance in the trust to the beneficiaries then entitled to distributions hereunder.  
     
  3    

ARTICLE III  MANAGEMENT OF THE TRUST FUND   
     
  III-1       GENERAL POWERS.  The trustee shall, with respect to the trust fund, have the following powers, rights and duties in addition to those provided elsewhere in this agreement or by law:  
     
  (a)           Subject to the limitations of subparagraph (b) next below, to sell, contract to sell, purchase, grant or exercise options to purchase, and otherwise deal with all assets of the trust fund, in such way, for such considerations, and on such terms and conditions as the trustee decides.  
     
  (b)           To retain in cash such amounts as the trustee considers advisable; and to invest and reinvest the balance of the trust fund, without distinction between principal and income, in obligations of the United States Government and its agencies or which are backed by the full faith and credit of the United States Government or in any mutual fund, common trust fund or collective investment fund which invests solely in such obligations; and any such investment made or retained by the trustee in good faith shall be proper despite any resulting risk or lack of diversification or marketability.  
     
  (c)           To deposit cash in any depositary (including the banking department of the bank acting as trustee) without liability for interest, and to invest cash in savings accounts or time certificates of deposit bearing a reasonable rate of interest in any such depositary.  
     
  (d)           To invest, subject to the limitations of subparagraph (b) above, in any common or commingled trust fund or funds maintained or administered by the trustee solely for the investment of trust funds.  
     
  (e)           To borrow from anyone, with the administrator s approval, such sum or sums from time to time as the trustee considers desirable to carry out this trust, and to mortgage or pledge all or part of the trust fund as security.  
     
  (f)            To retain any funds or property subject to any dispute without liability for interest and to decline to make payment or delivery thereof until final adjudication by a court of competent jurisdiction or until an appropriate release is obtained.  
     
  (g)           To begin, maintain or defend any litigation necessary in connection with the administration of this trust, except that the trustee shall not be obliged or required to do so unless indemnified to the trustee s satisfaction.  
     
  (h)           To compromise, contest, settle or abandon claims or demands.  
     
  (i)            To give proxies to vote shares of stock and other voting securities, to join in or oppose (alone or jointly with others) voting trusts, mergers, consolidations, foreclosures, reorganizations, liquidations, or other changes in the financial structure of any corporation, and to exercise or sell stock subscription or conversion rights.  
     
  4    

(j)            To hold securities or other property in the name of a nominee, in a depositary or in any other way, with or without disclosing the trust relationship.  
     
  (k)           To divide or distribute the trust fund in undivided interests or wholly or partly in kind.  
     
  (l)            To pay any tax imposed on or with respect to the trust; to defer making payment of any such tax if it is indemnified to its satisfaction in the premises; and to require before making any payment such release or other document from any lawful taxing authority and such indemnity from the intended payee as the trustee consider necessary for its protection.  
     
  (m)          To deal without restriction with the legal representative of the grantor s estate or the trustee or other legal representative of any trust created by the grantor or a trust or estate in which a beneficiary has an interest, even though the trustee, individually, shall be acting in such other capacity without liability for any loss that may result.  
     
  (n)           To appoint or remove by written instrument any bank or corporation qualified to act as successor trustee, wherever located, as special trustee as to part or all of the trust fund, including property as to which the trustee does not act, and such special trustee, except as specifically limited or provided by this or the appointing instrument, shall have all of the rights, titles, powers, duties, discretions and immunities of the trustee, without liability for any action taken or omitted to be taken under this or the appointing instrument.  
     
  (o)           To appoint or remove by written instrument any bank, wherever located, as custodian of part or all of the trust fund, and each such custodian shall have such rights, powers, duties and discretions as are delegated to it by the trustee.  
     
  (p)           To employ agents, attorneys, accountants or other persons, and to delegate to them such powers as the trustee considers desirable, and the trustee shall be protected in acting or refraining from acting on the advice of persons so employed without court action.  
     
  (q)           To perform any and all other acts which in the trustee s judgment are appropriate for the proper management, investment and distribution of the trust fund.  
     
  III-2       PRINCIPAL AND INCOME.  Any income earned on the trust fund which is not distributed as provided in Article II shall be accumulated and from time to time added to the principal of the trust. The grantor s interest in the trust shall include all assets or other property held by the trustee hereunder, including principal and accumulated income.  
     
  III-3       STATEMENTS.  The trustee shall prepare and deliver monthly to the administrator and annually to the grantor, if then living, otherwise to each beneficiary then entitled to distributions under this agreement, a statement (or series of statements) setting forth (or which taken together set forth) all investments, receipts, disbursements and other transactions effected by the trustee during the reporting period; and showing the trust fund and the value thereof at the end of such period.  
     
  5    

III-4       COMPENSATION AND EXPENSES.  All reasonable costs, charges and expenses incurred in the administration of this trust, including compensation to the trustee, any compensation to agents, attorneys, accountants and other persons employed by the trustee, and expenses incurred in connection with the sale, investment and reinvestment of the trust fund shall be paid from the trust fund.  
     
   ARTICLE IV  GENERAL PROVISIONS   
     
  IV-1        INTERESTS NOT TRANSFERABLE.  The interests of the grantor or other persons entitled to distributions hereunder are not subject to their debts or other obligations and may not be voluntarily or involuntarily sold, transferred, alienated, assigned or encumbered.  
     
  IV-2        DISAGREEMENT AS TO ACTS.  If there is a disagreement between the trustee and anyone as to any act or transaction reported in any accounting, the trustee shall have the right to a settlement of its account by any proper court.  
     
  IV-3        TRUSTEE S OBLIGATIONS.  No power, duty or responsibility is imposed on the trustee except as set forth in this agreement.  The trustee is not obliged to determine whether funds delivered to or distributions from the trust are proper under the trust, or whether any tax is due or payable as a result of any such delivery or distribution. The trustee shall be protected in making any distribution from the trust as directed pursuant to Article II without inquiring as to whether the distributee is entitled thereto; and the trustee shall not be liable for any distribution made in good faith without written notice or knowledge that the distribution is not proper under the terms of this agreement.  
     
  IV-4        GOOD FAITH ACTIONS.  The trustee s exercise or non-exercise of its powers and discretions in good faith shall be conclusive on all persons.  No one shall be obliged to see to the application of any money paid or property delivered to the trustee.  The certificate of the trustee that it is acting according to this agreement will fully protect all persons dealing with the trustee.  
     
  IV-5        WAIVER OF NOTICE.  Any notice required under this agreement may be waived by the person entitled to such notice.  
     
  IV-6        CONTROLLING LAW.  The laws of the State of Illinois shall govern the interpretation and validity of the provisions of this agreement and all questions relating to the management, administration, investment and distribution of the trust hereby created.  
     
  IV-7        SUCCESSORS.  This agreement shall be binding on all persons entitled to distributions hereunder and their respective heirs and legal representatives, and on the trustee and its successors.  
     
  6    

ARTICLE V  CHANGES IN TRUSTEE   
     
  V-1         RESIGNATION OR REMOVAL OF TRUSTEE.  The trustee may resign at any time by giving thirty (30) days  advance written notice to the administrator and the grantor.  The administrator may remove a trustee by written notice to the trustee and the grantor.  
     
  V-2         APPOINTMENT OF SUCCESSOR TRUSTEE.  The administrator shall fill any vacancy in the office of trustee as soon as practicable by written notice to the successor trustee; and shall give prompt written notice thereof to the grantor, if then living, otherwise to each beneficiary then entitled to payments or distributions under this agreement. A successor trustee shall be a bank (as defined in Section 581 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended).  
     
  V-3         DUTIES OF RESIGNING OR REMOVED TRUSTEE AND OF SUCCESSOR TRUSTEE.  A trustee that resigns or is removed shall furnish promptly to the administrator and the successor trustee an account of its administration of the trust from the date of its last account. Each successor trustee shall succeed to the title to the trust fund vested in its predecessor without the signing or filing of any instrument, but each predecessor trustee shall execute all documents and do all acts necessary to vest such title of record in the successor trustee.  Each successor trustee shall have all the powers conferred by this agreement as if originally named trustee.  No successor trustee shall be personally liable for any act or failure to act of a predecessor trustee. With the approval of the administrator, a successor trustee may accept the account furnished and the property delivered by a predecessor trustee without incurring any liability for so doing, and such acceptance will be complete discharge to the predecessor trustee.  
     
   ARTICLE VI  AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION   
     
  VI-1        AMENDMENT.  With the consent of the administrator, this trust may be amended from time to time by the grantor, if then living, otherwise by a majority of the beneficiaries then entitled to payments or distributions hereunder, except as follows:  
     
  (a)           The duties and liabilities of the trustee cannot be changed substantially without its consent.  
     
  (b)           This trust may not be amended so as to make the trust revocable.  
     
  VI-2        TERMINATION.  This trust shall not terminate, and all rights, titles, powers, duties, discretions and immunities imposed on or reserved to the trustee, the administrator, the grantor and the beneficiaries shall continue in effect, until all assets of the trust have been distributed by the trustee as provided in Article II.  
     
  *      *      *  
     
  7    

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the grantor and the trustee have executed this agreement as of the day and year first above written.  

Grantor           

The Northern Trust   Company as Trustee           

By           

Its              
     
  8    

</EX-10.15>

<EX-10.16>
 4
 a2213529zex-10_16.htm
 EX-10.16

Exhibit 10.16   
     
   ABBVIE DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN   
     
  (Effective as of January 1, 2013)  

ABBVIE   
   DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN   
     
  ARTICLE I     INTRODUCTION  
     
  Section 1.1                               Purpose   .  The AbbVie Deferred Compensation Plan (the  Plan ) is designed to assist the Employers in attracting and retaining key employees by providing Eligible Employees with the opportunity to defer the receipt of a portion of their compensation and to have that deferred compensation treated as if it were invested pending its distribution by the Plan.  
     
  Section 1.2                               ERISA   .  The Plan is intended to be exempt from Parts 2, 3, and 4 of Title I of ERISA and, therefore, participation in the Plan is limited to a select group of management and highly compensated employees, within the meaning of ERISA Sections 201(2), 301(a)(3) and 401(a)(1).  
     
  Section 1.3                               Employers   .  
     
  (a)                                     After the Effective Date, any Subsidiary of the Company that is not then an Employer may adopt the Plan with the Company s consent as described in  Section 13.12 .  
     
  (b)                                     Each Employer shall be liable to the Company for an amount equal to the Plan benefits earned by its Eligible Employees.  Where an Eligible Employee has been employed by more than one Employer, the Plan Administrator shall allocate the liability to the Company associated with that Eligible Employee s Plan benefits among his or her Employers.  The Plan Administrator shall establish procedures for determining the time at which and manner in which the Employers shall pay this liability to the Company.  
     
  Section 1.4                               Effective Date   .  The Plan is adopted and is effective as of January 1, 2013 (the  Effective Date ).  
     
  Section 1.5                               Transfer of Liabilities from Abbott Laboratories Plan   .  As part of the Separation and Distribution Agreement by and between Abbott Laboratories and AbbVie Inc. dated as of November 28, 2012, Abbott and AbbVie entered into the Employee Matters Agreement dated as of December 31, 2012 (the  EMA ).  In accordance with the EMA, all liabilities for AbbVie Employees (as defined in the EMA) under the Abbott Laboratories Deferred Compensation Plan were transferred to the Plan and the Plan became liable to pay all such benefits to such participants.  Supplement A to the Plan sets forth the additional rules applicable to the transferred benefits and transferred participants.  
     
  ARTICLE II     DEFINITIONS  
     
  When used in this Plan, unless the context clearly requires a different meaning, the following words and terms shall have the meanings set forth below.  Whenever appropriate, words used in  
     
  1    

the singular shall be deemed to include the plural, and  vice versa , and the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the feminine gender.  
     
  Section 2.1                               Account   .   Account(s)  means the account(s) established for record keeping purposes for each Participant pursuant to  Article VI .  
     
  Section 2.2                               Base Compensation   .   Base Compensation  means the Participant s total compensation earned in a Plan Year for personal service actually rendered to an Employer, including sales bonuses, sales incentives and sales commissions (excluding Eligible Bonuses, all other bonuses, commissions, relocation expenses, reimbursements, expense allowances, fringe benefits (cash or noncash), welfare benefits (whether or not those amounts are includible in gross income) and other non-regular forms of compensation) before deductions for (i) Deferral Elections made pursuant to  Section 4.1  or (ii) contributions made on the Participant s behalf to any Employer Savings Plan or to any cafeteria plan under Section 125 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ), maintained by an Employer.  
     
  Section 2.3                               Beneficiary   .   Beneficiary  means the person, persons or entity designated by the Participant to receive any benefits payable under the Plan pursuant to  Article IX .  
     
  Section 2.4                               Board of Review   .   Board of Review  means the AbbVie Employee Benefit Board of Review appointed and acting under the AbbVie Pension Plan and having the powers and duties described in this Plan.  
     
  Section 2.5                               Company   .   Company  means AbbVie Inc., its successors, any organization into which or with which AbbVie Inc. may merge or consolidate or to which all or substantially all of its assets may be transferred.  
     
  Section 2.6                               Deferral Election   .   Deferral Election  means an election under the Plan by a Participant to defer the receipt of a portion of his or her Eligible Compensation made on a Deferral Election Form.  
     
  Section 2.7                               Deferral Election Form   .   Deferral Election Form  means the form provided to the Participant by the Plan pursuant to  Section 4.1  on which the Participant makes his or her Deferral Election.  
     
  Section 2.8                               Deferral Account   .   Deferral Account(s)  means the account(s) established for record keeping purposes for each Participant s Deferral Election pursuant to  Section 6.1 .  
     
  Section 2.9                               Disability   .  The date of  Disability  of a Participant means the date on which the Participant is, by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than twelve months, eligible to receive income replacement benefits for a period of six or more months under the terms of the AbbVie Long-Term Disability Plan ( LTD Plan ) or, for a Participant whose Employer does not participate in the LTD Plan, such similar accident and health plan in which his or her Employer participates.  
     
  Section 2.10                        Distribution Election   .   Distribution Election  is defined in  Section 4.3(a) .  
     
  2    

Section 2.11                        Distribution Election Form   .   Distribution Election Form  means the form provided to the Participant by the Plan pursuant to  Section 4.3  on which the Participant specifies the time at which the amounts credited to one of the Participant s Account(s) are to be distributed and their method of payment.  
     
  Section 2.12                        Effective Date   .   Effective Date  is defined in  Section 1.6 .  
     
  Section 2.13                        Eligibility Date   .   Eligibility Date  is defined in  Section 3.1(b) .  
     
  Section 2.14                        Eligible Bonus   .   Eligible Bonus  means an annual cash incentive bonus for a Plan Year that the Plan Administrator, or its delegate, has designated as being eligible for deferral under the Plan.  As of the Effective Date, cash bonuses paid under the AbbVie Cash Profit Sharing Plan or any Employer s annual incentive bonus plan with a performance period commencing on January 1 and ending on December 31 of the applicable Plan Year are eligible for deferral under the Plan.  
     
  Section 2.15                        Eligible Compensation   .   Eligible Compensation  means the Participant s Base Compensation and Eligible Bonus(es).  
     
  Section 2.16                        Eligible Employee   .   Eligible Employee  means any person employed by an Employer who is both  
     
  (i)                                         a United States employee or an expatriate who is based and paid in the United States, and  
     
  (ii)                                      shown as having a grade level of 20 (or equivalent level of compensation if on a different pay grade system) or higher on his or her Employer s Human Resource System  
     
  and who is not (a) both an officer of the Company and eligible to participate in the AbbVie Supplemental Savings Plan, except as contemplated by  Section 3.1  hereof for the Plan Year in which the person is first named an officer, (b) an individual who provides services to an Employer under a contract, arrangement or understanding with either the individual directly or with an agency or leasing organization that treats the individual as either an independent contractor or an employee of such agency or leasing organization, even if such individual is subsequently determined (by an Employer, the Internal Revenue Service, any other governmental agency, judicial action, or otherwise) to have been a common law employee of an Employer rather than an independent contractor or employee of such agency or leasing organization, or (c) any Employee who is employed by an Employer located in Puerto Rico, other than any person designated as a  U.S. Expatriate  on the records of an Employer.  
     
  For all Plan purposes, an individual shall be an  Eligible Employee  for any Plan Year only if during that Plan Year an Employer treats that individual as its employee for purposes of employment taxes and wage withholding for Federal income taxes, even if such individual is subsequently determined (by an Employer, the Internal Revenue Service, any other governmental agency, judicial action, or otherwise) to have been a common law employee of an Employer in that Plan Year.  
     
  3    

Section 2.17                        Employer   .   Employer  shall mean the Company, the participating Employers on the Effective Date, and any Subsidiary of the Company that subsequently adopts the Plan in the manner provided in  Section 13.12 .  
     
  Section 2.18                        Employer Contribution   .   Employer Contribution  means the contribution deemed to have been made by an Employer pursuant to  Section 5.1 .  
     
  Section 2.19                        Employer Contribution Account   .   Employer Contribution Account(s)  means the account(s) established for record keeping purposes for each Participant s Employer Contributions pursuant to  Section 6.1 .  
     
  Section 2.20                        Employer Savings Plan   .   Employer Savings Plan  means any defined contribution retirement plan that is maintained by an Employer, qualified under Code Section 401(a), and includes a cash or deferred arrangement under Code Section 401(k).  The term shall specifically include, but not be limited to, the AbbVie Savings Plan.  
     
  Section 2.21                        ERISA   .   ERISA  means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.  
     
  Section 2.22                        Hardship Distribution   .   Hardship Distribution  is defined in  Section 8.5(a) .  
     
  Section 2.23                        In-Service Distribution   .   In-Service Distribution  is defined in  Section 4.3 .  
     
  Section 2.24                        Initial Election   .   Initial Election  is defined in  Section 4.3(a) .  
     
  Section 2.25                        Investment Election   .   Investment Election  is defined in  Section 4.2(a) .  
     
  Section 2.26                        Investment Election Form   .   Investment Election Form  means the form provided to the Participant by the Plan pursuant to  Section 4.2  on which the Participant specifies the Investment Funds in which the Participant s Account(s) are to be deemed to be invested.  
     
  Section 2.27                        Investment Fund(s)   .   Investment Fund(s)  means one or more of the funds selected by the Plan Administrator pursuant to  Section 4.2 .  
     
  Section 2.28                        Investment Fund Subaccounts   .   Investment Fund Subaccounts  is defined in  Section 6.1(b) .  
     
  Section 2.29                        Matching DCP Deferral   .   Matching DCP Deferral  for a Participant for a Plan Year is an amount equal to the total dollar amount of the Participant s deferrals for the Plan Year pursuant to Employee Deferral Elections under Section 4.1(b), but in no event shall a Participant s Matching DCP Deferral for a Plan Year exceed the amount by which (a) the Participant s Base Compensation for the Plan Year up to the limit on compensation as defined in Code Section 401(a)(17) exceeds (b) the Participant s Base Compensation for the Plan Year less the total dollar amount deferred pursuant to Employee Deferral Elections under Section 4.1(b) for the Plan Year.  
     
  4    

Section 2.30                        Participant   .   Participant  means any Eligible Employee who elects to participate in this Plan by filing a Deferral Election, Investment Fund Election, and Distribution Election as provided in  Article IV  or is a Transferred Participant or a Post-Distribution Participant.  
     
  Section 2.31                        Plan   .   Plan  means the AbbVie Deferred Compensation Plan.  
     
  Section 2.32                        Plan Administrator   .   Plan Administrator  means the Board of Review.  
     
  Section 2.33                        Plan Year   .   Plan Year  means a twelve-month period beginning January 1 and ending the following December 31.  
     
  Section 2.34                        Post-Distribution Participant.      Post-Distribution Participant  means: (a) a Post-Distribution AbbVie Employee (as defined in the EMA) who (i) was an employee of Abbott or its subsidiary as of immediately prior to the Separation (as defined in the Separation Agreement) and is transferred to or hired by AbbVie or its Subsidiary after the Separation (as defined in the Separation Agreement), and (ii) had the liabilities associated with his or her account balances in the Abbott Deferred Compensation transferred to this Plan in accordance with Supplement A; and (b) any other individual on whose behalf liabilities are transferred from the Abbott Deferred Compensation Plan to the Plan in accordance with Supplement A in connection with an employment transfer during the Transition Period (as defined in the EMA).  
     
  Section 2.35                        Rate of Return   .   Rate of Return  means, for each Investment Fund, an amount equal to the net gain or net loss (expressed as a percentage) on the assets of that Investment Fund.  
     
  Section 2.36                        Retirement   .   Retirement  means a Termination of Employment after having satisfied the age and service requirements of Subsection (a) or (b) below, as applicable:  
     
  (a)                                     With respect to Participants covered by the AbbVie Pension Plan (the  Pension Plan ):  
     
  (i)                                         for any Transferred Participant or Post-Distribution Participant who has an Old Formula Benefit (as defined in the Pension Plan), the date on which the Participant attains age 50 and completes 10 years of  vesting service  (as such term is described in the Pension Plan); or  
     
  (ii)                                      for any Transferred Participant or Post-Distribution Participant who does not have an Old Formula Benefit (as defined in the Pension Plan) under the Pension Plan and any participant who does not fall into the preceding categories hired by AbbVie on or after the Effective Date, the date on which the Participant attains age 55 and completes 10 years of  vesting service  (as such term is described in the Pension Plan).  
     
  5    

(b)                                     With respect to Transferred Participants or Post-Distribution Participants covered by the Abbott Laboratories Pension Plan for Former BASF and Former Solvay Employees, the date on which the Participant attains age 55 and completes 5 years of vesting service (as such term is described in the Abbott Laboratories Pension Plan for Former BASF and Former Solvay Employees).  
     
  Section 2.37                        Separation Date   .   Separation Date  has the meaning set forth in the Separation Agreement.  
     
  Section 2.38                        Subsequent Election   .   Subsequent Election  is defined in  Section 4.2(a) .  
     
  Section 2.39                        Subsidiary   .   Subsidiary  means any corporation, limited liability company, partnership, joint venture, or business trust organized in the United States 50 percent or more of the voting stock of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company.  
     
  Section 2.40                        Termination of Employment   .   Termination of Employment  means the cessation of a Participant s services as an employee, whether voluntary or involuntary, for any reason other than death; provided, that the Participant shall not be considered to have terminated employment for purposes of the Plan until he or she would be considered to have incurred a  separation from service  from the Employer within the meaning of Code Section 409A.  
     
  Section 2.41                        Transferred Participant   .   Transferred Participant  means an AbbVie Employee (as defined in the EMA), excluding a Post-Distribution AbbVie Employee (as defined in the EMA), who accepts an offer of employment or continues employment with or is transferred to AbbVie or one of its Subsidiaries under the Separation Agreement on or immediately after the Separation Date.  
     
  Section 2.42                        Unforeseeable Emergency   .   Unforeseeable Emergency  means a severe financial hardship to the Participant resulting from an illness or accident of the Participant, the Participant s spouse or a dependent of the Participant, loss of the Participant s property due to casualty (including the need to rebuild a home following damage to a home not otherwise covered by insurance, for example, not as a result of a natural disaster), or other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances arising as a result of events beyond the control of the Participant as determined by the Plan Administrator.  
     
  ARTICLE III     PARTICIPATION  
     
  Section 3.1                               Participation   .  
     
  (a)                                     Except as provided in  Sections 3.1(b) and (c) , an Eligible Employee may become a Participant by making a Deferral Election, Investment Fund Election, and Distribution Election pursuant to  Article IV  on or before the deadline set by the Plan Administrator pursuant to  Section 4.4 .  
     
  (b)                                     A newly hired individual who is an Eligible Employee shall become eligible to participate in the Plan on the first day of the month next following the month after the  
     
  6    

individual s date of hire (the  Eligibility Date   provided  that in no event shall such individual begin to participate in the plan later than 90 days following his or her date of hire.  Notwithstanding the election requirements of Section 3.1(a), a newly Eligible Employee who was not eligible to participate in any other plan that would be aggregated with the Plan under Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(c) may make a Deferral Election, Investment Fund Election and Distribution Election pursuant to  Article IV  within the 30-day period immediately following the Eligibility Date.  Any such election shall become effective for Eligible Compensation earned no earlier than the first payroll period commencing after receipt of the election by the Plan Administrator and shall be irrevocable for the remainder of the Plan Year.  
     
  (c)                                      An individual who becomes an Eligible Employee as a result of a job promotion or transfer may make a Deferral Election, Investment Fund Election and Distribution Election pursuant to  Article IV  only with respect to Eligible Compensation to be earned in the Plan Year next following the year of such promotion or transfer.  Any such election shall be made in accordance with  Article IV  and shall become effective for Eligible Compensation earned in the Plan Year following the year in which the election is made.  
     
  (d)                                     Participation of Transferred Participants and Post-Distribution Participants shall be governed by Supplement A.  
     
  Section 3.2                               Termination of Participation   .  A Participant who ceases to be an Eligible Employee due to a Termination of Employment will remain a Participant but (i) may no longer make Deferral Elections with respect to any Plan Year following the year of such termination and (ii) all deferrals under the Plan shall cease as of the date of the Participant s Termination of Employment.  A Participant who ceases to be an Eligible Employee due to a job promotion (or demotion) may no longer make Deferral Elections with respect to any Plan Year following the year of such promotion or demotion but the Participant s Deferral Elections for the Plan Year in which such promotion or demotion occurs shall remain irrevocable.  A Participant shall remain a Participant until (i) his or her death or (ii) his or her Accounts have been distributed.  
     
  ARTICLE IV     ELECTION FORMS  
     
  Section 4.1                               Deferral Elections   .  
     
  (a)                                     Participants shall make their Deferral Elections annually on a form provided by the Plan Administrator (a  Deferral Election Form ). Each Deferral Election shall apply to only a single Plan Year.  
     
  (b)                                     On his or her Deferral Election Form, the Participant shall specify the amount (expressed as a percentage) of his or her Base Compensation and the amount (also expressed as a percentage) of his or her Eligible Bonuses that the Participant elects to defer for that Plan Year together with such other information as the Plan Administrator may, in its sole and absolute discretion, require.  
     
  (c)                                      For any Plan Year, a Participant may elect to defer:  
     
  7    

(i)                                         between five percent (5%) and seventy-five percent (75%) of his or her Base Compensation (in whole percentage increments), and  
     
  (ii)                                      between five percent (5%) and one hundred percent (100%) of his or her Eligible Bonus(es) (in whole percentage increments);  
     
  provided, however, that in no event may a Participant elect to defer his or her Eligible Compensation to the extent that his or her remaining compensation would be insufficient to satisfy all applicable withholding taxes and contributions required under Employer-sponsored benefit plans in which the Participant participates.  
     
  (d)                                     A Participant may not revoke his or her Deferral Election at any time after the deadline for making such Deferral Election set by the Plan Administrator pursuant to  Section 4.4 .  
     
  Section 4.2                               Investment Elections   .  The Plan Administrator shall, from time to time, make available investment options (the  Investment Funds ) that serve as benchmark funds for the amounts a Participant defers under the Plan.  A Participant s Plan deferrals shall not actually be invested in the Investment Funds and the Participant shall not be considered a shareholder of any of the Investment Funds he or she selects by virtue of participation in the Plan.  Instead, the Participant s Plan deferrals shall be considered invested in, and his or her Plan Account shall reflect such Investment Fund s Rate of Return. A Participant s election of investments shall be subject to the following rules:  
     
  (a)                                     Participants shall make their investment elections on an Investment Election Form provided by the Plan Administrator (an  Investment Election ).  
     
  (b)                                     The Investment Election Form completed by the Participant shall apply only to the Eligible Compensation being deferred in a single Plan Year and shall specify the Investment Funds in which the deferrals for each such Plan Year are to be deemed to be invested, and the portion (expressed in whole percentage increments) of the deferrals for such Plan Year that are to be deemed to be invested in each such Investment Fund, and shall continue in effect until revoked or changed as permitted by the Plan Administrator.  
     
  Section 4.3                               Distribution Elections   .  
     
  (a)                                     Participants shall make their distribution elections in accordance with the Distribution Election Form provided by the Plan Administrator (a  Distribution Election ) as permitted or required by such form.  Each Distribution Election (the  Initial Election ) shall apply only to the Eligible Compensation being deferred in a single Plan Year and must be made by the deadline set by the Plan Administrator pursuant to  Section 4.4 , at which time the Initial Election shall be irrevocable, subject to  Section 4.3(c) .  
     
  (b)                                     On the Distribution Election Form:  
     
  (i)                                          Mandatory Retirement Election   .  In all cases, the Participant shall select the method of payment from among the methods of payment described in  Section 8.3(a)  to apply in the event payment is made upon Retirement pursuant to this Distribution Election in  
     
  8    

accordance with  Sections 8.3 or 8.4  or upon Disability in accordance with  Section 8.7 .  
     
  (ii)                                       Optional In-Service Distribution Election   .  The Participant shall also have the option to elect that the Eligible Compensation being deferred for that Plan Year shall be paid to the Participant while he or she is still employed by an Employer (an  In-Service Distribution ).  If the Participant elects to receive an In-Service Distribution of the Eligible Compensation being deferred, then the Participant shall also select the year in which the payments are to be made.  A Participant may not elect to receive an In-Service Distribution in a Plan Year that is less than two (2) years after the end of the Plan Year in which the Eligible Compensation is earned.  
     
  (c)                                      Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in  Section 4.3 , a Participant may change the form of distribution or his or her Distribution Election (a  Subsequent Election ) to the extent permitted by the Plan Administrator and Code Section 409A(a)(4)(C), including the requirements that such Subsequent Election:  
     
  (i)                                         shall not take effect until at least 12 months after the date on which the Subsequent Election is filed with the Plan Administrator;  
     
  (ii)                                      shall result in the first distribution subject to such Subsequent Election being made at least five years after the date such distribution would otherwise have been paid pursuant to the previous election; and  
     
  (iii)                                   shall be filed with the Plan Administrator at least 12 months before the date the first scheduled distribution is to be paid pursuant to the previous election.  
     
  Section 4.4                               Deadline for Submitting Election Forms   .  The Plan Administrator may set a deadline or deadlines for the receipt of the election forms required under the Plan; provided, however, that, except as provided in  Section 3.1(b) , such forms must be filed on or before the end of the year immediately preceding the Plan Year for which it is to be effective.  
     
  ARTICLE V     EMPLOYER CONTRIBUTIONS  
     
  Section 5.1                               Employer Contributions   .  Each Participant who makes a Deferral Election will be credited with an Employer Contribution equal to 5% of the Participant s Matching DCP Deferral.  The Plan Administrator may, however, in his or her discretion, otherwise set the amount of the Employer Contribution, subject to and not in excess of applicable limits imposed by the Internal Revenue Service.  
     
  Section 5.2                               Allocation of Employer Contributions   .  A Participant s Employer Contribution for a Plan Year shall be allocated among the same Investment Funds and in the same proportion as the Participant has elected for his or her deferrals for that Plan Year.  
     
  9    

Section 5.3                               Distribution of Employer Contributions   .  An Employer Contribution for a Plan Year shall be distributed to the Participant according to the election made by the Participant governing his or her deferrals for that same Plan Year.  
     
  ARTICLE VI     MAINTENANCE AND CREDITING OF ACCOUNTS  
     
  Section 6.1                               Maintenance of Accounts   .  
     
  (a)                                     The Plan shall maintain a separate Account for each Deferral Election (a  Deferral Account ) made by a Participant and each Employer Contribution (an  Employer Contribution Account ) made for a Participant.  A Participant s Accounts shall reflect the Participant s Investment Fund Elections and Distribution Elections made pursuant to  Article IV , any Employer Contributions made on behalf of the Participant pursuant to  Article V , adjustments to the Account made pursuant to this  Article VI , and distributions made with respect to the Account pursuant to  Article VIII .  The Accounts shall be used solely as a device for the measurement and determination of the amounts to be paid to the Participants pursuant to this Plan and shall not constitute or be treated as a trust fund of any kind.  
     
  (b)                                     Each Account shall be divided into separate subaccounts ( Investment Fund Subaccounts ), each of which corresponds to the Investment Fund selected by the Participant pursuant to  Section 4.2(b) .  
     
  Section 6.2                               Crediting of Accounts   .  
     
  (a)                                     No later than five (5) business days following the end of each pay period, the Plan shall credit each Participant s Investment Fund Subaccounts to reflect amounts deferred from the Participant s Eligible Compensation during that pay period and the Investment Fund Election made by the Participant with respect to that Eligible Compensation.  
     
  (b)                                     At the end of each Plan Year, the Plan shall credit each Participant s Investment Fund Subaccounts to reflect any Employer Contribution deemed to have been made on behalf of the Participant for that Plan Year and the allocation of that contribution among the Investment Funds pursuant to  Section 4.2 .  
     
  (c)                                      The Plan Administrator shall adjust each Investment Fund Subaccount to reflect any transfers under the Plan to or from that Investment Fund Subaccount, as of the end of each business day to reflect any distributions under the Plan made with respect to that Investment Fund Subaccount, and the Rate of Return on the related Investment Fund.  
     
  Section 6.3                               Statement of Accounts   .  Each Participant shall be issued quarterly statements of his or her Account(s) in such form as the Plan Administrator deems desirable, setting forth the balance to the credit of such Participant in his or her Account(s) as of the end of the most recently completed quarter.  
     
  10    

ARTICLE VII     VESTING AND FORFEITURES  
     
  Section 7.1                               Deferral Accounts   .  A Participant s Deferral Accounts shall be one hundred percent (100%) vested and non-forfeitable at all times.  
     
  Section 7.2                               Employer Contribution Account   .  
     
  (a)                                     A Participant s Employer Contribution Account shall become one hundred percent (100%) vested and non-forfeitable when the matching contributions made by the Participant s Employer on behalf of the Participant under the Employer Savings Plan in which the Participant participates become one hundred percent (100%) vested and non-forfeitable.  
     
  (b)                                     If a Participant s employment with the Employers terminates (whether voluntarily or involuntarily) before the matching contributions made by the Participant s Employer on behalf of the Participant under the Employer Savings Plan in which the Participant participates become one hundred percent (100%) vested and non-forfeitable, then the Participant shall forfeit his or her related Employer Contribution Account.  
     
  ARTICLE VIII     DISTRIBUTION OF BENEFITS  
     
  Section 8.1                               Distribution of Benefits in the Event of a Termination of Employment   .  If a Participant elects to receive his or her Plan benefits as an In-Service Distribution, then in the event of that Participant s Termination of Employment (other than due to Retirement) prior to receiving that In-Service Distribution, the Company shall pay that Participant s Plan benefits in a lump-sum to the Participant within 90 days following his or her Termination of Employment.  If a Participant elects to receive his or her Plan benefits upon Retirement, then in the event of that Participant s Termination of Employment prior to the date the Participant attains eligibility for Retirement, the Company shall pay that Participant s Plan benefits in a lump-sum to the Participant within 90 days following his or her Termination of Employment.  
     
  Section 8.2                               In-Service Distributions   .  Subject to the provisions of  Section 8.6 , the Company shall pay In-Service Distributions in a lump-sum to the Participant on the first business day in February of the year designated by the Participant on his or her Distribution Election Form.  
     
  Section 8.3                               Distribution of Benefits in the Event of Retirement   .  
     
  (a)                                     If, pursuant to  Section 4.3 , a Participant has elected to receive his or her Plan benefits for a Plan Year upon his or her Retirement, then the Company shall pay the Participant his or her Plan benefits commencing on the first business day in February next following the date of the Participant s Retirement in any of the following forms pursuant to the Participant s Initial Election or Subsequent Election, as applicable:  
     
  (i)                                         in substantially equal quarterly or annual installments to the Participant over fifteen (15) years; or  
     
  11    

(ii)                                      in substantially equal quarterly or annual installments to the Participant over ten (10) years; or  
     
  (iii)                                   in substantially equal quarterly or annual installments to the Participant over five (5) years; or  
     
  (iv)                                  in a lump-sum; or  
     
  (v)                                     if no such election is on file with the Plan Administrator, in substantially equal quarterly installments to the Participant over ten (10) years.  
     
  Quarterly installments shall be paid on the first business day of each calendar quarter and annual installments shall be paid on the first business day of each calendar year.  
     
  (b)                                     Notwithstanding the provisions of  Section 8.3(a) , in the event that, as of the date of the Participant s Retirement, the Participant s benefits under the Plan do not exceed, in the aggregate, $15,500, the Participant s benefits shall be paid to the Participant in a lump-sum.  
     
  Section 8.4                               Distribution of Benefits on the Earlier to Occur of a Participant s Retirement or a Specified Date   .  
     
  If a Participant has elected to receive his or her Plan benefits on a specified date pursuant to  Section 4.3(b)(ii) , if the Participant s Retirement occurs prior to such specified date,  
     
  (a)                                     For amounts deferred for a Transferred Participant or a Post-Distribution Participant with respect to Plan Years beginning prior to January 1, 2008, the Company shall pay the Transferred Participant or the Post-Distribution Participant his or her Plan benefits in a lump sum on the first business day in February next following the Participant s Retirement; and  
     
  (b)                                     For amounts deferred for a Transferred Participant or a Post-Distribution Participant with respect to Plan Years beginning on or after January 1, 2008, and for amounts deferred for a Participant hired by an Employer on or after the Effective Date of the Plan, the Company shall pay the Participant his or her Plan benefits in accordance with  Section 8.3(a) , subject to  Section 8.3(b) .  
     
  Section 8.5                               Distributions Due to Unforeseeable Emergency   .  
     
  (a)                                     A Participant may receive the early payment of all or part of the balance in his or her Account(s) in the event of an Unforeseeable Emergency (a  Hardship Distribution ) subject to the following restrictions:  
     
  (i)                                         The Participant has requested the Hardship Distribution from the Plan Administrator on a form provided by or in the format requested by the Plan Administrator;  
     
  (ii)                                      The Plan Administrator has determined that an Unforeseeable Emergency has occurred;  
     
  12    

(iii)                                   The Plan Administrator determines the amount of the Hardship Distribution, which amount will be limited to the amount reasonably necessary to satisfy the emergency need (including any amounts necessary to pay any Federal, state, local or foreign income taxes or penalties reasonably anticipated to result from the Hardship Distribution); and  
     
  (iv)                                  The Hardship Distribution shall be distributed in a lump-sum within 30 days following determination by the Plan Administrator of the amount of the Hardship Distribution.  
     
  (b)                                     The circumstances that would constitute a Unforeseeable Emergency will depend on the facts and circumstances of each case, but, in any case, a Hardship Distribution may not be made to the extent that such hardship may be relieved through (i) reimbursement or compensation by insurance or otherwise, (ii) liquidation of the Participant s assets, to the extent that liquidation of the Participant s assets would not itself cause severe financial hardship, or (iii) by cessation of deferrals under this Plan in compliance with Code Section 409A.  
     
  Section 8.6                               Distribution of Benefits in the Event of Death   .  In the event of a Participant s death prior to the complete distribution of his or her Accounts, the Company shall distribute his or her total Plan benefits to his or her Beneficiary in a lump sum within 90 days after the date of the Participant s death.  
     
  Section 8.7                               Distribution of Benefits in the Event of Disability   .  In the event of a Participant s Disability, the Company shall pay the Participant his or her Plan benefits commencing on the first business day in February next following the date of the Participant s Disability in the form set forth below:  
     
  (a)                                     For any Participant who has elected to receive his or her Plan benefits upon Retirement, pursuant to the Participant s Distribution Election to receive his or her Plan benefits in one of the Retirement forms permitted under  Section 8.3(a) , subject to  Section 8.3(b) .  
     
  (b)                                     For a Participant who has elected to receive his or her Plan benefits as an In-Service Distribution, if the Participant s Disability occurs prior to the date specified in such Distribution Election:  
     
  (i)                                         For amounts deferred for a Transferred Participant or a Post-Distribution Participant with respect to Plan Years beginning on or subsequent to January 1, 2008, or for amounts deferred for a Participant hired by an Employer on or after the Effective Date of the Plan, pursuant to the Participant s Distribution Election to receive his or her Plan benefits in one of the Retirement forms permitted under  Section 8.3(a) , subject to  Section 8.3(b) .  
     
  (ii)                                      For amounts deferred for a Transferred Participant or a Post-Distribution Participants with respect to all Plan Years beginning prior to January 1, 2008, pursuant to the Participant s Distribution Election to receive his or her Plan benefits in a lump sum under  Section 4.3(b)(ii) .  
     
  13    

Section 8.8                               Postponing or Amending Distributions   .  A Participant may postpone a scheduled distribution or amend the form of distribution specified in  Section 8.2,    Section 8.3(a)  or  Section 8.4  only by making a Subsequent Election pursuant to the terms of  Section 4.3(c) .  
     
  Section 8.9                               Distribution of Benefits Pursuant to a Domestic Relations Order   .  The Company shall pay all or a portion of a Participant s Plan benefits in a lump sum to any person other than the Participant pursuant to the terms of a domestic relations order.  For this purpose, a domestic relations order means a judgment, decree or order (including approval of a property settlement agreement) which relates to the provision of child support, alimony payments, or marital property rights to a spouse, former spouse, child or other dependent of the Participant and which is made pursuant to a state domestic relations law (including a community property law).  
     
  ARTICLE IX     BENEFICIARY DESIGNATION  
     
  Section 9.1                               Beneficiary Designation   .  Each Participant shall have the right, at any time, to designate any person, persons or entity as his or her Beneficiary or Beneficiaries. A Beneficiary designation shall be made, and may be amended, by the Participant by filing a designation with the Plan Administrator, on such form and in accordance with such procedures as the Plan Administrator may establish from time to time.  
     
  Section 9.2                               Failure to Designate a Beneficiary   .  If a Participant or Beneficiary fails to designate a Beneficiary as provided above, or if all designated Beneficiaries predecease the Participant or his or her Beneficiary, then the Participant s Beneficiary shall be deemed to be, in the following order:  
     
  (i)                                         to the spouse of such person, if any; or  
     
  (ii)                                      to the deceased person s estate.  
     
  Section 9.3                               Facility of Payment   .  When, in the Plan Administrator s opinion, a Participant or Beneficiary is under a legal disability or is incapacitated in any way so as to be unable to manage his or her financial affairs, the Plan Administrator may make any benefit payments to the Participant or Beneficiary s legal representative, or spouse, or the Plan Administrator may apply the payment for the benefit of the Participant or Beneficiary in any way the Plan Administrator considers advisable, in each case, without subjecting the Participant or Beneficiary to accelerated taxation and/or tax penalties under Code Section 409A.  
     
  ARTICLE X     ADMINISTRATION OF PLAN  
     
  Section 10.1                        Plan Administrator   .  The Board of Review, or such person as the Board of Review shall designate pursuant to  Section 10.3 ,    shall serve as the Plan Administrator of the Plan. The administration of the Plan shall be under the supervision of the Plan Administrator. It shall be a principal duty of the Plan Administrator to see that the Plan is carried out, in accordance with its terms, for the exclusive benefit of persons entitled to participate in the Plan without discrimination    among them. Benefits under the Plan shall be  
     
  14    

paid only if the Plan Administrator decides, in his or her discretion, that the applicant is entitled to them. The Plan Administrator will have full power to administer the Plan in all of its details, subject to applicable requirements of law. For this purpose, the Plan Administrator s powers will include but will not be limited to, the following authority, in addition to all other powers provided by this Plan:  
     
  (i)                                         To make and enforce such rules and regulations as it deems necessary or proper for the efficient administration of the Plan, including the establishment of any claims procedures that may be required by applicable provisions of law;  
     
  (ii)                                      To exercise discretion in interpreting the Plan, any interpretation to be reviewed under the arbitrary and capricious standard;  
     
  (iii)                                   To exercise discretion in deciding all questions concerning the Plan and the eligibility of any person to participate in the Plan; such decision to be reviewed under the arbitrary and capricious standard;  
     
  (iv)                                  To appoint such agents, counsel, accountants, consultants and other persons as may be required to assist in administering the Plan;  
     
  (v)                                     To allocate and delegate its responsibilities under the Plan and to designate other persons to carry out any of its responsibilities under the Plan, any such allocations, delegation or designation to be in writing;  
     
  (vi)                                  To determine the amount and type of benefits to which any Participant or Beneficiary shall be entitled hereunder, including the method and date for all valuations under the Plan;  
     
  (vii)                               To receive from the Employers and from Participants such information as shall be necessary for the proper administration of the Plan or any of its programs;  
     
  (viii)                            To maintain or cause to be maintained all the necessary records for the administration of the Plan;  
     
  (ix)                                  To receive, review and keep on file (as it deems convenient and proper) reports of benefit payments made by the Plan;  
     
  (x)                                     To determine and allocate among the Employers the liability to the Company associated with Plan benefits in accordance with  Section 1.4  and to determine the time at which and manner in which that liability shall be paid to the Company;  
     
  (xi)                                  To make, or cause to be made, equitable adjustments for any mistakes or errors made in the administration of the Plan; and  
     
  (xii)                               To do all other acts which the Plan Administrator deems necessary or proper to accomplish and implement its responsibilities under the Plan.  
     
  15    

Section 10.2                        Reliance on Tables, etc   .  In administering the Plan, the Plan Administrator will be entitled to the extent permitted by law to rely conclusively on all tables, valuations, certificates, opinions and reports which are furnished by, or in accordance with the instructions of accountants, counsel, or other experts employed or engaged by the Plan Administrator.  
     
  Section 10.3                        Delegation   .  The Board of Review shall have the authority to appoint another corporation or one or more other persons to serve as the Plan Administrator hereunder, in which event such corporation or person(s) shall exercise all of the powers, duties, responsibilities, and obligations of the Plan Administrator hereunder.  
     
  Section 10.4                        Operations   .  The day to day operation of the Plan will be handled by the person(s) designated by the Plan Administrator.  
     
  Section 10.5                        Uniform Rules   .  The Plan Administrator shall administer the Plan on a reasonable and nondiscriminatory basis and shall apply uniform rules to all similarly situated Participants.  
     
  Section 10.6                        Plan Administrator s Decisions Final   .  Any interpretation of the provisions of the Plan (including, but not limited to, the provisions of any of its programs) and any decision on any matter within the discretion of the Plan Administrator made by the Plan Administrator in good faith shall be binding on all persons. A misstatement or other mistake of fact shall be corrected when it becomes known and the Plan Administrator shall make such adjustment on account thereof as it considers equitable and practicable. Neither the Plan Administrator nor any Employer shall be liable in any manner for any determination of fact made in good faith.  
     
  ARTICLE XI     CLAIMS FOR BENEFITS  
     
  Section 11.1                        Claims and Review Procedures   .  The Plan Administrator shall adopt procedures for the filing and review of claims in accordance with Section 503 of ERISA.  
     
  ARTICLE XII     AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION OF PLAN  
     
  Section 12.1                        Amendment   .  The Company may amend this Plan, in whole or in part, at any time provided, however, that no amendment shall be effective to decrease the balance in any Account as accrued at the time of such amendment.  Any amendment which would allow officers of the Company to participate in the Plan shall require the approval of the AbbVie Inc. Board of Directors.  Any amendment which increases the total cost of the Plan to the Employers in excess of $250,000 in each of the three full calendar years next following the date of the amendment shall be approved by the Board of Review.  The Senior Vice President, Human Resources of the Company (or the individual holding equivalent duties and responsibilities) shall approve all other amendments to the Plan and the extension of the Plan to any division or Subsidiary of the Company.  
     
  Section 12.2                        Termination   .  The Board of Review may at any time terminate the Plan with respect to future Deferral Elections.  The Board of Review may also  
     
  16    

terminate and liquidate the Plan in its entirety; provided that such termination and liquidation are consistent with the provisions of Code Section 409A.  Upon any such termination, the Company shall pay to the Participant the benefits the Participant is entitled to receive under the Plan, determined as of the termination date, in compliance with Code Section 409A.  
     
  ARTICLE XIII     MISCELLANEOUS  
     
  Section 13.1                        Unfunded Plan   .  This Plan is intended to be an unfunded plan maintained primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation for a select group of management or highly compensated employees, within the meaning of Sections 201, 301 and 401 of ERISA and therefore meant to be exempt from Parts 2, 3 and 4 of Title I of ERISA.  All payments pursuant to the Plan shall be made from the general funds of the Company and no special or separate fund shall be established or other segregation of assets made to assure payment. No Participant or other person shall have under any circumstances any interest in any particular property or assets of the Company as a result of participating in the Plan.  
     
  Section 13.2                        Nonassignability   .  Except as specifically set forth in the Plan with respect to the designation of Beneficiaries, neither a Participant nor any other person shall have any right to commute, sell, assign, transfer, pledge, anticipate, mortgage or otherwise encumber, transfer, hypothecate or convey in advance of actual receipt the amounts, if any, payable hereunder, or any part thereof, which are, and all rights to which are, expressly declared to be unassignable and non-transferable.  No part of the amounts payable shall, prior to actual payment, be subject to seizure or sequestration for the payment of any debts, judgments, alimony or separate maintenance owed by a Participant or any other person, nor be transferable by operation of law in the event of a Participant s or any other person s bankruptcy or insolvency.  
     
  Section 13.3                        Validity and Severability   .  The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Plan shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Plan, which shall remain in full force and effect, and any prohibition or unenforceability in any jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.  
     
  Section 13.4                        Governing Law   .  The validity, interpretation, construction and performance of this Plan shall in all respects be governed by the laws of the State of Illinois, without reference to principles of conflict of law, except to the extent preempted by federal law.  
     
  Section 13.5                        Employment Status   .  This Plan does not constitute a contract of employment or impose on the Participant or the Company any obligation for the Participant to remain an employee of the Company or change the status of the Participant s employment or the policies of the Company and its affiliates regarding termination of employment.  
     
  Section 13.6                        Underlying Compensation and Incentive Plans and Programs   .  Nothing in this Plan shall prevent the Company from modifying, amending or terminating the compensation or the incentive plans and programs pursuant to which Eligible Bonuses or Eligible Compensation are earned and which are deferred under this Plan.  
     
  17    

Section 13.7                        Successors of the Company   .  The rights and obligations of the Company under the Plan shall inure to the benefit of, and shall be binding upon, the successors and assigns of the Company.  
     
  Section 13.8                        Waiver of Breach   .  The waiver by the Company of any breach of any provision of the Plan by the Participant shall not operate or be construed as a waiver of any subsequent breach by the Participant.  
     
  Section 13.9                        Notice   .  Any notice or filing required or permitted to be given to the Company under the Plan shall be sufficient if in writing and hand-delivered, or sent by first class mail to the principal office of the Company, directed to the attention of the Plan Administrator. Such notice shall be deemed given as of the date of delivery, or, if delivery is made by mail, as of the date shown on the postmark.  
     
  Section 13.10                             Waiver of Notice   .  Any notice required under the Plan may be waived by the person entitled to such notice.  
     
  Section 13.11                             Evidence   .  Evidence required of anyone under the Plan may be by certificate, affidavit, document or other information which the person acting on it considers pertinent and reliable, and signed, made or presented by the proper party or parties.  
     
  Section 13.12                             Additional Employers   .  Subject to the consent of the Board of Review, any Subsidiary of the Company may adopt the Plan by filing a written instrument to that effect with the Company.  
     
  Section 13.13                             Section 409A   .  To the extent applicable, it is intended that the Plan comply with the provisions of Code Section 409A.  The Plan will be administered and interpreted in a manner consistent with this intent, and any provision that would cause the Plan to fail to satisfy Code Section 409A will have no force and effect until amended to comply therewith (which amendment may be retroactive to the extent permitted by Code Section 409A).  Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, to the extent required to avoid accelerated taxation and/or tax penalties under Code Section 409A and applicable guidance issued thereunder, amounts that would otherwise be payable pursuant to the Plan    during the six-month period immediately following the Participant s Termination of Employment or Retirement shall instead be paid on the first business day after the date that is six months following the Participant s Termination of Employment or Retirement (or upon the Participant s death, if earlier), plus, to the extent subject to a six-month delay, a return equal to the Rate of Return that would be achieved if such amounts were invested in accordance with the Participant s Investment Elections under Section 4.2 from the respective dates on which such amounts would otherwise have been paid until the actual date of payment.  
     
  18    

SUPPLEMENT A   
     
  TRANSFER OF LIABILITIES FROM THE  
  ABBOTT LABORATORIES DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN  
     
  A-1.                              Purpose and Effect   .  The purpose of this Supplement A is to provide for the transfer of liabilities from the Abbott Laboratories Deferred Compensation Plan (the  Abbott DCP ) to this Plan with respect to Transferred Participants and Post-Distribution Participants as set forth in the EMA.  
     
  A-2.                              Eligibility, Service and Compensation   .  Transferred Participants and Post-Distribution Participants shall (a) be eligible to participate in this Plan to the extent they were eligible to participate in the Abbott DCP as of the applicable Transfer Date (as defined in the EMA), and (b) receive credit for vesting and eligibility for all service credited for those purposes under the Abbott DCP as of the Transfer Date (as defined in the EMA) as if that service had been rendered to AbbVie (provided that in the event that any such Transferred Participant or Post-Distribution Participant receives a distribution from the Abbott DCP, the value of such distribution shall be offset against future benefits under the this Plan to the extent necessary to prevent a duplication of benefits).  The compensation paid by Abbott and its subsidiaries to a Transferred Participant or a Post-Distribution Participant that was recognized under the Abbott DCP as of the Transfer Date (as defined in the EMA) shall be credited and recognized for all applicable purposes under this Plan as though it were compensation from AbbVie or its Subsidiaries.  
     
  A-3.                              Matching DCP Deferral   .  For purposes of determining a Transferred Participant s or a Post-Distribution Participant s Matching DCP Deferrals for the Plan Year in which such participant becomes eligible to participate in the Plan, such participant s deferrals and Base Compensation under the Plan shall be prorated.  
     
  A-4.                              Employer Contributions   .  For purposes of determining the Employer Contribution under  Section 5.1  for the Plan Year in which a Transferred Participant or a Post-Distribution Participant becomes eligible to participate in the Plan, such participant s Matching DCP Deferrals made under the Abbott DCP shall not be taken into account.  
     
  A-5.                              Initial Transfer of Liabilities from Abbott DCP   .  As soon as practicable after the Separation Date, and subject to such terms and conditions as the Plan Administrator may establish, all liabilities attributable to Transferred Participants shall be transferred from the Abbott DCP to this Plan.  The Plan shall credit each such Transferred Employee s account with (a) the amount deferred by such individual into the Abbott DCP as of the applicable Transfer Date, plus (b) any employer contributions, whether vested or unvested, deemed to have been made in relation to the amount described in (a), including, in each case, any earnings thereon.  
     
  A-6.                              Deferral and Distribution Elections.     The Plan shall recognize, implement and honor all deferral and distribution elections made by each Transferred Participant under the Abbott DCP (including, but not limited to, any election to defer any bonus earned during 2012 but paid in 2013).  
     
  1    

A-7.                              Subsequent Transfers   .  At such time or times as the Plan Administrator and Abbott (or its delegate) shall agree, and subject to such terms and conditions as the Plan Administrator may establish, all liabilities attributable to Post-Distribution Participants shall be transferred from the Abbott DCP to this Plan.  The Plan shall credit each such Post-Distribution Participant s account with (a) the amount deferred by such individual into the Abbott DCP as of the applicable Transfer Date, plus (b) any employer contributions, whether vested or unvested, deemed to have been made in relation to the amount described in (a), including, in each case, any earnings thereon.  
     
  A-8.                              Deferral and Distribution Elections   Post-Distribution Participants   .  Post-Distribution Participants are required to make new elections under the Plan upon hire or transfer to AbbVie or its subsidiaries in accordance with Section 3.1(b).  Distribution elections made under the Abbott DCP with respect to transferred amounts described in A-7 above shall be recognized, implemented and honored by the Plan and such amounts shall be immediately distributable to such Post-Distribution Participants in accordance with such elections.  Distribution elections with respect to amounts deferred under this Plan on or after the Effective Date shall be in accordance with Section 4.3 and other applicable provisions of this Plan.  
     
  A-9.                              Use of Terms   .  Terms used in this Supplement A have the meanings of those terms as set forth in the Plan, unless they are defined in this Supplement A.  All of the terms and provisions of the Plan shall apply to this Supplement A except that where the terms of the Plan and this Supplement A conflict, the terms of this Supplement A shall govern.  
     
  2    

</EX-10.16>

<EX-10.17>
 5
 a2213529zex-10_17.htm
 EX-10.17

Exhibit 10.17   
     
   ABBVIE NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS  FEE PLAN   
     
  (Effective as of January 1, 2013)  

ABBVIE   
   NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS  FEE PLAN   
     
  SECTION 1.  PURPOSE  
     
  This AbbVie Non-Employee Directors  Fee Plan (the  Plan ) is hereby established by AbbVie Inc. (the  Company ) to attract and retain as members of its Board of Directors persons who are not full-time employees of the Company or any of its subsidiaries but whose business experience and judgment are valuable assets to the Company and its subsidiaries.  
     
  SECTION 2.  DIRECTORS COVERED  
     
  As used in the Plan, the term  Director  means any person serving on the Board of Directors of the Company on January 1, 2013 (the  Effective Date ) or at any time thereafter, who is not a full-time employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.  
     
  SECTION 3.   FEES PAYABLE TO DIRECTORS  
     
  3.1                                   Each Director shall be entitled to a deferred monthly fee of Ten Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($10,500.00) for each calendar month or portion thereof (excluding the month in which he is first elected a Director) that he holds such office with the Company.  
     
  3.2                                   A Director who serves as Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors shall be entitled to a deferred monthly fee of One Thousand Six Hundred Dollars ($1,600.00) for each calendar month or portion thereof (excluding the month in which he is first elected to such position) that he holds such position.  
     
  3.3                                   Audit Committee Fees  
     
  (a)                                     A Director who serves as Chairman of the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors shall be entitled to a deferred monthly fee of One Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($1,500.00) for each calendar month or portion thereof (excluding the month in which he is first elected to such position) that he holds such position.  
     
  (b)                                     Each Director who serves on the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors (other than the Chairman of the Audit Committee) shall be entitled to a deferred monthly fee of      Five Hundred Dollars ($500.00) for each calendar month or portion thereof (excluding the month in which he is first elected to such position) that he holds such position.  
     
  3.4                                   A Director who serves as Chairman of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors shall be entitled to a deferred monthly fee of One Thousand Dollars ($1,000.00) for each calendar month or portion thereof (excluding the month in which he is first elected to such position) that he holds such position.  
     
  1    

3.5                                   A Director who serves as Chairman of the Nominations Committee of the Board of Directors shall be entitled to a deferred monthly fee of One Thousand Dollars ($1,000.00) for each calendar month or portion thereof (excluding the month in which he is first elected to such position) that he holds such position.  
     
  3.6                                   A Director who serves as Chairman of any other Committee created by this Board of Directors shall be entitled to a deferred monthly fee of One Thousand Dollars ($1,000.00) for each calendar month or portion thereof (excluding the month in which he is first elected to such position) that he holds such position.  
     
  3.7                                   A Director s Deferred Fee Account shall be credited with interest annually. The rate of interest credited to deferred fees shall be equal to: (a) the average of the  prime rate  of interest set forth on the Bloomberg Screen BTMM or comparable successor quotation service on the first business day of January and the last business day of each month of the fiscal year; plus (b) two hundred twenty-five (225) basis points.  For purposes of this provision, the term  deferred fees  shall include  deferred monthly fees,  and  deferred meeting fees,  and shall also include any such interest credited thereon.  
     
  3.8                                   For purposes of Sections 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.4, 3.5 and 3.6, the automatic deferral of the fees specified therein shall be subject to a Director s election to receive such fees currently pursuant to Section 4.1 or Section 8.1 of the Plan.  
     
  SECTION 4.  PAYMENT OF DIRECTORS  FEES  
     
  4.1                                   Any Director may, by written notice filed with the Secretary of the Company no later than December 31 in a calendar year, elect to receive current payment of all or any portion of the monthly and meeting fees earned by him in calendar years subsequent to the calendar year in which he files such notice, in which case such fees shall not be deferred but shall be paid quarterly as earned and no interest shall be credited thereon.  Such election shall be irrevocable as of December 31 of the year prior to the year in which the fees will be earned.  
     
  Notwithstanding the timing requirements described above, an individual who is newly elected as a Director may make the election described above by filing it with the Secretary of the Company within the thirty (30) day period immediately following the date he or she first becomes a Director eligible to participate in the Plan (and all plans that would be aggregated with the Plan pursuant to Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(c)(2)(i)),  provided  that the compensation subject to such election relates solely to services performed after the date of such election and  provided ,  further , that such election shall become irrevocable on the thirtieth day following the date he or she first becomes a Director eligible to participate in the Plan.  In no event shall the fees subject to an election under this Section 4.1 be paid later than the last day of the  applicable 2  month period,  as such term is defined in Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(A).  Any Director who has previously provided notice pursuant to this Section 4.1 may, by written notice filed with the Secretary of the Company no later than December 31 in a calendar year, elect to defer payment of all or a portion of the monthly and meeting fees earned by him in calendar years subsequent to the year in which he files such notice, in which case such fees shall be paid to him in accordance with Section 4.2 below.  
     
  2    

4.2                                   A Director s deferred fees earned pursuant to the Plan shall commence to be paid on the first day of the calendar month next following the earlier of his death or his attainment of age sixty-five (65) if he is not then serving as a Director, or the termination of his service as a Director if he serves as a Director after the attainment of age sixty-five (65).  
     
  4.3                                   A Director s deferred fees that have commenced to be payable pursuant to Section 4.2 shall be payable in annual installments in the order in which they shall have been deferred (i.e., the deferred fees and earnings thereon for the earliest year of service as a Director will be paid on the date provided for in Section 4.2, the deferred fees for the next earliest year of service as a Director will be paid on the anniversary of the payment of the first installment, etc.).  
     
  4.4                                   A Director s deferred fees shall continue to be paid until all deferred fees which he is entitled to receive under the Plan shall have been paid to him (or, in case of his death, to his beneficiary).  
     
  4.5                                   If a Director incurs a termination of service as a Director within two (2) years following the occurrence of a Change in Control (as defined below), the aggregate unpaid balance of such Director s deferred fees plus all unpaid interest credited thereon shall be paid to such Director in a lump sum within thirty (30) days following the date of such termination of service;  provided ,  however , that if such Change in Control does not constitute a  change in control event  (as defined in Treasury Regulation  1.409A-3(i)(5)), then the aggregate unpaid balance of such Director s deferred fees shall be paid in accordance with Sections 4.2 and 4.3.  
     
  Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, if a Director has made the alternative election set forth in Section 8.1, and if such Director incurs a termination of service as a Director within five (5) years following the occurrence of a Change in Control, the aggregate unpaid balance of such Director s fees deposited to the Director s Grantor Trust (as defined below) plus all unpaid interest credited thereon, shall be paid to such Director from the Director s Grantor Trust in a lump sum within thirty (30) days following the date of such termination of service.  
     
  4.6                                   A  Change in Control  shall be deemed to have occurred on the earliest of the following dates:  
     
  (a)                                     the date any Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company (not including in the securities beneficially owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from the Company or its Affiliates) representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of the Company s then outstanding securities, excluding any Person who becomes such a Beneficial Owner in connection with a transaction described in clause (i) of paragraph (c) below; or  
     
  (b)                                     the date the following individuals cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the number of directors then serving: individuals who, on the Effective Date, constitute the Board of Directors and any new director (other than a director whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened election contest, including but not limited to a consent solicitation, relating to the election of directors of the Company) whose appointment or election by the Board of Directors or nomination for election by the Company s stockholders was approved or recommended by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who either were directors on  
     
  3    

the Effective Date or whose appointment, election or nomination for election was previously so approved or recommended; or  
     
  (c)                                      the date on which there is consummated a merger or consolidation of the Company or any direct or indirect subsidiary of the Company with any other corporation or other entity, other than (i) a merger or consolidation (A) immediately following which the individuals who comprise the Board of Directors immediately prior thereto constitute at least a majority of the Board of Directors of the Company, the entity surviving such merger or consolidation or, if the Company or the entity surviving such merger or consolidation is then a subsidiary, the ultimate parent thereof and (B) which results in the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior to such merger or consolidation continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity or any parent thereof), in combination with the ownership of any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company, at least 50% of the combined voting power of the securities of the Company or such surviving entity or any parent thereof outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation, or (ii) a merger or consolidation effected to implement a recapitalization of the Company (or similar transaction) in which no Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company (not including in the securities Beneficially Owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from the Company or its Affiliates) representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of the Company s then outstanding securities; or  
     
  (d)                                     the date the stockholders of the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company or there is consummated an agreement for the sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company s assets, other than a sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company s assets to an entity, at least 50% of the combined voting power of the voting securities of which are owned by stockholders of the Company, in combination with the ownership of any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company, in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of the Company immediately prior to such sale.  
     
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a  Change in Control  shall not be deemed to have occurred by virtue of the consummation of any transaction or series of integrated transactions immediately following which the record holders of the common stock of the Company immediately prior to such transaction or series of transactions continue to have    substantially the same proportionate ownership in an entity which owns all or substantially all of the assets of the Company immediately following such transaction or series of transactions.  
     
  For purposes of this Plan:  Affiliate  shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under Section 12 of the Exchange Act;  Beneficial Owner  shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act;  Exchange Act  shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time; and  Person  shall have the meaning given in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act, as modified and used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) thereof, except that such term shall not include (i) the Company or any of its subsidiaries, (ii) a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company or  
     
  4    

any of its Affiliates, (iii) an underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities, or (iv) a corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of the Company.  
     
  4.7                                   A  Potential Change in Control  shall exist during any period in which the circumstances described in paragraph (a), (b), (c) or (d), below, exist (provided, however, that a Potential Change in Control shall cease to exist not later than the occurrence of a Change in Control):  
     
  (a)                                     The Company enters into an agreement, the consummation of which would result in the occurrence of a Change in Control, provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this paragraph (a) shall cease to exist upon the expiration or other termination of all such agreements.  
     
  (b)                                     Any Person (without regard to the exclusions set forth in clauses (i) through (iv) of such definition) publicly announces an intention to take or to consider taking actions the consummation of which would constitute a Change in Control; provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this paragraph (b) shall cease to exist upon the withdrawal of such intention, or upon a determination by the Board of Directors that there is no reasonable chance that such actions would be consummated.  
     
  (c)                                      Any Person becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 10% or more of either the then outstanding shares of common stock of the Company or the combined voting power of the Company s then outstanding securities (not including any securities beneficially owned by such Person which are or were acquired directly from the Company or its Affiliates).  
     
  (d)                                     The Board of Directors adopts a resolution to the effect that, for purposes of this Agreement, a Potential Change in Control exists; provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this paragraph (d) shall cease to exist upon a determination by the Board of Directors that the reasons that gave rise to the resolution providing for the existence of a Potential Change in Control have expired or no longer exist.  
     
  4.8                                   The provisions of Sections 4.5, 4.6, 4.7 and this Section 4.8 may not be amended or deleted, nor superseded by any other provision of this Plan, (i) during the pendency of a Potential Change in Control and (ii) during the period beginning on the date of a Change in Control and ending on the date five (5) years following such Change in Control.  
     
  SECTION 5.  CONVERSION TO COMMON STOCK UNITS  
     
  5.1                                   Any Director who is then serving as a director may, by written notice filed with the Secretary of the Company, irrevocably elect to have all or any portion of deferred fees previously earned but not yet paid, transferred from the Director s Deferred Fee Account to a stock account established under this Section 5 ( Stock Account ). Any election as to a portion of such fees shall be expressed as a percentage and the same percentage shall be applied to all such fees regardless of the calendar year in which earned or to all deferred fees earned in designated calendar years, as specified by the Director. A Director may make no more than one notional  
     
  5    

investment election under this Section 5.l in any calendar year. All such elections may apply only to deferred fees for which an election has not previously been made and shall be irrevocable.  
     
  5.2                                   Any Director may, by written notice filed with the Secretary of the Company, elect to have all or any portion of deferred fees earned subsequent to the date such notice is filed credited to a Stock Account established under this Section 5. Fees covered by such election shall be credited to such account at the end of each calendar quarter in, or for which, such fees are earned. Such election may be revoked or modified by such Director, by written notice filed with the Secretary of the Company, as to deferred fees to be earned in calendar years subsequent to the calendar year such notice is filed, but shall be irrevocable as to deferred fees earned prior to such year.  
     
  5.3                                   Deferred fees credited to a Stock Account under Section 5.1 shall be converted to Common Stock Units by dividing the deferred fees so credited by the closing price of common stock of the Company on the date the notice of election under Section 5 is received by the Company (or the next business day, if there are no sales on such date) as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Reporting System. Deferred fees credited to a Stock Account under Section 5.2 shall be converted to Common Stock Units by dividing the deferred fees so credited by the closing price of common stock of the Company as of the last business day of the calendar quarter for which the credit is made, as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Reporting System.  
     
  5.4                                   Each Common Stock Unit shall be credited with (or adjusted for) the same cash and stock dividends, stock splits and other distributions and adjustments as are received by or applicable to one share of common stock of the Company. All cash dividends and other cash distributions credited to Common Stock Units shall be converted to additional Common Stock Units by dividing each such dividend or distribution by the closing price of common stock of the Company on the payment date for such dividend or distribution, as reported by the New York Stock Exchange Composite Reporting System.  
     
  5.5                                   The value of the Common Stock Units credited each Director shall be paid to the Director in cash on the dates specified in Section 4.3 (or, if applicable, Section 4.5). The amount of each payment shall be determined by multiplying the Common Stock Units payable on each date specified in Section 4.3 (or, if applicable, Section 4.5) by the closing price of common stock of the Company on the day prior to the payment date (or the next preceding business day if there are no sales on such date), as reported by the New York Stock Exchange Composite Reporting System.  
     
  SECTION 6.  MISCELLANEOUS  
     
  6.1                                   Each Director or former Director entitled to payment of deferred fees hereunder, from time to time may name any person or persons (who may be named contingently or successively) to whom any deferred Director s fees earned by him and payable to him are to be paid in case of his death before he receives any or all of such deferred Director s fees.  Each designation will revoke all prior designations by the same Director or former Director, shall be in a form prescribed by the Company, and will be effective only when filed by the Director or former Director in writing with the Secretary of the Company during his lifetime. If a deceased  
     
  6    

Director or former Director shall have failed to name a beneficiary in the manner provided above, or if the beneficiary named by a deceased Director or former Director dies before him or before payment of all the Director s or former Director s deferred Directors  fees, the Company, in its discretion, may direct payment of the remaining installments required by Section 4.3 to either:  
     
  (a)                                     any one or more or all of the next of kin (including the surviving spouse) of the Director or former Director, and in such proportions as the Company determines; or  
     
  (b)                                     the legal representative or representatives of the estate of the last to die of the Director or former Director and his last surviving beneficiary.  
     
  The person or persons to whom any deceased Director s or former Director s deferred Directors  fees are payable under this Section will be referred to as his  beneficiary.   
     
  6.2                                   Establishment of the Plan and coverage thereunder of any person shall not be construed to confer any right on the part of such person to be nominated for reelection to the Board of Directors of the Company, or to be reelected to the Board of Directors.  
     
  6.3                                   Payment of deferred Directors  fees will be made only to the person entitled thereto in accordance with the terms of the Plan, and deferred Directors  fees are not in any way subject to the debts or other obligations of persons entitled thereto, and may not be voluntarily or involuntarily sold, transferred or assigned. When a person entitled to a payment under the Plan is under legal disability or, in the Company s opinion, is in any way incapacitated so as to be unable to manage his financial affairs, the Company may direct that payment be made to such person s legal representative, or to a relative or friend of such person for his benefit. Any payment made in accordance with the preceding sentence shall be in complete discharge of the Company s obligation to make such payment under the Plan.  
     
  6.4                                   Any action required or permitted to be taken by the Company under the terms of the Plan shall be by affirmative vote of a majority of the members of the Board of Directors then in office.  
     
  6.5                                   To the extent applicable, it is intended that the Plan comply with the provisions of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ( Code Section 409A ).  The Plan will be administered and interpreted in a manner consistent with this intent, and any provision that would cause the Plan to fail to satisfy Code Section 409A will have no force and effect until amended to comply therewith (which amendment may be retroactive to the extent permitted by Code Section 409A).  Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, for all purposes of this Plan, a Director shall not be deemed to have had a termination of service as a Director until the Director has incurred a separation from service as defined in Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(h) and, to the extent required to avoid accelerated taxation and/or tax penalties under Code Section 409A and applicable guidance issued thereunder, payment of the amounts payable under the Plan that would otherwise be payable during the six-month period after the date of termination shall instead be paid on the first business day after the expiration of such six-month period, plus interest thereon, at a rate equal to the rate specified in Section 8.8 (to the extent that such interest is not already provided to the Director under Section 8.10), from the respective dates on which such amounts would otherwise have been paid until the actual date of  
     
  7    

payment.  In addition, for purposes of the Plan, each amount to be paid and each installment payment shall be construed as a separate identified payment for purposes of Code Section 409A.  
     
  SECTION 7.  AMENDMENT AND DISCONTINUANCE  
     
  While the Company expects to continue the Plan, it must necessarily reserve, and does hereby reserve, the right to amend or discontinue the Plan at any time; provided, however, that any amendment or discontinuance of the Plan shall be prospective in operation only, and shall not affect the payment of any deferred Directors  fees theretofore earned by any Director, or the conditions under which any such fees are to be paid or forfeited under the Plan. Any discontinuance of the Plan by the Company shall comply with the requirements of Code Section 409A.  
     
  SECTION 8.  ALTERNATE PAYMENT OF FEES  
     
  8.1                                   By written notice filed with the Secretary of the Company prior to each calendar year, a Director may elect to receive all or a portion of his fees earned in the following calendar year in accordance with the provisions of Section 8.  An election under this Section 8.1 shall become irrevocable as of December 31 of the calendar year prior to the year in which such monthly and meeting fees will be earned (or, in the case of a new Director, on the 30th day following the Director s first participation in the Plan and all plans that would be aggregated with the Plan pursuant to Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(c)(2)(i),  provided  that the compensation subject to such election relates solely to services performed after the date of such election).  
     
  8.2                                   If payment of a Director s fees is made pursuant to Section 8.1, such fees shall not be deferred and a portion of the gross amount of such fees shall be paid currently in cash for the Director directly to a  Grantor Trust  established by the Director, provided such trust is in a form which the Company determines to be substantially similar to the trust attached to this plan as Exhibit  and the balance of the gross amount of such fees shall be paid currently in cash directly to the Director, provided that the portion paid directly to the Director shall be an amount equal to the aggregate federal, state and local individual income taxes attributable to the gross fees paid pursuant to this Section 8.2 (determined in accordance with Section 8.14).  In no event shall such fees be paid to the Grantor Trust or directly to the Director later than the last day of the  applicable 2  month period,  as such term is defined in Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(A).  
     
  8.3                                   The Company will establish and maintain four separate accounts in the name of each Director who has made an election under Section 8.1 as follows: a  Pre-Tax Fee Account,  an  After-Tax Fee Account,  a  Pre-Tax Stock Account  and an  After-Tax Stock Account  (collectively, the  Accounts ).  
     
  (a)                                     The Pre-Tax Fee Account shall reflect the total amount of any fees paid in cash to a Director or deposited to a Director s Grantor Trust, including the amount equal to the aggregate federal, state and local individual income taxes attributable to the fees  
     
  8    

paid pursuant to Section 8.2, and Interest to be credited to a Director pursuant to Section      8.8.  The After-Tax Fee Account shall reflect such gross amounts but shall be maintained on an after-tax basis.  
     
  (b)                                     The Pre-Tax Stock Account shall reflect the total amount of fees converted to Common Stock Units pursuant to Section 5, including the amount equal to the aggregate federal, state and local individual income taxes attributable to the fees paid pursuant to Section 8.2, and any adjustments made pursuant to Section 8.9. The After-Tax Stock Account shall reflect such gross amounts but shall be maintained on an after-tax basis.  
     
  (c)                                      The Accounts established pursuant to this Section 8.3 are for the convenience of the administration of the Plan and no trust relationship with respect to such Accounts is intended or should be implied.  
     
  8.4                                   As of the end of each calendar year, the Company shall adjust each Director s Pre-Tax Fee Account as follows:  
     
  (a)                                     FIRST, charge, in any year in which the Director is entitled to receive a distribution from his or her Grantor Trust, an amount equal to the distribution from the fee account maintained thereunder that would have been made to the Director if the aggregate amounts paid according to Section 8.2 had instead been deferred under Section   
     
  (b)                                     NEXT, credit an amount equal to the gross amount of any fees paid for that year, not converted to Common Stock Units, that are paid to the Director (including the amount deposited in the Director s Grantor Trust and the amount equal to the aggregate federal, state and local individual income taxes attributable to the fees paid pursuant to Section 8.2) according to Section 8.2; and  
     
  (c)                                      FINALLY, credit an amount equal to the Interest earned for that year according to Section 8.8.  
     
  8.5                                   As of the end of each calendar year, the Company shall adjust each Director s After-Tax Fee Account as follows:  
     
  (a)                                     FIRST, charge, in any year in which the Director is in receipt of a benefit distribution from his or her Grantor Trust, an amount equal to the product of (i) the distribution that would have been made to the Director if the aggregate amounts paid according to Section 8.2 had instead been deferred under Section 3, multiplied by (ii) a fraction, the numerator of which is the balance in the Director s After-Tax Fee Account as of the end of the prior fiscal year and the denominator of which is the balance of the Director s Pre-Tax Fee Account as of that same date;  
     
  (b)                                     NEXT, credit an amount equal to the fees not converted to Common Stock Units that are paid that year to the Director directly to the Director s Grantor Trust according to Section 8.2; and  
     
  9    

(c)                                      FINALLY, credit an amount equal to the After-Tax Interest earned for that year according to Section 8.8.  
     
  8.6                                   As of the end of each calendar year, the Company shall adjust each Director s Pre-Tax Stock Account as follows:  
     
  (a)                                     FIRST, charge, in any year in which the Director is entitled to receive a distribution from his or her Grantor Trust, an amount equal to the distribution that would have been made to the Director if the aggregate amount of fees paid according to Section 8.2 had instead been deferred under Section 3 and the adjustments had been made under Section   
     
  (b)                                     NEXT, credit an amount equal to the total amount of any fees for that year that are converted to Common Stock Units and paid to the Director (including the amount deposited in the Director s Grantor Trust and the amount equal to the aggregate federal, state and local individual income taxes attributable to the fees paid pursuant to Section 8.2) and allocated to the Stock Account maintained thereunder) according to Section 8.2; and  
     
  (c)                                      NEXT, credit an amount equal to the net earnings of the Director s Grantor Trust for the year; and  
     
  (d)                                     FINALLY, credit an amount equal to the Book Value Adjustments to be made for that year according to Section 8.9.  
     
  8.7                                   As of the end of each calendar year, the Company shall adjust each Director s After-Tax Stock Account as follows:  
     
  (a)                                     FIRST, charge, in any year in which the Director is entitled to receive a distribution from his or her Grantor Trust, an amount equal to the product of (i) the distribution that would have been made to the Director if the aggregate amounts paid according to Section 8.2 had instead been deferred under Section 3 and the adjustments had been made under Section 5, multiplied by (ii) a fraction, the numerator of which is the balance in the Director s After-Tax Stock Account as of the end of the prior fiscal year and the denominator of which is the balance of the Director s Pre-Tax Stock Account as of that same date;  
     
  (b)                                     NEXT, credit an amount equal to the fees converted to Common Stock Units that are paid that year to the Director directly to the Director s Grantor Trust and allocated to the Stock Account maintained thereunder according to Section 8.2; and  
     
  (c)                                      NEXT, credit an amount equal to the net earnings of the Director s Grantor Trust for the year; and  
     
  (d)                                     FINALLY, credit an amount equal to the Book Value Adjustments to be made for that year according to Section 8.9.  
     
  10    

8.8                                   The Director s Pre-Tax Fee Account and After-Tax Fee Account shall be credited with interest as follows:  
     
  (a)                                     As of the end of each calendar year, a Director s Pre-Tax Fee Account shall be credited with interest ( Interest ) at the following rate:  
     
  (i)                                         the average of the  prime rate  of interest as set forth on the Bloomberg Screen BTMM or comparable successor quotation service on the first business day of January and the last business day of each month of the fiscal year; plus  
     
  (ii)                                      two hundred twenty-five (225) basis points.  
     
  (b)                                     As of the end of each calendar year, a Director s After-Tax Fee Account shall be credited with the amount of Interest set forth above, multiplied by (one minus the aggregate of the applicable federal, state and local individual income tax rates and employment tax rate, determined in accordance with subsection 7.5) (the  After-Tax Interest ).  
     
  8.9                                   As of the end of each calendar year, a Director s Pre-Tax Stock Account and After-Tax Stock Account shall be adjusted as provided in Section 5.4, to the extent applicable, and shall also be adjusted to reflect the increase or decrease in the fair market value of the Company s common stock determined in accordance with Section 5.5, except that (i) any reference to the payment date in such Section shall mean December 31 of the applicable calendar year for purposes of this Section, and (ii) adjustments to the After-Tax Stock Account shall be made on an after-tax basis.  Such adjustments shall be referred to as  Book Value Adjustments.   
     
  8.10                            In addition to any fees paid to a Director s Grantor Trust under Section 8.2 during the year, the Company shall also make a payment (an  Interest Payment ) with respect to each Director who has established a Grantor Trust for each year in which the Grantor Trust is in effect.  The Interest Payment shall equal the excess, if any, of the gross amount of the Interest credited to the Director (as defined in Section 8.8(a)), over the net earnings of the Director s Grantor Trust for the year, and shall be paid within the thirty (30)-day period beginning April 1 of the following calendar year.  A portion of such gross Interest Payment, equal to the excess, if any, of the Net Interest Accrual over the net earnings of the Director s Grantor Trust, shall be deposited in the Director s Grantor Trust, with the balance paid to the Director; provided, however, in the event that the net earnings of the Director s Grantor Trust exceeds the Net Interest Accrual, a distribution from the Grantor Trust shall be required in accordance with Section 8.15.  A Director s Net Interest Accrual for a year is an amount equal to the After-Tax Interest credited to the Director s After-Tax Fee Account for that year in accordance with Section 8.8(b).  
     
  8.11                            In addition to the fees paid under Section 8.2 during the year and the Interest Payment described above, the Company shall also make a payment (a  Principal Payment ) with respect to each Director who has established a Grantor Trust for each year in which the Grantor Trust is in effect, to be credited to the Stock Account maintained thereunder.  The Principal Payment shall equal the excess, if any, of 75 percent of the fair market value (as determined in accordance with Section 6.5) of the balance of the Director s Pre-Tax Stock Account on December 31 over the balance in the Stock Account maintained under the Director s Grantor  
     
  11    

Trust as of that same date, and shall be paid within the thirty (30)-day period beginning April 1 of the following calendar year.  For the calendar year in which the last installment distribution is made from the Director s Grantor Trust (meaning, the year that is X years following the year of      the event triggering the payments, where X is the same number of years served by the Director), the payment made under this Section 8.11 shall equal the excess, if any, of 100 percent of the balance of the Director s After-Tax Stock Account over the balance in the Stock Account maintained under the Director s Grantor Trust as of that same date.  
     
  8.12                            Each Director s Grantor Trust assets shall be invested solely in the instruments specified by investment guidelines established by the Committee.  Such investment guidelines, once established, may be changed by the Committee, provided that any change shall not take effect until the year following the year in which the change is made and provided further that the instruments specified shall be consistent with the provisions of Section 3(b) of the form of Grantor Trust attached hereto as Exhibit A.  
     
  8.13                            For purposes of Section 8, a Director s federal income tax rate shall be deemed to be the highest marginal rate of federal individual income tax in effect in the calendar year in which a calculation under this Section is to be made and state and local tax rates shall be deemed to be the highest marginal rates of individual income tax in effect in the state and locality of the Director s residence on the date such a calculation is made, net of any federal tax benefits without a benefit for any net capital losses. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, if a Director is not a citizen or resident of the United States, his or her income tax rates shall be deemed to be the highest marginal income tax rates actually imposed on the Director s benefits under this Plan or earnings under his or her Grantor Trust without a benefit for any net capital losses.  
     
  8.14                            If a portion of a Director s fees have been paid to a Grantor Trust pursuant to Section 8.2, then those fees and earnings thereon shall be paid to him from the Grantor Trust in the order in which they were earned (i.e., the fees for the earliest year of service as a Director will be the first fees distributed from the Grantor Trust(s), the fees for the next earliest year of service as a Director will be paid on the anniversary of the payment of the first installment, etc.).  The distribution of a Director s fees shall continue until all fees which the Director is entitled to receive under the Plan shall have been paid in accordance with the terms of the Grantor Trust(s).  
     
  8.15                            AbbVie, as the administrator of the Director s Grantor Trust, may direct the trustee to distribute to the Director from the income of such Grantor Trust, a sum of money sufficient to pay the taxes on trust earnings for such year, to the extent a sufficient sum of money has not been paid to the Director pursuant to Section 8.10 or 8.11, as applicable.  The taxes shall be determined in accordance with Section 8.13.  
     
  8.16                            AbbVie, as the administrator of the Director s Grantor Trust, may direct the trustee to pay the appropriate federal, state and local individual income taxes attributable to the fees and other payments paid to the Director pursuant to Sections 8.2, 8.10 and 8.11 to the applicable tax authorities on behalf of the Director.  The taxes shall be determined in accordance with Section 8.13.  
     
  12    

EXHIBIT A   
     
   IRREVOCABLE GRANTOR TRUST AGREEMENT   
     
  THIS AGREEMENT, made this              day of                             , 20      , by and between                                                  of                                 ,                   (the  grantor ), and The Northern Trust Company located at Chicago, Illinois, as trustee (the  trustee ),  
     
  WITNESSETH THAT:  
     
  WHEREAS, the grantor desires to establish and maintain a trust to hold certain benefits received by the grantor under the AbbVie Non-Employee Directors  Fee Plan, as it may be amended from time to time;  
     
  NOW, THEREFORE, it is agreed as follows:  
     
   ARTICLE I  INTRODUCTION   
     
  I-1.                                  Name   .  This agreement and the trust hereby evidenced (the  trust ) may be referred to as the                                      Grantor Trust.   
     
  I-2.                                  The Trust Fund   .  The  trust fund  as at any date means all property then held by the trustee under this agreement.  
     
  I-3.                                  Status of the Trust   .  The trust shall be irrevocable.  The trust is intended to constitute a grantor trust under Sections 671-678 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and shall be construed accordingly.  
     
  I-4.                                  The Administrator   .  AbbVie Inc. ( AbbVie ) shall act as the  administrator  of the trust, and as such shall have certain powers, rights and duties under this agreement as described below.  AbbVie will certify to the trustee from time to time the person or persons authorized to act on behalf of AbbVie as the administrator.  The trustee may rely on the latest certificate received without further inquiry or verification.  
     
  I-5.                                  Acceptance   .  The trustee accepts the duties and obligations of the  trustee  hereunder, agrees to accept funds delivered to it by the grantor or the administrator, and agrees to hold such funds (and any proceeds from the investment of such funds) in trust in accordance with this agreement.  
     
  1    

ARTICLE II  DISTRIBUTION OF THE TRUST FUND   
     
  II-1.                             Separate Accounts   .  The administrator shall maintain two separate accounts under the trust, a  deferred account  and a  stock account.  Funds delivered to the trustee shall be allocated between the accounts by the trustee as directed by the administrator.  As of the end of each calendar year, the administrator shall charge each account with all distributions made from such account during that year; and credit each account with its share of income and realized gains and charge each account with its share of expenses and realized losses for the year.  The trustee shall be required to make separate investments of the trust fund for the accounts, and may not administer and invest all funds delivered to it under the trust as one trust fund.  
     
  II-2.                             Distributions Prior to the Grantor s Death   .  Principal and accumulated income shall not be distributed from the trust prior to the grantor s termination of service as a Director of AbbVie (the grantor s  settlement date  provided that, each year the administrator may direct the trustee to distribute to the grantor a portion of the income of the trust fund for that year, with the balance of such income to be accumulated in the trust.  The administrator shall inform the trustee of the grantor s settlement date.  Thereafter, the trustee shall distribute the trust fund to the grantor, if then living, in a series of annual installments, commencing on the first day of the month next following the later of the grantor s settlement date or the date the grantor attains age 65 years.  The administrator shall inform the trustee of the number of installment distributions and the amount of each installment distribution under this paragraph II-2, and the trustee shall be fully protected in relying on such information received from the administrator.  
     
  II-3.                             Distributions After the Grantor s Death   .  The grantor, from time to time may name any person or persons (who may be named contingently or successively and who may be natural persons or fiduciaries) to whom the principal of the trust fund and all accrued or undistributed income thereof shall be distributed in a lump sum or, if the beneficiary is the grantor s spouse (or a trust for which the grantor s spouse is the sole income beneficiary), in installments, as directed by the grantor, upon the grantor s death.  If the grantor directs an installment method of distribution to the spouse as beneficiary, any amounts remaining at the death of the spouse beneficiary shall be distributed in a lump sum to the executor or administrator of the spouse beneficiary s estate.  If the grantor directs an installment method of distribution to a trust for which the grantor s spouse is the sole income beneficiary, any amounts remaining at the death of the spouse shall be distributed in a lump sum to such trust.  Despite the foregoing, if (i) the beneficiary is a trust for which the grantor s spouse is the sole income beneficiary, (ii) payments are being made pursuant to this paragraph II-3 other than in a lump sum and (iii) income earned by the trust fund for the year exceeds the amount of the annual installment payment, then such trust may elect to withdraw such excess income by written notice to the trustee.  Each designation shall revoke all prior designations, shall be in writing and shall be effective only when filed by the grantor with the administrator during the grantor s lifetime.  If the grantor fails to direct a method of distribution, the distribution shall be made in a lump sum.  If the grantor fails to designate a beneficiary as provided above, then on the grantor s death, the trustee shall distribute the balance of the trust fund in a lump sum to the executor or administrator of the grantor s estate.  
     
  2    

II-4.                             Facility of Payment   .  When a person entitled to a distribution hereunder is under legal disability, or, in the trustee s opinion, is in any way incapacitated so as to be unable to manage his or her financial affairs, the trustee may make such distribution to such person s legal representative, or to a relative or friend of such person for such person s benefit.  Any distribution made in accordance with the preceding sentence shall be a full and complete discharge of any liability for such distribution hereunder.  
     
  II-5.                             Perpetuities   .  Notwithstanding any other provisions of this agreement, on the day next preceding the end of 21 years after the death of the last to die of the grantor and the grantor s descendants living on the date of this instrument, the trustee shall immediately distribute any remaining balance in the trust to the beneficiaries then entitled to distributions hereunder.  
     
   ARTICLE III  MANAGEMENT OF THE TRUST FUND   
     
  III-1.                        General Powers   .  The trustee shall, with respect to the trust fund, have the following powers, rights and duties in addition to those provided elsewhere in this agreement or by law:  
     
  (a)                                     Subject to the limitations of subparagraph (b) next below, to sell, contract to sell, purchase, grant or exercise options to purchase, and otherwise deal with all assets of the trust fund, in such way, for such considerations, and on such terms and conditions as the trustee decides.  
     
  (b)                                     To retain in cash such amounts as the trustee considers advisable; and to invest and reinvest the balance of the trust fund, without distinction between principal and income, in common stock of AbbVie Inc., or in obligations of the United States Government and its agencies or which are backed by the full faith and credit of the United States Government or in any mutual fund, common trust fund or collective investment fund which invests solely in such obligations; and any such investment made or retained by the trustee in good faith shall be proper despite any resulting risk or lack of diversification or marketability.  
     
  (c)                                      To deposit cash in any depositary (including the banking department of the bank acting as trustee) without liability for interest, and to invest cash in savings accounts or time certificates of deposit bearing a reasonable rate of interest in any such depositary.  
     
  (d)                                     To invest, subject to the limitations of subparagraph (b) above, in any common or commingled trust fund or funds maintained or administered by the trustee solely for the investment of trust funds.  
     
  (e)                                      To borrow from anyone, with the administrator s approval, such sum or sums from time to time as the trustee considers desirable to carry out this trust, and to mortgage or pledge all or part of the trust fund as security.  
     
  3    

(f)                                       To retain any funds or property subject to any dispute without liability for interest and to decline to make payment or delivery thereof until final adjudication by a court of competent jurisdiction or until an appropriate release is obtained.  
     
  (g)                                      To begin, maintain or defend any litigation necessary in connection with the administration of this trust, except that the trustee shall not be obliged or required to do so unless indemnified to the trustee s satisfaction.  
     
  (h)                                     To compromise, contest, settle or abandon claims or demands.  
     
  (i)                                         To give proxies to vote shares of stock and other voting securities, to join in or oppose (alone or jointly with others) voting trusts, mergers, consolidations, foreclosures, reorganizations, liquidations, or other changes in the financial structure of any corporation, and to exercise or sell stock subscription or conversion rights.  
     
  (j)                                        To hold securities or other property in the name of a nominee, in a depositary, or in any other way, with or without disclosing the trust relationship.  
     
  (k)                                     To divide or distribute the trust fund in undivided interests or wholly or partly in kind.  
     
  (l)                                         To pay any tax imposed on or with respect to the trust; to defer making payment of any such tax if it is indemnified to its satisfaction in the premises; and to require before making any payment such release or other document from any lawful taxing authority and such indemnity from the intended payee as the trustee considers necessary for its protection.  
     
  (m)                                 To deal without restriction with the legal representative of the grantor s estate or the trustee or other legal representative of any trust created by the grantor or a trust or estate in which a beneficiary has an interest, even though the trustee, individually, shall be acting in such other capacity, without liability for any loss that may result.  
     
  (n)                                     To appoint or remove by written instrument any bank or corporation qualified to act as successor trustee, wherever located, as special trustee as to part or all of the trust fund, including property as to which the trustee does not act, and such special trustee, except as specifically limited or provided by this or the appointing instrument, shall have all of the rights, titles, powers, duties, discretions and immunities of the trustee, without liability for any action taken or omitted to be taken under this or the appointing instrument.  
     
  (o)                                     To appoint or remove by written instrument any bank, wherever located, as custodian of part or all of the trust fund, and each such custodian shall have such rights, powers, duties and discretions as are delegated to it by the trustee.  
     
  (p)                                     To employ agents, attorneys, accountants or other persons, and to delegate to them such powers as the trustee considers desirable, and the trustee shall be  
     
  4    

protected in acting or refraining from acting on the advice of persons so employed without court action.  
     
  (q)                                     To perform any and all other acts which in the trustee s judgment are appropriate for the proper management, investment and distribution of the trust fund.  
     
  III-2.                        Principal and Income   .  Any income earned on the trust fund, which is not distributed as provided in Article II shall be accumulated and from time to time added to the principal of the trust.  The grantor s interest in the trust shall include all assets or other property held by the trustee hereunder, including principal and accumulated income.  
     
  III-3.                        Statements   .  The trustee shall prepare and deliver monthly to the administrator and annually to the grantor, if then living, otherwise to each beneficiary then entitled to distributions under this agreement, a statement (or series of statements) setting forth (or which taken together set forth) all investments, receipts, disbursements and other transactions effected by the trustee during the reporting period; and showing the trust fund and the value thereof at the end of such period.  
     
  III-4.                        Compensation and Expenses   .  All reasonable costs, charges and expenses incurred in the administration of this trust, including compensation to the trustee, any compensation to agents, attorneys, accountants and other persons employed by the trustee, and expenses incurred in connection with the sale, investment and reinvestment of the trust fund shall be paid from the trust fund.  
     
   ARTICLE IV  GENERAL PROVISIONS   
     
  IV-1.                         Interests Not Transferable   .  The interests of the grantor or other persons entitled to distributions hereunder are not subject to their debts or other obligations and may not be voluntarily or involuntarily sold, transferred, alienated, assigned or encumbered.  
     
  IV-2.                         Disagreement as to Acts   .  If there is a disagreement between the trustee and anyone as to any act or transaction reported in any accounting, the trustee shall have the right to a settlement of its account by any proper court.  
     
  IV-3.                         Trustee s Obligations   .  No power, duty or responsibility is imposed on the trustee except as set forth in this agreement.  The trustee is not obliged to determine whether funds delivered to or distributions from the trust are proper under the trust, or whether any tax is due or payable as a result of any such delivery or distribution.  The trustee shall be protected in making any distribution from the trust as directed pursuant to Article II without inquiring as to whether the distributee is entitled thereto; and the trustee shall not be liable for any distribution made in good faith without written notice or knowledge that the distribution is not proper under the terms of this agreement.  
     
  IV-4.                         Good Faith Actions   .  The trustee s exercise or non-exercise of its powers and discretions in good faith shall be conclusive on all persons.  No one shall be obliged to see to the application of any money paid or property delivered to the trustee.  The certificate of the trustee that it is acting according to this agreement will fully protect all persons dealing with the trustee.  
     
  5    

IV-5.                         Waiver of Notice   .  Any notice required under this agreement may be waived by the person entitled to such notice.  
     
  IV-6.                         Controlling Law   .  The laws of the State of Illinois shall govern the interpretation and validity of the provisions of this agreement and all questions relating to the management, administration, investment and distribution of the trust hereby created.  
     
  IV-7.                         Successors   .  This agreement shall be binding on all persons entitled to distributions hereunder and their respective heirs and legal representatives, and on the trustee and its successors.  
     
   ARTICLE V  CHANGES IN TRUSTEE   
     
  V-1.                              Resignation or Removal of Trustee   .  The trustee may resign at any time by giving thirty days  advance written notice to the administrator and the grantor.  The administrator may remove a trustee by written notice to the trustee and the grantor.  
     
  V-2.                              Appointment of Successor Trustee   .  The administrator shall fill any vacancy in the office of trustee as soon as practicable by written notice to the successor trustee; and shall give prompt written notice thereof to the grantor, if then living, otherwise to each beneficiary then entitled to payments or distributions under this agreement.  A successor trustee shall be a bank (as defined in Section 581 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended).  
     
  V-3.                              Duties of Resigning or Removed Trustee and of Successor Trustee   .  A trustee that resigns or is removed shall furnish promptly to the administrator and the successor trustee an account of its administration of the trust from the date of its last account.  Each successor trustee shall succeed to the title to the trust fund vested in its predecessor without the signing or filing of any instrument, but each predecessor trustee shall execute all documents and do all acts necessary to vest such title of record in the successor trustee.  Each successor trustee shall have all the powers conferred by this agreement as if originally named trustee.  No successor trustee shall be personally liable for any act or failure to act of a predecessor trustee.  With the approval of the administrator, a successor trustee may accept the account furnished and the property delivered by a predecessor trustee without incurring any liability for so doing, and such acceptance will be complete discharge to the predecessor trustee.  
     
   ARTICLE VI  AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION   
     
  VI-1.                         Amendment   .  With the consent of the administrator, this trust may be amended from time to time by the grantor, if then living, otherwise by a majority of the beneficiaries then entitled to payments or distributions hereunder, except as follows:  
     
  (a)                                     The duties and liabilities of the trustee cannot be changed substantially without its consent.  
     
  (b)                                     This trust may not be amended so as to make the trust revocable.  
     
  6    

VI-2.                         Termination   .  This trust shall not terminate, and all rights, titles, powers, duties, discretions and immunities imposed on or reserved to the trustee, the administrator, the grantor and the beneficiaries shall continue in effect, until all assets of the trust have been distributed by the trustee as provided in Article II.  
     
  *                *                *  
     
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the grantor has executed this Agreement as of the day and year first above written.  

Grantor           

The Northern Trust Company as Trustee           

By       

Its       

7    

</EX-10.17>

<EX-10.18>
 6
 a2213529zex-10_18.htm
 EX-10.18

Exhibit 10.18   
     
   ABBVIE SUPPLEMENTAL PENSION PLAN   
     
  (Effective as of January 1, 2013)  

ABBVIE   
   SUPPLEMENTAL PENSION PLAN   
     
  Section 1  INTRODUCTION  
     
  1-1.             Effective as of January 1, 2013, the Board of Directors of AbbVie Inc. ( AbbVie ) adopts this AbbVie Supplemental Pension Plan (the  Supplemental Plan  or  Plan ) which provides for payment of (a) pension benefits calculated under the AbbVie Pension Plan (the  Pension Plan ) in excess of those which may be paid under that plan under the limits imposed by Section 415 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code, as amended (the  Code ), and the Employee Retirement Income Security Act ( ERISA ), and (b) the additional pension benefits that would be payable under the Pension Plan if deferred awards under the AbbVie 2013 Management Incentive Plan and the AbbVie 2013 Performance Incentive Plan were included in  final earnings  as defined in the Pension Plan.  
     
  1-2.             The Supplemental Plan shall apply to employees of AbbVie and its subsidiaries and affiliates existing as of the date of adoption of the Supplemental Plan or thereafter created or acquired.  AbbVie and each of such subsidiaries and affiliates are hereinafter referred to as an  employer  and collectively as the  employers.   
     
  1-3.             All benefits provided under the Supplemental Plan shall be provided from the general assets of the employers and not from any trust fund or other designated asset.  All participants in the Supplemental Plan shall be general creditors of the employers with no priority over other creditors.  
     
  1-4.             The Supplemental Plan shall be administered by the AbbVie Employee Benefit Board of Review appointed and acting under the Pension Plan (the  Board of Review ).  Except as stated below, the Board of Review shall perform all powers and duties with respect to the Supplemental Plan, including the power to direct payment of benefits, allocate costs among employers, adopt amendments and determine questions of interpretation.  The Board of Directors of AbbVie (the  Board of Directors ) shall have the sole authority to terminate the Supplemental Plan.  
     
  1-5.             As part of the Separation and Distribution Agreement by and between Abbott Laboratories and AbbVie Inc. dated as of November 28, 2012, Abbott Laboratories ( Abbott ) and AbbVie entered into the Employee Matters Agreement dated as of December 31, 2012 (the  EMA ).  In accordance with the EMA, all liabilities for AbbVie Employees (as defined in the EMA) under the Abbott Laboratories Supplemental Pension Plan were transferred to the Plan and the Plan became liable to pay all such benefits to such participants.  Supplement A to the Plan sets forth the additional rules applicable to the transferred benefits and transferred participants.  
     
  Section 2     ERISA PENSION PLAN SUPPLEMENTAL BENEFIT  
     
  2-1.             The benefits described in this Section 2 shall apply to all participants in the Pension Plan who retire, or terminate with a vested pension, under that plan on or after January 1, 2013.  
     
  1    

2-2.             Each Pension Plan participant whose retirement or vested pension under that plan would otherwise be limited by Code Section 415 shall receive a supplemental pension under this Supplemental Plan in an amount which, when added to his or her Pension Plan benefit (calculated as if such benefit had been payable based on the distribution rules established hereunder and the pension form selected by the participant as permitted by subsections 8-3 and 8-4), will equal the amount the participant would be entitled to under the Pension Plan as in effect from time to time, calculated as if such benefit had been payable based on the distribution rules established hereunder and the pension form selected by the participant as permitted by subsections 8-3 and 8-4, without regard to the limitations imposed by Code Section 415.  
     
  Section 3     1986 TAX REFORM ACT SUPPLEMENTAL BENEFIT  
     
  3-1.             The benefits described in this Section 3 shall apply to all participants in the Pension Plan who retire or terminate on or after January 1, 2013with a vested pension under that plan.  
     
  3-2.             Each Pension Plan participant shall receive a supplemental pension under this Supplemental Plan in an amount determined as follows:  
     
  (a)                                     The supplemental pension shall be the difference, if any, between:  
     
  (i)                the hypothetical monthly benefit that would have been payable under the Pension Plan based on the distribution rules established hereunder and the pension form selected by the participant as permitted by subsections 8-3 and 8-4 plus any supplement provided by Section 2; and  
     
  (ii)               the hypothetical monthly benefit that would have been payable under the Pension Plan, calculated based on the distribution rules established hereunder and the pension form selected by the participant as permitted by subsections 8-3 and 8-4 (without regard to the limits imposed by Code Section 415) if the participant s  final earnings,  as defined in the Pension Plan, had included compensation in excess of the limits imposed by Code Section 401(a)(17), and any  pre-tax contributions  made by the participant under the AbbVie Supplemental Savings Plan.  
     
  Section 4     DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN PENSION PLAN SUPPLEMENTAL BENEFIT  
     
  4-1.             The benefits described in this Section 4 shall apply to all participants in the Pension Plan who retire or terminate on or after January 1, 2013 with a vested pension under that plan, and who made a Deferral Election under the AbbVie Deferred Compensation Plan (the  Deferred Compensation Plan ) with respect to any calendar month during the one hundred twenty consecutive calendar months immediately preceding retirement or termination of employment.  
     
  4-2.             Each Pension Plan participant shall receive a supplemental pension under this Supplemental Plan in an amount determined as follows:  
     
  (a)                                     The supplemental pension shall be the difference, if any, between:  
     
  2    

(i)                the hypothetical monthly benefit that would have been payable under the Pension Plan based on the distribution rules established hereunder and the pension form selected by the participant as permitted by subsections 8-3 and 8-4 plus any supplement provided by Section 2 and Section 3; and  
     
  (ii)               the hypothetical monthly benefit that would have been payable under the Pension Plan, calculated based on the distribution rules established hereunder and the pension form selected by the participant as permitted by subsections 8-3 and 8-4 (without regard to the limits imposed by Code Section 415) if the participant s  base earnings,  as defined in the Pension Plan, included deferrals made under the Deferred Compensation Plan and any compensation in excess of the limits imposed by Code Section 401(a)(17).  
     
  Section 5     DEFERRED MIP PENSION PLAN SUPPLEMENTAL BENEFIT  
     
  5-1.             The benefits described in this Section 5 shall apply to all participants in the Pension Plan who retire or terminate on or after January 1, 2013 with a vested pension under that plan and who received Management Incentive Plan awards for any calendar year during the ten consecutive calendar years ending with the year of retirement or termination of employment.  
     
  5-2.             Each Pension Plan participant shall receive a supplemental pension under this Supplemental Plan in an amount determined as follows:  
     
  (a)                                     The supplemental pension shall be the difference, if any, between:  
     
  (i)                the hypothetical monthly benefit that would have been payable under the Pension Plan based on the distribution rules established hereunder and the pension form selected by the participant as permitted by subsections 8-3 and 8-4 plus any supplement provided by Section 2, Section 3, and Section 4; and  
     
  (ii)               the hypothetical monthly benefit that would have been payable under the Pension Plan, calculated based on the distribution rules established hereunder and the pension form selected by the participant as permitted by subsections 8-3 and 8-4 (without regard to the limits imposed by Code Section 415) if the participant s  final earnings,  as defined in the Pension Plan, were one-sixtieth of the sum of:  
     
  A.                the participant s total  basic earnings  (excluding any payments under the Management Incentive Plan, any division incentive plan or any comparable incentive plan) received in the sixty consecutive calendar months for which his or her basic earnings (excluding any payments under the Management Incentive Plan, any division incentive plan or any comparable incentive plan) were highest; and  
     
  B.                the amount of the participant s total awards under the Management Incentive Plan, any division incentive plan and any comparable incentive plan (whether paid immediately or deferred) made for the five consecutive calendar  
     
  3    

years during the ten consecutive calendar years ending with the year of retirement or termination for which such amount is the greatest and (for participants granted Management Incentive Plan awards for less than five consecutive calendar years during such ten year period) which include all Management Incentive Plan awards granted for consecutive calendar years within such ten year period.  
     
  (b)               That portion of any Management Incentive Plan award which the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of AbbVie ( Committee ) has determined shall be excluded from the participant s  basic earnings  shall be excluded from the calculation of  final earnings  for purposes of this subsection 5.1.   Final earnings  for purposes of this subsection 5-2 shall include any compensation in excess of the limits imposed by Code Section 401(a)(17).  
     
  (c)               In the event the period described in subsection 5-2(a)(ii)(B) is the final five calendar years of employment and a Management Incentive Plan award is made to the participant subsequent to retirement for the participant s final calendar year of employment, the supplemental pension shall be adjusted by adding such new award and subtracting a portion of the earliest Management Incentive Plan award included in the calculation, from the amount determined under subsection 5-2(a)(ii)(B).  The portion subtracted shall be equal to that portion of the participant s final calendar year of employment during which the participant was employed by AbbVie.  
     
  Section 6     CORPORATE OFFICER PENSION PLAN SUPPLEMENTAL BENEFIT  
     
  6-1.             The benefits described in this Section 6 shall apply to all participants in the Pension Plan who are corporate officers of AbbVie as of January 1, 2013 or who become corporate officers thereafter, and who retire or terminate with a vested pension under that plan on or after January 1, 2013.  The term  corporate officer  for purposes of this Supplemental Plan shall mean an individual elected an officer of AbbVie by its Board of Directors (or designated as such for purposes of this Section 6 by the Compensation Committee), but shall not include assistant secretaries, assistant treasurers or other assistant officers.  
     
  6-2.             Subject to the limitations and adjustments described below, each participant described in subsection 6-1 shall receive a monthly supplemental pension under this Supplemental Plan commencing on the date determined in accordance with subsection 8-2 and payable as a life annuity, equal to 6/10 of 1 percent (.006) of the participant s final earnings (as determined under subsection 5-2) for each of the first twenty years of the participant s benefit service (as defined in the Pension Plan) occurring after the participant s attainment of age 35.  
     
  6-3.             In no event shall the sum of (a) the participant s aggregate percentage of final earnings calculated under subsection 6-2 and (b) the participant s aggregate percentage of final earnings calculated under subsection 5.1 of the Pension Plan, excluding 5.1(a)(ii)(B), exceed the maximum aggregate percentage of final earnings allowed under subsection 5.1 (also excluding 5.1(a)(ii)(B)) of the Pension Plan (without regard to any limits imposed by the Internal Revenue Code), as in effect on the date of the participant s retirement or termination.  In the event the limitation described in this subsection 6-3 would be exceeded for any participant, the participant s aggregate percentage calculated under subsection 6-2 shall be reduced until the limit is not exceeded.  
     
  4    

6-4.             Benefit service occurring between the date a participant ceases to be a corporate officer of AbbVie and the date the participant again becomes a corporate officer of AbbVie shall be disregarded in calculating the participant s aggregate percentage under subsection 6-2.  
     
  6-5.             Any supplemental pension otherwise due a participant under this Section 6 shall be reduced by the amount (if any) by which:  
     
  (a)               the hypothetical benefits that would be payable to such participant under the Pension Plan, based on the distribution rules established hereunder and the pension form selected by the participant as permitted by subsections 8-3 and 8-4, and this Supplemental Plan exceeds  
     
  (b)               the hypothetical maximum benefit that would be payable to the participant under the Pension Plan, calculated based on the distribution rules established hereunder and the pension form selected by the participant as permitted by subsections 8-3 and 8-4 (without regard to the limits imposed by Code Section 415) based on the participant s final earnings (as determined under subsection 5-2), if the participant had accrued the maximum benefit service recognized by the Pension Plan.  
     
  6-6.             Any supplemental pension due a participant under this Section 6 shall be actuarially adjusted as provided in the Pension Plan to reflect the pension form selected by the participant as permitted by subsections 8-3 and 8-4 and the participant s age at commencement of the pension as provided in Section 7.  
     
  Section 7     CORPORATE OFFICER PENSION PLAN  SUPPLEMENTAL EARLY RETIREMENT BENEFIT  
     
  7-1.             The benefits described in this Section 7 shall apply to all persons described in subsection 6-1.  
     
  7-2.             The supplemental pension due under Sections 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 to each participant described in subsection 7-1 shall be reduced in accordance with the rules provided in subsections 5.3 and 5.6 of the Pension Plan for each month by which its commencement date precedes the last day of the month in which the participant will attain age 60.  No reduction will be made for the period between the last day of the months the participant will attain age 60 and age 62.  
     
  7-3.             Each participant described in subsection 7-1 shall receive a monthly supplemental pension under this Supplemental Plan equal to any hypothetical reduction made in such participant s Pension Plan pension in accordance with the rules provided in subsections 5.3 and 5.6 of the Pension Plan for the period between the last day of the months the participant will attain age 60 and age 62, calculated as if the participant had commenced receipt of the participant s Pension Plan benefit on the same date on which the participant commences receipt of the participant s supplemental pension based on the distribution rules established hereunder and the pension form selected by the participant as permitted by subsections 8-3 and 8-4.  
     
  5    

Section 8     MISCELLANEOUS  
     
  8-1.             For purposes of this Supplemental Plan, the term  Management Incentive Plan  shall mean the AbbVie 2013 Management Incentive Plan, the AbbVie 2013 Performance Incentive Plan, and any successor to any of those plans.  
     
  8-2.             The monthly vested supplemental pension described in Sections 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 shall commence to be paid to the participant or his or her beneficiary on the last day of the month following the month in which:  
     
  (a)               For any Transferred Participant or Post-Distribution Participant (both as defined in Supplement A) who has an Old Formula Benefit (as defined in the Pension Plan) under the Pension Plan, the later of the date on which such participant attains age 50 and the date such participant s employment is terminated; or  
     
  (b)               For any Transferred Participant or Post-Distribution Participant (both as defined in Supplement A) who does not have an Old Formula Benefit (as defined in the Pension Plan) under the Pension Plan and any participant who does not fall into the preceding categories hired by AbbVie on or after January 1, 2013, the later of the date on which such participant attains age 55 and the date such participant s employment is terminated.  
     
  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this subsection 8-2, any participant eligible to make an election under Section 9 may make such election with respect to any accruals for services performed in the year following the year such election is made.  
     
  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this subsection 8-2, in the event that the present value of participant s supplemental pension under Sections 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 does not exceed in the aggregate $25,000 as of the commencement date of the pension payable to such participant or his or her beneficiary, and payment of such supplemental pension has not been previously made under Section 9, the present value of such supplemental pension shall be paid to such participant in a lump-sum on such commencement date.  
     
  8-3.             Except as otherwise specifically provided, payment of the monthly vested supplemental pension described in Sections 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7 shall be made to a participant as follows:  
     
  (a)                Life Annuity   .  A participant who is not legally married on the date as of which such payments commence shall receive a monthly retirement income or monthly deferred vested benefit in accordance with the plan payable on a life annuity basis, with the last payment to be made for the month in which his or her death occurs.  
     
  (b)                50% Joint and Survivor Annuity   .  A participant who is legally married on the date as of which such payments commence shall receive a 50% joint and survivor annuity which is actuarially equivalent to the amount of monthly retirement income or monthly deferred vested benefit otherwise payable to him or her in accordance with the plan on a life annuity basis. Such joint and survivor annuity shall consist of a reduced monthly retirement income or monthly deferred vested benefit continuing during the participant s lifetime, and if the participant s spouse  
     
  6    

is living at the date of the participant s death, payment of one-half of such reduced monthly retirement income or monthly deferred vested benefit to such spouse until the spouse s death occurs, with the last payment to be made for the month of the death of the last to die of the participant and his or her spouse. The joint and survivor annuity payable hereunder to or with respect to a participant who retires on a late retirement date shall be computed as if such participant had retired on his or her normal retirement date using for the age of his or her spouse as of his or her late retirement date, that spouse s age as of his or her normal retirement date.  
     
  8-4.             In lieu of the form and amount of supplemental pension benefit specified in subsection 8-3, a participant may elect, prior to commencement, a supplemental pension benefit which is actuarially equivalent to the form of payment specified in subsection 8-3(a), in the annuity forms permitted by the Board of Review, provided that the scheduled date for the first annuity payment is not changed as a result of such election.  For purposes of this provision, the term  actuarially equivalent  shall have the meaning provided by Treasury Regulation  1.409A-2(b)(2)(ii)(A), applying reasonable actuarial methods and assumptions, which must be the same for each annuity payment option and otherwise comply with the rules provided by Treasury Regulation  1.409A-2(b)(2)(ii)(D).  
     
  An election under this subsection 8-4 must be in writing, signed by the participant, and filed with the Board of Review at such time and in such manner as the Board of Review shall determine; and will be effective only if the participant s spouse, if any, consents to the election in writing, and such consent acknowledges the effect of the election and is witnessed by a plan representative or a notary public. In any case where a participant elects an optional form of benefit, the option shall be designed so that more than 50 percent of the actuarial reserve required to provide the participant s monthly vested supplemental pension benefit in the normal form will be applied to provide the participant s benefits under the option during the period of the participant s life expectancy. Payment of an optional form of benefit will commence no later than the date on which the participant s monthly supplemental pension benefit would otherwise commence. An election under this subsection 8-4 may not be changed after payment of the participant s supplemental pension benefit has commenced.  
     
  8-5.             Notwithstanding any other provision of this Supplemental Plan, if a participant terminates employment within two (2) years following the occurrence of a Change in Control, the present value of his or her supplemental pension under Sections 2, 3, 4 and 5 (but excluding any amounts with respect to which an election under Section 9 has been made, whether or not then payable or vested) shall be paid to such participant in a lump sum, calculated using reasonable actuarial assumptions and methods, within thirty (30) days following the date of such termination of employment; provided that the event constituting a Change in Control is also a  change in control event,  as such term is defined in Treasury Regulation   1.409A-3(i)(5).  The supplemental pension under Section 2 shall be computed using as the applicable limit under Code Section 415, such limit as is in effect on the termination date and based on the assumption that the participant will receive his or her supplemental pension in the form of a straight life annuity with no ancillary benefits.  The present values of the supplemental pensions under Sections 2, 3, 4 and 5 shall be computed as of the date of payment using an interest rate equal to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation interest rate applicable to an immediate annuity, as in effect on the date of payment.  
     
  7    

8-6.             For purposes of subsection 8-5, a  Change in Control  shall be deemed to have occurred on the earliest of the following dates:  
     
  (a)               the date any Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of AbbVie (not including in the securities beneficially owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from AbbVie or its Affiliates) representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of AbbVie s then outstanding securities, excluding any Person who becomes such a Beneficial Owner in connection with a transaction described in clause (i) of paragraph (c) below; or  
     
  (b)               the date the following individuals cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the number of directors then serving: individuals who, on the date hereof, constitute the Board of Directors and any new director (other than a director whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened election contest, including but not limited to a consent solicitation, relating to the election of directors of AbbVie) whose appointment or election by the Board of Directors or nomination for election by AbbVie s shareholders was approved or recommended by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who either were directors on the date hereof or whose appointment, election or nomination for election was previously so approved or recommended; or  
     
  (c)               the date on which there is consummated a merger or consolidation of AbbVie or any direct or indirect subsidiary of AbbVie with any other corporation or other entity, other than (i) a merger or consolidation (A) immediately following which the individuals who comprise the Board of Directors immediately prior thereto constitute at least a majority of the Board of Directors of AbbVie, the entity surviving such merger or consolidation or, if AbbVie or the entity surviving such merger or consolidation is then a subsidiary, the ultimate parent thereof and (B) which results in the voting securities of AbbVie outstanding immediately prior to such merger or consolidation continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity or any parent thereof), in combination with the ownership of any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of AbbVie or any subsidiary of AbbVie, at least 50% of the combined voting power of the securities of AbbVie or such surviving entity or any parent thereof outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation, or (ii) a merger or consolidation effected to implement a recapitalization of AbbVie (or similar transaction) in which no Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of AbbVie (not including in the securities Beneficially Owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from AbbVie or its Affiliates) representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of AbbVie s then outstanding securities; or  
     
  (d)               the date the shareholders of AbbVie approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of AbbVie or there is consummated an agreement for the sale or disposition by AbbVie of all or substantially all of AbbVie s assets, other than a sale or disposition by AbbVie of all or substantially all of AbbVie s assets to an entity, at least 50% of the combined voting power of the voting securities of which are owned by shareholders of AbbVie, in combination with the ownership of any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of AbbVie or any subsidiary of AbbVie, in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of AbbVie immediately prior to such sale.  
     
  8    

Notwithstanding the foregoing, a  Change in Control  shall not be deemed to have occurred by virtue of the consummation of any transaction or series of integrated transactions immediately following which the record holders of the common stock of AbbVie immediately prior to such transaction or series of transactions continue to have substantially the same proportionate ownership in an entity which owns all or substantially all of the assets of AbbVie immediately following such transaction or series of transactions.  
     
  For purposes of this Supplemental Plan:  Affiliate  shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under Section 12 of the Exchange Act;  Beneficial Owner  shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act;  Exchange Act  shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time; and  Person  shall have the meaning given in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act, as modified and used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) thereof, except that such term shall not include (i) AbbVie or any of its subsidiaries, (ii) a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of AbbVie or any of its Affiliates, (iii) an underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities, or (iv) a corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the shareholders of AbbVie in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of AbbVie.  
     
  8-7.             POTENTIAL CHANGE IN CONTROL.  A  Potential Change in Control  shall exist during any period in which the circumstances described in paragraphs (a), (b), (c) or (d), below, exist (provided, however, that a Potential Change in Control shall cease to exist not later than the occurrence of a Change in Control):  
     
  (a)               AbbVie enters into an agreement, the consummation of which would result in the occurrence of a Change in Control, provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this paragraph (a) shall cease to exist upon the expiration or other termination of all such agreements.  
     
  (b)               Any Person (without regard to the exclusions set forth in subsections (i) through (iv) of such definition) publicly announces an intention to take or to consider taking actions the consummation of which would constitute a Change in Control; provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this paragraph (b) shall cease to exist upon the withdrawal of such intention, or upon a determination by the Board of Directors that there is no reasonable chance that such actions would be consummated.  
     
  (c)               Any Person becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of AbbVie representing 10% or more of either the then outstanding shares of common stock of AbbVie or the combined voting power of AbbVie s then outstanding securities (not including any securities beneficially owned by such Person which are or were acquired directly from AbbVie or its Affiliates).  
     
  (d)               The Board of Directors adopts a resolution to the effect that, for purposes of this Agreement, a Potential Change in Control exists; provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this paragraph (d) shall cease to exist upon a determination by the Board of Directors that the reasons that gave rise to the resolution providing for the existence of a Potential Change in Control have expired or no longer exist.  
     
  9    

8-8.             The provisions of subsections 8-5, 8-6, 8-7 and this subsection 8-8 may not be amended or deleted, nor superseded by any other provision of this Supplemental Plan, (a) during the pendency of a Potential Change in Control and (b) during the period beginning on the date of a Change in Control and ending on the date five (5) years following such Change in Control.  
     
  8-9.             All benefits due under this Supplemental Plan shall be paid by AbbVie and AbbVie shall be reimbursed for such payments by the employee s employer.  In the event the employee is employed by more than one employer, each employer shall reimburse AbbVie in proportion to the period of time the employee was employed by such employer, as determined by the Board of Review in its sole discretion.  
     
  8-10.           The benefits under the Supplemental Plan are not in any way subject to the debts or other obligations of the persons entitled to benefits and may not be voluntarily or involuntarily sold, transferred or assigned.  
     
  8-11.           Nothing contained in this Supplemental Plan shall confer on any employee the right to be retained in the employ of AbbVie or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates.  
     
  8-12.           Upon adoption of this Supplemental Plan, the prior resolutions shall be deemed rescinded.  
     
  8-13.           A participant shall not become vested in the participant s supplemental pension under Sections 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 until the participant has attained sixty (60) months of vesting service.  For purposes of the Supplemental Plan, a participant shall be entitled to 1/12  th   of a year of vesting service for each calendar month (or portion thereof) during which the participant is employed by an employer.  The payments required by Section 8 or Section 9 of the Supplemental Plan shall, in each case, relate only to the vested portion of a participant s supplemental pension.  
     
  8-14.           To the extent applicable, it is intended that the Supplemental Plan comply with the provisions of Code Section 409A.  The Supplemental Plan will be administered and interpreted in a manner consistent with this intent, and any provision that would cause the Supplemental Plan to fail to satisfy Code Section 409A will have no force and effect until amended to comply therewith (which amendment may be retroactive to the extent permitted by Code Section 409A).  Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, a participant shall not be considered to have terminated employment with AbbVie or any employer hereunder for purposes of the Supplemental Plan and no payments shall be due under Supplemental Plan which are payable upon the participant s termination of employment unless the participant would be considered to have incurred a  separation from service  from AbbVie within the meaning of Code Section 409A.  To the extent required to avoid accelerated taxation and/or tax penalties under Code Section 409A and applicable guidance issued thereunder, amounts that would otherwise be payable pursuant to the Supplemental Plan during the six-month period immediately following the participant s termination of employment shall instead be paid on the first business day after the date that is six months following the participant s termination of employment (or upon the participant s death, if earlier), plus interest thereon, at a rate equal to the applicable  Federal short-term rate  (as defined in Code Section 1274(d)) for the month in which such termination of employment occurs (to the extent that such interest is not already provided to the participant under subsection 9.10), from the respective dates on which such amounts would otherwise have been paid until the actual date of  
     
  10    

payment.  With respect to expenses eligible for reimbursement under the terms of the Supplemental Plan, (a) the amount of such expenses eligible for reimbursement in any taxable year shall not affect the expenses eligible for reimbursement in another taxable year and (b) any reimbursements of such expenses shall be made no later than the end of the calendar year following the calendar year in which the related expenses were incurred, except, in each case, to the extent that the right to reimbursement does not provide for a  deferral of compensation  within the meaning of Code Section 409A.  
     
  8-15.           In accordance with Treasury Regulation   1.409A-3(j)(4)(ii), distributions shall be made to an individual (other than to the participant) pursuant to the terms of a  domestic relations order  (as defined in Internal Revenue Code Section 414(p)(1)(B)), as determined and administered by the AbbVie Senior Vice President, Human Resources (or the individual holding equivalent duties and responsibilities) or his or her delegate, provided, that such order (a) does not require the plan to provide any type or form of benefit, or any option not otherwise provided under the plan, (b) does not require the plan to provide increased benefits, and (c) does not require the payment of benefits to an alternate payee which are required to be paid to another alternate payee under another order.  
     
  Section 9     ALTERNATE PAYMENT OF SUPPLEMENTAL PENSIONS  
     
  9-1.             A participant who is actively employed by AbbVie as a corporate officer as of December 31 of his or her first year as a corporate officer shall be entitled to receive payment of the present value of the vested supplemental pension described in Sections 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 which accrues with respect to the year and shall elect to receive such payment by either of the following methods: (a) current payment in cash directly to the participant, or (b) current payment of a portion of such present value in cash for the participant directly to a Grantor Trust established by the participant, determined to be substantially similar to the form of Grantor Trust attached hereto as Exhibit A, and current payment of the balance of such present value in cash paid directly to or withheld on behalf of the participant equal to the aggregate federal, state and local individual income and employment taxes owed with respect to the gross payment (as determined in accordance with subsection 9-10). The payment of any amount provided under this subsection 9-1 shall be made to the Grantor Trust established by the participant within the thirty (30)-day period beginning April 1 of the year following the year in which such present value is accrued.  
     
  9-2.             For each year subsequent to the year in which a participant becomes a corporate officer, if the present value of a participant s vested and accrued supplemental pension has been paid to the participant (including amounts paid to the participant s Grantor Trust) pursuant to subsection 9-1 then, with respect to each subsequent year of active participation, as of that December 31, a participant shall be entitled to a payment in an amount equal to (i) the present value (as of that December 31) of the participant s vested supplemental pension described in Sections 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7, less (ii) the current value (as of that December 31) of the payments previously made to the participant under subsections 9-1 and 9-2 (if any).  Each year a participant who is a corporate officer may elect to receive payment of the amounts described in subparagraphs (i) and (ii) above for the year by either of the following methods: (a) current payment in cash directly to the participant, or (b) current payment of such amount in cash for the participant directly to a Grantor Trust established by the participant (less the aggregate federal, state and local  
     
  11    

individual income and employment taxes paid to or withheld on behalf of the participant (as determined in accordance with subsection 9-10)).  The payment of any amount provided under this subsection 9-2 shall be made to the Grantor Trust established by the participant within the thirty (30)-day period beginning April 1 of the year following the year in which such present value is accrued.  No payments shall be made under this subsection 9-2 as of any December 31 after the calendar year in which the participant retires or otherwise terminates employment with AbbVie.  
     
  9-3.             Present values for the purposes of subsections 9-1 and 9-2 shall be determined using reasonable actuarial assumptions specified for this purpose by AbbVie and consistently applied in accordance with the requirements of Treasury Regulation  1.409A-2(b)(2)(ii)(D).  The  current value  of the payments previously made to a participant under subsection 9-2 means the aggregate amount of such payments, with interest thereon (at the rate specified in subsection 9-7).  
     
  9-4.             AbbVie, as the administrator of the participant s Grantor Trust, may direct the trustee to distribute to the participant from the income of such Grantor Trust an amount sufficient to pay the taxes on the Grantor Trust earnings for such year, to the extent a sufficient sum of money has not been paid to, or withheld on behalf of, the participant pursuant to subsection 9-8.  The taxes shall be determined in accordance with subsection 9-10.  
     
  9-5.             Except as provided in subsection 9-9, a participant shall be deemed to have irrevocably waived and shall be foreclosed from any right to receive any supplemental pension benefits on that portion of the supplemental pension that the participant elects to be paid in cash under subsection 9-1 or 9-2.  A participant who has elected to receive a payment under subsection 9-1 or 9-2 to a Grantor Trust must establish such trust in a form which AbbVie determines to be substantially similar to the trust attached to this Supplemental Plan as Exhibit A.  If a participant fails to make an election under subsection 9-1 or 9-2, or if a participant makes an election under subsection 9-1 or 9-2 to receive payment in a Grantor Trust but fails to establish a Grantor Trust, then payment shall be made in cash directly to the participant.  
     
  9-6.             AbbVie will establish and maintain a separate Supplemental Pension Account in the name of each participant, a separate After-Tax Supplemental Pension Account in the name of each participant, and a separate Tax Payment Account in the name of each participant.  The Supplemental Pension Account shall reflect any amounts:  (a) paid to, or withheld on behalf of, a participant to satisfy the aggregate federal, state and local individual income and employment taxes (including amounts paid to a participant s Grantor Trust) pursuant to subsections 9-1 and 9-2 and (b) disbursed to a participant for supplemental pension benefits (or which would have been disbursed to a participant if the participant had not elected to receive a cash disbursement pursuant to subsections 9-1 and 9-2).  The After-Tax Supplemental Pension Account shall also reflect such amounts but shall be maintained on an after-tax basis.  The accounts established pursuant to this subsection 9-6 are for administrative convenience, and no trust relationship with respect to such accounts is intended or should be implied.  
     
  9-7.             As of the end of each calendar year, a participant s Supplemental Pension Account shall be credited with interest calculated at the rate of eight percent (8%) per year.  Any amount so credited shall be referred to as a participant s  Interest Accrual.   The calculation of the Interest Accrual shall be based on the balance of the payments made pursuant to subsections 9-1 and 9-2 and any Interest Accrual thereon from previous years.  As of the end of each calendar year a  
     
  12    

participant s After-Tax Supplemental Pension Account shall be credited with interest which shall be referred to as the After-Tax Interest Accrual.  The  After-Tax Interest Accrual  shall be an amount equal to the product of (a) the Interest Accrual credited to the participant s Supplemental Pension Account for such year multiplied by (b) one minus the aggregate of the federal, state, and local individual income tax rates and employment tax rate (determined in accordance with subsection 9-10).  
     
  9-8.             In addition to any payment made to a participant for a calendar year pursuant to subsections 9-1 and 9-2, a participant shall also be entitled to a payment (an  Interest Payment ) for each year in which the Grantor Trust is in effect.  For all participants who are Transferred Participants under Supplement A, the Interest Payment shall equal the excess of the gross amount of the participant s Interest Accrual (as defined in subsection 9-7), over the net income of the participant s Grantor Trust for the year, as adjusted by the amounts described in Schedule A, and shall be paid within the thirty (30)-day period beginning April 1 of the following fiscal year.  A portion of such Interest Payment, equal to the excess, if any, of the Net Interest Accrual over the net earnings of the participant s Grantor Trust, shall be deposited in the participant s Grantor Trust, with the balance paid to, or withheld on behalf of, the Participant; provided, however, in the event that the net earnings of the participant s Grantor Trust exceeds the Net Interest Accrual, a distribution from the Grantor Trust shall be required in accordance with subsection 9-4.  A participant s Net Interest Accrual for a year is an amount equal to the After-Tax Interest Accrual credited to the participant s After-Tax Supplemental Pension Account for that year in accordance with subsection 9-7.  No payments shall be made under this subsection 9-8 for any year following the year in which the participant dies, retires or otherwise terminates employment with AbbVie.  
     
  9-9.             In addition to and notwithstanding the payments made to a participant s Grantor Trust under subsections 9-1 and 9-2 and subject only to the subsequent election requirements of Treasury Regulation   1.409A-2(b), AbbVie shall make the monthly vested supplemental pension payments that would have been payable to the participant had no payments been made to the participant s Grantor Trust under subsections 9-1 and 9-2 in the form provided by subsection 8-3.  The monthly vested supplemental pension payments hereunder shall commence on the first business day of February following the sixth anniversary of the participant s termination of employment and ending with the month of the participant s (or surviving spouse s) death.  By way of example, (a) if a participant terminated employment on June 1, 2013, the commencement date would be the first business day in February, 2020, and (b) if a participant terminated employment on January 15, 2013, the commencement date would be the first business day in February, 2019.  Payments under this subsection 9-9 shall be made by the employers (in such proportions as AbbVie shall designate) directly from their general corporate assets.  Payment of the annuity required by this subsection 9-9 may be deferred by AbbVie in compliance with the subsequent election requirements of Treasury Regulation   1.409A-2(b).  Any election to defer payment hereunder shall not take effect until at least 12 months after the election is made; shall be made not less than 12 months before the annuity commencement date; and shall require payment to be deferred for a period of no less than five years from such annuity commencement date.  
     
  9-10.           For purposes of this Supplemental Plan, a participant s federal income tax rate shall be deemed to be the highest marginal rate of federal individual income tax in effect in the calendar year in which a calculation under this Supplemental Plan is to be made; state and local tax rates shall be deemed to be the highest marginal rates of individual income tax in effect in the state and  
     
  13    

locality of the participant s residence in the calendar year for which such a calculation is to be made; and a participant s employment tax rate shall be deemed to be the highest marginal rate of Federal Insurance Contributions Act tax in effect in the calendar year for which such a calculation is to be made, net of any federal tax benefits without a benefit for any net capital losses.  Any employer shall be entitled, if necessary or desirable, to pay, or withhold the amount of any federal, state or local tax, attributable to any amounts payable by it under the Supplemental Plan, and may require payment or indemnification from the participant in an amount necessary to satisfy such taxes prior to remitting such taxes.  
     
  9-11.           Each participant s Grantor Trust assets shall be invested solely in the instruments specified by investment guidelines established by the Committee.  Such investment guidelines, once established, may be changed by the Committee, provided that any change shall not take effect until the year following the year in which the change is made and provided further that the instruments specified shall be consistent with the provisions of Section 3(b) of the form of Grantor Trust attached hereto as Exhibit A.  
     
  9-12.           Notwithstanding anything contained in the Supplemental Plan to the contrary, the Grantor Trusts established by the participants under the Supplemental Plan shall be funded in accordance with the requirements of Code Section 409A.  
     
  14    

EXHIBIT A   
     
   SUPPLEMENTAL BENEFIT  GRANTOR TRUST   
     
  THIS AGREEMENT, made this                day of                                            , 20      , by and between                                                          of                                , Illinois (the  grantor ), and The Northern Trust Company, located at Chicago, Illinois, as trustee (the  trustee ),  
     
  WITNESSETH THAT:  
     
  WHEREAS, the grantor desires to establish and maintain a trust to hold certain benefits received by the grantor under the AbbVie Supplemental Pension Plan, as it may be amended from time to time.  
     
  NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows:  
     
   ARTICLE I  INTRODUCTION   
     
  I-1                NAME   .  This agreement and the trust hereby evidenced (the  trust ) may be referred to as the                                                                Supplemental Benefit Grantor Trust.   
     
  I-2                THE TRUST FUND   .  The  trust fund  as at any date means all property then held by the trustee under this agreement.  
     
  I-3                STATUS OF THE TRUST   .  The trust shall be irrevocable.  The trust is intended to constitute a grantor trust under Sections 671-678 of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, and shall be construed accordingly.  
     
  I-4                THE ADMINISTRATOR   .  AbbVie Inc. ( AbbVie ) shall act as the  administrator  of the trust, and as such shall have certain powers, rights and duties under this agreement as described below.  AbbVie will certify to the trustee from time to time the person or persons authorized to act on behalf of AbbVie as the administrator.  The trustee may rely on the latest certificate received without further inquiry or verification.  
     
  I-5                ACCEPTANCE   .  The trustee accepts the duties and obligations of the  trustee  hereunder, agrees to accept funds delivered to it by the grantor or the administrator, and agrees to hold such funds (and any proceeds from the investment of such funds) in trust in accordance with this agreement.  
     
  1    

ARTICLE II  DISTRIBUTION OF THE TRUST FUND   
     
  II-1              SUPPLEMENTAL PENSION ACCOUNT   .  The administrator shall maintain a  supplemental pension account  under the trust.  As of the end of each calendar year, the administrator shall charge the account with all distributions made from the account during that year; and credit the account with its share of trust income and realized gains and charge the account with its share of trust expenses and realized losses for the year.  
     
  II-2              DISTRIBUTIONS PRIOR TO THE GRANTOR S DEATH   .  Principal and accumulated income shall not be distributed from the trust prior to the grantor s retirement or other termination of employment with AbbVie or a subsidiary of AbbVie (the grantor s  settlement date  provided that, each year the administrator may direct the trustee to distribute to the grantor a portion of the income of the trust fund for that year, with the balance of such income to be accumulated in the trust.  The administrator shall inform the trustee of the grantor s settlement date.  Thereafter, the trustee shall distribute the amounts from time to time credited to the supplemental pension account to the grantor, if then living, in the same manner, at the same time and over the same period as the pension payable to the grantor under the AbbVie Pension Plan.  
     
  II-3              DISTRIBUTIONS AFTER THE GRANTOR S DEATH   .  The grantor, from time to time may name any person or persons (who may be named contingently or successively and who may be natural persons or fiduciaries) to whom the principal of the trust fund and all accrued or undistributed income thereof shall be distributed upon the grantor s death.  The grantor may direct that such amounts be distributed in a lump sum or, if the beneficiary is the grantor s spouse (or a trust (a  Trust ) for which the grantor s spouse is the sole income beneficiary), in the same manner, at the same time and over the same period as the pension payable to the grantor s surviving spouse under the AbbVie Pension Plan.  If the grantor directs the same method of distribution as the pension payable to the surviving spouse under the AbbVie Pension Plan to the spouse as beneficiary, any amounts remaining at the death of the spouse beneficiary shall be distributed in a lump sum to the executor or administrator of the spouse beneficiary s estate.  If the grantor directs the same method of distribution as the pension payable to the surviving spouse under the AbbVie Pension Plan to a Trust for which the grantor s spouse is the sole income beneficiary, any amounts remaining at the death of the spouse shall be distributed in a lump sum to such Trust.  Despite the foregoing, if (i) the beneficiary is a Trust for which the grantor s spouse is the sole income beneficiary, (ii) payments are being made pursuant to this paragraph II-3 other than in a lump sum and (iii) income earned by the trust fund for the year exceeds the amount of the annual installment payment, then such Trust may elect to withdraw such excess income by written notice to the trustee.  Each designation shall revoke all prior designations, shall be in writing and shall be effective only when filed by the grantor with the administrator during the grantor s lifetime.  If the grantor fails to direct a method of distribution, the distribution shall be made in a lump sum.  If the grantor fails to designate a beneficiary as provided above, then on the grantor s death, the trustee shall distribute the balance of the trust fund in a lump sum to the executor or administrator of the grantor s estate.   
     
  2    

II-4              FACILITY OF PAYMENT   .  When a person entitled to a distribution hereunder is under legal disability, or, in the trustee s opinion, is in any way incapacitated so as to be unable to manage his or her financial affairs, the trustee may make such distribution to such person s legal representative, or to a relative or friend of such person for such person s benefit.  Any distribution made in accordance with the preceding sentence shall be a full and complete discharge of any liability for such distribution hereunder.  
     
  II-5              PERPETUITIES   .  Notwithstanding any other provisions of this agreement, on the day next preceding the end of 21 years after the death of the last to die of the grantor and the grantor s descendants living on the date of this instrument, the trustee shall immediately distribute any remaining balance in the trust to the beneficiaries then entitled to distributions hereunder.  
     
   ARTICLE III  MANAGEMENT OF THE TRUST FUND   
     
  III-1            GENERAL POWERS   .  The trustee shall, with respect to the trust fund, have the following powers, rights and duties in addition to those provided elsewhere in this agreement or by law:  
     
  (a)               Subject to the limitations of subparagraph (b) next below, to sell, contract to sell, purchase, grant or exercise options to purchase, and otherwise deal with all assets of the trust fund, in such way, for such considerations, and on such terms and conditions as the trustee decides.  
     
  (b)               To invest and reinvest the trust fund, without distinction between principal and income, in obligations of the United States Government and its agencies or which are backed by the full faith and credit of the United States Government and in any mutual funds, common trust funds or collective investment funds which invest solely in such obligations, provided that to the extent practicable no more than Ten Thousand Dollars ($10,000) shall be invested in such mutual funds, common trust funds or collective investment funds at any time; and any such investment made or retained by the trustee in good faith shall be proper despite any resulting risk or lack of diversification or marketability.  
     
  (c)               To deposit cash in any depositary (including the banking department of the bank acting as trustee) without liability for interest, in amounts not in excess of those reasonably necessary to make distributions from the trust.  
     
  (d)               To borrow from anyone, with the administrator s approval, such sum or sums from time to time as the trustee considers desirable to carry out this trust, and to mortgage or pledge all or part of the trust fund as security.  
     
  (e)               To retain any funds or property subject to any dispute without liability for interest and to decline to make payment or delivery thereof until final adjudication by a court of competent jurisdiction or until an appropriate release is obtained.  
     
  (f)                To begin, maintain or defend any litigation necessary in connection with the administration of this trust, except that the trustee shall not be obliged or required to do so unless indemnified to the trustee s satisfaction.  
     
  3    

(g)               To compromise, contest, settle or abandon claims or demands.  
     
  (h)               To give proxies to vote stocks and other voting securities, to join in or oppose (alone or jointly with others) voting trusts, mergers, consolidations, foreclosures, reorganizations, liquidations, or other changes in the financial structure of any corporation, and to exercise or sell stock subscription or conversion rights.  
     
  (i)                To hold securities or other property in the name of a nominee, in a depositary, or in any other way, with or without disclosing the trust relationship.  
     
  (j)                To divide or distribute the trust fund in undivided interests or wholly or partly in kind.  
     
  (k)               To pay any tax imposed on or with respect to the trust; to defer making payment of any such tax if it is indemnified to its satisfaction in the premises; and to require before making any payment such release or other document from any lawful taxing authority and such indemnity from the intended payee as the trustee considers necessary for its protection.  
     
  (l)                To deal without restriction with the legal representative of the grantor s estate or the trustee or other legal representative of any trust created by the grantor or a trust or estate in which a beneficiary has an interest, even though the trustee, individually, shall be acting in such other capacity, without liability for any loss that may result.  
     
  (m)              Upon the prior written consent of the administrator, to appoint or remove by written instrument any bank or corporation qualified to act as successor trustee, wherever located, as special trustee as to part or all of the trust fund, including property as to which the trustee does not act, and such special trustee, except as specifically limited or provided by this or the appointing instrument, shall have all of the rights, titles, powers, duties, discretions and immunities of the trustee, without liability for any action taken or omitted to be taken under this or the appointing instrument.  
     
  (n)               To appoint or remove by written instrument any bank, wherever located, as custodian of part or all of the trust fund, and each such custodian shall have such rights, powers, duties and discretions as are delegated to it by the trustee.  
     
  (o)               To employ agents, attorneys, accountants or other persons, and to delegate to them such powers as the trustee considers desirable, and the trustee shall be protected in acting or refraining from acting on the advice of persons so employed without court action.  
     
  (p)               To perform any and all other acts which in the trustee s judgment are appropriate for the proper management, investment and distribution of the trust fund.  
     
  III-2            PRINCIPAL AND INCOME   .  Any income earned on the trust fund which is not distributed as provided in Article II shall be accumulated and from time to time added to the principal of the trust.  The grantor s interest in the trust shall include all assets or other property held by the trustee hereunder, including principal and accumulated income.  
     
  4    

III-3            STATEMENTS   .  The trustee shall prepare and deliver monthly to the administrator and annually to the grantor, if then living, otherwise to each beneficiary then entitled to distributions under this agreement, a statement (or series of statements) setting forth (or which taken together set forth) all investments, receipts, disbursements and other transactions effected by the trustee during the reporting period; and showing the trust fund and the value thereof at the end of such period.  
     
  III-4            COMPENSATION AND EXPENSES   .  All reasonable costs, charges and expenses incurred in the administration of this trust, including compensation to the trustee, any compensation to agents, attorneys, accountants and other persons employed by the trustee, and expenses incurred in connection with the sale, investment and reinvestment of the trust fund shall be paid from the trust fund.  
     
   ARTICLE IV  GENERAL PROVISIONS   
     
  IV-1             INTERESTS NOT TRANSFERABLE   .  The interests of the grantor or other persons entitled to distributions hereunder are not subject to their debts or other obligations and may not be voluntarily or involuntarily sold, transferred, alienated, assigned or encumbered.  
     
  IV-2             DISAGREEMENTS AS TO ACTS   .  If there is a disagreement between the trustee and anyone as to any act or transaction reported in any accounting, the trustee shall have the right to a settlement of its account by any court.  
     
  IV-3             TRUSTEE S OBLIGATIONS   .  No power, duty or responsibility is imposed on the trustee except as set forth in this agreement.  The trustee is not obliged to determine whether funds delivered to or distributions from the trust are proper under the trust, or whether any tax is due or payable as a result of any such delivery or distribution.  The trustee shall be protected in making any distribution from the trust as directed pursuant to Article II without inquiring as to whether the distributee is entitled thereto; the trustee shall not be liable for any distribution made in good faith without written notice or knowledge that the distribution is not proper under the terms of this agreement; and the trustee shall not be liable for any action taken because of the specific direction of the administrator.  
     
  IV-4             GOOD FAITH ACTIONS   .  The trustee s exercise or non-exercise of its powers and discretions in good faith shall be conclusive on all persons.  No one shall be obliged to see to the application of any money paid or property delivered to the trustee.  The certificate of the trustee that it is acting according to this agreement will fully protect all persons dealing with the trustee.  
     
  IV-5             WAIVER OF NOTICE   .  Any notice required under this agreement may be waived by the person entitled to such notice.  
     
  IV-6             CONTROLLING LAW   .  The laws of the State of Illinois shall govern the interpretation and validity of the provisions of this agreement and all questions relating to the management, administration, investment and distribution of the trust hereby created.  
     
  IV-7             SUCCESSORS   .  This agreement shall be binding on all persons entitled to distributions hereunder and their respective heirs and legal representatives, and on the trustee and its successors.  
     
  5    

ARTICLE V  CHANGES IN TRUSTEE   
     
  V-1              RESIGNATION OR REMOVAL OF TRUSTEE   .  The trustee may resign at any time by giving thirty days  advance notice to the administrator and the grantor.  The administrator may remove a trustee by written notice to the trustee and the grantor.  
     
  V-2              APPOINTMENT OF SUCCESSOR TRUSTEE   .  The administrator shall fill any vacancy in the office of trustee as soon as practicable by written notice to the successor trustee; and shall give prompt written notice thereof to the grantor, if then living, otherwise to each beneficiary then entitled to payments or distributions under this agreement.  A successor trustee shall be a bank (as defined in Section 581 of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended).  
     
  V-3              DUTIES OF RESIGNING OR REMOVED TRUSTEE AND OF SUCCESSOR TRUSTEE   .  A trustee that resigns or is removed shall furnish promptly to the administrator and the successor trustee an account of its administration of the trust from the date of its last account.  Each successor trustee shall succeed to the title to the trust fund vested in its predecessor without the signing or filing of any instrument, but each predecessor trustee shall execute all documents and do all acts necessary to vest such title of record in the successor trustee.  Each successor trustee shall have all the powers conferred by this agreement as if originally named trustee.  No successor trustee shall be personally liable for any act or failure to act of a predecessor trustee.  With the approval of the administrator, a successor trustee may accept the account furnished and the property delivered by a predecessor trustee without incurring any liability for so doing, and such acceptance will be complete discharge to the predecessor trustee.  
     
   ARTICLE VI  AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION   
     
  VI-1             AMENDMENT   .  With the consent of the administrator, this trust may be amended from time to time by the grantor, if then living, otherwise by a majority of the beneficiaries then entitled to payments or distributions hereunder, except as follows:  
     
  (a)                                     The duties and liabilities of the trustee cannot be changed substantially without its consent.  
     
  (b)                                     This trust may not be amended so as to make the trust revocable.  
     
  VI-2             TERMINATION   .  This trust shall not terminate, and all rights, titles, powers, duties, discretions and immunities imposed on or reserved to the trustee, the administrator, the grantor and the beneficiaries shall continue in effect, until all assets of the trust have been distributed by the trustee as provided in Article II.  
     
  *     *     *  
     
  6    

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the grantor and the trustee have executed this agreement as of the day and year first above written.  

Grantor           

The Northern Trust   Company, as Trustee           

By       

Its       

7    

SUPPLEMENT A   
     
  SPECIAL RULES RELATED TO TRANSFER FROM ABBOTT LABORATORIES SUPPLEMENTAL PENSION PLAN  
     
  A-1.             Purpose and Effect   .  The purpose of this Supplement A is to provide for the transfer of liabilities from the Abbott Laboratories Supplemental Pension Plan (the  Abbott SERP ) to this Supplemental Plan with respect to Transferred Participants and Post-Distribution Participants as set forth in the Separation Agreement.  
     
  A-2.             Eligibility, Service and Compensation   .  Transferred Participants and Post-Distribution Participants shall (a) be eligible to participate in the AbbVie SERP to the extent they were eligible to participate in the Abbott SERP as of the applicable Transfer Date (as defined in the EMA), and (b) receive credit for vesting, eligibility and benefit service for all service credited for those purposes under the Abbott SERP as of the Transfer Date (as defined in the EMA) as if that service had been rendered to AbbVie (provided that in the event that any such Transferred Participant or Post-Distribution Participant receives a distribution from the Abbott SERP, the value of such distribution shall be offset against future benefits under the AbbVie SERP to the extent necessary to prevent a duplication of benefits).  The compensation paid by Abbott and its subsidiaries to a Transferred Participant or a Post-Distribution Participant that was recognized under the Abbott SERP as of the Transfer Date (as defined in the EMA) shall be credited and recognized for all applicable purposes under the AbbVie SERP as though it were compensation from AbbVie or its Subsidiaries.  
     
  A-3.             Time and Form of Payment.     The accrued benefit of each Transferred Participant and each Post-Distribution Participant under the Abbott SERP as of the applicable Transfer Date (as defined in the EMA) shall be payable under the AbbVie SERP at the time and in a form that would have been permitted under the Abbott SERP as in effect as of such Transfer Date (as defined in the EMA), with employment by Abbott or its subsidiaries prior to the Transfer Date (as defined in the EMA) treated as employment by the AbbVie or its affiliates under the AbbVie SERP for purposes of determining eligibility for optional forms of benefit, early retirement benefits, or other benefit forms; and the AbbVie SERP shall assume and honor the terms of all arrangements relating to beneficiaries and alternate payees in effect and honored under the Abbott SERP as of the applicable Transfer Date with respect to Transferred Participants and Post Distribution Participants.  
     
  A-4.             Initial Transfer of Liabilities from Abbott SERP   .  As soon as practicable after the Separation, and subject to such terms and conditions as the Plan Administrator may establish, the Plan shall assume all liabilities and the Abbott SERP shall transfer all liabilities for all obligations under the Abbott SERP for the benefits of Transferred Participants (and their beneficiaries and/or alternate payees) as determined on the applicable Transfer Date (as defined in the EMA).  
     
  A-5.             Subsequent Transfers   .  At such time or times as the Plan Administrator and Abbott (or its delegate) shall agree, and subject to such terms and conditions as the Plan Administrator may establish, the Plan shall assume all liabilities and the Abbott SERP shall transfer all liabilities for all obligations under the Abbott SERP for the benefits of Post-Distribution Participants (and  
     
  1    

their beneficiaries and/or alternate payees) as determined on the applicable Transfer Date (as defined in the EMA).  
     
  A-6.             Definitions.     For purposes of this Supplement A, the following terms are defined as follows:  
     
  (a)                                      Post-Distribution Participant  means: (i) a Post-Distribution AbbVie Employee (as defined in the EMA) who (A) was an employee of Abbott Laboratories or its subsidiary as of immediately prior to the Separation (as defined in the Separation Agreement) and is transferred to or hired by AbbVie or its Subsidiary after the Separation (as defined in the Separation Agreement) and (B) had liabilities associated with his or her accrued benefits (including any accrued benefits with respect to beneficiaries or alternate payees) in the Abbott SERP transferred to this Plan in accordance with this Supplement A; and (ii) any other individual on whose behalf liabilities are transferred from an Abbott pension plan to the Pension Plan during the Transition Period (as described in the EMA).  
     
  (b)                                      Transferred Participant  means an AbbVie Employee or an AbbVie LTD Participant (as defined in the EMA), excluding any Post-Distribution AbbVie Employee (as defined in the EMA), who accepts an offer of employment or continues employment with or is transferred to AbbVie Inc. under the EMA on or immediately after the Separation (as defined in the Separation Agreement).  
     
  A-7.             Grantor Trusts   .  Certain Transferred Participants and Post-Distribution Participants who participated in the Abbott SERP have established grantor trusts in connection with such plan.  Abbott and AbbVie shall use their commercially reasonable best efforts to facilitate the amendment of each such grantor trust to provide that (a) AbbVie is the administrator of such trust and (b) distribution of amounts under such trust is made by reference to termination of employment with AbbVie and its subsidiaries and not termination of employment with the Abbott and its subsidiaries.  
     
  A-8.             Use of Terms   .  Terms used in this Supplement A have the meanings of those terms as set forth in the Plan, unless they are defined in this Supplement A.  All of the terms and provisions of the Plan shall apply to this Supplement A except that where the terms of the Plan and this Supplement A conflict, the terms of this Supplement A shall govern.  
     
  2    

</EX-10.18>

<EX-10.19>
 7
 a2213529zex-10_19.htm
 EX-10.19

Exhibit 10.19   
     
   ABBVIE SUPPLEMENTAL SAVINGS PLAN   
     
  (Effective as of January 1, 2013)  

ABBVIE   
   SUPPLEMENTAL SAVINGS PLAN   
     
  SECTION 1  
  INTRODUCTION  
     
  1-1.             PURPOSE AND EFFECTIVE DATE.  This AbbVie Supplemental Savings Plan (the  Plan ) is established by AbbVie Inc. ( AbbVie ), effective as of January 1, 2013 (the  Effective Date ), to provide eligible management employees of AbbVie an opportunity to accumulate capital for their retirement or other termination of employment in excess of the contributions allowed under the AbbVie Savings Plan (the  Savings Plan ).  
     
  1-2.             ERISA.  The Plan is intended to be exempt from Parts 2, 3, and 4 of Title I of ERISA and, therefore, participation in the Plan is limited to a select group of management and highly compensated employees, within the meaning of ERISA Sections 201(2), 301(a)(3) and 401(a)(1).  
     
  1-3.             ADMINISTRATION.  The Plan shall be administered by the Compensation Committee (the  Committee ) appointed by the Board of Directors of AbbVie (the  Board of Directors ).  
     
  1-4.             TRANSFER OF LIABILITIES FROM ABBOTT LABORATORIES PLAN.  As part of the Separation and Distribution Agreement by and between Abbott Laboratories and AbbVie Inc. dated as of November 28, 2012, Abbott and AbbVie entered into the Employee Matters Agreement dated as of December 31, 2012 (the  EMA ).  In accordance with the EMA, all liabilities for AbbVie Employees (as defined in the EMA) under the Abbott Laboratories 401(k) Supplemental Plan were transferred to the Plan and the Plan became liable to pay all such benefits to such participants.  Supplement A to the Plan sets forth the additional rules applicable to the transferred benefits and transferred participants.  
     
  SECTION 2  
  ELIGIBILITY AND PARTICIPATION  
     
  2-1.             PERSONS ELIGIBLE TO PARTICIPATE.  Participation in the Plan shall be limited to employees who are serving as corporate officers of AbbVie as of the Effective Date or who become corporate officers thereafter. The term  corporate officer  for purposes of the Plan shall mean an individual elected as an officer of AbbVie by its Board of Directors (or designated as such for purposes of the Plan by the Committee), but shall not include assistant secretaries, assistant treasurers, or other assistant officers. In the event an employee ceases to be a corporate officer of AbbVie due to demotion or otherwise while remaining in the employ of AbbVie, (a) such employee s elective deferral in effect for such year shall remain irrevocable, (b) AbbVie s matching contributions under Section 4 shall immediately cease, and (c) such employee shall no longer be eligible to participate in the Plan as of the end of such calendar year.  In the event an employee ceases to be a corporate officer of AbbVie due to termination of employment, such employee shall cease to be eligible to participate in the Plan and any contributions then being made on behalf of such employee shall immediately cease.  
     
  1    

2-2.             PARTICIPANT.  An eligible employee may elect to participate in the Plan by electing to have contributions made on the employee s behalf as provided in Section 5.  
     
  SECTION 3  
  EMPLOYEE CONTRIBUTIONS  
     
  3-1.             ALLOWABLE CONTRIBUTIONS.  An eligible employee may elect to have his employer make  pre-tax contributions  on his behalf in an amount not greater than 18% in total of his compensation in any calendar year for services rendered to his employer. A pre-tax contribution made by an employer on behalf of a participant shall reduce the participant s compensation at the time of payment of such compensation. Each election hereunder shall be in writing, and shall be in multiples of 1% of compensation.  
     
  3-2.             COMPENSATION.  A participant s  compensation  shall have the same meaning as set forth in Article 15 of the Savings Plan.  
     
  3-3.             MAXIMUM EMPLOYEE CONTRIBUTIONS.  Notwithstanding subsection 3-1, in no event shall the sum of:  
     
  (a)                                     the participant s total contributions, pre-tax contributions, supplemental deposits and supplemental pre-tax contributions made under the Savings Plan; plus  
     
  (b)                                     the participant s total pre-tax contributions made under the Plan;  
     
  for any calendar year, exceed 18% of the employee s compensation for such year.  In the event the limitation described in this subsection 3-3 would be exceeded for any participant, the participant s pre-tax contributions made under this Plan shall be reduced until the limit is not exceeded.  
     
  3-4.             CHANGE IN SAVINGS PLAN.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in subsections 3-1 and 3-3 above, no action or inaction by an employee under the Savings Plan may result in a change in amounts contributed to the Plan in excess of the limit with respect to elective deferrals under Code Section 402(g)(1)(A), (B) and (C) in effect for the year in which the action or inaction occurs.  
     
  SECTION 4  
  EMPLOYER CONTRIBUTIONS  
     
  For the calendar year ending December 31, 2013, and for each subsequent calendar year, AbbVie shall make a contribution on behalf of each Plan participant who makes pre-tax contributions ( basic contributions ) under the Plan during such year at the rate of two percent (2%) of compensation in excess of the limit in effect for such year under Code Section 40l(a)(17).  Such employer contribution shall be in an amount equal to the contribution the participant would have received under the Savings Plan with respect to such basic contributions had such basic contributions been made under the Savings Plan.  
     
  2    

SECTION 5  
  ELECTIONS  
     
  5-1.             ANNUAL ELECTIONS REQUIRED.  Except as provided in subsection 5-2 or Supplement A, a participant shall elect to make pre-tax contributions with respect to compensation earned in any calendar year on or before December 31 of the prior calendar year.  Each such election shall be in writing, shall be filed with the Committee, shall be effective only for the calendar year for which made and shall be irrevocable.  An employee who fails to make a timely election under this subsection 5-1 for a calendar year may not contribute to the Plan during the following year.  
     
  5-2.             NEWLY ELIGIBLE AND NEWLY HIRED EMPLOYEES.  A newly eligible or newly hired corporate officer described in subsection 2-1 shall become eligible to participate in the Plan on the first day of the month next following the month after the individual s date of eligibility or hire, as applicable;  provided  that in no event may such individual begin to participate in the Plan later than 90 days following his or her date of hire.  An eligible employee described in the preceding sentence (who was not eligible to participate in any other plan that would be aggregated with the Plan under Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(c)) shall make the election described in subsection 5-1 within thirty (30) days of the date on which he or she first becomes eligible under the Plan.  Any such election shall become effective for compensation earned no earlier than the first payroll period commencing after receipt of the election by the Committee and shall be irrevocable for the remainder of the calendar year.  Any other newly eligible or newly hired employee shall make the election described in subsection 5-1 no later than December 31 of the year in which such employee first becomes eligible under the Plan.  Any such election shall become effective for compensation earned in the calendar year following the year in which the election is made.  
     
  5-3.             GRANTOR TRUST ELECTION.  At the time of the annual elections described in subsection 5-1, each participant may elect to have his or her pre-tax and employer contributions for the following year deposited in a  Grantor Trust  established by the participant under the circumstances and on the terms described in subsection 6-1, rather than defer such contributions under subsection 5-1.  Any such election shall be irrevocable and shall apply to all pre-tax contributions made during, and employer contributions made for, such calendar year on behalf of such participant.  If the participant fails to make an election under this subsection 5-3, the participant s pre-tax contributions made during, and employer contribution made for, such calendar year shall be handled by AbbVie as described in subsection 6-2 and shall not be deposited in a Grantor Trust in the future.  In no event shall such contributions be paid to the Grantor Trust later than the last day of the  applicable 2  month period,  as such term is defined in Treasury Regulation   1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(A).  
     
  SECTION 6  
  FUNDING EMPLOYER AND EMPLOYEE CONTRIBUTIONS  
     
  6-1.             CONTRIBUTIONS TO BE DEPOSITED IN GRANTOR TRUSTS.  Each participant s pre-tax contributions and employer contributions for which the participant has filed an election under subsection 5-3 shall be deposited in a  Grantor Trust  established by the participant, as described in subsection 6-3, provided such trust is in a form which the Committee determines is substantially similar to the trust attached to this Plan as Exhibit A.  
     
  3    

6-2.             CONTRIBUTIONS TO BE RETAINED BY ABBVIE.  Each participant s pre-tax contributions and employer contributions for which the participant has not filed an election under subsection 5-3 shall be retained by AbbVie and credited to a Deferred Account established under subsection 7-1.  
     
  6-3.             AFTER ESTABLISHMENT OF GRANTOR TRUST.  After a Grantor Trust has been established by a participant under subsection 6-1, all pre-tax contributions and employer contributions made thereafter for which the participant has filed an election under subsection 5-3 shall be deposited in such Grantor Trust (less the aggregate federal, state and local individual income and employment taxes withheld on behalf of the participant (determined under subsection 8-5) attributable to such contributions). Such deposits shall be made as soon as practicable after the last complete payroll period of the calendar quarter in which the contributions are made.  In no event shall such contributions be paid to the Grantor Trust or the participant later than the last day of the  applicable 2  month period,  as such term is defined in Treasury Regulation   1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(A).  
     
  SECTION 7  
  ACCOUNTING  
     
  7-1.             SEPARATE ACCOUNTS.  The Committee shall establish bookkeeping accounts for participants who have made elections pursuant to subsection 5-1 or 5-3 as follows:  
     
  (a)               The Committee shall maintain a  Deferred Account  in the name of each participant who has elected to defer payment of all or a portion of his or her pre-tax contributions under subsection 5-1.  The Deferred Account shall be comprised of any pre-tax contributions made on behalf of the participant under subsection 3-1 and any other allocations made on behalf of the participant under Section 4, in each case for which the participant has not made an election under subsection 5-3, and any adjustments made pursuant to subsection 7-2.  
     
  (b)               The Committee shall maintain two separate Accounts, a  Pre-Tax Account  and an  After-Tax Account,  in the name of each participant who has declined to defer allocations by electing to have a portion of his or her pre-tax and employer contributions deposited in cash to a Grantor Trust according to subsection 5-3.  The Pre-Tax Account shall consist of the aggregate of all pre-tax contributions contemplated by subsection 3-1, whether deposited to the participant s Grantor Trust or paid in cash to, or withheld on behalf of, the participant, and any adjustments in accordance with subsection 7-3.  The After-Tax Account shall consist of employer contributions deposited to the participant s Grantor Trust in cash according to subsection 5-3 and any adjustments made in accordance with subsection 7-4.  
     
  7-2.             ADJUSTMENT OF DEFERRED ACCOUNTS.  No later than as of the end of each calendar year, each participant s Deferred Account shall be adjusted by the Committee as follows:  
     
  4    

(a)               FIRST, reduced by an amount equal to any distribution made to the participant during that year pursuant to subsection 7-11 or 7-12;  
     
  (b)               NEXT, increased by an amount equal to any pre-tax contributions and employer contributions made on behalf of such participant for that year for which the participant has not made an election under subsection 5-3; and  
     
  (c)               FINALLY, increased by an amount equal to the Interest earned for that year pursuant to subsection 7-5.  
     
  7-3.             ADJUSTMENT OF PRE-TAX ACCOUNTS.  No later than as of the end of each calendar year, each participant s Pre-Tax Account shall be adjusted by the Committee as follows:  
     
  (a)              FIRST, reduced, in any year in which the participant is entitled to receive a distribution from his or her Grantor Trust, by an amount equal to the distribution that would have been made to the participant if the aggregate amounts allocated according to subsection 5-3 had instead been deferred under subsection 5-1;  
     
  (b)               NEXT, increased by an amount equal to any pre-tax contributions and employer contributions made on behalf of the participant for that year that are paid to, or withheld on behalf of, the participant (including any contributions paid to the participant s Grantor Trust) according to subsection 5-3; and  
     
  (c)               FINALLY, increased by an amount equal to the Interest earned for that year pursuant to subsection 7-5.  
     
  7-4.             ADJUSTMENT OF AFTER-TAX ACCOUNTS.  No later than as of the end of each calendar year, each participant s After-Tax Account shall be adjusted by the Committee as follows:  
     
  (a)               FIRST, reduced, in any year in which the participant is in receipt of a benefit distribution from his or her Grantor Trust, by an amount calculated as provided by subsection 7-16 which represents the distribution for such year;  
     
  (b)               NEXT, increased by an amount equal to any pre-tax contributions and employer contributions made on behalf of the participant for that year that are deposited in the participant s Grantor Trust according to subsection 5-3; and  
     
  (c)               FINALLY, increased by an amount equal to the After-Tax Interest earned for that year pursuant to subsection 7-5.  
     
  7-5.             INTEREST ACCRUALS ON ACCOUNTS.  
     
  (a)               No later than as of the end of each calendar year, a participant s Deferred Account or Pre-Tax Account, as applicable, shall be credited with interest ( Interest ) at the following rate:  
     
  5    

(i)                the average of the  prime rate  of interest as set forth on the Bloomberg Screen BTMM or comparable successor quotation service on the first business day of January and the last business day of each month of the calendar year; plus  
     
  (ii)               two hundred twenty-five (225) basis points.  
     
  (b)               No later than as of the end of each calendar year, a participant s After-Tax Account shall be credited with the amount of Interest set forth above, multiplied by (one minus the aggregate of the applicable federal, state and local individual income tax rates and employment tax rate, determined in accordance with subsections 8-4 and 8-5) (the  After-Tax Interest ).  
     
  (c)               The Interest and After-Tax Interest, as applicable, shall be credited on the conditions established by the Committee.  
     
  7-6.             INTEREST PAYMENTS.    In addition to any employer contribution made on behalf of a participant for any calendar year pursuant to Section 4, AbbVie shall also make a payment (an  Interest Payment ) with respect to each participant who has established a Grantor Trust for each year in which the Grantor Trust is in effect.  The Interest Payment shall equal the excess, if any, of the participant s adjustment in subsection 7-3(c) over the net earnings of the participant s Grantor Trust for the year, as adjusted by the amounts described in Schedule A, if applicable, and shall be paid within the thirty (30)-day period beginning April 1 of the following fiscal year.  A portion of such Interest Payment, equal to the excess, if any, of the Net Interest Accrual over the net earnings of the participant s Grantor Trust, shall be deposited in the participant s Grantor Trust, with the balance paid to, or withheld on behalf of, the participant; provided, however, in the event that the net earnings of the participant s Grantor Trust exceed the Net Interest Accrual, a distribution from the Grantor Trust shall be required in accordance with subsection 8-11.  A participant s Net Interest Accrual for a year is an amount equal to the After-Tax Interest credited to the participant s After-Tax Account for that year in accordance with subsection 7-5.  
     
  7-7.             GRANTOR TRUST ASSETS.  Each participant s Grantor Trust assets shall be invested solely in the instruments specified by investment guidelines established by the Committee.  Such investment guidelines, once established, may be changed by the Committee, provided that any change shall not take effect until the year following the year in which the change is made and provided further that the instruments specified shall be consistent with the provisions of Section 3(b) of the form of Grantor Trust attached hereto as Schedule B.  
     
  7-8.             DESIGNATION OF BENEFICIARIES.  Subject to the conditions and limitations set forth below, each participant, and after a participant s death, each primary beneficiary designated by a participant in accordance with the provisions of this subsection 7-8, shall have the right from time to time to designate a primary beneficiary or beneficiaries and, successive or contingent beneficiary or beneficiaries to receive unpaid amounts from the participant s Deferred Account under the Plan.  Beneficiaries may be a natural person or persons or a fiduciary, such as a trustee of a trust or the legal representative of an estate.  Any such designation shall take effect upon the death of the participant or such beneficiary, as the case may be, or in the case of any  
     
  6    

fiduciary beneficiary, upon the termination of all of its duties (other than the duty to dispose of the right to receive amounts remaining to be paid under the Plan).  The conditions and limitations relating to the designation of beneficiaries are as follows:  
     
  (a)               A nonfiduciary beneficiary shall have the right to designate a further beneficiary or beneficiaries only if the original participant or the next preceding primary beneficiary, as the case may be, shall have expressly so provided in writing; and  
     
  (b)               A fiduciary beneficiary shall designate as a further beneficiary or beneficiaries only those persons or other fiduciaries who are entitled to receive the amounts payable from the participant s account under the trust or estate of which it is a fiduciary.  
     
  Any beneficiary designation or grant of any power to any beneficiary under this subsection may be exercised only by an instrument in writing, executed by the person making the designation or granting such power and filed with the Secretary of AbbVie during such person s lifetime or prior to the termination of a fiduciary s duties.  If a deceased participant or a deceased nonfiduciary beneficiary who had the right to designate a beneficiary as provided above dies without having designated a further beneficiary, or if no beneficiary designated as provided above is living or qualified and acting, the Committee, in its discretion, may direct distribution of the amount remaining from time to time to either:  
     
  (i)               any one or more or all of the next of kin (including the surviving spouse) of the participant or the deceased beneficiary, as the case may be, and in such proportions as the Committee determines; or  
     
  (ii)               the legal representative of the estate of the deceased participant or deceased beneficiary as the case may be.  
     
  7-9.             NON-ASSIGNABILITY AND FACILITY OF PAYMENT.  Amounts payable to participants and their beneficiaries under the Plan are not in any way subject to their debts and other obligations, and may not be voluntarily or involuntarily sold, transferred or assigned; provided that the preceding provisions of this section shall not be construed as restricting in any way a designation right granted to a beneficiary pursuant to the terms of subsection 7-8.  When a participant or the beneficiary of a participant is under legal disability, or in the Committee s opinion is in any way incapacitated so as to be unable to manage his or her financial affairs, the Committee may direct that payments shall be made to the participant s or beneficiary s legal representative, or to a relative or friend of the participant or beneficiary for the benefit of the participant or beneficiary, or the Committee may direct the payment or distribution for the benefit of the participant or beneficiary in any manner that the Committee determines.  
     
  7-10.           PAYER OF AMOUNTS ALLOCATED TO PARTICIPANTS.  Any employer contribution made on behalf of a participant in the Plan and any interest credited with respect thereto will be paid by the employer (or such employer s successor) by whom the participant was employed during the calendar year for which any amount was contributed, and for that purpose, if a participant shall have been employed by two or more employers during any calendar year the amount allocated under this Plan for that year shall be an obligation of each of the respective  
     
  7    

employers in proportion to the respective amounts of compensation paid by each of them in that calendar year.  
     
  7-11.           MANNER OF PAYMENT OF DEFERRED ACCOUNTS.  Subject to subsection 7-12, a participant shall elect to receive payment of his or her Deferred Account in substantially equal annual installments over a minimum period of ten years, or a longer period, at the time of his or her election for such calendar year under subsection 5-1.  Payment of a participant s Deferred Account shall commence on the first business day of January of the year following the year in which the participant incurs a termination of employment.  
     
  7-12.           PAYMENT UPON TERMINATION FOLLOWING CHANGE IN CONTROL. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, if a participant incurs a termination of employment with AbbVie and its subsidiaries for any reason within two (2) years following the date of a Change in Control, provided that the event constituting a Change in Control is also a  change in control event,  as such term is defined in Treasury Regulation   1.409A-3(i)(5): (a) with respect to a participant whose contributions under the Plan are deferred in accordance with subsection 5-1, the aggregate unpaid balance of the participant s Deferred Account shall be paid to such participant in a lump sum within thirty (30) days following the date of such termination of employment, and (b) with respect to a participant whose contributions under the Plan are made pursuant to subsection 5-5, (i) the aggregate of the participant s unpaid contributions under subsection 5-5 (if any) for the fiscal year in which the termination occurs and (ii) a pro rata portion of the unpaid Interest Payment under subsection 7-6 attributable to the portion of the year elapsed prior to the date of termination, shall be paid to such participant s Grantor Trust in a lump sum within thirty (30) days following the date of such termination of employment.  
     
  7-13.           CHANGE IN CONTROL.  A  Change in Control  shall be deemed to have occurred on the earliest of the following dates:  
     
  (a)               the date any Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of AbbVie (not including in the securities beneficially owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from AbbVie or its Affiliates) representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of AbbVie s then outstanding securities, excluding any Person who becomes such a Beneficial Owner in connection with a transaction described in clause (i) of paragraph (c) below; or  
     
  (b)               the date the following individuals cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the number of directors then serving: individuals who, on the date hereof, constitute the Board of Directors and any new director (other than a director whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened election contest, including but not limited to a consent solicitation, relating to the election of directors of AbbVie) whose appointment or election by the Board of Directors or nomination for election by AbbVie s shareholders was approved or recommended by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who either were directors on the date hereof or whose appointment, election or nomination for election was previously so approved or recommended; or  
     
  8    

(c)               the date on which there is consummated a merger or consolidation of AbbVie or any direct or indirect subsidiary of AbbVie with any other corporation or other entity, other than (i) a merger or consolidation (A) immediately following which the individuals who comprise the Board of Directors immediately prior thereto constitute at least a majority of the Board of Directors of AbbVie, the entity surviving such merger or consolidation or, if AbbVie or the entity surviving such merger or consolidation is then a subsidiary, the ultimate parent thereof and (B) which results in the voting securities of AbbVie outstanding immediately prior to such merger or consolidation continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity or any parent thereof), in combination with the ownership of any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of AbbVie or any subsidiary of AbbVie, at least 50% of the combined voting power of the securities of AbbVie or such surviving entity or any parent thereof outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation, or (ii) a merger or consolidation effected to implement a recapitalization of AbbVie (or similar transaction) in which no Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of AbbVie (not including in the securities Beneficially Owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from AbbVie or its Affiliates) representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of AbbVie s then outstanding securities; or  
     
  (d)               the date the shareholders of AbbVie approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of AbbVie or there is consummated an agreement for the sale or disposition by AbbVie of all or substantially all of AbbVie s assets, other than a sale or disposition by AbbVie of all or substantially all of AbbVie s assets to an entity, at least 50% of the combined voting power of the voting securities of which are owned by shareholders of AbbVie in combination with the ownership of any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of AbbVie or any subsidiary of AbbVie, in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of AbbVie immediately prior to such sale.  
     
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a  Change in Control  shall not be deemed to have occurred by virtue of the consummation of any transaction or series of integrated transactions immediately following which the record holders of the common stock of AbbVie immediately prior to such transaction or series of transactions continue to have    substantially the same proportionate ownership in an entity which owns all or substantially all of the assets of AbbVie immediately following such transaction or series of transactions.  
     
  For purposes of this Plan:  Affiliate  shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under Section 12 of the Exchange Act;  Beneficial Owner  shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act;  Exchange Act  shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time; and  Person  shall have the meaning given in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act, as modified and used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) thereof, except that such term shall not include (i) AbbVie or any of its subsidiaries, (ii) a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of AbbVie or any of its Affiliates, (iii) an underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities, or (iv) a  
     
  9    

corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the shareholders of AbbVie in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of AbbVie.  
     
  7-14.           POTENTIAL CHANGE IN CONTROL.  A  Potential Change in Control  shall exist during any period in which the circumstances described in paragraph (a), (b), (c) or (d), below, exist (provided, however, that a Potential Change in Control shall cease to exist not later than the occurrence of a Change in Control):  
     
  (a)               AbbVie enters into an agreement, the consummation of which would result in the occurrence of a Change in Control, provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this paragraph (a) shall cease to exist upon the expiration or other termination of all such agreements.  
     
  (b)               Any Person (without regard to the exclusions set forth in subsections (i) through (iv) of such definition) publicly announces an intention to take or to consider taking actions the consummation of which would constitute a Change in Control; provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this paragraph (b) shall cease to exist upon the withdrawal of such intention, or upon a determination by the Board of Directors that there is no reasonable chance that such actions would be consummated.  
     
  (c)               Any Person becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of AbbVie representing 10% or more of either the then outstanding shares of common stock of AbbVie or the combined voting power of AbbVie s then outstanding securities (not including any securities beneficially owned by such Person which are or were acquired directly from AbbVie or its Affiliates).  
     
  (d)               The Board of Directors adopts a resolution to the effect that, for purposes of this Agreement, a Potential Change in Control exists; provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this paragraph (d) shall cease to exist upon a determination by the Board of Directors that the reasons that gave rise to the resolution providing for the existence of a Potential Change in Control have expired or no longer exist.  
     
  7-15.           PROHIBITION AGAINST AMENDMENT.  The provisions of subsections 7-12, 7-13, 7-14 and this subsection 7-15 may not be amended or deleted, or superseded by any other provision of this Plan, (a) during the pendency of a Potential Change in Control or (b) during the period beginning on the date of a Change in Control and ending on the date five (5) years following such Change in Control.  
     
  7-16.           ADMINISTRATOR S CALCULATION OF GRANTOR TRUST DISTRIBUTIONS. The Administrator shall calculate the amount to be distributed from a participant s Grantor Trust in any year in which the participant is entitled to a benefit distribution by multiplying (a) the amount of the reduction determined in accordance with subsection 7-3(a), by (b) a fraction, the numerator of which is the balance in the participant s After-Tax Account as of the end of the prior calendar year and the denominator of which is the balance of the participant s Pre-Tax Account as of that same date.  
     
  10    

SECTION 8  MISCELLANEOUS  
     
  8-1.             RULES.  The Committee may establish such rules and regulations as it may consider necessary or desirable for the effective and efficient administration of the Plan.  
     
  8-2.             TAXES.  Any employer shall be entitled, if necessary or desirable, to pay, or withhold the amount of any federal, state or local tax attributable to any amounts payable by it under the Plan and may require payment from the participant in an amount necessary to satisfy such taxes prior to remitting such taxes.  
     
  8-3.             RIGHTS OF PARTICIPANTS.  Employment rights of participants with AbbVie and its subsidiaries shall not be enlarged or affected by reason of establishment of or inclusion as a participant in the Plan. Nothing contained in the Plan shall require AbbVie or any subsidiary to segregate or earmark any assets, funds or property for the purpose of payment of any amounts which may have been deferred.  The Deferred, Pre-Tax and After-Tax Accounts established pursuant to subsection 7-1 are for the convenience of the administration of the Plan and no trust relationship with respect to such Accounts is intended or should be implied.  Participant s rights shall be limited to payment to them at the time or times and in such amounts as are contemplated by the Plan.  Any decision made by the Committee which is within its sole and uncontrolled discretion shall be conclusive and binding upon all persons whomsoever.  
     
  8-4.             EMPLOYMENT TAX ASSUMPTIONS.  For purposes of Sections 7 and 8, a participant s employment tax rate shall be deemed to be the highest marginal rate of Federal Insurance Contributions Act tax in effect in the calendar year in which a calculation under those Sections is to be made.  
     
  8-5.             INCOME TAX ASSUMPTIONS.  For purposes of Sections 7 and 8, a participant s federal income tax rate shall be deemed to be the highest marginal rate of federal individual income tax in effect in the calendar year in which a calculation under those Sections is to be made, and state and local tax rates shall be deemed to be the highest marginal rates of individual income tax in effect in the state and locality of the participant s residence on the date such a calculation is made, net of any federal tax benefits without a benefit for any net capital losses.  
     
  8-6.             GENDER.  For purposes of the Plan, words in the masculine gender shall include the feminine and neuter genders, the singular shall include the plural and the plural shall include the singular.  
     
  8-7.             MANNER OF ACTION BY COMMITTEE.  A majority of the members of the Committee qualified to act on any particular question may act by meeting or by writing signed without meeting, and may execute any instrument or document required or delegate to one of its members authority to sign.  The Committee from time to time may delegate the performance of certain ministerial functions in connection with the Plan, such as the keeping of records, to such person or persons as the Committee may select.  Except as otherwise expressly provided in the Plan, the costs of administration of the Plan will be paid by AbbVie.  Any notice required to be given to, or any document required to be filed with the Committee, will be properly given or filed if mailed or delivered in writing to the Secretary of AbbVie.  
     
  11    

8-8.             RELIANCE UPON ADVICE.  The Board of Directors and the Committee may rely upon any information or advice furnished to it by any Officer of AbbVie or by AbbVie s independent auditors, or other consultants, and shall be fully protected in relying upon such information or advice.  No member of the Board of Directors or the Committee shall be liable for any act or failure to act on their part, excepting only any acts done or omitted to be done in bad faith, nor shall they be liable for any act or failure to act of any other member.  
     
  8-9.             CHANGE OF CONDITIONS RELATING TO PAYMENTS.  No change to the time of payment or the time of commencement of payment and any period over which payment shall be made shall be effected except in strict compliance with the subsequent election requirements of Treasury Regulation   1.409A-2(b), to the extent subject thereto.  
     
  8-10.           CODE SECTION 409A.  To the extent applicable, it is intended that the Plan comply with the provisions of Code Section 409A.  The Plan will be administered and interpreted in a manner consistent with this intent, and any provision that would cause the Plan to fail to satisfy Code Section 409A will have no force and effect until amended to comply therewith (which amendment may be retroactive to the extent permitted by Code Section 409A).  Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, for all purposes of the Plan, a participant shall not be deemed to have had a termination of employment until the participant has incurred a separation from service as defined in Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(h) and, to the extent required to avoid accelerated taxation and/or tax penalties under Code Section 409A and applicable guidance issued thereunder, payment of the amounts payable under the Plan that would otherwise be payable during the six-month period after the date of termination shall instead be paid on the first business day after the expiration of such six-month period, plus interest thereon, at a rate equal to the rate of Interest provided in subsection 7-5(a) (to the extent that such interest is not already provided to the participant under subsection 7-6), from the respective dates on which such amounts would otherwise have been paid until the actual date of payment.  In addition, for purposes of the Plan, each amount to be paid and each installment payment shall be construed as a separate identified payment for purposes of Code Section 409A.  
     
  8-11.           DOMESTIC RELATIONS ORDER.  In accordance with Treasury Regulation 1.409A-3(j)(4)(ii), distributions shall be made to an individual (other than to the participant) pursuant to the terms of a  domestic relations order  (as defined in Code Section 414(p)(1)(B)), as determined and administered by the AbbVie Senior Vice President, Human Resources (or the individual holding equivalent duties and responsibilities) or his or her delegate, provided that such order (a) does not require the Plan to provide any type or form of benefit or any option not otherwise provided under the Plan, (b) does not require the Plan to provide increased benefits, and (c) does not require the payment of benefits to an alternate payee which are required to be paid to another alternate payee under another order.  
     
  8-12.           GRANTOR TRUSTS.  AbbVie, as the administrator of the participant s Grantor Trust, may direct the trustee to distribute to such participant from the income of such Grantor Trust an amount sufficient to pay the taxes on the Grantor Trust earnings for such year, to the extent a sufficient sum of money has not been paid to, or withheld on behalf of, the participant pursuant to subsection 7-6.  The taxes shall be determined in accordance with subsections 8-4 and 8-5.  
     
  12    

SECTION 9  AMENDMENT, TERMINATION AND CHANGE OF  CONDITIONS RELATING TO PAYMENTS  
     
  The Plan will be effective from its effective date until terminated by the Board of Directors.  The Board of Directors reserves the right to amend the Plan from time to time and to terminate the Plan at any time. No such amendment or any termination of the Plan shall reduce any fixed or contingent obligations which shall have arisen under the Plan prior to the date of such amendment or termination.  
     
  13    

EXHIBIT A   
     
   IRREVOCABLE GRANTOR TRUST AGREEMENT   
     
  THIS AGREEMENT, made this              day of                           , 20      , by and between                            of                         , Illinois (the  grantor ), and The Northern Trust Company located at Chicago, Illinois, as trustee (the  trustee ),  
     
  WITNESSETH THAT:  
     
  WHEREAS, the grantor desires to establish and maintain a trust to hold certain benefits received by the grantor under the AbbVie Supplemental Savings Plan, as it may be amended from time to time;  
     
  NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows:  
     
  ARTICLE I  INTRODUCTION  
     
  I-1.              NAME. This agreement and the trust hereby evidenced (the  trust ) may be referred to as the                   Grantor Trust .  
     
  I-2.              THE TRUST FUND.  The  trust fund  as at any date means all property then held by the trustee under this agreement.  
     
  I-3.              STATUS OF THE TRUST.  The trust shall be irrevocable. The trust is intended to constitute a grantor trust under Sections 671-678 of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, and shall be construed accordingly.  
     
  I-4.              THE ADMINISTRATOR. AbbVie Inc. ( AbbVie ) shall act as the  administrator  of the trust, and as such shall have certain powers, rights and duties under this agreement as described below. AbbVie will certify to the trustee from time to time the person or persons authorized to act on behalf of AbbVie as the administrator. The trustee may rely on the latest certificate received without further inquiry or verification.  
     
  I-5.              ACCEPTANCE.  The trustee accepts the duties and obligations of the  trustee  hereunder, agrees to accept funds delivered to it by the grantor or the administrator, and agrees to hold such funds (and any proceeds from the investment of such funds) in trust in accordance with this agreement.  
     
  ARTICLE II  DISTRIBUTION OF THE TRUST FUND  
     
  II-1.            DEFERRED ACCOUNT.  The administrator shall maintain a  deferred account  under the trust. As of the end of each calendar year, the administrator shall charge the deferred account with all distributions made from such account during that year; and credit such account  
     
  1    

with income and realized gains and charge such account with expenses and realized losses for the year.  
     
  II-2.            DISTRIBUTIONS FROM THE DEFERRED ACCOUNT PRIOR TO THE GRANTOR S DEATH.  Principal and accumulated income credited to the deferred account shall not be distributed from the trust prior to the grantor s retirement or other termination of employment with AbbVie or a subsidiary of AbbVie (the grantor s  settlement date  provided that, each year the administrator may direct the trustee to distribute to the grantor a portion of the income of the deferred account for that year, with the balance of such income to be accumulated in that account.  The administrator shall inform the trustee of the grantor s settlement date. Thereafter, the trustee shall distribute the amounts from time to time credited to the deferred account to the grantor, if then living, either in a lump-sum payable as soon as practicable following the settlement date, or in a series of annual installments, with the amount of each installment computed by one of the following methods:  
     
  (a)               The amount of each installment shall be equal to the sum of: (i) the amount credited to the deferred account as of the end of the year in which the grantor s settlement date occurs, divided by the number of years over which installments are to be distributed; plus (ii) the net earnings credited to the deferred account for the preceding year (excluding the year in which the grantor s settlement date occurs).  
     
  (b)               The amount of each installment shall be determined by dividing the amount credited to the deferred account as of the end of the preceding year by the difference between (i) the total number of years over which installments are to be distributed, and (ii) the number of annual installment distributions previously made from the deferred account.  
     
  (c)               Each installment (after the first installment) shall be approximately equal, with the amount comprised of the sum of: (i) the amount of the first installment, plus interest thereon at the rate determined under the AbbVie Supplemental Savings Plan, compounded annually; and (ii) the net earnings credited to the deferred account for the preceding year.  
     
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the final installment distribution made to the grantor under this paragraph II-2 shall equal the total principal and accumulated income then held in the trust fund. The grantor, by writing filed with the trustee and the administrator on or before the end of the calendar year in which the grantor s settlement date occurs, may select either the lump-sum or an installment payment method and, if an installment method is selected, may select both the period (which may not be less than ten years from the end of the calendar year in which the grantor s settlement date occurred) over which the installment distributions are to be made and the method of computing the amount of each installment.  In the absence of such a written direction by the grantor, installment distributions shall be made over a period of ten years, and the amount of each installment shall be computed by using the method described in subparagraph (a) next above.  Installment distributions under this paragraph II-2 shall be made as of January 1 of each year, beginning with the calendar year following the year in which the grantor s settlement date occurs.  The administrator shall inform the trustee of the amount of each installment distribution under this  
     
  2    

paragraph II-2, and the trustee shall be fully protected in relying on such information received from the administrator.  
     
  II-3.            DISTRIBUTIONS AFTER THE GRANTOR S DEATH.  The grantor may, from time to time, name any person or persons (who may be named contingently or successively and who may be natural persons or fiduciaries) to whom the principal of the trust fund and all accrued or undistributed income thereof shall be distributed in a lump sum or, if the beneficiary is the grantor s spouse (or a trust for which the grantor s spouse is the sole income beneficiary), in installments, as directed by the grantor, upon the grantor s death.  If the grantor directs an installment method of distribution to the spouse as beneficiary, any amounts remaining at the death of the spouse beneficiary shall be distributed in a lump sum to the executor or administrator of the spouse beneficiary s estate.  If the grantor directs an installment method of distribution to a trust for which the grantor s spouse is the sole income beneficiary, any amounts remaining at the death of the spouse shall be distributed in a lump sum to such trust.  Despite the foregoing, if (i) the beneficiary is a trust for which the grantor s spouse is the sole income beneficiary, (ii) payments are being made pursuant to this paragraph II-3 other than in a lump sum and (iii) income earned by the trust fund for the year exceeds the amount of the annual installment payment, then such trust may elect to withdraw such excess income by written notice to the trustee.  Each designation shall revoke all prior designations, shall be in writing and shall be effective only when filed by the grantor with the administrator during the grantor s lifetime.  If the grantor fails to direct a method of distribution, the distribution shall be made in a lump sum. If the grantor fails to designate a beneficiary as provided above, then on the grantor s death, the trustee shall distribute the balance of the trust fund in a lump sum to the executor or administrator of the grantor s estate.  
     
  II-4.            FACILITY OF PAYMENT.  When a person entitled to a distribution hereunder is under legal disability, or, in the trustee s opinion, is in any way incapacitated so as to be unable to manage his or her financial affairs, the trustee may make such distribution to such person s legal representative, or to a relative or friend of such person for such person s benefit.  Any distribution made in accordance with the preceding sentence shall be a full and complete discharge of any liability for such distribution hereunder.  
     
  II-5.            PERPETUITIES.  Notwithstanding any other provisions of this agreement, on the day next preceding the end of 21 years after the death of the last to die of the grantor and the grantor s descendants living on the date of this instrument, the trustee shall immediately distribute any remaining balance in the trust to the beneficiaries then entitled to distributions hereunder.  
     
  ARTICLE III  MANAGEMENT OF THE TRUST FUND  
     
  III-1.          GENERAL POWERS.  The trustee shall, with respect to the trust fund, have the following powers, rights and duties in addition to those provided elsewhere in this agreement or by law:  
     
  (a)                                     Subject to the limitations of subparagraph (b) next below, to sell, contract to sell, purchase, grant or exercise options to purchase, and otherwise deal with all assets of the trust fund, in such way, for such considerations, and on such terms and conditions as the trustee decides.  
     
  3    

(b)               To retain in cash such amounts as the trustee considers advisable; and to invest and reinvest the balance of the trust fund, without distinction between principal and income, in obligations of the United States Government and its agencies or which are backed by the full faith and credit of the United States Government or in any mutual fund, common trust fund or collective investment fund which invests solely in such obligations; and any such investment made or retained by the trustee in good faith shall be proper despite any resulting risk or lack of diversification or marketability.  
     
  (c)               To deposit cash in any depositary (including the banking department of the bank acting as trustee) without liability for interest, and to invest cash in savings accounts or time certificates of deposit bearing a reasonable rate of interest in any such depositary.  
     
  (d)               To invest, subject to the limitations of subparagraph (b) next above, in any common or commingled trust fund or funds maintained or administered by the trustee solely for the investment of trust funds.  
     
  (e)               To borrow from anyone, with the administrator s approval, such sum or sums from time to time as the trustee considers desirable to carry out this trust, and to mortgage or pledge all or part of the trust fund as security.  
     
  (f)                To retain any funds or property subject to any dispute without liability for interest and to decline to make payment or delivery thereof until final adjudication by a court of competent jurisdiction or until an appropriate release is obtained.  
     
  (g)               To begin, maintain or defend any litigation necessary in connection with the administration of this trust, except that the trustee shall not be obliged or required to do so unless indemnified to the trustee s satisfaction.  
     
  (h)               To compromise, contest, settle or abandon claims or demands.  
     
  (i)                To give proxies to vote stocks and other voting securities, to join in or oppose (alone or jointly with others) voting trusts, mergers, consolidations, foreclosures, reorganizations, liquidations, or other changes in the financial structure of any corporation, and to exercise or sell stock subscription or conversion rights.  
     
  (j)                To hold securities or other property in the name of a nominee, in a depositary, or in any other way, with or without disclosing the trust relationship.  
     
  (k)               To divide or distribute the trust fund in undivided interests or wholly or partly in kind.  
     
  (l)                To pay any tax imposed on or with respect to the trust; to defer making payment of any such tax if it is indemnified to its satisfaction in the premises; and to require before making any payment such release or other document from any lawful taxing  
     
  4    

authority and such indemnity from the intended payee as the trustee considers necessary for its protection.  
     
  (m)              To deal without restriction with the legal representative of the grantor s estate or the trustee or other legal representative of any trust created by the grantor or a trust or estate in which a beneficiary has an interest, even though the trustee, individually, shall be acting in such other capacity, without liability for any loss that may result.  
     
  (n)               To appoint or remove by written instrument any bank or corporation qualified to act as successor trustee, wherever located, as special trustee as to part or all of the trust fund, including property as to which the trustee does not act, and such special trustee, except as specifically limited or provided by this or the appointing instrument, shall have all of the rights, titles, powers, duties, discretions and immunities of the trustee, without liability for any action taken or omitted to be taken under this or the appointing instrument.  
     
  (o)               To appoint or remove by written instrument any bank, wherever located, as custodian of part or all of the trust fund, and each such custodian shall have such rights, powers, duties and discretions as are delegated to it by the trustee.  
     
  (p)               To employ agents, attorneys, accountants or other persons, and to delegate to them such powers as the trustee considers desirable, and the trustee shall be protected in acting or refraining from acting on the advice of persons so employed without court action.  
     
  (q)               To perform any and all other acts which in the trustee s judgment are appropriate for the proper management, investment and distribution of the trust fund.  
     
  III-2.          PRINCIPAL AND INCOME.  Any income earned on the trust fund which is not distributed as provided in Article II shall be accumulated and from time to time added to the principal of the trust. The grantor s interest in the trust shall include all assets or other property held by the trustee hereunder, including principal and accumulated income.  
     
  III-3.          STATEMENTS.  The trustee shall prepare and deliver monthly to the administrator and annually to the grantor, if then living, otherwise to each beneficiary then entitled to distributions under this agreement, a statement (or series of statements) setting forth (or which taken together set forth) all investments, receipts, disbursements and other transactions effected by the trustee during the reporting period; and showing the trust fund and the value thereof at the end of such period.  
     
  III-4.          COMPENSATION AND EXPENSES.  All reasonable costs, charges and expenses incurred in the administration of this trust, including compensation to the trustee, any compensation to agents, attorneys, accountants and other persons employed by the trustee, and expenses incurred in connection with the sale, investment and reinvestment of the trust fund shall be paid from the trust fund.  
     
  5    

ARTICLE IV  GENERAL PROVISIONS  
     
  IV-1.           INTERESTS NOT TRANSFERABLE.  The interests of the grantor or other persons entitled to distributions hereunder are not subject to their debts or other obligations and may not be voluntarily or involuntarily sold, transferred, alienated, assigned or encumbered.  
     
  IV-2.           DISAGREEMENT AS TO ACTS.  If there is a disagreement between the trustee and anyone as to any act or transaction reported in any accounting, the trustee shall have the right to a settlement of its account by any proper court.  
     
  IV-3.           TRUSTEE S OBLIGATIONS.  No power, duty or responsibility is imposed on the trustee except as set forth in this agreement.  The trustee is not obliged to determine whether funds delivered to or distributions from the trust are proper under the trust, or whether any tax is due or payable as a result of any such delivery or distribution.  The trustee shall be protected in making any distribution from the trust as directed pursuant to Article II without inquiring as to whether the distributee is entitled thereto; and the trustee shall not be liable for any distribution made in good faith without written notice or knowledge that the distribution is not proper under the terms of this agreement.  
     
  IV-4.           GOOD FAITH ACTIONS.  The trustee s exercise or non-exercise of its powers and discretions in good faith shall be conclusive on all persons.  No one shall be obliged to see to the application of any money paid or property delivered to the trustee.  The certificate of the trustee that it is acting according to this agreement will fully protect all persons dealing with the trustee.  
     
  IV-5.           WAIVER OF NOTICE.  Any notice required under this agreement may be waived by the person entitled to such notice.  
     
  IV-6.           CONTROLLING LAW.  The laws of the State of Illinois shall govern the interpretation and validity of the provisions of this agreement and all questions relating to the management, administration, investment and distribution of the trust hereby created.  
     
  IV-7.           SUCCESSORS.  This agreement shall be binding on all persons entitled to distributions hereunder and their respective heirs and legal representatives, and on the trustee and its successors.  
     
  ARTICLE V  CHANGES IN TRUSTEE  
     
  V-1.            RESIGNATION OR REMOVAL OF TRUSTEE.  The trustee may resign at any time by giving thirty days  advance written notice to the administrator and the grantor.  The administrator may remove a trustee by written notice to the trustee and the grantor.  
     
  V-2.            APPOINTMENT OF SUCCESSOR TRUSTEE.  The administrator shall fill any vacancy in the office of trustee as soon as practicable by written notice to the successor trustee; and shall give prompt written notice thereof to the grantor, if then living, otherwise to each beneficiary  
     
  6    

then entitled to payments or distributions under this agreement.  A successor trustee shall be a bank (as defined in Section 581 of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended).  
     
  V-3.            DUTIES OF RESIGNING OR REMOVED TRUSTEE AND OF SUCCESSOR TRUSTEE.  A trustee that resigns or is removed shall furnish promptly to the administrator and the successor trustee an account of its administration of the trust from the date of its last account. Each successor trustee shall succeed to the title to the trust fund vested in its predecessor without the signing or filing of any instrument, but each predecessor trustee shall execute all documents and do all acts necessary to vest such title of record in the successor trustee.  Each successor trustee shall have all the powers conferred by this agreement as if originally named trustee.  No successor trustee shall be personally liable for any act or failure to act of a predecessor trustee. With the approval of the administrator, a successor trustee may accept the account furnished and the property delivered by a predecessor trustee without incurring any liability for so doing, and such acceptance will be complete discharge to the predecessor trustee.  
     
  ARTICLE VI  AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION  
     
  VI-1.           AMENDMENT.  With the consent of the administrator, this trust may be amended from time to time by the grantor, if then living, otherwise by a majority of the beneficiaries then entitled to payments or distributions hereunder, except as follows:  
     
  (a)               The duties and liabilities of the trustee cannot be changed substantially without its consent.  
     
  (b)               This trust may not be amended so as to make the trust revocable.  
     
  VI-2.           TERMINATION.  This trust shall not terminate, and all rights, titles, powers, duties, discretions and immunities imposed on or reserved to the trustee, the administrator, the grantor and the beneficiaries shall continue in effect, until all assets of the trust have been distributed by the trustee as provided in Article II.  
     
  *      *      *  
     
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the grantor and the trustee have executed this agreement as of the day and year first above written.  

Grantor           

The Northern Trust   Company, as Trustee           

By       

Its       

7    

SUPPLEMENT A   
     
  SPECIAL RULES RELATED TO TRANSFER FROM ABBOTT LABORATORIES 401(k) SUPPLEMENTAL PLAN  
     
  A-1.             Purpose and Effect   .  The purpose of this Supplement A is to provide for the transfer of liabilities from the Abbott Laboratories 401(k) Supplemental Plan (the  Abbott KSP ) to this Plan with respect to Transferred Participants and Post-Distribution Participants as set forth in the EMA.  
     
  A-2.             Eligibility, Service and Compensation   .  Transferred Participants and Post-Distribution Participants shall (a) be eligible to participate in this Plan to the extent they were eligible to participate in the Abbott KSP as of the applicable Transfer Date (as defined in the EMA), and (b) receive credit for vesting and eligibility for all service credited for those purposes under the Abbott KSP as of the Transfer Date (as defined in the EMA) as if that service had been rendered to AbbVie (provided that in the event that any such Transferred Participant or Post-Distribution Participant receives a distribution from the Abbott KSP, the value of such distribution shall be offset against future benefits under the this Plan to the extent necessary to prevent a duplication of benefits).  The compensation paid by Abbott and its subsidiaries to a Transferred Participant or a Post-Distribution Participant that was recognized under the Abbott KSP as of the Transfer Date (as defined in the EMA) shall be credited and recognized for all applicable purposes under this Plan as though it were compensation from AbbVie or its Subsidiaries.  
     
  A-3.             Initial Transfer of Liabilities from Abbott KSP   .  As soon as practicable after the Separation (as defined in the Separation Agreement), and subject to such terms and conditions as the Plan Administrator may establish, all liabilities attributable to Transferred Participants shall be transferred from the Abbott KSP to this Plan.  The Plan shall credit each such Transferred Participant s account with (a) the amount deferred by such individual into the Abbott KSP as of the applicable Transfer Date (as defined in the EMA), plus (b) any employer contributions, whether vested or unvested, deemed to have been made in relation to the amount described in (a), including, in each case, any earnings thereon.  
     
  A-4.             Deferral and Distribution Elections.     The Plan shall recognize, implement and honor all deferral and distribution elections made by a Transferred Participant under the Abbott KSP (including, but not limited to, any election to defer any bonus earned during 2012 but paid in 2013).  
     
  A-5.             Subsequent Transfers   .  At such time or times as the Plan Administrator and Abbott (or its delegate) shall agree, and subject to such terms and conditions as the Plan Administrator may establish, all liabilities attributable to Post-Distribution Participants shall be transferred from the Abbott KSP to this Plan.  The Plan shall credit each such Post-Distribution Participant s account with (a) the amount deferred by such individual into the Abbott KSP as of the applicable Transfer Date (as defined in the EMA), plus (b) any employer contributions, whether vested or unvested, deemed to have been made in relation to the amount described in (a), including, in each case, any earnings thereon.  
     
  1    

A-6.             Deferral and Distribution Elections   Post-Distribution Participants   .  Post-Distribution Participants are required to make new elections under the Plan upon hire or transfer to AbbVie or its subsidiaries in accordance with subsection 5-3.  Distribution elections made under the Abbott KSP with respect to transferred amounts in A-5 above shall be recognized, implemented and honored by the Plan and such amounts shall be immediately distributable to such Post-Distribution Participants in accordance with such elections.  Distribution elections with respect to amounts deferred under this Plan on or after the Effective Date shall be in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Plan.  
     
  A-7.             Definitions.     For purposes of this Supplement A, the following terms are defined as follows:  
     
  (a)                Post-Distribution Participant  means: (i) a Post-Distribution AbbVie Employee (as defined in the EMA) who (A) was an employee of Abbott or its subsidiary as of immediately prior to the Separation (as defined in the Separation Agreement) and is transferred to or hired by AbbVie or its Subsidiary after the Separation (as defined in the Separation Agreement), and (B) had the liabilities associated with his or her account balances in the Abbott KSP transferred to this Plan in accordance with this Supplement A; and (ii) any other individual who becomes a Plan participant and on whose behalf liabilities related to his or her prior period of employment with Abbott are transferred from an Abbott retirement plan to an AbbVie retirement plan during the Transition Period (as described in the EMA).  
     
  (b)                Transferred Participant  means an AbbVie Employee (as defined in the EMA), excluding any Post-Distribution AbbVie Employee (as defined in the EMA), who accepts an offer of employment or continues employment with or is transferred to AbbVie or its Subsidiary under the Separation Agreement on or immediately after the Separation (as defined in the Separation Agreement).  
     
  A-8.             Grantor Trusts.     Certain Transferred Participants and Post-Distribution Participants who participated in the Abbott KSP have established grantor trusts in connection with such plan.  Abbott and AbbVie shall use their commercially reasonable best efforts to facilitate the amendment of each such grantor trust to provide that (a) AbbVie is the administrator of such trust and (b) distribution of amounts under such trust is made by reference to termination of employment with AbbVie and its subsidiaries and not termination of employment with Abbott and its subsidiaries.  
     
  A-9.             Use of Terms   .  Terms used in this Supplement A have the meanings of those terms as set forth in the Plan, unless they are defined in this Supplement A.  All of the terms and provisions of the Plan shall apply to this Supplement A except that where the terms of the Plan and this Supplement A conflict, the terms of this Supplement A shall govern.  
     
  2    

</EX-10.19>

<EX-21.1>
 8
 a2213529zex-21_1.htm
 EX-21.1

Exhibit 21.1   
     
   List Of Subsidiaries   

Domestic Subsidiaries        

Incorporation            

AbbVie   Endocrine Inc. (f/k/a) Abbott Endocrine Inc.       

Delaware           

AbbVie   Endocrinology Inc. (f/k/a) Abbott Endocrinology Inc.       

Delaware           

AbbVie   Bioresearch Center Inc.       

Delaware           

AbbVie   Biotech Ventures Inc.       

Delaware           

AbbVie   Biotherapeutics Inc.       

Delaware           

AbbVie   Holdings Inc.       

Delaware           

AbbVie   Products LLC       

Georgia           

AbbVie   Purchasing LLC       

Delaware           

AbbVie   Resources Inc.       

Delaware           

AbbVie   Resources International Inc.       

Delaware           

AbbVie   Respiratory LLC       

Delaware           

AbbVie   US LLC       

Delaware           

Aeropharm   Technology, LLC       

Delaware           

BioDisplay   Technologies, Inc.       

Illinois           

Fremont   Holding L.L.C.       

Delaware           

IEP   Pharmaceutical Devices, LLC       

Delaware           

Knoll   Pharmaceutical Company       

New   Jersey           

KOS   Pharmaceuticals, Inc.       

Delaware           

Life   Properties Inc.       

Delaware           

Organics   L.L.C.       

Delaware           

Rowell   Laboratories, Inc.       

Minnesota              

Unimed   Pharmaceuticals, LLC       

Delaware              

Foreign Subsidiaries        

Incorporation            

AbbVie   S.A.       

Argentina           

AbbVie   Pty Ltd       

Australia           

AbbVie   GmbH       

Austria           

AbbVie   Bahamas Ltd.       

Bahamas           

AbbVie   SA       

Belgium           

AbbVie   Ltd       

Bermuda           

AbbVie   Biotechnology Ltd       

Bermuda           

AbbVie   Participa  es Ltda.       

Brazil           

AbbVie   Farmac utica Ltda       

Brazil           

AbbVie   Corporation       

Canada           

AbbVie   Holdings Corporation       

Canada           

AbbVie   Productos Farmac uticos Limitada       

Chile           

AbbVie   SAS       

Colombia           

AbbVie   d.o.o.       

Croatia           

AbbVie   Limited       

Cyprus           

AbbVie   s.r.o.       

Czech   Republic           

AbbVie   A/S       

Denmark           

AbbVie   Oy       

Finland           

AbbVie       

France           

AbbVie   Holdings       

France              

Abbott   Products GmbH       

Germany           

AbbVie   Biotechnology GmbH       

Germany           

AbbVie Deutschland GmbH   Co. KG       

Germany           

AbbVie   Komplement r GmbH       

Germany           

AbbVie   Real Estate Management GmbH       

Germany           

AbbVie   (Gibraltar) Holdings Limited       

Gibraltar           

AbbVie   (Gibraltar) Limited       

Gibraltar           

AbbVie   Pharmaceuticals Societe Anonyme       

Greece           

AbbVie   Limited       

Hong   Kong           

Abbott   Products Kft       

Hungary           

AbbVie   Kft       

Hungary           

AbbVie   Ireland Holdings Limited       

Ireland           

AbbVie   Ireland Limited       

Ireland           

AbbVie   Limited       

Ireland           

AbbVie   Manufacturing Management Limited       

Ireland           

Fournier   Laboratories Ireland Ltd.       

Ireland           

AbbVie   S.r.l.       

Italy           

AbbVie   GK       

Japan           

AbbVie   Holdings KK       

Japan           

AbbVie   Ltd       

Jersey              

AbbVie   Ltd       

Korea,   South           

AbbVie   UAB       

Lithuania           

AbbVie   International S.  r.l.       

Luxembourg           

AbbVie   Investments S.  r.l.       

Luxembourg           

AbbVie   Luxembourg Abbott Holding (Gibraltar) Limited S.C.S.       

Luxembourg           

AbbVie   Overseas S.  r.l.       

Luxembourg           

AbbVie   Sdn. Bhd.       

Malaysia           

AbbVie   Farmac uticos, S.A. de C.V.       

Mexico           

AbbVie   B.V.       

Netherlands           

AbbVie Ireland NL B.V.       

Netherlands           

AbbVie   Japan Holdings B.V.       

Netherlands           

AbbVie   Logistics B.V       

Netherlands           

AbbVie   Nederland Holdings B.V.       

Netherlands           

AbbVie   Pharmaceuticals B.V.       

Netherlands           

Abbott   Research B.V.       

Netherlands           

AbbVie   Venezuela B.V.       

Netherlands           

AbbVie   Venezuela Holdings B.V.       

Netherlands           

AbbVie   Limited       

New   Zealand           

AbbVie   AS       

Norway           

AbbVie   Pharmaceutical Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.       

People s   Republic of China           

AbbVie   Polska Sp. z o.o.       

Poland           

AbbVie Sp. z o.o.       

Poland              

AbbVie,   L.da       

Portugal           

AbbVie   Promo  o, L.da       

Portugal           

AbbVie   Corp       

Puerto   Rico           

Knoll   LLC       

Puerto   Rico           

AbbVie   Limited Liability Company       

Russia           

AbbVie   Pte. Ltd.       

Singapore           

AbbVie   s.r.o.       

Slovakia           

AbbVie   Holdings s.r.o.       

Slovakia           

AbbVie   (Pty) Ltd.       

South   Africa           

AbbVie   Farmac utica, S.L.U.       

Spain           

Fundaci n   AbbVie       

Spain           

AbbVie   AB       

Sweden           

AbbVie   AG       

Switzerland           

AbbVie   Pharmaceuticals GmbH       

Switzerland           

AbbVie   Ltd.       

Thailand           

AbbVie   Tibbi Ila lar Sanayi ve Ticaret Limited Sirketi       

Turkey           

AbbVie   Ltd       

United   Kingdom           

AbbVie   Australasia Holdings Limited       

United   Kingdom           

AbbVie   Investments Limited       

United   Kingdom           

AbbVie   Trustee Company Limited       

United   Kingdom           

AbbVie   UK Holdco Limited       

United   Kingdom           

AbbVie   Pharmaceuticals SCA       

Venezuela              

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 9
 a2213529zex-23_1.htm
 EX-23.1

Exhibit 23.1   
     
   CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   
     
  We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement No. 333-185564 on Form S-8 for the AbbVie Savings Program; Registration Statement No. 333-185563 on Form S-8 for the AbbVie Deferred Compensation Plan; Registration Statement No. 333-185562 on Form S-8 for the AbbVie 2013 Employee Stock Purchase Plan for Non-U.S. Employees; and Registration Statement No. 333-185561 on Form S-8 for the AbbVie 2013 Incentive Stock Program of our report dated March 15, 2013, relating to the combined financial statements of AbbVie Inc. (which reports an unqualified opinion and includes an emphasis of matter paragraph regarding the fact that the Company s financial statements have been derived from the accounting records of Abbott Laboratories and include expense allocations for certain corporate functions historically provided by Abbott Laboratories) appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of AbbVie Inc. for the year ended December 31, 2012  

/s/ Deloitte   Touche LLP  

Chicago, Illinois  
  March 15, 2013  

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 10
 a2213529zex-31_1.htm
 EX-31.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 31.1            

Certification of Chief Executive Officer   Required by Rule 13a-14(a) (17 CFR 240.13a-14(a))            

  I,
Richard A. Gonzalez, certify that:   

1.    I
have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of AbbVie Inc.;
      2.    Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;
      3.    Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of AbbVie as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;
      4.    AbbVie's
other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for AbbVie and have:

(a)    Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that
material information relating to AbbVie, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared;
      (c)    Evaluated
the effectiveness of AbbVie's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
      (d)    Disclosed
in this report any change in AbbVie's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during AbbVie's most recent fiscal quarter that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, AbbVie's internal control over financial reporting; and
     
   5.    AbbVie's
other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to AbbVie's
auditors and the audit committee of AbbVie's board of directors:

(a)    All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect AbbVie's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and
      (b)    Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in AbbVie's internal control over financial
reporting.    

/s/ RICHARD A. GONZALEZ 

Richard A. Gonzalez,     Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer   

Date: March 15, 2013  

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 31.1   
 
  Certification of Chief Executive Officer Required by Rule 13a-14(a) (17 CFR 240.13a-14(a))   

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 11
 a2213529zex-31_2.htm
 EX-31.2

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 31.2            

Certification of Chief Financial Officer   Required by Rule 13a-14(a) (17 CFR 240.13a-14(a))            

  I,
William J. Chase, certify that:   

1.    I
have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of AbbVie Inc.;
      2.    Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;
      3.    Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of AbbVie as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;
      4.    AbbVie's
other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for AbbVie and have:

(a)    Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that
material information relating to AbbVie, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared;
      (c)    Evaluated
the effectiveness of AbbVie's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
      (d)    Disclosed
in this report any change in AbbVie's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during AbbVie's most recent fiscal quarter that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, AbbVie's internal control over financial reporting; and
     
   5.    AbbVie's
other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to AbbVie's
auditors and the audit committee of AbbVie's board of directors:

(a)    All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect Abbott's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and
      (b)    Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in Abbott's internal control over financial
reporting.    

/s/ WILLIAM J. CHASE 

William J. Chase,     Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer   

Date: March 15, 2013  

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 31.2   
 
  Certification of Chief Financial Officer Required by Rule 13a-14(a) (17 CFR 240.13a-14(a))   

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 12
 a2213529zex-32_1.htm
 EX-32.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 32.1            

Certification Pursuant To   18 U.S.C. Section 1350   As Adopted Pursuant To   Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002            

In connection with the Annual Report of AbbVie Inc. (the "Company") on Form 10-K for the period ended
December 31, 2012 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Report"), I, Richard A. Gonzalez, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify,
pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:   

(1)    The
Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and
      (2)    The
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.    

/s/ RICHARD A. GONZALEZ 

Richard A. Gonzalez,     Chairman of the Board and 
Chief Executive Officer   

Date:
March 15, 2013   

  A
signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to AbbVie Inc. and will be retained by AbbVie Inc. and furnished to the Securities and
Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.   

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 32.1   
 
  Certification Pursuant To 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 As Adopted Pursuant To Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002   

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 13
 a2213529zex-32_2.htm
 EX-32.2

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 32.2            

Certification Pursuant To   18 U.S.C. Section 1350   As Adopted Pursuant To   Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002            

In connection with the Annual Report of AbbVie Inc. (the "Company") on Form 10-K for the period ended
December 31, 2012 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Report"), I, William J. Chase, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify,
pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:   

(1)    The
Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and
      (2)    The
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.    

/s/ WILLIAM J. CHASE 

William J. Chase,     Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer   

Date:
March 15, 2013   

  A
signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to AbbVie Inc. and will be retained by AbbVie Inc. and furnished to the Securities and
Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.   

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 32.2   
 
  Certification Pursuant To 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 As Adopted Pursuant To Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002   

</EX-32.2>

