<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20160219_10-K_edgar_data_1551152_0001047469-16-010239_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>21238445</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>599922</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>754854</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>5907854</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>9192413</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>4024244</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>175</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>17</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001047469-16-010239.hdr.sgml : 20160219
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20160219123259
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001047469-16-010239
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		102
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20151231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20160219
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20160219

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			AbbVie Inc.
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001551152
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS [2834]
		IRS NUMBER:				320375147
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-35565
		FILM NUMBER:		161441051

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1 NORTH WAUKEGAN ROAD
		CITY:			NORTH CHICAGO
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			60064
		BUSINESS PHONE:		(847) 932-7900

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1 NORTH WAUKEGAN ROAD
		CITY:			NORTH CHICAGO
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			60064

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001047469-16-010239.txt : 20160219

10-K
 1
 a2227341z10-k.htm
 10-K

UNITED STATES       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION       WASHINGTON, D. C. 20549       FORM 10-K     

Commission file number 001-35565     

AbbVie Inc.     

  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)   

Securities
Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:   

Title of Each Class    
     
   Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered    

Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share  
     
  New York Stock Exchange 
Chicago Stock Exchange  

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.   

  Yes            No    

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act.   

  Yes            No       

           Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days.   

  Yes            No    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be
submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such
files).   

  Yes            No    

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K ( 229.405 of this chapter) is not
contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K.       

           Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the
definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer" and "smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.   

Large Accelerated Filer      
     
   Accelerated Filer      
     
   Non-accelerated Filer        (Do not check if a 
smaller reporting company)  
     
   Smaller Reporting Company      

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).   

  Yes            No    

The aggregate market value of the 1,637,027,201 shares of voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant, computed by reference to the closing price as
reported on the New York Stock Exchange, as of the last business day of AbbVie Inc.'s most recently completed second fiscal quarter (June 30, 2015), was $109,991,857,664. AbbVie has no
non-voting common equity.   

           Number
of common shares outstanding as of January 31, 2016: 1,611,238,226   

   DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE     

           Portions of the 2016 AbbVie Inc. Proxy Statement are incorporated by reference into Part III. The Definitive Proxy Statement will be filed on or
about March 21, 2016.   

PART I            

ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Separation from Abbott Laboratories     

          AbbVie (1)  was incorporated in Delaware on April 10, 2012. On January 1, 2013, AbbVie became an independent
company as a result of the distribution by Abbott Laboratories (Abbott) of 100 percent of the outstanding common stock of AbbVie to Abbott's shareholders. AbbVie's common stock began trading
"regular-way" under the ticker symbol "ABBV" on the New York Stock Exchange on January 2, 2013.   

Overview     

          AbbVie is a global, research-based biopharmaceutical company. AbbVie develops and markets advanced therapies that address some of the
world's most complex and serious diseases. AbbVie's products are focused on treating conditions such as chronic autoimmune diseases in rheumatology, gastroenterology and dermatology; oncology,
including blood cancers; virology, including hepatitis C (HCV) and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV); neurological disorders, such as Parkinson's disease; metabolic diseases, including thyroid
disease and complications associated with cystic fibrosis; as well as other serious health conditions. AbbVie also has a pipeline of promising new medicines, including more than 50 compounds or
indications in clinical development across such important medical specialties as immunology, virology/liver disease, oncology, neurological diseases and women's health.   

          On
May 26, 2015, AbbVie completed its acquisition of Pharmacyclics, Inc., a biopharmaceutical company that develops and commercializes novel therapies for people impacted
by cancer, and its flagship asset IMBRUVICA, a highly effective treatment for hematologic malignancies, for approximately $20.8 billion, consisting of cash consideration of $12.4 billion
and equity consideration of $8.4 billion.   

Segments     

          AbbVie operates in one business segment pharmaceutical products. Incorporated herein by reference is Note 15
entitled "Segment and Geographic Area Information" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" and the sales
information related to HUMIRA included under Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations."   

Products     

          AbbVie's portfolio of products includes a broad line of therapies that address some of the world's most complex and serious diseases.   

(1)    As
used throughout the text of this report on Form 10-K, the term "AbbVie" refers to AbbVie Inc., a Delaware corporation, or
AbbVie Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, as the context requires.    

HUMIRA.        HUMIRA (adalimumab) is a biologic therapy administered as a subcutaneous injection. It is
approved to treat the
following autoimmune diseases in the United States, Canada, and Mexico (collectively, North America), and in the European Union:   

Condition    
     
   Principal Markets     

Rheumatoid arthritis (moderate to severe)  
     
  North America, European Union  

Psoriatic arthritis  
     
  North America, European Union  

Ankylosing spondylitis  
     
  North America, European Union  

Crohn's disease (moderate to severe)  
     
  North America, European Union  

Plaque psoriasis (moderate to severe)  
     
  North America, European Union  

Juvenile idiopathic arthritis  
     
  North America, European Union  

Ulcerative colitis (moderate to severe)  
     
  United States, European Union  

Axial spondyloarthropathy  
     
  United States, European Union  

Pediatric Crohn's disease (severe)  
     
  United States, European Union  

Hidradenitis Suppurativa  
     
  United States, European Union  

Pediatric enthesitis-related arthritis  
     
  European Union  

HUMIRA
is also approved in over 60 other markets, including Japan, China, Brazil, and Australia. HUMIRA was introduced to the market in January 2003. HUMIRA is AbbVie's largest product
and accounted for approximately 61 percent of AbbVie's total net revenues in 2015. The United States composition of matter (that is, compound) patent covering adalimumab (which is sold under
the trademark HUMIRA) is expected to expire in December 2016, and the equivalent European Union patent is expected to expire in the majority of European Union countries in October 2018. In addition,
in the United States, non-composition of matter patents covering adalimumab expire no earlier than 2022.   

          AbbVie
continues to dedicate substantial research and development efforts to expanding indications for HUMIRA, including in the fields of rheumatology, gastroenterology
(pediatric ulcerative colitis), and ophthalmology (uveitis). A regulatory application for uveitis has been filed in the United States. AbbVie continues to work on HUMIRA formulation and
delivery enhancements to improve convenience and the overall patient experience.   

IMBRUVICA.        IMBRUVICA (ibrutinib) is a first-in-class, oral, once-daily therapy that inhibits a
 protein called Bruton's
tyrosine kinase (BTK). IMBRUVICA is currently approved for the treatment of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) who have received at least one prior therapy, CLL patients who have del 17p
and patients with Waldenstr m's macroglobulinemia. IMBRUVICA is also approved
for the treatment of patients with mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) who have received at least one prior therapy. Accelerated approval was granted for the MCL indication based on overall response rate.
Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification of clinical benefit in confirmatory trials. IMBRUVICA was one of the first medicines to receive a U.S. Food and Drug
Administration (FDA) approval after being granted a Breakthrough Therapy Designation and IMBRUVICA is one of the few therapies to receive three separate designations.   

HCV products.        VIEKIRA PAK (ombitsavir, paritaprevir, and ritonavir tablets; dasabuvir tablets) is an
all-oral,
short-course, interferon-free therapy, with or without ribavirin, for the treatment of adult patients with genotype 1 chronic HCV, including those with compensated cirrhosis. VIEKIRA PAK was
approved by the FDA in December 2014. In Europe, AbbVie's HCV treatment is marketed as VIEKIRAX + EXVIERA and is approved for use in patients with genotype 1 and genotype 4
HCV. The European Commission granted marketing authorization for this treatment in January 2015. In July 2015, the FDA approved AbbVie's TECHNIVIE (ombitasvir, paritaprevir and ritonavir) for use in
combination with ribavirin for the treatment of adults with genotype 4 HCV infection in the United States.   

Additional Virology products.        AbbVie's additional virology products include KALETRA and Norvir for
 the treatment of HIV
infection and Synagis for the prevention of respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) infection in high risk infants.   

KALETRA.        KALETRA (lopinavir/ritonavir), which is also marketed as Aluvia in emerging markets, is a prescription anti-HIV-1 medicine
that contains two protease
inhibitors: lopinavir and ritonavir. Kaletra is used with other anti-HIV-1 medications as a treatment that maintains viral suppression in people with HIV-1.   

           Norvir.        Norvir (ritonavir) is a protease inhibitor that is indicated in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the treatment
of HIV-1 infection.   

            Synagis.        Synagis (palivizumab) is a product marketed by AbbVie outside of the United States that protects at-risk infants from severe
respiratory disease
caused by RSV.   

Metabolics/Hormones products.        Metabolic and hormone products target a number of conditions, including
testosterone
deficiency, exocrine pancreatic insufficiency and hypothyroidism. These products include:   

AndroGel.        AndroGel (testosterone gel) is a testosterone replacement therapy for males diagnosed with symptomatic low testosterone that
is available in two
strengths: 1 percent and 1.62 percent.   

Creon.       Creon (pancrelipase) is a pancreatic enzyme therapy for exocrine pancreatic insufficiency, a condition that occurs in patients
with cystic fibrosis,
chronic pancreatitis, and several other conditions.   

            Synthroid.        Synthroid (levothyroxine sodium tablets, USP) is used in the treatment of hypothyroidism.   

AbbVie
has the rights to sell AndroGel, Creon and Synthroid only in the United States.   

Endocrinology products.        Lupron (levprolide acetate), which is also marketed as Lucrin and Lupron
 Depot, is a product for
the palliative treatment of advanced prostate cancer, treatment of endometriosis and central precocious puberty, and for the preoperative treatment of patients with anemia caused by uterine fibroids.
Lupron is approved for daily subcutaneous injection and one-month, three-month, four-month and six-month intramuscular injection.   

Other products.        AbbVie's other products include the following:   

Duopa and Duodopa    (carbidopa and levodopa).    
AbbVie's levodopa-carbidopa intestinal gel for the treatment of advanced Parkinson's disease is marketed as Duopa in the United States and as Duodopa outside of the United
States.   

           Anesthesia products.       Sevoflurane (sold under the trademarks Ultane and Sevorane) is an anesthesia product that AbbVie sells worldwide
for human use.   

            Dyslipidemia products.        AbbVie's dyslipidemia products (TriCor (fenofibrate), Trilipix (fenofibric acid), and Niaspan (niacin
extended-release)) address the range of
metabolic conditions characterized by high cholesterol and/or high triglycerides.   

Zemplar.       Zemplar (paricalcitol) is a product sold worldwide for the treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism associated with
Stage 3, 4, and 5
chronic kidney disease (CKD).   

Research and Development Activities     

          AbbVie has numerous compounds in clinical development, including potential treatments for complex, life-threatening diseases. AbbVie's
ability to discover and develop new compounds is enhanced by the company's use of integrated discovery and development project teams, which include chemists, biologists, physicians, and
pharmacologists who work on the same compounds as a team.   

          The
research and development process generally begins with discovery research which focuses on the identification of a molecule that has a desired effect against a given disease. If
preclinical testing of an identified compound proves successful, the compound moves into clinical development which generally includes the following
phases:  

Phase 1 involves the first human tests in a small number of healthy volunteers or patients to assess safety,
tolerability and potential dosing.   
            Phase 2 tests the drug's efficacy against the disease in a relatively small group of patients.    
            Phase 3 tests a drug that demonstrates favorable results in the earlier phases in a significantly larger patient
population to further demonstrate efficacy and safety based on regulatory criteria.    

The
clinical trials from all of the development phases provide the data required to prepare and submit a New Drug Application (NDA), a Biological License Application (BLA) or other
submission for regulatory approval to the FDA or similar government agencies outside the United States. The specific requirements (e.g., scope of clinical trials) for obtaining regulatory
approval vary across different countries and geographic regions.   

          The
research and development process from discovery through a new drug launch typically takes 8 to 12 years and can be even longer. The research and development of new
pharmaceutical products has a significant amount of inherent uncertainty. There is no guarantee when, or if, a molecule will receive the regulatory approval required to launch a new drug or
indication.   

          In
addition to the development of new products and new formulations, research and development projects also may include Phase 4 trials, sometimes called post-marketing studies.
For such projects, clinical trials are designed and conducted to collect additional data regarding, among other parameters, the benefits and risks of an approved drug.   

          AbbVie
spent approximately $4.3 billion in 2015, $3.3 billion in 2014, and $2.9 billion in 2013 on research to discover and develop new products, indications and
processes and to improve existing products and processes. These expenses consisted primarily of salaries and related expenses for personnel, license fees, consulting payments, contract research,
clinical drug supply manufacturing, the costs of laboratory equipment and facilities, clinical trial costs, and collaboration fees and expenses.   

Intellectual Property Protection and Regulatory
Exclusivity     

          Generally, upon approval, products may be entitled to certain kinds of exclusivity under applicable intellectual property and
regulatory regimes. AbbVie seeks patent protection, where available, in all significant markets and/or countries for each product in development. In the United States, the expiration date for patents
filed on or after June 8, 1995 is 20 years after the filing date. Given that patents relating to pharmaceutical products are often obtained early in the development process, and given
the amount of time needed to complete clinical trials and other development activities required for regulatory approval, the length of time between product launch and patent expiration is
significantly less than 20 years. The Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984 (commonly known as the Hatch-Waxman Act) permits a patent holder to seek a patent extension,
commonly called a "patent term restoration," for patents on products (or processes for making the product) regulated by the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. The length of the patent extension is
roughly based on 50 percent of the period of time from the filing of an Investigational New Drug Application for a compound to the submission of the NDA   

for
such compound, plus 100 percent of the time period from NDA submission to regulatory approval. The extension, however, cannot exceed five years and the patent term remaining after
regulatory approval cannot exceed 14 years.   

          Pharmaceutical
products may be entitled to other forms of legal or regulatory exclusivity upon approval. The scope, length, and requirements for each of these exclusivities vary both in
the United States and in other jurisdictions. In the United States, if the FDA approves a drug product that contains an active ingredient not previously approved, the product is typically entitled to
five years of non-patent regulatory exclusivity. Other products may be entitled to three years of exclusivity if approval was based on the FDA's reliance on new clinical studies essential to approval
submitted by the NDA applicant. If the NDA applicant studies the product for use by children, the FDA may grant pediatric exclusivity, which extends by 180 days the longest existing exclusivity
(patent or regulatory) related to the product. For products that are either used to treat conditions that afflict a relatively small population or for which there is not a reasonable expectation that
the research and development costs will be recovered, the FDA may designate the pharmaceutical as an orphan drug and grant it seven years of market exclusivity.   

Applicable
laws and regulations dictate the scope of any exclusivity to which a product is entitled upon its approval in any particular country. In certain instances, regulatory
exclusivity may protect a product where patent protection is no longer available or for a period of time in excess of patent protection. It is not possible to estimate for each product in development
the total period and scope of exclusivity to which it may become entitled until regulatory approval is obtained. However, given the length of time required to complete clinical development of a
pharmaceutical product, the minimum and maximum periods of exclusivity that might be achieved in any individual case would not be expected to exceed three and
14 years, respectively. These estimates do not consider other factors, such as the difficulty of recreating the manufacturing process for a particular product or other proprietary knowledge
that may delay the introduction of a generic or other follow-on product after the expiration of applicable patent and other regulatory exclusivity periods.   

          Biologics
may be entitled to exclusivity under the Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act, which was passed on March 23, 2010 as Title VII to the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act. The law provides a pathway for approval of biosimilars following the expiration of 12 years of exclusivity for the innovator biologic and a potential additional
180 day-extension term for conducting pediatric studies. Biologics are also eligible for orphan drug exclusivity, as discussed above. The law also includes an extensive process for the
innovator biologic and biosimilar manufacturer to litigate patent infringement, validity, and enforceability prior to the approval of the biosimilar. The European Union has also created a pathway for
approval of biosimilars and has published guidelines for approval of certain biosimilar products. The more complex nature of biologics and biosimilar products has led to greater regulatory scrutiny
and more rigorous requirements for approval of follow-on biosimilar products than for small molecule generic pharmaceutical products, and in the European Union, it has also reduced the effect of
biosimilars on sales of the innovator biologic as compared to the sales erosion caused by generic versions of small molecule pharmaceutical products.   

          AbbVie
owns or has licensed rights to a substantial number of patents and patent applications. AbbVie licenses or owns a patent portfolio of thousands of patent families, each of which
includes United States patent applications and/or issued patents, and may also contain the non-United States counterparts to these patents and applications.   

These
patents and applications, including various patents that expire during the period 2016 to the late 2030s, in aggregate are believed to be of material importance in the operation of
AbbVie's business. However, AbbVie believes that no single patent, license, trademark (or related group of patents, licenses, or trademarks), except for those related to adalimumab (which is sold
under the trademark HUMIRA), are material in relation to the company's business as a whole. The United States composition of matter (that is, compound) patent covering adalimumab is expected to expire
in December 2016, and the equivalent   

European
Union patent is expected to expire in the majority of European Union countries in October 2018. In the United States, non-composition of matter patents covering adalimumab expire no earlier
than 2022.   

          In
addition, the following patents, licenses, and trademarks are significant: those related to ibrutinib (which is sold under the trademark IMBRUVICA), those related to
ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir and dasabuvir (which are sold under the trademarks VIEKIRA PAK, VIEKIRAX, EXVIERA, and HOLKIRA PAK), and those related to testosterone (which is sold under the
trademark AndroGel). The United States composition of matter patent covering ibrutinib is expected to expire in 2027. The United States composition of matter
patents covering ombitasvir, paritaprevir and dasabuvir are expected to expire in 2032, 2031 and 2029, respectively.   

          AbbVie
may rely, in some circumstances, on trade secrets to protect its technology. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. AbbVie seeks to protect its technology and product
candidates, in part, by confidentiality agreements with its employees, consultants, advisors, contractors, and collaborators. These agreements may be breached and AbbVie may not have adequate remedies
for any breach. In addition, AbbVie's trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. To the extent that AbbVie's employees, consultants, advisors, contractors,
and collaborators use intellectual property owned by others in their work for the company, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions.   

Marketing, Sales, and Distribution Capabilities     

          AbbVie utilizes a combination of dedicated commercial resources, regional commercial resources and distributorships to market, sell,
and distribute its products worldwide.   

          AbbVie
directs its primary marketing efforts toward securing the prescription, or recommendation, of its brand of products by physicians, key opinion leaders, and other health care
providers. Managed care providers (for example, health maintenance organizations and pharmacy benefit managers), hospitals, and state and federal government agencies (for example, the United States
Department of Veterans Affairs and the United States Department of Defense) are also important customers. AbbVie also markets directly to consumers themselves, although in the United States all of the
company's products must be sold pursuant to a prescription. Outside of the United States, AbbVie focuses its marketing efforts on key opinion leaders, payors, physicians, and country regulatory
bodies. AbbVie also provides patient support programs closely related to its products.   

AbbVie's
products are generally sold worldwide directly to wholesalers, distributors, government agencies, health care facilities, specialty pharmacies, and independent retailers from
AbbVie-owned distribution centers and public warehouses. Although AbbVie's business does not have significant seasonality, AbbVie's product revenues may be affected by end customer and retail buying
patterns, fluctuations in wholesaler inventory levels, and other factors.   

          In
the United States, AbbVie distributes pharmaceutical products principally through independent wholesale distributors, with some sales directly to pharmacies and patients. In 2015,
three wholesale distributors (McKesson Corporation, Cardinal Health, Inc., and AmerisourceBergen Corporation) accounted for substantially all of AbbVie's sales in the United States. No
individual wholesaler accounted for greater than 43 percent of AbbVie's 2015 gross revenues in the United States. Outside the United States, sales are made either directly to customers or
through distributors, depending on the market served. These wholesalers purchase product from AbbVie under standard terms and conditions of sale.   

          Certain
products are co-marketed or co-promoted with other companies. AbbVie has no single customer that, if the customer were lost, would have a material adverse effect on the company's
business.   

          No
material portion of AbbVie's business is subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts at the election of the government.   

Orders
are generally filled on a current basis, and order backlog is not material to AbbVie's business.   

Third Party Agreements     

          AbbVie has agreements with third parties for process development, analytical services, and manufacturing of certain products. AbbVie
procures certain products and services from a limited number of suppliers and, in some cases, a single supply source. For example, the filling and packaging of HUMIRA syringes to be sold outside of
the United States and Puerto Rico is performed by a single supplier at its two different facilities. AbbVie does not currently believe that this agreement is material because AbbVie's business is not
substantially at risk without access to these facilities. AbbVie maintains significant inventory of HUMIRA syringes to reduce the risk of any supply disruption and its own syringe-filling and
packaging facility in the United States is approved to supply syringes to primary markets outside of the United States and Puerto Rico. In addition, AbbVie has agreements with third parties for active
pharmaceutical ingredient and product manufacturing, formulation and development services, fill, finish, and packaging services, transportation, and distribution and logistics services for certain
products. AbbVie does not believe that these manufacturing related agreements are material because AbbVie's business is not substantially dependent on any individual agreement. In most cases, AbbVie
maintains alternate supply relationships that it can utilize without undue disruption of its manufacturing processes if a third party fails to perform its contractual obligations. AbbVie also
maintains sufficient inventory of product to minimize the impact of any supply disruption.   

AbbVie
is also party to certain collaborations and other arrangements, as discussed in Note 5, "Licensing, Acquisitions and Other Arrangements Other Licensing  
Acquisitions Activity," of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," and has certain agreements with Abbott as
discussed in Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Transition from Abbott and Cost to Operate as an Independent Company."   

Sources and Availability of Raw Materials     

          AbbVie purchases, in the ordinary course of business, raw materials and supplies essential to its operations from numerous suppliers
around the world. In addition, certain medical devices and components necessary for the manufacture of AbbVie products are provided by unaffiliated third party suppliers. AbbVie has not experienced
any recent significant availability problems or supply shortages for forecasted sales.   

Environmental Matters     

          AbbVie believes that its operations comply in all material respects with applicable laws and regulations concerning environmental
protection. Regulations under federal and state environmental laws impose stringent limitations on emissions and discharges to the environment from various manufacturing operations. AbbVie's capital
and operating expenditures for pollution control in 2015 were approximately $5 million and $23 million, respectively. Capital and operating expenditures for pollution control in 2016 are
estimated to be approximately $2 million and $25 million, respectively.   

Abbott
was identified as one of many potentially responsible parties in investigations and/or remediations at several locations in the United States, including Puerto Rico, under the
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, commonly known as Superfund. Some of these locations were transferred to AbbVie in connection with the separation and
distribution, and AbbVie has become a party to these investigations and remediations. Abbott was also engaged in remediation at several other sites, some of which have been transferred to AbbVie in
connection with the separation and distribution, in cooperation with the Environmental Protection Agency or similar agencies. While it is not feasible to predict with certainty the final costs related
to those investigations and remediation activities, AbbVie believes that such costs, together with other expenditures to maintain compliance with applicable   

laws
and regulations concerning environmental protection, should not have a material adverse effect on the company's financial position, cash flows, or results of operations.   

Competition     

          The markets for AbbVie's products are highly competitive. AbbVie competes with other research-based pharmaceuticals and biotechnology
companies that discover, manufacture, market, and sell proprietary pharmaceutical products and biologics. For example, HUMIRA competes with a number of anti-TNF and other products that are approved
for a number of disease states and AbbVie's virology products compete with protease inhibitors and other anti-HIV treatments. The search for technological innovations in pharmaceutical products is a
significant aspect of competition. The introduction of new products by competitors and changes in medical practices and procedures can result in product obsolescence. Price is also a competitive
factor. In addition, the substitution of generic pharmaceutical products for branded pharmaceutical products creates competitive pressures on AbbVie's products that do not have patent protection.   

Biosimilars.        Competition for AbbVie's biologic products is affected by the approval of follow-on
biologics, also known as
"biosimilars." Biologics have added major therapeutic options for the treatment of many diseases, including some for which therapies were unavailable or inadequate. The advent of biologics has also
raised complex regulatory issues and significant pharmacoeconomic concerns because the cost of developing and producing biologic therapies is typically dramatically higher than for conventional (small
molecule) medications, and because many expensive biologic medications are used for ongoing treatment of chronic diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis or inflammatory bowel disease, or for the
treatment of previously untreatable cancer. Significant investments in biologics infrastructure and manufacturing are necessary to produce biologic products, as are significant investments in
marketing, distribution, and sales organization activities, which may limit the number of biosimilar competitors.   

          In
the United States, the FDA regulates biologics under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the Public Health Service Act, and implementing regulations. The enactment of federal
health care reform legislation in March 2010 provided a pathway for approval of biosimilars under the Public Health Service Act, but the approval process for, and science behind, biosimilars is more
complex than the approval process for, and science behind, generic or other follow-on versions of small molecule products. This added complexity is due to steps needed to ensure that the safety and
efficacy of biosimilars is highly similar to that of an original biologic, such as HUMIRA. Ultimate approval by the FDA is dependent upon many factors, including a showing that the biosimilar is
"highly similar" to the original product and has no clinically meaningful differences from the original product in terms of safety, purity, potency, and in vitro characterization. The types of data
that could ordinarily be required in an application to show similarity may include analytical data and studies to demonstrate chemical similarity, animal studies (including toxicity studies), and
clinical studies. The law also requires that the biosimilar must be for a condition of use approved for the original biologic and that the manufacturing facility meets the standards necessary to
assure that the biosimilar is safe, pure, and potent.   

          Furthermore,
the law provides that only a biosimilar product that is determined to be "interchangeable" will be considered substitutable for the original biologic product without the
intervention of the health care provider who prescribed the original biologic product. To prove that a biosimilar product is interchangeable, the applicant must demonstrate that the product can be
expected to produce the same clinical results as
the original biologic product in any given patient, and if the product is administered more than once in a patient, that safety risks and potential for diminished efficacy of alternating or switching
between the use of the interchangeable biosimilar biologic product and the original biologic product is no greater than the risk of using the original biologic product without switching. The law is
only beginning to be interpreted and implemented by the FDA. As a result, its ultimate impact, implementation, and meaning will likely be subject to substantial uncertainty for years to come.   

In
the European Union, while a pathway for the approval of biosimilars has existed since 2005, the products that have come to market to date have had a mixed impact on the market share
of incumbent products, with significant variation by product.   

Other Competitive Products.        Although a number of competitive biologic branded products have been
approved since HUMIRA was
first introduced in 2003, most have gained only a modest share of the worldwide market. AbbVie will continue to face competitive pressure from these biologics and from orally administered products.   

Regulation Discovery and Clinical
Development     

United States.        Securing approval to market a new pharmaceutical product in the United States
requires substantial effort
and financial resources and takes several years to complete. The applicant must complete preclinical tests and submit protocols to the FDA before commencing clinical trials. Clinical trials are
intended to establish the safety and efficacy of the pharmaceutical product and typically are conducted in three sequential phases, although the phases may overlap or be combined. If the required
clinical testing is successful, the results are submitted to the FDA in the form of an NDA or BLA requesting approval to market the product for one or more indications. The FDA reviews an NDA or BLA
to determine whether a product is safe and effective for its intended use and whether its manufacturing is compliant with current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP).   

Even
if an NDA or a BLA receives approval, the applicant must comply with post-approval requirements. For example, holders of an approval must report adverse reactions, provide updated
safety and efficacy information, and comply with requirements concerning advertising and promotional materials and activities. Also, quality control and manufacturing procedures must continue to
conform to cGMP after approval, and certain changes to the manufacturing procedures and finished product must be included in the NDA or BLA, and approved by the FDA. The FDA periodically inspects
manufacturing facilities to assess compliance with cGMP, which imposes extensive procedural and record keeping requirements. In addition, as a condition of approval, the FDA may require post-marketing
testing and surveillance to further assess and monitor the product's safety or efficacy after commercialization, which may require additional clinical trials or patient registries, or additional work
on chemistry, manufacturing and controls. Any post-approval regulatory obligations, and the cost of complying with such obligations, could expand in the future.   

Outside the United States.        AbbVie is subject to similar regulatory requirements outside the United
States. AbbVie must
obtain approval of a clinical trial application or product from the applicable regulatory authorities before it can commence clinical trials or marketing of the product. The approval requirements and
process for each country can vary, and the time required to obtain approval may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval in the United States. For example, AbbVie may submit marketing
authorizations in the European Union under either a centralized or decentralized procedure. The centralized procedure is mandatory for the approval of biotechnology products and many pharmaceutical
products and provides for a single marketing authorization that is valid for all European Union member states. Under the centralized procedure, a single marketing authorization application is
submitted to the European Medicines Agency. After the agency evaluates the application, it makes a recommendation to the European Commission, which then makes the final determination on whether to
approve the application. The decentralized procedure provides for mutual recognition of individual national approval decisions and is available for products that are not subject to the centralized
procedure.   

          In
Japan, applications for approval of a new product are made through the Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices Agency (PMDA). Bridging studies to demonstrate that the non-Japanese clinical
data applies to Japanese patients may be required. After completing a comprehensive review, the PMDA reports to the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, which then approves or denies the
application.   

          The
regulatory process in many emerging markets continues to evolve. Many emerging markets, including those in Asia, generally require regulatory approval to have been obtained in a
large developed   

market
(such as the United States or Europe) before the country will begin or complete its regulatory review process. Some countries also require that local clinical studies be conducted in order to
obtain regulatory approval in the country.   

          The
requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials and product licensing also vary. In addition, post-approval regulatory obligations such as adverse event reporting and cGMP
compliance generally apply and may vary by country. For example, after a marketing authorization has been granted in the European Union, periodic safety reports must be submitted and other
pharmacovigilance measures may be required (such as Risk Management Plans).   

Regulation Commercialization,
Distribution, and Manufacturing     

          The manufacture, marketing, sale, promotion, and distribution of AbbVie's products are subject to comprehensive government regulation.
Government regulation by various national, regional, federal, state, and local agencies, both in the United States and other countries, addresses (among other matters) inspection of, and controls
over, research and laboratory procedures, clinical investigations, product approvals and manufacturing, labeling, packaging, marketing and promotion, pricing and reimbursement, sampling, distribution,
quality control, post-marketing surveillance, record keeping, storage, and disposal practices. AbbVie's operations are also affected by trade regulations in many countries that limit the import of raw
materials and finished products and by laws and regulations that seek to prevent corruption and bribery in the marketplace (including the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the United
Kingdom Bribery Act, which provide guidance on corporate interactions with government officials) and require safeguards for the protection of personal data. In addition, AbbVie is subject to laws and
regulations pertaining to health care fraud and abuse, including state and federal anti-kickback and false claims laws in the United States. Prescription drug manufacturers such as AbbVie are also
subject to taxes, as well as application, product, user, establishment, and other fees.   

          Compliance
with these laws and regulations is costly and materially affects AbbVie's business. Among other effects, health care regulations substantially increase the time, difficulty,
and costs incurred in obtaining and maintaining approval to market newly developed and existing products. AbbVie expects compliance with these regulations to continue to require significant technical
expertise and capital investment to ensure compliance. Failure to comply can delay the release of a new product or result in regulatory and enforcement actions, the seizure or recall of a product, the
suspension or revocation of the authority necessary for a product's production and sale, and other civil or criminal sanctions, including fines and penalties.   

          In
addition to regulatory initiatives, AbbVie's business can be affected by ongoing studies of the utilization, safety, efficacy, and outcomes of health care products and their
components that are regularly conducted by industry participants, government agencies, and others. These studies can call into question the utilization, safety, and efficacy of previously marketed
products. In some cases, these studies have resulted, and may in the future result, in the discontinuance of, or limitations on, marketing of such products domestically or worldwide, and may give rise
to claims for damages from persons who believe they have been injured as a result of their use.   

Access
to human health care products continues to be a subject of investigation and action by governmental agencies, legislative bodies, and private organizations in the United States
and other countries. A major focus is cost containment. Efforts to reduce health care costs are also being made in the
private sector, notably by health care payors and providers, which have instituted various cost reduction and containment measures. AbbVie expects insurers and providers to continue attempts to reduce
the cost of health care products. Outside the United States, many countries control the price of health care products directly or indirectly, through reimbursement, payment, pricing, coverage
limitations, or compulsory licensing. Budgetary pressures in the United States and in other countries may also heighten the scope and severity of pricing pressures on AbbVie's products for the
foreseeable future.   

United States.        Specifically, U.S. federal laws require pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay certain
statutorily-prescribed
rebates to state Medicaid programs on prescription drugs reimbursed under state Medicaid plans, and the efforts by states to seek additional rebates affect AbbVie's business. Similarly, the Veterans
Health Care Act of 1992, as a prerequisite to participation in Medicaid and other federal health care programs, requires that manufacturers extend additional discounts on pharmaceutical products to
various federal agencies, including the United States Department of Veterans Affairs, Department of Defense, and Public Health Service entities and institutions. In addition, recent legislative
changes would require similarly discounted prices to be offered to TRICARE program beneficiaries. The Veterans Health Care Act of 1992 also established the 340B drug discount program, which requires
pharmaceutical manufacturers to provide products at reduced prices to various designated health care entities and facilities.   

In
the United States, most states also have generic substitution legislation requiring or permitting a dispensing pharmacist to substitute a different manufacturer's generic version of a
pharmaceutical product for the one prescribed. In addition, the federal government follows a diagnosis-related group (DRG) payment system for certain institutional services provided under Medicare or
Medicaid and has implemented a prospective payment system (PPS) for services delivered in hospital outpatient, nursing home, and home health settings. DRG and PPS entitle a health care facility to a
fixed reimbursement based on the diagnosis and/or procedure rather than actual costs incurred in patient treatment, thereby increasing the incentive for the facility to limit or control expenditures
for many health care products. Medicare reimburses Part B drugs based on average sales price plus a certain percentage to account for physician administration costs, which have recently been
reduced in the hospital outpatient setting. Medicare enters into contracts with private plans to negotiate prices for most patient-administered medicine delivered under Part D.   

          In
March 2010, Congress enacted the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (together, the Affordable Care Act). Under the
Affordable Care Act, AbbVie pays a fee related to its pharmaceuticals sales to government programs. Also in 2011, AbbVie began providing a discount of 50 percent for branded prescription drugs
sold to patients who fall into the Medicare Part D coverage gap, or "donut hole."   

The
Affordable Care Act also includes provisions known as the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, which require manufacturers of drugs and biologics covered under Medicare and Medicaid
starting in 2012 to record any transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals and to report this data beginning in 2013 to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services for subsequent public
disclosure. Similar reporting requirements have also been enacted on the state level in the United States, and an increasing number of countries worldwide either have adopted or are considering
similar laws requiring disclosure of interactions with health care professionals. Failure to report appropriate data may result in civil or criminal fines and/or penalties.   

AbbVie
expects debate to continue during 2016 at all government levels worldwide over the marketing, availability, method of delivery, and payment for health care products and services.
AbbVie believes that future legislation and regulation in the markets it serves could affect access to health care products and services, increase rebates, reduce prices or the rate of price increases
for health care products and services, change health care delivery systems, create new fees and obligations for the pharmaceuticals industry, or require additional reporting and disclosure. It is not
possible to predict the extent to which AbbVie or the health care industry in general might be affected by the matters discussed above.   

AbbVie
is subject to a Corporate Integrity Agreement (CIA) entered into by Abbott on May 7, 2012 that requires enhancements to AbbVie's compliance program and contains reporting
obligations, including disclosure of financial payments to doctors. If AbbVie fails to comply with the CIA, the Office of Inspector General for the United States Department of Health and Human
Services may impose monetary penalties or exclude AbbVie from federal health care programs, including Medicare and Medicaid.   

European Union.        The European Union has adopted directives and other legislation governing labeling,
advertising,
distribution, supply, pharmacovigilance, and marketing of pharmaceutical products. Such legislation provides mandatory standards throughout the European Union and permits member states to supplement
these standards with additional regulations. European governments also regulate pharmaceutical product prices through their control of national health care systems that fund a large part of the cost
of such products to consumers. As a result, patients are unlikely to use a pharmaceutical product that is not reimbursed by the government. In many European countries, the government either regulates
the pricing of a new product at launch or subsequent to launch through direct price controls or reference pricing. In recent years, many countries have also imposed new or additional cost containment
measures on pharmaceutical products. Differences between national pricing regimes create price differentials within the European Union that can lead to significant parallel trade in pharmaceutical
products.   

          Most
governments also promote generic substitution by mandating or permitting a pharmacist to substitute a different manufacturer's generic version of a pharmaceutical product for the
one prescribed and by permitting or mandating that health care professionals prescribe generic versions in certain circumstances.
In addition, governments use reimbursement lists to limit the pharmaceutical products that are eligible for reimbursement by national health care systems.   

Japan.        In Japan, the National Health Insurance system maintains a Drug Price List specifying which
pharmaceutical products
are eligible for reimbursement, and the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare sets the prices of the products on this list. The government generally introduces price cut rounds every other year and
also mandates price decreases for specific products. New products judged innovative or useful, that are indicated for pediatric use, or that target orphan or small population diseases, however, may be
eligible for a pricing premium. The government has also promoted the use of generics, where available.   

Emerging Markets.        Many emerging markets take steps to reduce pharmaceutical product prices, in some
cases through direct
price controls and in others through the promotion of generic alternatives to branded pharmaceuticals.   

          Since
AbbVie markets its products worldwide, certain products of a local nature and variations of product lines must also meet other local regulatory requirements. Certain additional
risks are inherent in conducting business outside the United States, including price and currency exchange controls, changes in currency exchange rates, limitations on participation in local
enterprises, expropriation, nationalization, and other governmental action.   

Employees     

          AbbVie employed approximately 28,000 persons as of January 31, 2016. Outside the United States, some of AbbVie's employees are
represented by unions or works councils. AbbVie believes that it has good relations with its employees.   

Internet Information     

          Copies of AbbVie's Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and
amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge through AbbVie's
investor relations website (   www.abbvieinvestor.com   ) as soon as reasonably practicable after AbbVie electronically files the material with, or furnishes
it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).   

          AbbVie's
corporate governance guidelines, outline of directorship qualifications, code of business conduct and the charters of AbbVie's audit committee, compensation committee,
nominations and governance committee, and public policy committee are all available on AbbVie's investor relations website (   www.abbvieinvestor.com   ).   

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 

You should carefully consider the following risks and other information in this Form 10-K in evaluating AbbVie and AbbVie's
common stock. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect AbbVie's results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. The risk factors generally have been separated into
three groups: risks related to AbbVie's business, risks related to AbbVie's separation from Abbott, and risks related to AbbVie's common stock. Based on the information currently known to it, AbbVie
believes that the following information identifies the most significant risk factors affecting it in each of these categories of risks. However, the risks and uncertainties AbbVie faces are not
limited to those set forth in the risk factors described below and may not be in order of importance or probability of occurrence. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to AbbVie or
that AbbVie currently believes to be immaterial may also adversely affect its business. In addition, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical
trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods.   

             If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events, these events could have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's business, results of
operations, financial condition or cash flows. In such case, the trading price of AbbVie's common stock could decline.     

Risks Related to AbbVie's Business     

The expiration or loss of patent protection and licenses may adversely affect AbbVie's future
revenues and operating earnings.      

          AbbVie relies on patent, trademark and other intellectual property protection in the discovery, development, manufacturing, and sale of
its products. In particular, patent protection is, in the aggregate, important in AbbVie's marketing of pharmaceutical products in the United States and most major markets outside of the United
States. Patents covering AbbVie products normally provide market exclusivity, which is important for the profitability of many of AbbVie's products.   

As
patents for certain of its products expire, AbbVie will or could face competition from lower priced generic products. The expiration or loss of patent protection for a product
typically is followed promptly by substitutes that may significantly reduce sales for that product in a short amount of time. If AbbVie's competitive position is compromised because of generics or
otherwise, it could have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's business and results of operations. In addition, proposals emerge from time to time for legislation to further encourage the early and
rapid approval of generic drugs. Any such proposals that are enacted into law could increase the impact of generic competition.   

AbbVie's
principal patents and trademarks are described in greater detail in Item 1, "Business Intellectual Property Protection and Regulatory Exclusivity" and
Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations," and litigation regarding these patents is described in
Item 3, "Legal Proceedings." The United States composition of matter patent for HUMIRA, which is AbbVie's largest product and had worldwide net revenues of approximately $14.0 billion in
2015, is expected to expire in December 2016, and the equivalent European Union patent is expected to expire in the majority of European Union countries in October 2018. Because HUMIRA is a biologic
and biologics cannot be readily substituted, it is uncertain what impact the loss of patent protection would have on the sales of HUMIRA.   

AbbVie's major products could lose patent protection earlier than expected, which could adversely
affect AbbVie's future revenues and operating earnings.      

          Third parties or government authorities may challenge or seek to invalidate or circumvent AbbVie's patents and patent applications. For
example, manufacturers of generic pharmaceutical
products file, and may continue to file, Abbreviated New Drug Applications with the FDA seeking to market generic forms of AbbVie's products prior to the expiration of relevant patents owned or
licensed by AbbVie by asserting that   

the
patents are invalid, unenforceable and/or not infringed. In addition, petitioners have filed, and may continue to file, challenges to the validity of AbbVie patents under the 2011 Leahy-Smith
America Invents Act, which created    inter partes    review and post grant review procedures for challenging patent validity in administrative proceedings at
the United States Patent and Trademark Office.   

          Although
most of the challenges to AbbVie's intellectual property have come from other businesses, governments may also challenge intellectual property rights. For example, court
decisions and potential legislation relating to patents, such as legislation regarding biosimilars, and other regulatory initiatives may result in further erosion of intellectual property protection.
In addition, certain governments outside the United States have indicated that compulsory licenses to patents may be sought to further their domestic policies or on the basis of national emergencies,
such as HIV/AIDS. If triggered, compulsory licenses could diminish or eliminate sales and profits from those jurisdictions and negatively affect AbbVie's results of operations.   

          AbbVie
normally responds to challenges by vigorously defending its patents, including by filing patent infringement lawsuits. Patent litigation, administrative proceedings and other
challenges to AbbVie's patents are costly and unpredictable and may deprive AbbVie of market exclusivity for a patented product. To the extent AbbVie's intellectual property is successfully challenged
or circumvented or to the extent such intellectual property does not allow AbbVie to compete effectively, AbbVie's business will suffer. To the extent that countries do not enforce AbbVie's
intellectual property rights or require compulsory licensing of AbbVie's intellectual property, AbbVie's future revenues and operating earnings will be reduced.   

A third party's intellectual property may prevent AbbVie from selling its products or have a
material adverse effect on AbbVie's future profitability and financial condition.      

          Third parties may claim that an AbbVie product infringes upon their intellectual property. Resolving an intellectual property
infringement claim can be costly and time consuming and may require AbbVie to enter into license agreements. AbbVie cannot guarantee that it would be able to obtain license agreements on commercially
reasonable terms. A successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement could subject AbbVie to significant damages or an injunction preventing the manufacture, sale, or use of the
affected AbbVie product or products. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's profitability and financial condition.   

Any significant event that adversely affects HUMIRA revenues could have a material and negative
impact on AbbVie's results of operations and cash flows.      

          HUMIRA accounted for approximately 61 percent of AbbVie's total net revenues in 2015. Any significant event that adversely
affects HUMIRA's revenues could have a material adverse impact on AbbVie's results of operations and cash flows. These events could include loss of patent protection for HUMIRA, the approval of
biosimilars of HUMIRA, the discovery of previously unknown side effects or impaired efficacy, increased competition from the introduction of new, more effective or less expensive treatments, and
discontinuation or removal from the market of HUMIRA for any reason.   

AbbVie's research and development efforts may not succeed in developing and marketing commercially
successful products and technologies, which may cause its revenues and profitability to decline.      

          To remain competitive, AbbVie must continue to launch new products and new indications and/or brand extensions for existing products,
and such launches must generate revenue sufficient both to cover its substantial research and development costs and to replace revenues of profitable products that are lost to or displaced by
competing products or therapies. Failure to do so would have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's revenue and profitability. Accordingly, AbbVie commits substantial effort, funds, and other resources
to research and development and must make ongoing substantial expenditures without any assurance that its efforts will be commercially successful. A high rate of failure in the biopharmaceutical   

industry
is inherent in the research and development of new products, and failure can occur at any point in the research and development process, including after significant funds have been invested.
Products that appear promising in development may fail to reach the market for numerous reasons, including failure to demonstrate effectiveness, safety concerns, superior safety or efficacy of
competing therapies, failure to achieve positive clinical or pre-clinical outcomes beyond the current standards of care, inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals or delays in the approval of
new products and new indications, limited scope of approved uses, excessive costs to manufacture, the failure to obtain or maintain intellectual property rights, or infringement of the intellectual
property rights of others.   

          Decisions
about research studies made early in the development process of a pharmaceutical product candidate can affect the marketing strategy once such candidate receives approval. More
detailed studies may demonstrate additional benefits that can help in the marketing, but they also consume time and resources and may delay submitting the pharmaceutical product candidate for
approval. AbbVie cannot
guarantee that a proper balance of speed and testing will be made with respect to each pharmaceutical product candidate or that decisions in this area would not adversely affect AbbVie's future
results of operations.   

          Even
if AbbVie successfully develops and markets new products or enhancements to its existing products, they may be quickly rendered obsolete by changing clinical preferences, changing
industry standards, or competitors' innovations. AbbVie's innovations may not be accepted quickly in the marketplace because of existing clinical practices or uncertainty over third-party
reimbursement. AbbVie cannot state with certainty when or whether any of its products under development will be launched, whether it will be able to develop, license, or otherwise acquire compounds or
products, or whether any products will be commercially successful. Failure to launch successful new products or new indications for existing products may cause AbbVie's products to become obsolete,
causing AbbVie's revenues and operating results to suffer.   

A portion of AbbVie's near-term pharmaceutical pipeline relies on collaborations with third parties,
which may adversely affect the development and sale of its products.      

          AbbVie depends on alliances with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for a portion of the products in its near-term
pharmaceutical pipeline. For example, AbbVie is collaborating with Biogen to develop a treatment for the relapsing remitting form of multiple sclerosis. It is also collaborating with Roche Holding AG
to discover, develop, and commercialize a next-generation Bcl-2 inhibitor, ABT-199 (venetoclax), for patients with relapsed/refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia.   

          Failures
by these parties to meet their contractual, regulatory, or other obligations to AbbVie, or any disruption in the relationships between AbbVie and these third parties, could have
an adverse effect on AbbVie's pharmaceutical pipeline and business. In addition, AbbVie's collaborative relationships for research and development extend for many years and may give rise to disputes
regarding the relative rights, obligations and revenues of AbbVie and its collaboration partners, including the ownership of intellectual property and associated rights and obligations. This could
result in the loss of intellectual property rights or protection, delay the development and sale of potential pharmaceutical products, and lead to lengthy and expensive litigation, administrative
proceedings or arbitration.   

Biologics carry unique risks and uncertainties, which could have a negative impact on future results
of operations.      

          The successful discovery, development, manufacturing and sale of biologics is a long, expensive and uncertain process. There are unique
risks and uncertainties with biologics. For example, access to and supply of necessary biological materials, such as cell lines, may be limited, and governmental regulations restrict access to and
regulate the transport and use of such materials. In addition, the development, manufacturing, and sale of biologics is subject to regulations that are often more complex and extensive than the
regulations applicable to other pharmaceutical products. Manufacturing biologics, especially in   

large
quantities, is often complex and may require the use of innovative technologies. Such manufacturing also requires facilities specifically designed and validated for this purpose and
sophisticated quality assurance and quality control procedures. Biologics are also frequently costly to manufacture because production inputs are derived from living animal or plant material, and some
biologics cannot be made synthetically. Failure to successfully discover, develop, manufacture and sell biologics including HUMIRA could adversely impact AbbVie's business and
results of operations.   

AbbVie's biologic products may become subject to competition from biosimilars.      

          The Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act was passed on March 23, 2010 as Title VII to the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act. The law created a framework for the approval of biosimilars in the United States and could allow competitors to reference data from biologic products already approved. In Europe,
the European Commission has granted marketing authorizations for several biosimilars pursuant to a set of general and product class-specific guidelines for biosimilar approvals issued over the past
few years. In addition, companies are developing biosimilars in other countries that could compete with AbbVie's biologic products. For example, Amgen has submitted a marketing authorization
application to the European Medicines Agency for a biosimilar of HUMIRA and the United States FDA has accepted for review Amgen's application for a HUMIRA biosimilar. If competitors are able to obtain
marketing approval for biosimilars referencing AbbVie's biologic products, AbbVie's products may become subject to competition from such biosimilars, with the attendant competitive pressure and
consequences. Expiration or successful challenge of AbbVie's applicable patent rights could also trigger competition from other products, assuming any relevant exclusivity period has expired. As a
result, AbbVie could face more litigation and administrative proceedings with respect to the validity and/or scope of patents relating to its biologic products.   

New products and technological advances by AbbVie's competitors may negatively affect AbbVie's
results of operations.      

          AbbVie competes with other research-based pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that discover, manufacture, market, and sell
proprietary pharmaceutical products and biologics. For example, HUMIRA competes with a number of anti-TNF products that are approved for a number of disease states and AbbVie's virology products
compete with protease inhibitors and other anti-HIV treatments. These competitors may introduce new products or develop technological advances that compete with AbbVie's products in therapeutic areas
such as immunology, virology/liver disease, oncology, dyslipidemia, and neuroscience. AbbVie cannot predict with certainty the timing or impact of the introduction by competitors of new products or
technological advances. Such competing products may be
safer, more effective, more effectively marketed or sold, or have lower prices or superior performance features than AbbVie's products, and this could negatively impact AbbVie's business and results
of operations.   

The manufacture of many of AbbVie's products is a highly exacting and complex process, and if AbbVie
or one of its suppliers encounters problems manufacturing AbbVie's products, AbbVie's business could suffer.      

          The manufacture of many of AbbVie's products is a highly exacting and complex process, due in part to strict regulatory requirements.
Problems may arise during manufacturing for a variety of reasons, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, problems with raw materials, delays related to
the construction of new facilities or the expansion of existing facilities, including those intended to support future demand for AbbVie's products, changes in manufacturing production sites and
limits to manufacturing capacity due to regulatory requirements, changes in the types of products produced, physical limitations that could inhibit continuous supply, man-made or natural disasters,
and environmental factors. If problems arise during the production of a batch of product, that batch of product may have to be discarded and AbbVie may experience product shortages or incur added
expenses. This could, among other things, lead to increased costs, lost revenue, damage to customer relations, time and expense spent investigating the cause and, depending on the cause, similar
losses with respect to other   

batches
or products. If problems are not discovered before the product is released to the market, recall and product liability costs may also be incurred.   

AbbVie uses a number of products in its pharmaceutical and biologic manufacturing processes that are
sourced from single suppliers, and an interruption in the supply of those products could adversely affect AbbVie's business and results of operations.      

          AbbVie uses a number of products in its pharmaceutical and biologic manufacturing processes that are sourced from single suppliers. The
failure of these single-source suppliers to fulfill their contractual obligations in a timely manner or as a result of regulatory noncompliance or physical disruption at a manufacturing site may
impair AbbVie's ability to deliver its products to customers on a timely and competitive basis, which could adversely affect AbbVie's business and results of operations. Finding an alternative
supplier could take a significant amount of time and involve significant expense due to the nature of the products and the need to obtain regulatory approvals. AbbVie cannot guarantee that it will be
able to reach agreement with alternative providers or that regulatory authorities would approve
AbbVie's use of such alternatives. AbbVie does, however, carry business interruption insurance, which provides a degree of protection in the case of a failure by a single-source supplier.   

Significant safety or efficacy issues could arise for AbbVie's products, which could have a material
adverse effect on AbbVie's revenues and financial condition.      

          Pharmaceutical products receive regulatory approval based on data obtained in controlled clinical trials of limited duration. Following
regulatory approval, these products will be used over longer periods of time in many patients. Investigators may also conduct additional, and perhaps more extensive, studies. If new safety or efficacy
issues are reported or if new scientific information becomes available (including results of post-marketing Phase 4 trials), or if governments change standards regarding safety, efficacy or
labeling, AbbVie may be required to amend the conditions of use for a product. For example, AbbVie may voluntarily provide or be required to provide updated information on a product's label or narrow
its approved indication, either of which could reduce the product's market acceptance. If safety or efficacy issues with an AbbVie product arise, sales of the product could be halted by AbbVie or by
regulatory authorities. Safety or efficacy issues affecting suppliers' or competitors' products also may reduce the market acceptance of AbbVie's products.   

          New
data about AbbVie's products, or products similar to its products, could negatively impact demand for AbbVie's products due to real or perceived safety issues or uncertainty
regarding efficacy and, in some cases, could result in product withdrawal. Furthermore, new data and information, including information about product misuse, may lead government agencies, professional
societies, practice management groups or organizations involved with various diseases to publish guidelines or recommendations related to the use of AbbVie's products or the use of related therapies
or place restrictions on sales. Such guidelines or recommendations may lead to lower sales of AbbVie's products.   

AbbVie is subject to product liability claims and lawsuits that may adversely affect its business
and results of operations.      

          In the ordinary course of business, AbbVie is the subject of product liability claims and lawsuits alleging that AbbVie's products or
the products of other companies that it promotes have resulted or could result in an unsafe condition for or injury to patients. Product liability claims and lawsuits and safety alerts or product
recalls, regardless of their ultimate outcome, may have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's business, results of operations, and reputation and on its ability to attract and retain customers.
Consequences may also include additional costs, a decrease in market share for the product in question, lower income and exposure to other claims. Product liability losses are self-insured.   

AbbVie is subject to cost-containment efforts and pricing pressures that could cause a reduction in
future revenues and operating earnings, and changes in the terms of rebate and chargeback programs, which are common in the pharmaceuticals industry, could have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's
operations.      

          Cost-containment efforts by governments and private organizations are described in greater detail in Item 1,
"Business Regulation Commercialization, Distribution, and Manufacturing." To the extent these cost containment efforts are not offset by greater demand, increased patient
access to health care, or other factors, AbbVie's future revenues and operating earnings will be reduced. In the United States, the European Union and other countries, AbbVie's business has
experienced downward pressure on product pricing, and this pressure could increase in the future.   

          In
the United States, practices of managed care groups, and institutional and governmental purchasers, and United States federal laws and regulations related to Medicare and Medicaid,
including the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 and the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, contribute to pricing pressures. The potential for continuing
changes to the health care system in the United States and the increased purchasing power of entities that negotiate on behalf of Medicare, Medicaid, and private sector beneficiaries could result in
additional pricing pressures.   

          In
numerous major markets worldwide, the government plays a significant role in funding health care services and determining the pricing and reimbursement of pharmaceutical products.
Consequently, in those markets, AbbVie is subject to government decision-making and budgetary actions with respect to its products. In particular, many European countries have ongoing
government-mandated price reductions for many pharmaceutical products, and AbbVie anticipates continuing pricing pressures in Europe. Differences between countries in pricing regulations could lead to
third-party cross-border trading in AbbVie's products that results in a reduction in future revenues and operating earnings.   

          Rebates
related to government programs, such as fee-for-service Medicaid or Medicaid managed care programs, arise from laws and regulations. AbbVie cannot predict if additional
government initiatives to contain health care costs or other factors could lead to new or modified regulatory requirements that include higher or incremental rebates or discounts. Other rebate and
discount programs arise from contractual agreements with private payers. Various factors, including market factors and the ability of private payers to control patient access to products, may provide
payers the leverage to negotiate higher or additional rebates or discounts that could have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's operations.   

AbbVie is subject to numerous governmental regulations, and it can be costly to comply with these
regulations and to develop compliant products and processes.      

          AbbVie's products are subject to rigorous regulation by numerous international, supranational, federal, and state authorities, as
described in Item 1, "Business Regulation Discovery and Clinical Development." The process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a pharmaceutical product can be
costly and time consuming, and approvals might not be granted for future products, or additional indications or uses of existing products, on a timely basis, if at all. Delays in the receipt of, or
failure to obtain approvals for, future products, or new indications and uses, could result in delayed realization of product revenues, reduction in revenues, and substantial additional costs.   

          In
addition, AbbVie cannot guarantee that it will remain compliant with applicable regulatory requirements once approval has been obtained for a product. These requirements include,
among other things, regulations regarding manufacturing practices, product labeling, and advertising and post-marketing reporting, including adverse event reports and field alerts due to manufacturing
quality concerns. AbbVie must incur expense and spend time and effort to ensure compliance with these complex regulations.   

          Possible
regulatory actions could result in substantial modifications to AbbVie's business practices and operations; refunds, recalls, or seizures of AbbVie's products; a total or
partial shutdown of production in one or more of AbbVie's or its suppliers' facilities while AbbVie or its supplier remedies the alleged   

violation;
the inability to obtain future approvals; and withdrawals or suspensions of current products from the market. Any of these events could disrupt AbbVie's business and have a material adverse
effect on its business and results of operations.   

Laws and regulations affecting government benefit programs could impose new obligations on AbbVie,
require it to change its business practices, and restrict its operations in the future.      

          The health care industry is subject to various federal, state, and international laws and regulations pertaining to government benefit
programs reimbursement, rebates, price reporting and regulation, and health care fraud and abuse. In the United States, these laws include anti-kickback and false claims laws, the Medicaid Rebate
Statute, the Veterans Health Care Act, and individual state laws relating to pricing and sales and marketing practices. Violations of these laws may be punishable by
criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, substantial fines, imprisonment, and exclusion from participation in federal and state health care programs, including Medicare,
Medicaid, and Veterans Administration health programs. These laws and regulations are broad in scope and they are subject to change and evolving interpretations, which could require AbbVie to incur
substantial costs associated with compliance or to alter one or more of its sales or marketing practices. In addition, violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt
AbbVie's business and result in a material adverse effect on its business and results of operations.   

AbbVie could be subject to increased monetary penalties and/or other sanctions, including exclusion
from federal health care programs, if it fails to comply with the terms of the May 7, 2012 resolution of the Department of Justice's investigation into sales and marketing activities for
Depakote.      

          On May 7, 2012, Abbott settled United States federal and 49 state investigations into its sales and marketing activities for
Depakote by pleading guilty to a misdemeanor violation of the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, agreeing to pay approximately $700 million in criminal fines and forfeitures and approximately
$900 million to resolve civil claims, and submitting to a term of probation. The term of probation ended January 1, 2016 upon AbbVie satisfying all of the probation conditions. However,
if AbbVie violates any remaining terms of the plea agreement, it may face additional monetary sanctions and other such remedies as the court deems appropriate.   

          In
addition, Abbott entered into a five-year CIA with the Office of Inspector General for the United States Department of Health and Human Services (OIG). The effective date of the CIA
is October 11, 2012. The obligations of the CIA have transferred to and become fully binding on AbbVie. The CIA requires enhancements to AbbVie's compliance program, fulfillment of reporting
and monitoring obligations, management certifications, and resolutions from AbbVie's board of directors, among other requirements. Compliance with the requirements of the settlement will impose
additional costs and burdens on AbbVie, including in the form of employee training, third party reviews, compliance monitoring, reporting obligations, and management attention. If AbbVie fails to
comply with the CIA, the OIG may impose monetary penalties or exclude AbbVie from federal health care programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. AbbVie and Abbott may be subject to third party claims
and shareholder lawsuits in connection with the settlement, and AbbVie may be required to indemnify all or a portion of Abbott's costs.   

The international nature of AbbVie's business subjects it to additional business risks that may
cause its revenue and profitability to decline.      

          AbbVie's business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally, including in emerging markets. Net revenues
outside of the United States make up approximately 41 percent of AbbVie's total net revenues in 2015. The risks associated with AbbVie's operations outside the United States
include:  

fluctuations in currency exchange rates;   
            changes in medical reimbursement policies and programs;    

multiple legal and regulatory requirements that are subject to change and that could restrict AbbVie's ability to manufacture, market,
and sell its products;   
            differing local product preferences and product requirements;   
            trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements;   
            difficulty in establishing, staffing, and managing operations;   
            differing labor regulations;   
            potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws;   
            political and economic instability, including sovereign debt issues;   
            price and currency exchange controls, limitations on participation in local enterprises, expropriation, nationalization, and other
governmental action;   
            inflation, recession and fluctuations in interest rates;   
            potential deterioration in the economic position and credit quality of certain non-U.S. countries, including in Europe and Latin
America; and   
            potential penalties or other adverse consequences for violations of anti-corruption, anti-bribery and other similar laws and
regulations, including the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the United Kingdom Bribery Act.    

Events
contemplated by these risks may, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's revenues and profitability.   

AbbVie's ability to realize the anticipated benefits of its merger with Pharmacyclics will depend on
its ability to effectively and profitably commercialize IMBRUVICA  (ibrutinib).      

          The anticipated benefits of AbbVie's merger with Pharmacyclics will depend on AbbVie's ability to: effectively and profitably
commercialize IMBRUVICA, including AbbVie's ability to create and meet continued market demand, achieve market acceptance and generate product sales; ensure that the active pharmaceutical ingredient
for IMBRUVICA and the finished product are manufactured in sufficient quantities and in compliance with requirements of the FDA and similar foreign regulatory agencies and with acceptable quality and
pricing to meet commercial demand; and ensure that the entire supply chain efficiently and consistently delivers IMBRUVICA to AbbVie's customers. The commercialization of IMBRUVICA may not be
successful due to, among other things, unexpected challenges from competitors, new safety issues or concerns being reported that may impact or narrow the approved indications, the relative price of
IMBRUVICA as compared to alternative treatment options, and changes to the label for IMBRUVICA that further restrict its marketing. If the commercialization of IMBRUVICA is unsuccessful, AbbVie's
ability to generate revenue from product sales and realize the anticipated benefits of the merger will be adversely affected.   

AbbVie may acquire other businesses, license rights to technologies or products, form alliances, or
dispose of assets, which could cause it to incur significant expenses and could negatively affect profitability.      

          AbbVie may pursue acquisitions, technology licensing arrangements, and strategic alliances, or dispose of some of its assets, as part
of its business strategy. AbbVie may not complete these transactions in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, or at all, and may not realize the expected benefits. If AbbVie is successful in
making an acquisition, the products and technologies that are acquired may not be successful or may require significantly greater resources and investments than originally anticipated. AbbVie may not
be able to integrate acquisitions successfully into its existing business and could incur or assume significant debt and unknown or contingent liabilities. AbbVie could also experience negative
effects on its reported   

results
of operations from acquisition or disposition-related charges, amortization of expenses related to intangibles and charges for impairment of long-term assets. These effects could cause a
deterioration of AbbVie's credit rating and result in increased borrowing costs and interest expense.   

Additionally,
changes in AbbVie's structure, operations, revenues, costs, or efficiency resulting from major transactions such as acquisitions, divestitures, mergers, alliances,
restructurings or other strategic initiatives,
may result in greater than expected costs, may take longer than expected to complete or encounter other difficulties, including the need for regulatory approval where appropriate.   

AbbVie is dependent on wholesale distributors for distribution of its products in the United States
and, accordingly, its results of operations could be adversely affected if they encounter financial difficulties.      

          In 2015, three wholesale distributors AmerisourceBergen Corporation, Cardinal Health, Inc. and McKesson
Corporation accounted for substantially all of AbbVie's net revenues in the United States. If one of its significant wholesale distributors encounters financial or other difficulties, such
distributor may decrease the amount of business that it does with AbbVie, and AbbVie may be unable to collect all the amounts that the distributor owes it on a timely basis or at all, which could
negatively impact AbbVie's business and results of operations.   

AbbVie has debt obligations that could adversely affect its business and its ability to meet its
obligations.      

          The amount of debt that AbbVie has incurred and intends to incur could have important consequences to AbbVie and its investors. These
consequences include, among other things, requiring a portion of AbbVie's cash flow from operations to make interest payments on this debt and reducing the cash flow available to fund capital
expenditures and other corporate purposes and to grow AbbVie's business. To the extent AbbVie incurs additional indebtedness, these risks could increase. In addition, AbbVie's cash flow from
operations may not be sufficient to repay all of the outstanding debt as it becomes due, and AbbVie may not be able to borrow money, sell assets, or otherwise raise funds on acceptable terms, or at
all, to refinance its debt.   

AbbVie may need additional financing in the future to meet its capital needs or to make
opportunistic acquisitions, and such financing may not be available on favorable terms, if at all.      

          AbbVie may need to seek additional financing for its general corporate purposes. For example, it may need to increase its investment in
research and development activities or need funds to make acquisitions. AbbVie may be unable to obtain any desired additional financing on terms favorable to it, if at all. If AbbVie loses its
investment grade credit rating or adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, AbbVie may be unable to fund its expansion, successfully develop or enhance products, or respond to competitive
pressures, any of which could negatively affect AbbVie's business. If AbbVie raises additional funds by issuing debt or entering into credit facilities, it may be subject to limitations on its
operations due to restrictive covenants. Failure to comply with these covenants could adversely affect AbbVie's business.   

AbbVie depends on information technology and a failure of those systems could adversely affect
AbbVie's business.      

          AbbVie relies on sophisticated information technology systems to operate its business. These systems are potentially vulnerable to
malicious intrusion, random attack, loss of data privacy, or breakdown. Although AbbVie has invested in the protection of its data and information technology and also monitors its systems on an
ongoing basis, there can be no assurance that these efforts will prevent breakdowns or breaches in AbbVie's information technology systems that could adversely affect AbbVie's business.   

Other factors can have a material adverse effect on AbbVie's profitability and financial condition.      

          Many other factors can affect AbbVie's results of operations, cash flows and financial condition,
including:  

changes in or interpretations of laws and regulations, including changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements, product
marketing application standards, and environmental laws;   
            differences between the fair value measurement of assets and liabilities and their actual value, particularly for pension and
post-employment benefits, stock-based compensation, intangibles, and goodwill; and for contingent liabilities such as litigation, the absence of a recorded amount, or an amount recorded at the
minimum, compared to the actual amount;   
            changes in the rate of inflation (including the cost of raw materials, commodities, and supplies), interest rates, market value of
AbbVie's equity investments, and the performance of investments held by it or its employee benefit trusts;   
            changes in the creditworthiness of counterparties that transact business with or provide services to AbbVie or its employee benefit
trusts;   
            changes in the ability of third parties that provide information technology, accounting, human resources, payroll, and other
outsourced services to AbbVie to meet their contractual obligations to AbbVie; and   
            changes in business, economic, and political conditions, including: war, political instability, terrorist attacks, the threat of
future terrorist activity and related military action; natural disasters; the cost and availability of insurance due to any of the foregoing events; labor disputes, strikes, slow-downs, or other forms
of labor or union activity; and pressure from third-party interest groups.    

Risks Related to AbbVie's Common Stock     

AbbVie cannot guarantee the timing, amount, or payment of dividends on its common stock.      

          Although AbbVie expects to pay regular cash dividends, the timing, declaration, amount and payment of future dividends to stockholders
will fall within the discretion of AbbVie's board of directors. The board's decisions regarding the payment of dividends will depend on many factors, such as AbbVie's financial condition, earnings,
capital requirements, debt service obligations, industry practice, legal requirements, regulatory constraints, and other factors that the board deems relevant. For more information, see Item 5,
"Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities." AbbVie's ability to pay dividends will depend on its ongoing ability to
generate cash from operations and access capital markets. AbbVie cannot guarantee that it will continue to pay a dividend in the future.   

An AbbVie stockholder's percentage of ownership in AbbVie may be diluted in the future.      

          In the future, a stockholder's percentage ownership in AbbVie may be diluted because of equity issuances for capital market
transactions, equity awards that AbbVie will be granting to AbbVie's directors, officers and employees, acquisitions, or other purposes. AbbVie's employees have options to purchase shares of its
common stock as a result of conversion of their Abbott stock options (in whole or in part) to AbbVie stock options. AbbVie anticipates its compensation committee will grant additional stock options or
other stock-based awards to its employees. Such awards will have a dilutive effect on AbbVie's earnings per share, which could adversely affect the market price of AbbVie's common stock. From time to
time, AbbVie will issue additional options or other stock-based awards to its employees under AbbVie's employee benefits plans.   

          In
addition, AbbVie's amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes AbbVie to issue, without the approval of AbbVie's stockholders, one or more classes or series of
preferred stock having such   

designation,
powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, including preferences over AbbVie's common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as AbbVie's
board of directors generally may determine. The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of AbbVie's common stock. For example,
AbbVie could grant the holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of AbbVie's directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified
transactions. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences AbbVie could assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of the common stock.   

Certain provisions in AbbVie's amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and
restated by-laws, and of Delaware law, may prevent or delay an acquisition of AbbVie, which could decrease the trading price of AbbVie's common stock.      

          AbbVie's amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws contain, and Delaware law contains,
provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices or bids unacceptably expensive
to the bidder and to encourage prospective acquirors to negotiate with AbbVie's board of directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include, among
others:  

the inability of AbbVie's stockholders to call a special meeting;   
            the division of AbbVie's board of directors into three classes of directors, with each class serving a staggered three-year term;    
            a provision that stockholders may only remove directors for cause;   
            the ability of AbbVie's directors, and not stockholders, to fill vacancies on AbbVie's board of directors; and    
            the requirement that the affirmative vote of stockholders holding at least 80 percent of AbbVie's voting stock is required to
amend certain provisions in AbbVie's amended and restated certificate of incorporation and AbbVie's amended and restated by-laws relating to the number, term and election of AbbVie's directors, the
filling of board vacancies, the calling of special meetings of stockholders and director and officer indemnification provisions.    

In
addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law provides that, subject to limited exceptions, persons that acquire, or are affiliated with a person that acquires,
more than 15 percent of the outstanding voting stock of a Delaware corporation shall not engage in any business combination with that corporation, including by merger, consolidation or
acquisitions of additional shares, for a three-year period following the date on which that person or its affiliates becomes the holder of more than 15 percent of the corporation's outstanding
voting stock.   

          AbbVie
believes these provisions protect its stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirors to negotiate with AbbVie's board of
directors and by providing AbbVie's board of directors with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. These provisions are not intended to
make the company immune from takeovers. However, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that AbbVie's
board of directors determines is not in the best interests of AbbVie and AbbVie's stockholders. These provisions may also prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors.   

CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS            

          This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains certain forward looking statements regarding business strategies,
market potential, future financial performance and other matters. The words "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "project" and similar expressions, among others, generally identify "forward looking
statements," which speak only as of the date the statements were made. The matters discussed in these forward looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause
actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied in the forward looking statements. In particular, information included under Item 1, "Business," Item 1A,
"Risk Factors," and Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contain forward looking statements. Where, in any forward looking statement,
an expectation or belief as to future results or events is expressed, such expectation or belief is based on the current plans and expectations of AbbVie management and expressed in good faith and
believed to have a reasonable basis, but there can be
no assurance that the expectation or belief will result or be achieved or accomplished. Factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those anticipated include the
matters described under Item 1A, "Risk Factors" and Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." AbbVie does not undertake any
obligation to update the forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof, unless AbbVie is required by applicable
securities law to do so.   

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 

None.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 

AbbVie's
corporate offices are located at 1 North Waukegan Road, North Chicago, Illinois 60064-6400. AbbVie's principal manufacturing plants are in the
following locations:   

United States    
     
   Outside the United States     

Abbott Park, Illinois*  
     
  Campoverde di Aprilia, Italy  

Barceloneta, Puerto Rico  
     
  Cork, Ireland  

Jayuya, Puerto Rico  
     
  Ludwigshafen, Germany  

North Chicago, Illinois  
     
  Sligo, Ireland  

Worcester, Massachusetts  

*    Leased
property.     

In
addition to the above, AbbVie has other manufacturing facilities in the United States and worldwide. AbbVie believes its facilities are suitable and provide adequate production
capacity.   

          In
the United States, including Puerto Rico, AbbVie has one distribution center. AbbVie also has four research and development facilities in the United States located at: Abbott Park,
Illinois; North Chicago, Illinois; Redwood City, California; and Worcester, Massachusetts. Outside the United States, AbbVie's principal research and development facilities are located in
Ludwigshafen, Germany.   

          Except
as noted, the principal plants in the United States listed above are owned by AbbVie or subsidiaries of AbbVie. The remaining manufacturing plants and all other facilities are
owned or leased by AbbVie or subsidiaries of AbbVie.   

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 

Information
pertaining to legal proceedings is provided in Note 14 entitled "Legal Proceedings and Contingencies" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements included under Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," and is incorporated by reference herein.   

ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 

Not
applicable.   

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT            

          The following table lists AbbVie's executive officers, each of whom was first appointed as an AbbVie corporate officer
in December 2012, except as otherwise indicated:   

Name    
     
   Age    
     
   Position     

Richard A. Gonzalez  
     
  62  
     
      Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer  

Carlos Alban  
     
  53  
     
      Executive Vice President, Commercial Operations  

William J. Chase  
     
  48  
     
      Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer  

Henry O. Gosebruch*  
     
  43  
     
      Executive Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer  

Laura J. Schumacher  
     
  52  
     
      Executive Vice President, External Affairs, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary  

Michael E. Severino, M.D.**  
     
  50  
     
      Executive Vice President, Research and Development, Chief Scientific Officer  

Timothy J. Richmond  
     
  49  
     
      Senior Vice President, Human Resources  

Azita Saleki-Gerhardt, Ph.D.  
     
  52  
     
      Senior Vice President, Operations  

Thomas A. Hurwich  
     
  55  
     
      Vice President, Controller  

*    First
appointed as a corporate officer in December 2015.      **    First
appointed as a corporate officer in June 2014.     

Mr. Gonzalez
is AbbVie's Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. He served as Abbott's Executive Vice President, Pharmaceutical Products Group from 2010 to 2012, and
was responsible for Abbott's worldwide pharmaceutical business, including commercial operations, research and development, and manufacturing. He has also served as President, Abbott
Ventures Inc., Abbott's medical technology investment arm, from 2009 to 2011. Mr. Gonzalez joined Abbott in 1977 and held various management positions before briefly retiring in 2007,
including Abbott's President and Chief Operating Officer, President, Chief Operating Officer of Abbott's Medical Products Group, Senior Vice President and President of Abbott's former Hospital
Products Division (now Hospira, Inc.), Vice President and President of Abbott's Health Systems Division, and Divisional Vice President and General Manager for Abbott's Diagnostics Operations in
the United States and Canada.   

          Mr. Alban
is AbbVie's Executive Vice President, Commercial Operations. He served as Abbott's Senior Vice President, Proprietary Pharmaceutical Products, Global Commercial
Operations from 2011 to 2012, as Senior Vice President, International Pharmaceuticals from 2009 to 2011, as Vice President, Western Europe and Canada from 2007 to 2009, and as Vice President, European
Operations from 2006 to 2007. Mr. Alban joined Abbott in 1986.   

          Mr. Chase
is AbbVie's Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer. He served as Abbott's Vice President, Licensing and Acquisitions from 2010 to 2012, as Vice President,
Treasurer from 2007 to 2010, and as Divisional Vice President, Controller of Abbott International from 2004 to 2007. Mr. Chase joined Abbott in 1989.   

          Mr. Gosebruch
is AbbVie's Executive Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer. He worked for more than 20 years in the Mergers   Acquisitions Group at J.P. Morgan
Securities LLC, serving as Managing Director since 2007 and as Co-Head of M A North America during 2015. Mr. Gosebruch joined AbbVie in 2015.   

Ms. Schumacher
is AbbVie's Executive Vice President, External Affairs, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary, responsible for AbbVie's externally-facing functions of Health
Economics Outcomes Research, Government Affairs, Corporate Responsibility, Brand and Communications. She also leads all legal functions and biotherapeutics strategy. Prior to AbbVie's separation from
Abbott, Ms. Schumacher served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel, and Corporate Secretary from 2007 to 2012, and as Senior Vice President, Corporate Secretary, and General Counsel
from 2005 to 2007. Both at Abbott and AbbVie, Ms. Schumacher   

also
led Licensing and Acquisition and Ventures and Early Stage Collaborations. At Abbott, Ms. Schumacher was also responsible for its Office of Ethics and Compliance. Ms. Schumacher
joined Abbott in 1990. She serves on the board of General Dynamics Corporation.   

          Dr. Severino
is AbbVie's Executive Vice President, Research and Development, Chief Scientific Officer. Dr. Severino served at Amgen Inc. as Senior Vice President,
Global Development and Corporate Chief Medical Officer from 2012 to 2014, as Vice President, Global Development from 2010 to 2012 and as Vice President, Therapeutic Area Head, General Medicine and
Inflammation Global Clinical Development from 2007 to 2012. He joined AbbVie in 2014.   

          Mr. Richmond
is AbbVie's Senior Vice President, Human Resources. He served as Abbott's Divisional Vice President of Compensation   Benefits from 2008 to 2012, as Group Vice
President of Talent and Rewards from 2007 to 2008, and as Divisional Vice President of Talent Acquisition from 2006 to 2007. Mr. Richmond joined Abbott in 2006.   

          Dr. Saleki-Gerhardt
is AbbVie's Senior Vice President, Operations. She served as Abbott's Vice President, Pharmaceuticals Manufacturing and Supply from 2011 to 2012, and as
Divisional Vice President, Quality Assurance, Global Pharmaceutical Operations from 2008 to 2011. Dr. Saleki-Gerhardt joined Abbott in 1993.   

          Mr. Hurwich
is AbbVie's Vice President, Controller. He served as Abbott's Vice President, Internal Audit from 2009 to 2012, and as Divisional Vice President, Controller, Abbott
Diagnostics Division from 2003 to 2009. Mr. Hurwich joined Abbott in 1983.   

          The
executive officers of AbbVie are elected annually by the board of directors. All other officers are elected by the board or appointed by the Chairman of the Board. All officers are
either elected at the first meeting of the board of directors held after the annual stockholder meeting or appointed by the Chairman of the Board after that board meeting. Each officer holds office
until a successor has been duly elected or appointed and qualified or until the officer's death, resignation, or removal. There are no family relationships between any of the executive officers listed
above.   

PART II            

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT's COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY
SECURITIES 

Principal Market     

          The principal market for AbbVie's common stock is the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). AbbVie's common stock is also listed on the
Chicago Stock Exchange and traded on various regional and electronic exchanges. Outside the United States, AbbVie's common stock is listed on NYSE Euronext Paris and the SIX Swiss Exchange.   

Stockholders     

          There were 53,653 stockholders of record of AbbVie common stock as of January 31, 2016.   

Dividends     

          Four quarterly dividends were paid on common stock in 2015 and 2014. The first quarter 2015 cash dividend of $0.49 per share was
payable February 13, 2015 and the second, third and fourth quarter 2015 dividends of $0.51 per share were payable May 15, 2015, August 14, 2015 and November 16, 2015,
respectively. The first quarter 2014 cash dividend of $0.40 per share was payable February 14, 2014 and the second, third and fourth quarter 2014 dividends of $0.42 per share were payable
May 15, 2014, August 15, 2014 and November 17, 2014, respectively.   

On
October 30, 2015, AbbVie's board of directors declared an increase in the quarterly cash dividend from $0.51 per share to $0.57 per share, payable on February 16, 2016
to stockholders of record as of January 15, 2016. The timing, declaration, amount of, and payment of any dividends by AbbVie in the future is within the discretion of its board of directors and
will depend upon many factors, including AbbVie's financial condition, earnings, capital requirements of its operating subsidiaries, covenants associated with certain of
AbbVie's debt service obligations, legal requirements, regulatory constraints, industry practice, ability to access capital markets, and other factors deemed relevant by its board of directors.
Moreover, if AbbVie determines to pay any dividend in the future, there can be no assurance that it will continue to pay such dividends or the amount of such dividends.   

Performance Graph     

          The following graph compares the cumulative total returns of AbbVie, the S P 500 Index and the NYSE Arca Pharmaceuticals Index.
This graph covers the period from January 2, 2013 (the first day AbbVie's common stock began "regular-way" trading on the NYSE) through December 31, 2015. This graph assumes $100 was
invested in AbbVie common stock and each index on January 2, 2013 and also assumes the reinvestment of dividends. The stock price performance on the following graph is not necessarily
indicative of future stock price performance.   

COMPARISON OF CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN            

This
performance graph is furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" with the SEC or subject to Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed
incorporated by reference in any of our filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.   

Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities     

1.    In
addition to AbbVie shares repurchased on the open market under a publicly announced program, these shares include the
following:

(i)    the
shares deemed surrendered to AbbVie to pay the exercise price in connection with the exercise of employee stock options 1,949 in October;
5,103 in November; and 18,615 in December; and
      (ii)    the
shares purchased on the open market for the benefit of participants in the AbbVie Employee Stock Purchase Plan 0 in October; 0 in November;
and 22,171 in December.
     
   2.    These
shares do not include the shares surrendered to AbbVie to satisfy minimum tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted
stock or restricted stock units. On October 20, 2014, AbbVie announced that its board of directors authorized the purchase of up to $5.0 billion of its common stock. Purchases of AbbVie
shares under this program may be made from time to time at management's discretion. The program has no time limit and can be discontinued at any time.     

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 

The
following table sets forth AbbVie's selected financial information derived from its (i) audited consolidated financial statements as of and for the
years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013; and (ii) audited combined financial statements as of and for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011. The historical financial
statements for periods prior to January 1, 2013 were prepared on a stand-alone basis and were derived from Abbott's consolidated financial statements and accounting records as if the former
research-based pharmaceutical business of Abbott had been part of AbbVie for all periods presented. Accordingly, AbbVie's financial statements for periods prior to January 1, 2013 are presented
on a combined basis and reflect AbbVie's financial position, results of operations and cash flows as its business was operated as part of Abbott prior to the separation, in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the United States.   

          The
selected financial information should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and accompanying notes included under Item 8, "Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data" and Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."   

n/a Not applicable.    

(a)    AbbVie's
historical financial statements for periods prior to January 1, 2013 reflected an allocation of expenses related to certain Abbott corporate
functions, including senior management, legal, human resources, finance, information technology, and quality assurance. These expenses were allocated to AbbVie based on direct usage or benefit where
identifiable, with the remainder allocated on a pro rata basis of revenues, headcount, square footage, number of transactions or other measures. AbbVie considers the expense allocation methodology and
results to be reasonable. However, the allocations may not be indicative of the actual expenses that would have been incurred had AbbVie operated as an independent, stand-alone, publicly-traded
company for the periods presented. Accordingly, the historical financial information presented for periods prior to January 1, 2013 may not be indicative of the results of operations or
financial position that would have been achieved if AbbVie had been an independent, stand-alone, publicly-traded company during the periods shown or of AbbVie's performance for periods subsequent to
December 31, 2012.
      (b)    Results
for 2015, 2014 and 2013 included higher expenses associated with operating as an independent, stand-alone, publicly-traded company than the
historically derived financial statements for periods prior to January 1, 2013. The increases include the impact of interest expense on debt issued in November 2012, a higher tax rate and other
incremental costs of operating as an independent company. Refer to "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations" for a
discussion of other items that affected the comparability of financial results for 2015, 2014 and 2013.    

(c)    AbbVie
declared regular quarterly cash dividends in 2013 aggregating $1.60 per share of common stock. In addition, a cash dividend of $0.40 per share of
common stock was declared from pre-separation earnings on January 4, 2013 and was recorded as a reduction of additional paid-in capital.
      (d)    On
January 1, 2013, Abbott distributed 1,577 million shares of AbbVie common stock to shareholders of Abbott common stock. For periods prior
to the separation, the weighted-average basic and diluted shares outstanding were based on the number of shares of AbbVie common stock outstanding on the distribution date. Refer to Note 4 to
the audited consolidated financial statements included under Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for information regarding the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per
common share for 2015, 2014 and 2013.
      (e)    On
May 26, 2015, AbbVie acquired Pharmacyclics, Inc. for approximately $20.8 billion, including cash consideration of
$12.4 billion and equity consideration of approximately 128 million shares of AbbVie common stock valued at $8.4 billion. In connection with the acquisition, AbbVie issued
$16.7 billion aggregate principal amount of unsecured senior notes, of which approximately $11.5 billion were used to finance the acquisition of Pharmacyclics Inc. and
approximately $5.0 billion were used to finance an accelerated share repurchase agreement. Refer to Notes 5, 9 and 12 to the audited consolidated financial statements included under
Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for information regarding the acquisition of Pharmacyclics, Inc., the senior notes and the accelerated share repurchase program,
respectively.
      (f)    Also
includes current portion of long-term debt and lease obligations.     

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

The
following is a discussion and analysis of the financial condition of AbbVie Inc. (AbbVie or the company) as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 and
results of operations for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2015. This commentary should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and
accompanying notes appearing in Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data."   

EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW     

Company Overview     

          AbbVie is a global, research-based biopharmaceutical company formed in 2013 following separation from Abbott Laboratories (Abbott).
AbbVie's mission is to use its expertise, dedicated
people and unique approach to innovation to develop and market advanced therapies that address some of the world's most complex and serious diseases. AbbVie's products are focused on treating
conditions such as chronic autoimmune diseases in rheumatology, gastroenterology and dermatology; oncology, including blood cancers; virology, including hepatitis C (HCV) and human immunodeficiency
virus (HIV); neurological disorders, such as Parkinson's disease; metabolic diseases, including thyroid disease and complications associated with cystic fibrosis; as well as other serious health
conditions. AbbVie also has a pipeline of promising new medicines across such important medical specialties as immunology, virology/liver disease, oncology, neurology, cystic fibrosis and women's
health.   

          AbbVie's
products are generally sold worldwide directly to wholesalers, distributors, government agencies, health care facilities, specialty pharmacies, and independent retailers from
AbbVie-owned distribution centers and public warehouses. In the United States, AbbVie distributes pharmaceutical products principally through independent wholesale distributors, with some sales
directly to pharmacies and patients. Outside the United States, sales are made either directly to customers or through distributors, depending on the market served. Certain products are co-marketed or
co-promoted with other companies. AbbVie has approximately 28,000 employees. AbbVie operates in one business segment pharmaceutical products.   

          On
May 26, 2015, AbbVie completed its acquisition of Pharmacyclics, Inc. (Pharmacyclics), a biopharmaceutical company that develops and commercializes novel therapies for
people impacted by cancer, and its flagship asset IMBRUVICA  (ibrutinib), a novel, orally active, selective covalent inhibitor of Bruton's Tyrosine Kinase (BTK). As part of a worldwide
collaboration and license agreement with Janssen Biotech, Inc., one of the Janssen Pharmaceutical companies of Johnson   Johnson (Janssen), IMBRUVICA is approved for use in the United
States, Canada, and the European Union (EU) as well as in other countries worldwide. In the United States, AbbVie co-markets IMBRUVICA for four indications approved by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration (FDA) prior to the acquisition date: (i) for the treatment of patients with mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) who have received at least one prior therapy; (ii) for the treatment
of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) who have received at least one prior therapy; (iii) for the treatment of CLL patients with deletion of the short arm chromosome 17 (del 17p
CLL); and (iv) for the treatment of patients with Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia. In the EU, Janssen markets IMBRUVICA. At the date of the acquisition, IMBRUVICA was indicated in the EU for
the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory MCL, or adult patients with CLL who have received at least one prior therapy, or in first-line in the presence of 17p deletion or TP53
mutation in patients unsuitable for chemoimmunotherapy.   

          The
acquisition will accelerate AbbVie's clinical and commercial presence in oncology, strengthen its pipeline, and establish a leadership position in hematological oncology. The
acquisition will also accelerate AbbVie's revenue and earnings growth and further diversify its revenue base. AbbVie expects the acquisition to be accretive to earnings beginning in 2017. Refer to
Note 5 entitled "Licensing, Acquisitions and Other Arrangements" of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included under   

Part II,
Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for further information regarding the acquisition of Pharmacyclics.   

2015 Financial Results     

          AbbVie's strategy has focused on delivering strong financial results, advancing and investing in its pipeline, and returning value to
shareholders while ensuring a strong, sustainable growth business over the long term. In 2015, AbbVie's worldwide net revenues grew by 15 percent to $22.9 billion, driven primarily by
the continued strength of HUMIRA, both in the United States and internationally, the global launch of AbbVie's interferon-free HCV treatment, revenue growth in other key products including Creon and
Duodopa, and post-acquisition revenues related to IMBRUVICA. These increases were partially offset by a decline in net revenues of AndroGel, principally due to continued market declines and the entry
of generic competition for the AndroGel 1% formulation, as well as the continued decline of the company's lipid franchise, and the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange.   

          The
company's financial performance in 2015 included delivering fully diluted earnings per share of $3.13, including after-tax costs totaling $410 million incurred in connection
with the acquisition and integration of Pharmacyclics, a $350 million after-tax charge for the purchase of a rare pediatric disease priority review voucher (PRV) from United Therapeutics
Corporation, a $100 million after-tax charge as a result of entering into an exclusive worldwide license agreement with C 2 N Diagnostics (C 2 N), after-tax foreign exchange
losses of $170 million as a result of the liquidation in 2015 of remaining foreign currency positions related to the terminated proposed combination with Shire plc (Shire) in 2014,
after-tax charges of $129 million to increase the company's litigation reserves, and an $83 million after-tax charge due to the achievement of a development milestone under the global
collaboration with Infinity Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Infinity). Refer to Note 5 for further information regarding these items. AbbVie's financial performance in 2015 also reflected an
improvement in gross margin to 80 percent of net revenues, primarily due to favorable product mix across the product portfolio, operating efficiencies, and the impact of foreign exchange rates.
Financial results for 2015 also reflected continued funding in support of AbbVie's emerging mid-and late-stage pipeline assets, continued investment in AbbVie's growth brands, and the global launch of
AbbVie's interferon-free HCV treatment, VIEKIRA PAK.   

          In
2015, the company generated cash flows from operations of $7.5 billion. These cash flows enabled the company to pay cash dividends to shareholders of $3.3 billion,
repurchase approximately 46 million shares for $2.8 billion in the open market (excluding the shares repurchased under an accelerated repurchase agreement), and continue to enhance its
pipeline through licensing and collaboration activities including a $500 million payment to Calico Life Sciences LLC (Calico) as a result of the satisfaction of certain conditions under
the research and development (R D) collaboration with Calico for which a charge to acquired in-process research and development (IPR D) was recorded in 2014. In addition, AbbVie issued
$16.7 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes the proceeds of which were used to finance the acquisition of Pharmacyclics and a $5.0 billion accelerated share repurchase
agreement (ASR) pursuant to which AbbVie
paid $5.0 billion for an aggregate 73 million shares of AbbVie's common stock. In October 2015, AbbVie's board of directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.57 per share of
common stock payable in February 2016. This reflects an increase of approximately 12 percent over the previous quarterly rate of $0.51 per share of common stock.   

2016 Strategic Objectives     

          AbbVie's mission is to be an innovation-driven, patient-focused specialty biopharmaceutical company capable of achieving top-tier
financial performance through outstanding execution and a consistent stream of innovative new medicines. AbbVie intends to continue to advance its mission in a number of ways, including
(i) growing revenues through continued strong performance from its existing portfolio of on-market products, including its flagship brands, HUMIRA, IMBRUVICA and VIEKIRA PAK, as well as growth
from pipeline products; (ii) expanding gross and operating margins; (iii) continued investment in its pipeline   

in
support of opportunities in immunology, oncology, and virology, as well as continued investment in key on-market products; (iv) augmentation of its pipeline through concerted focus on
strategic licensing, acquisition and partnering activity with a focus on identifying compelling programs that fit AbbVie's strategic criteria; and (v) returning cash to shareholders via
dividends and share repurchases. In addition, AbbVie anticipates several regulatory submissions and key data readouts from key clinical trials in 2016.   

          AbbVie
expects to achieve its revenue growth objectives as follows:  

HUMIRA sales growth by driving biologic penetration across disease categories, increasing market leadership, strong commercial
execution and expansion to new indications for hidradenitis suppurativa (regulatory approval in the United States and EU achieved in 2015) and uveitis (regulatory submissions in the United States and
the EU are under review with approval expected in 2016).   
            IMBRUVICA revenue growth driven by increasing market share within its four currently approved indications as well as indication
expansion of IMBRUVICA as a first-line therapy for CLL (currently under priority review by the FDA). Revenues for 2016 will also benefit from a full year of IMBRUVICA revenue.    
            VIEKIRA PAK revenue growth driven by continued uptake across geographies, including Japan, the second largest HCV market globally, as
well as indication expansion for a once-daily, fixed-dosed formulation of VIEKIRA PAK to treat genotype 1 (GT1) HCV (currently under review).   
            The favorable impact of pipeline products approved in 2015 or currently under regulatory review where approval is expected in 2016
including venetoclax, Empliciti (elotuzumab), and ZINBRYTA (daclizumab). These pipeline products are described in greater detail in the section labeled "Research and Development" included as part of
this Item 7.    

In
2016, AbbVie remains committed to driving continued expansion of gross and operating margins and expects to achieve this objective through productivity initiatives in supply chain,
ongoing efficiency programs to optimize manufacturing, commercial infrastructure, administrative costs and general corporate expenses, and continued leverage from revenue growth. AbbVie also remains
committed to returning cash to shareholders via dividends and share repurchases.   

Research and Development     

          Research and innovation are the cornerstones of AbbVie's business as a global biopharmaceutical company. AbbVie's long-term success
depends to a great extent on its ability to continue to discover and develop innovative pharmaceutical products and acquire or collaborate on compounds currently in development at other biotechnology
or pharmaceutical companies.   

          AbbVie's
pipeline currently includes more than 50 compounds or indications in clinical development individually or under collaboration or license agreements and is focused on such
important medical specialties as immunology, oncology, virology/liver disease, and neurology along with targeted investments in renal disease, cystic fibrosis, and women's health. Of these programs,
more than 30 are in mid- and late-stage development.   

          The
following sections summarize transitions of significant programs from Phase 2 development to Phase 3 development as well as developments in significant Phase 3
and registration programs. AbbVie expects multiple Phase 2 programs to transition into Phase 3 programs during 2016.   

Significant Clinical Programs Approved or
Submitted      

          AbbVie submitted for review or received approval for the following significant late-stage development programs:   

Immunology     

The FDA granted HUMIRA orphan drug designation for the treatment of moderate-to-severe hidradenitis suppurativa (HS), a painful,
chronic inflammatory skin disease. AbbVie's supplemental Biological License Application (BLA) in the United States and its marketing authorization in the EU were approved by the FDA and the European
Medicines Agency (EMA) in 2015, respectively. Approval for this indication represents the thirteenth indication for HUMIRA in major geographies around the world.    
            In April 2015 AbbVie announced that the European Commission (EC) granted marketing authorization for HUMIRA for the treatment of
severe chronic plaque psoriasis in children and adolescence from four years of age who have had an inadequate response to or are inappropriate candidates for topical therapy and phototherapies. With
the EC decision, HUMIRA is now approved for use in this indication in all member states of the EU.   
            AbbVie submitted regulatory applications in the United States and the EU for the use of HUMIRA in the treatment of uveitis. AbbVie
expects to receive regulatory approval in 2016.    

Oncology     

In July 2015, AbbVie announced that the EC granted marketing authorization for IMBRUVICA as the first treatment option specifically
approved for treatment of adult patients with Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia, a rare, slow growing blood cancer. Pharmacyclics received FDA approval for IMBRUVICA for patients with Waldenstrom's
macroglobulinemia in January 2015. The EC approval triggered a $20 million milestone payment from Janssen.   
            In September 2015, AbbVie announced that it submitted a Supplemental New Drug Application (sNDA) to the FDA for IMBRUVICA for
treatment-na ve CLL patients. The sNDA is based on results from the Phase 3 RESONATE -2 study, which evaluated efficacy and safety of IMBRUVICA versus traditional
chemotherapy, chlorambucil, in treatment-na ve CLL patients aged 65 years or older. The application has received a priority review.    
            In November 2015, AbbVie submitted a sNDA to the FDA for labeling considerations based on safety and efficacy results from the
Phase 3 HELIOS trial investigating the use of IMBRUVICA, bendamustine, and rituximab, versus placebo plus bendamustine and rituximab, in patients with relapsed/refractory CLL or small
lymphocytic lymphoma.   
            In February 2016, the FDA granted IMBRUVICA orphan drug designation for the treatment of patients with extranodal marginal zone
lymphoma.   
            AbbVie submitted regulatory applications in the United States and the EU for venetoclax (ABT-199), an inhibitor of the B-cell
lymphoma-2 (Bcl-2) protein developed in collaboration with Genentech and Roche Holding AG. Priority review status was granted by the FDA and validation provided by the EMA for these submissions.
Venetoclax is also in Phase 3 development for patients with relapsed/refractory CLL. In addition, venetoclax was granted three Breakthrough Therapy Designations by the FDA: (i) for the
treatment of CLL in previously treated (relapsed/refractory) patients with the 17p deletion mutation; (ii) in combination with rituximab for the treatment of patients with relapsed/refractory
CLL, including patients with chromosome 17p deletion; and (iii) in combination with hypomethylating agents for the treatment of patients with untreated (treatment-na ve) acute    

myeloid
leukemia who are ineligible to receive standard induction therapy (high-dose chemotherapy).   

Registration submissions were submitted to the FDA and the EC for Empliciti (elotuzumab), a Signaling Lymphocyte Activation Molecule
(SLAM7)-directed immunostimulatory antibody developed in partnership with Bristol-Myers Squibb (BMS) for first-line and relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma (MM). Subsequently, the EMA validated for
review the marketing authorization application for Empliciti (elotuzumab) for the treatment of MM as combination therapy in adult patients who have received one or more prior therapies. The
application was granted accelerated assessment by the EMA's Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP). In addition, the FDA approved Empliciti (elotuzumab) for the treatment of MM as a
combination therapy in patients who have received one to three prior therapies. This is the first FDA approval for an immune-stimulatory antibody for MM in this indication. Empliciti will be marketed
by BMS.    

Virology/Liver Disease     

On January 16, 2015, AbbVie announced that the EC granted marketing authorizations for its all-oral, short-course,
interferon-free treatment VIEKIRAX (ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir tablets) + EXVIERA (dasabuvir tablets). The treatment was approved with or without ribavirin (RBV) for patients with
GT1 chronic HCV infection, including those with compensated liver cirrhosis, HIV-1 co-infection, patients on opioid substitution therapy and liver transplant recipients. Additionally, VIEKIRAX/EXVIERA
was approved for use with RBV in genotype 4 (GT4) chronic HCV patients.   
            AbbVie's regulatory application in Japan for the company's all-oral, RBV and interferon-free, 12-week, two direct-acting antiviral
treatment of ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir (OBV/PTV/r), dosed once daily, was approved in September 2015 for the treatment of patients with GT1 chronic HCV infection.    
            In July 2015, the FDA approved AbbVie's regulatory application for TECHNIVIE (OBV/PTV/r tablets) in combination with RBV for the
treatment of adults with GT4 chronic HCV infection who do not have cirrhosis. TECHNIVIE is the first and only all-oral, interferon-free, direct-acting antiviral treatment approved in the United States
for adult patients with GT4 chronic HCV infection.   
            AbbVie submitted a regulatory application in the United States for a once-daily, fixed-dosed formulation of VIEKIRA PAK to treat GT1
HCV. The proposed dosing for the fixed-dose formulation is three oral tablets, taken once daily with a meal, with or without RBV. AbbVie anticipates regulatory action on the new formulation in 2016.    
            The FDA accepted AbbVie's sNDA and granted priority review for VIEKIRA PAK without RBV in patients with genotype 1b (GT1b)
chronic HCV infection and compensated cirrhosis (Child-Pugh A).    

Neurology     

On January 12, 2015, AbbVie announced that the FDA approved Duopa (carbidopa and levodopa), an enteral suspension for the
treatment of motor fluctuations for people with advanced Parkinson's disease. Duopa is administered using a small, portable infusion pump that delivers carbidopa and levodopa directly into the small
intestine for 16 continuous hours via a procedurally-placed tube. This product is sold under the name Duodopa outside the United States.   
            AbbVie is collaborating with Biogen to develop ZINBRYTA (daclizumab), an anti-CD25 monoclonal antibody, for the treatment of the
relapsing/remitting form of multiple sclerosis (MS). In February 2015, the registration submission for ZINBRYTA was made in the United States followed by the EU submission in March 2015. In March,
AbbVie and Biogen announced that the EMA had validated the companies' marketing authorization application for ZINBRYTA for the treatment of relapsing forms of MS in the EU. Validation confirms that
the submission is complete and signifies the initiation of the    

review
process by the CHMP. In April 2015, AbbVie and Biogen announced that the FDA accepted for review the registration submission in the United States.   

Other Significant Developments      

          Transitions of significant programs from Phase 2 to Phase 3 development, as well as other significant developments,
included the following:   

Immunology     

In January 2016, AbbVie announced the commencement of a Phase 3 clinical trial program to study the use of AbbVie's once-daily
formulation of ABT-494, its internally developed investigational selective Janus Kinase 1 (JAK-1) inhibitor, for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. A Phase 2 trial of ABT-494 for the
treatment of Crohn's disease is also ongoing.   
            In 2015, AbbVie received a decision by the EC regarding compliance with its pediatric investigation plan for HUMIRA, which ensures
that necessary data are obtained through studies in children. As a result of this positive decision, the company is seeking an extension from each EU member state where a supplementary protection
certificate is held. Once approved, this will extend the HUMIRA composition of matter patent in the EU by six months from April 2018 to October 2018.    

Oncology     

In July 2015, AbbVie initiated a Phase 3 study for the use of Veliparib (ABT-888), a PARP-inhibitor, for the treatment of
ovarian cancer in combination with chemotherapy. Veliparib is also in Phase 3 development for various forms of breast and lung cancer.   
            AbbVie recently initiated its first Phase 3 clinical trial for IMBRUVICA in solid tumors. The trial will evaluate the safety
and efficacy of IMBRUVICA in combination with gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel for first-line treatment of patients with metastatic pancreatic adenocarcinoma.    

Virology/Liver Disease     

In October 2015, in consultation with the FDA, the product inserts in the United States for VIEKIRA PAK and TECHNIVIE were updated
from "not recommended in Child-Pugh B patients" to a contraindication in patients with Child-Pugh B cirrhosis. Patients classified as Child-Pugh C remained contraindicated as they have been since
approval.   
            In January 2016, AbbVie initiated a Phase 3 clinical trial program evaluating the safety and efficacy of its next-generation,
all-oral, once-daily, pan-genotypic, RBV-free investigational HCV regimen, which includes ABT-493, a NS3/4A protease inhibitor, and ABT-530, an NS5A inhibitor.    

Other     

AbbVie is developing a novel oral gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) antagonist, Elagolix, under a collaboration with Neurocrine
Biosciences (Neurocrine) for the treatment of endometriosis-related pain and uterine fibroids. In January 2016, AbbVie announced the initiation of the first of two planned Phase 3 studies
evaluating the safety and efficacy of Elagolix in the treatment of patients with uterine fibroids. AbbVie will make a milestone payment of $15 million to Neurocrine upon enrollment of the first
patient. Elagolix is in late-stage development for endometriosis.   
            In 2012, AbbVie entered into a collaboration with Galapagos NV (Galapagos) to develop filgotinib, an oral JAK1 inhibitor. In
2015, following a thorough review of available data, AbbVie announced that it will not exercise its right to in-license filgotinib from Galapagos. Pursuant to the terms of the global collaboration
agreement with Galapagos, all rights to filgotinib reverted solely to Galapagos.    

In
2015, AbbVie also augmented its pipeline through strategic licensing and partnering activities including in-licensing an anti-tau antibody (ABBV-8E12) for the treatment of Alzheimer's
disease and other neurological disorders from C 2 N, a privately held protein diagnostic and therapeutic discovery company. Refer to Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements included under Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for further information regarding the license agreement with C 2 N.   

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS     

Net Revenues     

          The comparisons presented at constant currency rates reflect comparative local currency net revenues at the prior year's foreign
exchange rates. This measure provides information on the change in net revenues assuming that foreign currency exchange rates had not changed between the prior and the current period. AbbVie believes
that the non-GAAP measure of change in net revenues at constant currency rates, when used in conjunction with the GAAP measure of change in net revenues at actual currency rates, may provide a more
complete understanding of the company's operations and can facilitate analysis of the company's results of operations, particularly in evaluating performance from one period to another.   

The
following table details AbbVie's worldwide net revenues:   

n/m Not meaningful. 
n/a Not applicable.   

The
following discussion and analysis of AbbVie's net revenues by product is presented on a constant currency basis.   

          Global
HUMIRA sales increased 19 percent in both 2015 and 2014, primarily as a result of market growth across therapeutic categories and geographies, higher market share, approval
of new indications, and favorable pricing in certain geographies. In the United States, HUMIRA revenues increased 29 percent in 2015 and 25 percent in 2014, driven by prescription
volume, favorable pricing, and market growth across all indications. Internationally, HUMIRA revenues increased 9 percent in 2015 and 13 percent in 2014, driven primarily by growth
across indications in certain geographies. AbbVie continues to pursue several new indications to help further differentiate HUMIRA from competing products and add to the sustainability and future
growth of HUMIRA.   

          Net
revenues for IMBRUVICA represent product revenues in the United States as well as collaboration revenues related to AbbVie's 50 percent share of IMBRUVICA profit outside of
the United States following
the completion of the acquisition of Pharmacyclics on May 26, 2015. AbbVie expects IMBRUVICA will be a significant contributor to revenue growth in 2016.   

AbbVie
launched its HCV regimen, VIEKIRA PAK, in the United States following FDA approval in mid-December 2014 and launched VIEKIRAX/EXVIERA in the EU in January 2015. In addition to
growth in approved markets, international revenues continued to increase during 2015 as the product was approved in additional geographies. Net revenues of VIEKIRA PAK in 2014 reflect the shipment of
launch quantities into the market to support full commercial launch in 2015.   

          Net
revenues for Creon increased 22 percent in 2015 and 25 percent in 2014, driven primarily by continued market growth and higher market share. Creon maintains market
leadership in the pancreatic enzyme market.   

          Synagis
is a seasonal product with the majority of sales occurring in the first and fourth quarters. Net revenues increased 1 percent in 2015 and 9 percent in 2014.
Revenues in 2015 reflected changes in demand in certain markets, as well as an unfavorable comparison to 2014 driven by a less severe respiratory syncytial virus season.   

          Global
Lupron net revenues increased 9 percent in 2015 primarily due to increased demand and favorable pricing in the United States. Lupron continues to hold a leadership position
and maintains significant share of the market.   

          Global
Kaletra net revenues declined 10 percent in 2015 and 7 percent in 2014 primarily due to lower market share resulting from the impact of increasing competition in the
HIV marketplace.   

          AndroGel
net revenues declined 26 percent in 2015 and 10 percent in 2014, primarily due to a continued decline in the overall U.S. testosterone replacement market and the
entry of generic competition for the AndroGel 1% formulation in January 2015. The company expects the U.S. testosterone replacement market will continue to decline in 2016.   

Net
revenues for Duodopa, AbbVie's therapy for advanced Parkinson's disease approved in Europe and other international markets, grew 23 percent in 2015. AbbVie's regulatory
submission for Duopa in the United States was approved by the FDA in January 2015. AbbVie expects net revenues for Duopa in the United States will continue to gradually increase during 2016 as the
product gains acceptance in the marketplace.   

          Net
revenues for AbbVie's consolidated lipid franchise, which included TriCor, Trilipix, Niaspan, Simcor and Advicor, declined 45 percent in 2015 and 70 percent in 2014 due
to the introduction of generic versions of these products in the U.S. market. Generic competition began in November 2012 for TriCor, July 2013 for
Trilipix, and September 2013 for Niaspan. AbbVie has voluntarily withdrawn Simcor and Advicor from the market and discontinued distribution as of December 31, 2015.   

All
other net revenues declined 21 percent in 2015 primarily due to reduced demand driven by market and share declines and a reduction in price for several of AbbVie's mature
on-market products.   

Gross Margin     

The
gross margin for 2015, 2014 and 2013 reflected the favorable impact of product mix across the product portfolio, including HUMIRA, operational efficiencies, and price increases,
partially offset by the effect of unfavorable foreign exchange rates and the loss of exclusivity for the lipid franchise. Gross margin in 2015 also includes milestone revenue of $40 million
from a collaboration partner related the company's oncology program. Gross margin in 2014 also includes royalty income of $81 million relating to prior periods as a result of the settlement of
a licensing arrangement and lower amortization expense for intangible assets, partially offset by a $37 million impairment charge for an intangible asset.   

Selling, General and Administrative     

Selling,
general and administrative (SG A) expenses declined in 2015 compared to 2014, principally due to the absence of transaction-related costs totaling $1.7 billion incurred
in 2014 in connection with the termination of the proposed combination with Shire, as further discussed in Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. SG A expenses in 2014 also
included a $129 million charge related to the Branded Prescription Drug Fee due to the issuance of final rules which resulted in an additional year of expense in 2014. Refer to Note 13
for further information.   

          Excluding
these items, SG A expenses increased in both 2015 and 2014, reflecting increased selling and marketing support for new products, including the global launch of VIEKIRA, as well
as spending relating to new indications and geographic expansion for HUMIRA and other growth brands. SG A expenses in 2015 also included Pharmacyclics acquisition and integration costs of
$294 million, charges aggregating $165 million to increase the company's litigation reserves and restructuring charges of $39 million. These increased costs were partially offset
by the impact of favorable foreign exchange rates in 2015.   

Research and Development and Acquired
In-Process Research and Development     

R D
expenses for 2015 included Pharmacyclics acquisition and integration costs of $152 million, a $350 million charge related to the purchase of a priority review voucher
from a third party, a $130 million   

charge
recorded due to the achievement of a development milestone under the collaboration with Infinity, the post-acquisition R D expenses of Pharmacyclics, and restructuring charges of
$32 million. R D expenses in 2014 and 2013 included regulatory milestone payments of $40 million made to a collaboration partner for regulatory milestones related to the company's HCV
program and restructuring charges of $15 million, respectively.   

          R D
expenses in 2015 and 2014 otherwise reflected added funding to support the company's emerging mid- and late-stage pipeline assets and the continued pursuit of additional HUMIRA
indications. These increases were partially offset by the impact of favorable foreign exchange rates in 2015 and 2014.   

IPR D
expenses in 2015 included a charge of $100 million as a result of entering into an exclusive worldwide license agreement with C 2 N to develop and commercialize
anti-tau antibodies for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease and other neurological disorders. IPR D expenses in 2014 included a charge of $275 million as a result of entering into a global
collaboration with Infinity to develop and commercialize duvelisib, a treatment for patients with cancer. IPR D expense in 2013 included a charge of $175 million as a result of entering into a
global license agreement with Ablynx NV to develop and commercialize ALX-0061, a charge of $70 million as a result of entering into a global collaboration with Alvine
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. to develop ALV003, a charge of $45 million as a result of entering into a global collaboration with Galapagos for cystic fibrosis therapies, and charges totaling
$48 million as a result of entering into several other arrangements. Refer to Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to the company's
collaborations and other arrangements.   

Other Operating Expenses     

          Other operating expenses in 2014 included a $750 million charge related to an R D collaboration agreement entered into in
September 2014 with Calico to discover, develop and commercialize new therapies for patients with age-related diseases.   

Other Non-Operating Expenses     

          Interest expense, net was $686 million in 2015, $391 million in 2014, and $278 million in 2013 and was comprised
primarily of interest expense on outstanding debt. Interest expense, net in 2015 increased due to the May 2015 issuance of $16.7 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes, which were
issued primarily to finance the acquisition of Pharmacyclics and an accelerated share repurchase program. Interest expense, net in 2015 also included $86 million of bridge financing related
fees incurred in connection with the acquisition of Pharmacyclics. Interest expense, net in 2014 included $141 million of financing related fees incurred in connection with the terminated
proposed combination with Shire.   

          In
2014, AbbVie entered into certain undesignated forward contracts to hedge the then anticipated foreign currency cash outflows associated with the then proposed combination with Shire.
Net foreign exchange loss for 2014 included losses of $666 million associated with the Shire-related forward contracts. Net foreign exchange loss for 2015 included losses totaling
$170 million to reflect the completed liquidation of the company's remaining foreign currency positions related to the terminated proposed combination with Shire.   

Other
non-operating expense, net for 2015 included impairment charges totaling $36 million related to certain of the company's equity investment securities. Other non-operating
income, net, in 2014 primarily consisted of income of $34 million from the resolution of a contractual agreement.   

Income Tax Expense     

          The effective income tax rate was 23 percent in 2015, 25 percent in 2014, and 23 percent in 2013. The effective
tax rate fluctuates from year to year due to the allocation of the company's taxable earnings among jurisdictions, as well as certain discrete factors and events in each year, including acquisitions
and   

collaborations.
The effective income tax rate in 2015 included a tax benefit of $103 million from a reduction of state valuation allowances. The effective income tax rate in 2014 included state
valuation allowances of $129 million and additional expenses of $129 million related to the Branded Prescription Drug Fee, which is non-deductible.   

FINANCIAL POSITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL
RESOURCES     

Cash
flows provided by operations in 2015 was $7.5 billion compared to $3.5 billion in 2014. The increase was primarily due to improved results of operations due to revenue
growth and an improvement in operating margin as well as the absence of after-tax transaction and financing-related and other costs of $1.8 billion incurred in connection with the termination
of the proposed combination with Shire, including net foreign exchange losses related to the settlement of undesignated forward contracts used to hedge anticipated foreign currency cash flows and the
exit of certain foreign currency positions.   

          Cash
provided by operating activities also reflected AbbVie's voluntary contributions to its main domestic defined benefit plan of $150 million and $370 million in 2015 and
2014, respectively. AbbVie also made a voluntary contribution of $150 million to this plan subsequent to December 31, 2015. AbbVie also paid $350 million to purchase a priority
review voucher from United Therapeutics Corporation in 2015. Realized excess tax benefits associated with stock-based compensation in 2015, 2014 and 2013 totaled $61 million,
$56 million, and $38 million, respectively, and were presented in the consolidated statements of cash flows as an outflow within the operating section and an inflow within the financing
section.   

          Investing
activities in 2015 primarily included the $11.5 billion cash consideration paid to acquire Pharmacyclics in May 2015, net of cash acquired of $877 million.
Investing activities in 2015 also included cash outflows related to other acquisitions and investments of $964 million, including a $500 million payment to Calico that was accrued in
2014 due to the satisfaction of certain conditions under the R D collaboration, $100 million related to an exclusive worldwide license agreement with C 2 N to develop and
commercialize anti-tau antibodies for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease and other neurological disorders, and $130 million paid to Infinity due to the achievement of a development milestone
under the collaboration agreement. In 2014, cash outflows related to other acquisitions and investments totaled $622 million, including $275 million paid to Infinity related to a global
collaboration to develop duvelisib (IPI-145), and $250 million to fund a novel R D collaboration with Calico. Cash flows from investing activities in 2015 and 2014 also reflected capital
expenditures and net sales (purchases) of short-term investments. Capital expenditures in 2014 included the purchase of a small molecule active pharmaceutical ingredient manufacturing facility in
Singapore. AbbVie incurred additional expenditures in 2015 to build a new biologics facility on the site to produce bulk drug substance for HUMIRA as well as to support AbbVie's biologic pipeline.   

In
2015 and 2014, the company issued and redeemed commercial paper. The balance of commercial paper outstanding was $400 million and $416 million at December 31,
2015 and 2014, respectively. AbbVie may issue additional commercial paper or retire commercial paper to meet liquidity requirements as needed. In May 2015, the company issued $16.7 billion
aggregate principal amount of senior notes with various maturities between 2018 and 2045. Approximately $11.5 billion of the net proceeds were used to finance the acquisition of Pharmacyclics
and $5.0 billion of the net proceeds were used to finance the accelerated share repurchase program described below. In September 2015, AbbVie entered into a three-year $2 billion term
loan credit facility and a 364-day $2 billion term loan credit facility. In November   

2015,
AbbVie drew on these term facilities and used the proceeds to refinance its $4 billion of senior notes that matured in 2015. During 2015 in connection with the acquisition of
Pharmacyclics, the company paid $86 million of costs relating to an $18 billion, 364-Day Bridge Term Loan Credit Agreement as well as $93 million of costs relating to the issuance
of senior notes.   

          Cash
dividend payments totaled $3.3 billion in 2015 and $2.7 billion in 2014. On October 30, 2015, AbbVie announced that its board of directors declared an increase
in the company's quarterly cash dividend from $0.51 per share to $0.57 per share beginning with the dividend payable on February 16, 2016 to stockholders of record as of January 15,
2016. The timing, declaration, amount of, and payment of any dividends is within the discretion of its board of directors and will depend upon many factors, including AbbVie's financial condition,
earnings, capital requirements of its operating subsidiaries, covenants associated with certain of AbbVie's debt service obligations, legal requirements, regulatory constraints, industry practice,
ability to access capital markets, and other factors deemed relevant by its board of directors.   

In
October 2014, AbbVie's board of directors authorized a $5.0 billion stock repurchase program. In March 2015, the board of directors authorized a $5.0 billion increase to
the existing stock repurchase program in anticipation of executing an accelerated share repurchase agreement with a financial institution in connection with the acquisition of Pharmacyclics. On
May 26, 2015, AbbVie entered into and executed a $5.0 billion ASR with Morgan Stanley   Co. LLC (Morgan Stanley). Pursuant to the terms of the ASR, Morgan Stanley
made an initial delivery of approximately 68 million shares of AbbVie's common stock on May 27, 2015, which represented approximately 90 percent of the total shares expected to be
delivered under the ASR. Subsequently in 2015, Morgan Stanley delivered an additional 5 million shares of AbbVie's common stock to AbbVie in final settlement of the ASR. AbbVie recorded the
aggregate $5.0 billion purchase price as a reduction to stockholders' equity.   

          In
addition to the ASR, the company repurchased approximately 46 million shares for $2.8 billion in the open market in 2015 and approximately 9 million shares for
$550 million in the open market in 2014. AbbVie settled $300 million of its 2015 open market purchases in 2016. Purchases of AbbVie shares under this program may be made from time to
time at management's discretion. The program has no time limit and can be discontinued at any time. AbbVie's remaining stock repurchase authorization was $1.9 billion as of December 31,
2015. Refer to Note 12 for additional information related to the ASR.   

          Cash
and equivalents in 2015 and 2014 were also negatively impacted by net unfavorable exchange rate changes totaling $300 million and $577 million, respectively,
principally due to the weakening of the Euro and other foreign currencies on the translation of the company's Euro-denominated assets and cash denominated in foreign currencies. In 2014, AbbVie had an
increased concentration of cash denominated in foreign currencies accumulated in anticipation of the terminated proposed combination with Shire. While a significant portion of cash and equivalents at
December 31, 2015 are considered reinvested indefinitely in foreign subsidiaries, AbbVie does not expect such reinvestment to affect its liquidity and capital resources. If these funds were
needed for operations in the United States, AbbVie would be required to accrue and pay U.S. income taxes to repatriate these funds. AbbVie believes that it has sufficient sources of liquidity to
support its assumption that the disclosed amount of undistributed earnings at December 31, 2015 has been reinvested indefinitely.   

Credit Risk     

          AbbVie monitors economic conditions, the creditworthiness of customers, and government regulations and funding, both domestically and
abroad. AbbVie regularly communicates with its customers regarding the status of receivable balances, including their payment plans and obtains positive confirmation of the validity of the
receivables. AbbVie establishes an allowance against accounts receivable when it is probable they will not be collected. AbbVie also monitors the potential for and periodically has utilized factoring   

arrangements
to mitigate credit risk although the receivables included in such arrangements have historically not been a material amount of total outstanding receivables.   

          AbbVie
continues to do business with foreign governments in certain countries, including Greece, Portugal, Italy, and Spain, that have experienced a deterioration in credit and economic
conditions. Substantially all of AbbVie's trade receivables in Greece, Portugal, Italy, and Spain are with governmental health systems. AbbVie continues to monitor the economic health of the economy
in Southern Europe, as heightened economic concerns still exist. Outstanding net governmental receivables in these countries at December 31, 2015 and 2014 were as follows:   

The
company also continues to do business with foreign governments in certain oil-exporting countries, which have experienced a deterioration in economic conditions, including Venezuela
and Saudi Arabia. Outstanding net governmental receivables related to Saudi Arabia were $108 million as of December 31, 2015. Refer to Item 7A, "Quantitative and Qualitative
Disclosures About Market Risk Foreign Currency Risk" for additional disclosures related to Venezuela. Due to the decline in the price of oil, liquidity issues in certain countries may
result in delays in the collection of receivables. Global economic conditions and customer-specific factors may require the company to re-evaluate the collectability of its receivables and the company
could potentially incur credit losses.   

          Currently,
AbbVie does not believe the economic conditions in Southern Europe and oil-exporting countries will have a material impact on the company's liquidity, cash flow or financial
flexibility. However, if government funding were to become unavailable in these countries or if significant adverse changes in their reimbursement practices were to occur, AbbVie may not be able to
collect the entire balance outstanding as of December 31, 2015.   

Credit Facility, Access to Capital and Credit
Ratings     

Credit Facility     

          AbbVie currently has a $3.0 billion five-year revolving credit facility, which matures in October 2019. The revolving credit
facility enables the company to borrow funds on an unsecured basis at variable interest rates and contains various covenants. At December 31, 2015, the company was in compliance with all its
credit facility covenants. Commitment fees under the credit facility were not material. There were no amounts outstanding under the credit facility as of December 31, 2015 and 2014.   

Access to Capital     

          The company intends to fund short-term and long-term financial obligations as they mature through cash on hand, future cash flows from
operations, or by issuing additional debt. The company's ability to generate cash flows from operations, issue debt, or enter into financing arrangements on acceptable terms could be adversely
affected if there is a material decline in the demand for the company's products or in the solvency of its customers or suppliers, deterioration in the company's key financial ratios or credit
ratings, or other material unfavorable changes in business conditions. At the current time, the company   

believes
it has sufficient financial flexibility to issue debt, enter into other financing arrangements, and attract long-term capital on acceptable terms to support the company's growth objectives.   

Credit Ratings     

          On April 7, 2015, following the announcement of the then proposed combination with Pharmacyclics, Moody's Investor Service
confirmed its Baa1 senior unsecured long-term rating and Prime-2 short-term rating and revised its ratings outlook to "negative" from "stable". On March 5, 2015, Standard   Poor's Rating
Services (S P) affirmed AbbVie's "A" corporate credit rating and senior unsecured
debt rating and its "A-1" commercial paper rating and revised its ratings outlook to "negative" from "stable". There were no additional changes in the company's credit ratings in 2015.   

          Unfavorable
changes to the ratings may have an adverse impact on future financing arrangements; however, they would not affect the company's ability to draw on its credit facility and
would not result in an acceleration of scheduled maturities of any of the company's outstanding debt.   

Contractual Obligations     

          The following table summarizes AbbVie's estimated contractual obligations as of December 31, 2015:   

(a)    Includes
estimated future interest payments on long-term debt securities and capital lease obligations. Interest payments on debt are calculated for future
periods using interest rates in effect at the end of 2015. Projected interest payments include the related effects of interest rate swap agreements. Certain of these projected interest payments may
differ in the future based on changes in floating interest rates or other factors or events. The projected interest payments only pertain to obligations and agreements outstanding at
December 31, 2015. Refer to Notes 9 and 10 for further discussion regarding the company's debt instruments and related interest rate agreements outstanding at December 31, 2015.
Annual interest on capital lease obligations is not material.
      (b)    Includes
the company's significant unconditional purchase obligations. These commitments do not exceed the company's projected requirements and are made in
the normal course of business.
      (c)    Amounts
less than one year includes a voluntary contribution of $150 million AbbVie made to its main domestic defined benefit plan subsequent to
December 31, 2015. Amounts otherwise exclude pension and other post-employment benefits and related deferred compensation cash outflows. Timing of funding is uncertain and dependent on future
movements in interest rates and investment returns, changes in laws and regulations, and other variables. Also included in this amount are components of other long-term liabilities including
restructuring. Refer to Notes 8 and 11 for further information.     

AbbVie
enters into R D collaboration arrangements with third parties that may require future milestone payments to third parties contingent upon the achievement of certain development,
regulatory, or commercial milestones. Individually, these arrangements are not material in any one annual reporting   

period.
However, if milestones for multiple products covered by these arrangements would happen to be reached in the same reporting period, the aggregate charge to expense could be material to the
results of operations in that period. From a business perspective, the payments are viewed as positive because they
signify that the product is successfully moving through development and is now generating or is more likely to generate cash flows from product sales. It is not possible to predict with reasonable
certainty whether these milestones will be achieved or the timing for achievement. As a result, these potential payments are not included in the table of contractual obligations. Refer to
Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of these collaboration arrangements.   

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES     

          The preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States requires the
use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses. A summary of the company's significant accounting policies
is included in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. Certain of these policies are considered critical as these most significantly impact the company's financial condition and
results of operations and require the most difficult, subjective, or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain.
Actual results may vary from these estimates.   

Revenue Recognition     

          AbbVie recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price is fixed or
determinable, and collectability of the sales price is reasonably assured. Revenue from product sales is recognized when title and risk of loss have passed to the customer.   

Rebates     

          AbbVie provides rebates to pharmacy benefit managers, state government Medicaid programs, insurance companies that administer Medicare
drug plans, wholesalers, group purchasing organizations, and other government agencies and private entities.   

Rebate
and chargeback accruals are recorded as a reduction to revenue in the period the related product is sold. Rebates and chargebacks totaled $8.6 billion, $5.9 billion
and $4.9 billion in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Rebate amounts are typically based upon the volume of purchases using contractual or statutory prices, which may vary by product and by
payer. For each type of rebate, the factors used in the
calculations of the accrual for that rebate include the identification of the products subject to the rebate, the applicable price terms, and the estimated lag time between sale and payment of the
rebate, which can be significant.   

          In
order to establish its rebate and chargeback accruals, the company uses both internal and external data to estimate the level of inventory in the distribution channel and the rebate
claims processing lag time for each type of rebate. To estimate the rebate percentage or net price, the company tracks sales by product and by customer or payer. The company evaluates inventory data
reported by wholesalers, available prescription volume information, product pricing, historical experience and other factors in order to determine the adequacy of its reserves. AbbVie regularly
monitors its reserves and records adjustments when rebate trends, rebate programs and contract terms, legislative changes, or other significant events indicate that a change in the reserve is
appropriate. Historically, adjustments to rebate accruals have not been material to net earnings.   

The
following table is an analysis of the three largest rebate accruals and chargeback allowances, which comprise approximately 90 percent of the total consolidated rebate and
chargebacks charged against   

revenues
in 2015. Remaining rebate provisions charged against gross revenues are not significant in the determination of operating earnings.   

Cash Discounts and Product Returns     

          Allowances for cash discounts and product returns, which totaled $898 million, $610 million and $748 million in
2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, are recorded as a reduction to revenue in the same period the related product is sold. The reserve for cash discounts is readily determinable because the company's
experience of payment history is fairly consistent. Product returns can be reliably estimated based on the company's historical return experience.   

Pension and Other Post-Employment Benefits     

          AbbVie engages outside actuaries to assist in the determination of the obligations and costs under the plans that are direct
obligations of AbbVie. The valuation of the funded status and the net periodic benefit cost for these plans are calculated using actuarial assumptions. The significant assumptions, which are reviewed
annually, include the discount rate, the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, and the health care cost trend rates. The significant assumptions used in determining these calculations are
disclosed in Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements.   

          The
discount rate is selected based on current market rates on high-quality, fixed-income investments at December 31 each year. AbbVie employs a yield-curve approach for countries
where a robust bond market exists. The yield curve is developed using high-quality bonds. The yield curve approach reflects the plans' specific cash flows (i.e., duration) in calculating the
benefit obligations by applying the specific spot rates along the yield curve. Beginning in 2016, AbbVie will also reflect the plans' specific cash flows and apply them to the specific spot rates
along the yield curve in calculating the service cost and interest cost portions of expense. For other countries, AbbVie reviews various indices such as corporate bond and government bond benchmarks
to estimate the discount rate. AbbVie's assumed discount rate has a significant effect on the amounts reported for defined benefit pension and other post-employment plans as of December 31,
2015, and will be used in the calculation of net periodic benefit cost in 2016. A 50 basis   

point
change in the assumed discount rate would have had the following effects on AbbVie's calculation of net periodic benefit costs in 2016 and projected benefit obligations as of December 31,
2015:   

50 basis point   

(in millions) (brackets denote a reduction)   
     
  Increase   
     
  Decrease   

Defined benefit plans   

Service cost and interest cost  

$  
  (45  
  )  

$  
  51  

Projected benefit obligation  

$  
  (409  
  )  

$  
  461  

Other post-employment plans   

Service cost and interest cost  

$  
  (5  
  )  

$  
  6  

Projected benefit obligation  

$  
  (46  
  )  

$  
  52   

Effective
December 31, 2015, AbbVie elected to change the method it uses to estimate the service and interest cost components of net periodic benefit costs for the AbbVie Pension
Plan and its primary other post-employment benefit plan in the United States as well as certain international defined benefit plans and other post-employment benefit plans. Based on current economic
conditions, this change is expected to reduce AbbVie's net periodic benefit cost by approximately $41 million in 2016 as a result of this change. Refer to Note 11 for further information
regarding this change.   

          The
expected long-term rate of return is based on the asset allocation, historical performance, and the current view of expected future returns. AbbVie considers these inputs with a
long-term focus to avoid short-term market influences. The current long-term rate of return on plan assets is supported by the historical performance of the trust's actual and target asset allocation.
AbbVie's assumed expected long-term rate of return has a significant effect on the amounts reported for defined benefit pension plans as of December 31, 2015 and will be used in the calculation
of net periodic benefit cost in 2016. A 1 percentage point change in assumed expected long-term rate of return on plan assets would have increased or decreased the net period benefit cost of
these plans in 2016 by $45 million.   

          The
health care cost trend rate is selected by reviewing historical trends and current views on projected future health care cost increases. The current health care cost trend rate is
supported by the historical trend experience of the plan. Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported for health care plans as of December 31, 2015
and will be used in the calculation of net periodic benefit cost in 2016. A 1 percentage point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects on AbbVie's
calculation of net periodic benefit costs in 2016 and the projected benefit obligation as of December 31, 2015:   

One percentage 
point   

(in millions) (brackets denote a reduction)   
     
  Increase   
     
  Decrease   

Service cost and interest cost  

$  
  20  

$  
  (15  
  )  

Projected benefit obligation  

$  
  114  

$  
  (90  
  )   

Income Taxes     

          AbbVie accounts for income taxes under the asset and liability method. Provisions for federal, state, and foreign income taxes are
calculated on reported pretax earnings based on current tax laws. Deferred taxes are provided using enacted tax rates on the future tax consequences of temporary differences, which are the differences
between the financial statement carrying amount of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and the tax benefits of carryforwards. A valuation allowance is established or maintained when,
based on currently available information, it is more likely than not that all or a portion of a deferred tax asset will not be realized.   

Litigation     

          The company is subject to contingencies, such as various claims, legal proceedings and investigations regarding product liability,
intellectual property, commercial, securities and other matters that arise in the normal course of business. Refer to Note 14 for further information. Loss contingency provisions are recorded
for probable losses at management's best estimate of a loss, or when a best estimate cannot be made, a minimum loss contingency amount within a probable range is recorded. Accordingly, AbbVie is often
initially unable to develop a best estimate of loss, and therefore the minimum amount, which could be zero, is recorded. As information becomes known, either the minimum loss amount is increased,
resulting in additional loss provisions, or a best estimate can be made, also resulting in additional loss provisions. Occasionally, a best estimate amount is changed to a lower amount when events
result in an expectation of a more favorable outcome than previously expected.   

Valuation of Goodwill and Intangible Assets     

          AbbVie has acquired and may continue to acquire significant intangible assets in connection with business combinations that AbbVie
records at fair value. Transactions involving the purchase or sale of intangible assets occur with some frequency between companies in the pharmaceuticals industry, and valuations are usually based on
a discounted cash flow analysis incorporating the stage of completion. The discounted cash flow model requires assumptions about the timing and amount of future net cash flows, risk, cost of capital,
terminal values, and market participants. Each of these factors can significantly affect the value of the intangible asset. IPR D acquired in a business combination is capitalized as an
indefinite-lived intangible asset until regulatory approval is obtained, at which time it is accounted for as a definite-lived asset and amortized over its estimated useful life. IPR D acquired in
transactions that are not business combinations is expensed immediately, unless deemed to have an alternative future use. Payments made to third parties subsequent to regulatory approval are
capitalized and amortized over the remaining useful life.   

          AbbVie
reviews the recoverability of definite-lived intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. Goodwill
and indefinite-lived intangible assets, which relate to IPR D, are reviewed for impairment annually or when an event occurs that could result in an impairment. Refer to Note 2 to the
consolidated financial statements for further information.   

          Annually,
the company tests its goodwill for impairment by first assessing qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value is less than its
carrying amount. Some of the factors considered in the assessment include general macro-economic conditions, conditions specific to the industry and market, cost factors, which could have a
significant effect on earnings or cash flows, the overall financial performance, and whether there have been sustained declines in the company's share price. If the company concludes it is more likely
than not that the fair value of reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, a quantitative impairment test is performed. AbbVie tests indefinite-lived intangible assets using a quantitative
impairment test.   

          For
its quantitative impairment tests, the company uses an estimated future cash flow approach that requires significant judgment with respect to future volume, revenue and expense
growth rates, changes in working capital use, foreign currency exchange rates, the selection of an appropriate discount rate, asset groupings, and other assumptions and estimates. The estimates and
assumptions used are consistent with the company's business plans and a market participant's views of a company and similar companies. The use of alternative estimates and assumptions could increase
or decrease the estimated fair value of the assets, and potentially result in different impacts to the company's results of operations. Actual results may differ from the company's estimates.   

Recent Accounting Pronouncements     

          In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2014-09,     Summary and Amendments That Create Revenue
from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) and Other Assets and Deferred Costs Contracts with Customers (Subtopic
340-40)   . The amendments in ASU 2014-09 supersede most current revenue recognition requirements. The core principal of the new guidance is that an entity should recognize
revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or
services. AbbVie can apply the amendments using one of the following two methods: (i) retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented, or (ii) modified retrospectively with the
cumulative effect of initially applying the amendments recognized at the date of initial application. In July 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-4,    Revenue from
Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Deferral of the Effective Date   , which deferred the effective date of ASU 2014-09 by one year for all entities. Accordingly, ASU 2014-09 is
effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within that reporting period. Early application is permitted only for annual reporting
periods beginning after December 15, 2016, including interim periods within that reporting period. AbbVie is currently assessing the timing of its adoption and the impact of adopting this
guidance on its consolidated financial statements and the implementation approach to be used.   

          In
April 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-03,    Interest Imputation of Interest (Subtopic 835-30): Simplifying the Presentation of Debt
Issuance Costs   . The amendments in ASU 2015-03 require that debt issuance costs related to a recognized debt liability be presented in the balance sheet as a direct deduction
from the carrying amount of that debt liability, consistent with debt discounts. This standard is effective for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2015, with early adoption
permitted on a retrospective basis. AbbVie elected to early adopt this new standard, effective in the three months ended June 30, 2015. As a result, AbbVie reclassified approximately
$7 million and $27 million of net deferred financing costs as of December 31, 2014 that were previously classified as prepaid expenses and other current assets and other long-term
assets, respectively, to long-term debt and lease obligations (current and non-current). Total debt issuance costs classified as a reduction of long-term debt and lease obligations (current and
non-current) were $117 million as of December 31, 2015.   

          In
September 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-16,    Business Combinations (Topic 805): Simplifying the Accounting for Measurement-Period
Adjustments   . This standard requires that an acquirer recognize adjustments to provisional amounts that are identified during the measurement period in the reporting period in
which the adjustment amounts are determined. Entities are currently required to retrospectively apply adjustments made to provisional amounts recognized in a business combination. This standard is
effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2015, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The guidance is to be applied prospectively to measurement period adjustments
that occur after the effective date of the guidance with earlier application permitted for financial statements that have not been issued. AbbVie elected to early adopt the standard, effective in the
year ended December 31, 2015. The impact of this adoption was not material.   

          In
November 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-17,    Income Taxes (Topic 740): Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes   . The
standard requires that deferred tax liabilities and assets be classified as noncurrent in a classified statement of financial position. Entities are currently required to separate deferred income tax
liabilities and assets into current and noncurrent amounts in a classified statement of financial position. The amendments, which require non-current presentation only (by jurisdiction), are effective
for financial statements issued for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2016 with earlier application permitted as of the beginning of an interim or annual reporting period. The
guidance is to be applied either prospectively to all deferred tax liabilities and assets or retrospectively to all periods presented. AbbVie elected to early adopt this standard on a prospective
basis, effective as of December 31, 2015 in order to simplify the presentation of deferred tax assets and liabilities. Prior periods were not retrospectively adjusted.   

In
January 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-01,    Financial Instruments Overall (Subtopic 825-10): Recognition and Measurement of Financial
Assets and Financial Liabilities   . The standard requires several targeted changes including that equity investments (except those accounted for under the equity method of
accounting, or those that result in consolidation of the investee) be measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net income. The new guidance also changes certain disclosure
requirements and other aspects of current US GAAP. Amendments are to be applied as a cumulative-effect adjustment to the balance sheet as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption. This
standard is effective for fiscal years starting after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within those fiscal years.
The standard does not permit early adoption with the exception of certain targeted provisions. AbbVie is currently assessing the impact and timing of adopting this guidance on its consolidated
financial statements.   

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 

The
company is exposed to risk that its earnings, cash flows, and equity could be adversely impacted by changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
Certain derivative instruments are used when available on a cost-effective basis to hedge the company's underlying economic exposures. Refer to Note 10 entitled "Financial Instruments and Fair
Value Measures" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for further information regarding the company's financial
instruments and hedging strategies.   

Foreign Currency Risk     

          AbbVie's primary net foreign currency exposures are the Euro, Japanese yen and British pound. Various AbbVie foreign subsidiaries enter
into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage exposures to changes in foreign exchange rates for anticipated transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of
the local entity. These contracts are designated as cash flow hedges of the variability of the cash flows due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, and are marked-to-market with the resulting
gains or losses reflected in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in AbbVie's consolidated balance sheets. Deferred gains or losses on these contracts are included in cost of products sold at
the time the products are sold to a third party, generally not exceeding twelve months. At December 31, 2015 and 2014, AbbVie held $1.5 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively, in
notional amounts of such contracts.   

          AbbVie
enters into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage its exposure to foreign currency denominated trade payables and receivables and intercompany loans. The
contracts, which are not designated as hedges, are marked-to-market, and resulting gains or losses are reflected in net foreign exchange on AbbVie's consolidated statements of earnings and are
generally offset by losses or gains on the foreign currency exposure being managed. At December 31, 2015 and 2014, AbbVie held notional amounts of $6.8 billion and $6.8 billion,
respectively, of such foreign currency forward exchange contracts.   

The
following table reflects the total foreign currency forward contracts outstanding at December 31, 2015 and 2014:   

The
company estimates that a 10 percent appreciation in the underlying currencies being hedged from their levels against the U.S. dollar, with all other variables held constant,
would decrease the fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts by $822 million at December 31, 2015. If realized, this appreciation would negatively affect earnings over the
remaining life of the contracts, which would be offset by gains on the underlying hedged items. A 10 percent appreciation is believed to be a reasonably possible near-term change in foreign
currencies. Gains and losses on the hedging instruments offset losses and gains on the hedged transactions and reduce the earnings and stockholders' equity volatility relating to foreign exchange.   

The
functional currency of the company's Venezuela operations is the U.S. dollar due to the hyperinflationary status of the Venezuelan economy. Currency restrictions enacted in Venezuela
require approval from the Venezuelan government to exchange Venezuelan bolivars (VEF) for U.S. dollars and require such exchange to be made at the official exchange rate established by the government.
In the first quarter of 2014, the Venezuelan government expanded the number of exchange mechanisms to three rates of exchange. As of December 31, 2015, these were the official rate of 6.3; the
Supplementary System for the Administration of Foreign Currency (SICAD) rate of approximately 13.5; and the Foreign Exchange
Marginal System (SIMADI) rate of approximately 200. In the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2015, the company used the official rate of 6.3 VEF per
U.S. dollar, and reported $317 million of net monetary assets and $210 million of net revenues denominated in the Venezuelan bolivar.   

On
February 17, 2016, the Venezuelan government announced that it plans to devalue the official rate of 6.3 to 10 VEF to U.S. dollars, and eliminate the SICAD rate of 13.5 VEF to
U.S. dollars. The devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar will result in a charge to AbbVie's results of operations in the first quarter of 2016. If AbbVie's net monetary assets denominated in the
Venezuelan bolivar had been converted at a rate of 10 VEF to U.S. dollars at December 31, 2015, the company would have reported a devaluation loss of $117 million in 2015. If AbbVie's
net monetary assets denominated in the Venezuelan bolivar had been converted at the SIMADI rate of 200 at December 31, 2015, the company would have reported a devaluation loss of
$307 million in 2015.   

          The
company cannot predict whether there will be further devaluations of the Venezuelan currency or whether the use of the official rate will continue to be supported by evolving facts
and circumstances, which could result in a significant charge to AbbVie's results of operations at that time.   

Interest Rate Risk     

          Interest rate swaps are used to manage the company's exposure of changes in interest rates on the fair value of fixed-rate debt. The
effect of these hedges is to change the fixed interest rate to a variable rate. At December 31, 2015 and 2014, AbbVie had interest rate hedge contracts totaling $11.0 billion and
$8.0 billion, respectively. The company estimates that an increase in the interest rates of 100-basis points would decrease the fair value of our interest rate swap contracts by approximately
$464 million at December 31, 2015. If realized, the fair value reduction would affect earnings over the remaining life of the contracts. The company estimates that an increase of
100-basis points in long-term interest rates would decrease the fair value of long-term debt by $1.9 billion at December 31, 2015. A 100-basis point change is believed to be a reasonably
possible near-term change in interest rates.   

Market Price Sensitive Investments     

          AbbVie holds equity securities in other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that are traded on public stock exchanges. The fair
value of these investments was approximately $111 million and $82 million as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. AbbVie monitors these investments for other than
temporary declines in market value, and charges impairment losses to net earnings when an other than temporary decline in value occurs. A hypothetical 20 percent decrease in the share prices of
these investments would decrease the fair value of these investments by $22 million at
December 31, 2015. A 20 percent decrease is believed to be a reasonably possible near-term change in share prices.   

Non-Publicly Traded Equity Securities     

          AbbVie holds equity securities in other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that are not traded on public stock exchanges. The
carrying value of these investments was approximately $33 million and $63 million as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. AbbVie monitors these investments for other than
temporary declines in market value, and charges impairment losses to net earnings when an other than temporary decline in estimated value occurs. In 2015, AbbVie recorded impairment charges totaling
$36 million related to certain of the company's investments in non-publicly traded equity securities.   

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 

Page   

Consolidated Financial Statements   

Consolidated Statements of Earnings   
     
   56   

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income   
     
   57   

Consolidated Balance Sheets   
     
   58   

Consolidated Statements of Equity   
     
   59   

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows   
     
   60   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
     
   61   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   
     
   103   

AbbVie Inc. and Subsidiaries      

Consolidated Statements of Earnings      

(a)    On
January 4, 2013, a cash dividend of $0.40 per share of common stock was declared from pre-separation earnings and was recorded as a reduction of
additional paid-in capital.     

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.   

AbbVie Inc. and Subsidiaries      

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income      

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.   

AbbVie Inc. and Subsidiaries      

Consolidated Balance Sheets      

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.   

AbbVie Inc. and Subsidiaries      

Consolidated Statements of Equity      

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.   

AbbVie Inc. and Subsidiaries      

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows      

(a)    Cash
flows from operating activities included the impact of transaction and financing-related and other costs incurred in connection with the terminated
proposed combination with Shire plc. Refer to Note 5 for additional information.    

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.   

AbbVie Inc. and Subsidiaries      

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      

Note 1 Background and Basis of Presentation 

Background     

          The principal business of AbbVie Inc. (AbbVie or the company) is the discovery, development, manufacture and sale of a broad
line of pharmaceutical products. AbbVie's products are generally sold worldwide directly to wholesalers, distributors, government agencies, health care facilities, specialty pharmacies, and
independent retailers from AbbVie-owned distribution centers and public warehouses. Substantially all of AbbVie's net revenues in the United States are to three wholesalers. Outside the United States,
products are sold primarily to customers or through distributors, depending on the market served.   

AbbVie
was incorporated in Delaware on April 10, 2012. On January 1, 2013, AbbVie became an independent, publicly-traded company as a result of the distribution by Abbott
Laboratories (Abbott) of 100 percent of the outstanding common stock of AbbVie to Abbott's shareholders. AbbVie's common stock began trading "regular-way" under the ticker symbol "ABBV" on the
New York Stock Exchange on January 2, 2013.   

          During
2013, separation-related adjustments totaling $1.3 billion were recorded in stockholders' equity. Separation-related adjustments to additional paid-in capital principally
reflected dividends to AbbVie shareholders that were declared from pre-separation earnings during the first quarter of 2013 and the transfer of certain pension plan liabilities and assets from Abbott
to AbbVie upon the legal split of those plans in 2013. In addition, because AbbVie's historical financial statements prior to January 1, 2013 were derived from Abbott's records,
separation-related adjustments also included an adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive loss to reflect the appropriate opening balances associated with currency translation adjustments related
to AbbVie's legal entities at the separation date. Refer to Note 11 for further information regarding the separation of the pension plans.   

          In
connection with the separation, AbbVie and Abbott entered into transition services agreements covering certain corporate support and back office services that AbbVie historically
received from Abbott. Such services included information technology, accounts payable, payroll, receivables collection, treasury and other financial functions, as well as order entry, warehousing,
engineering support, quality assurance support and other administrative services. These agreements facilitated the separation by allowing AbbVie to operate independently prior to establishing
stand-alone back office functions across its organization. The transition services agreements had original terms of up to 24 months, with an option for a one-year extension. The majority of
these transaction service agreements expired without extension at December 31, 2014. With certain limited exceptions, the remaining transition services agreements terminated on or prior to
December 31, 2015.   

          During
the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014, and 2013, AbbVie incurred $270 million, $445 million, and $254 million, respectively, of separation-related
expenses, which were principally classified in selling, general and administrative expenses (SG A) in the consolidated statements of earnings. These charges principally related to information
technology, legal and regulatory fees.   

Basis of Historical Presentation     

          For a certain portion of AbbVie's operations, the legal transfer of AbbVie's assets (net of liabilities) did not occur with the
separation of AbbVie on January 1, 2013 due to the time required to transfer marketing authorizations and satisfy other regulatory requirements in certain countries. Under the terms of the
separation agreement with Abbott, AbbVie is responsible for the business activities conducted by Abbott on its behalf, and is subject to the risks and entitled to the benefits generated by these
operations and assets.   

As
a result, the related assets and liabilities and results of operations have been reported in AbbVie's consolidated financial statements as of and for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014,
and 2013. Net
revenues related to these operations for 2015, 2014, and 2013 totaled approximately $213 million, $282 million, and $738 million, respectively. With the exception of Venezuela,
all of these operations have been transferred to AbbVie as of December 31, 2015.   

Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 

Use of Estimates     

          The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and necessarily include amounts based on estimates and
assumptions by management. Actual results could differ from those amounts. Significant estimates include amounts for rebates, pension and post-employment benefits, income taxes, litigation, valuation
of intangible assets and goodwill, financial instruments, and inventory and accounts receivable exposures.   

Basis of Consolidation     

          The consolidated financial statements as of and for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 include the accounts of AbbVie
and all of its subsidiaries in which a controlling interest is maintained. Controlling interest is determined by majority ownership interest and the absence of substantive third-party participating
rights or, in the case of variable interest entities, where AbbVie is determined to be the primary beneficiary. Investments in companies over which AbbVie has a significant influence but not a
controlling interest are accounted for using the equity method with AbbVie's share of earnings or losses reported in other expense (income), net in the consolidated statements of earnings. All other
investments are generally accounted for using the cost method. Intercompany balances and transactions are eliminated.   

          Certain
reclassifications have been made to conform the prior period consolidated financial statements to the current period presentation.   

Revenue Recognition     

          AbbVie recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price is fixed or
determinable and collectability of the sales price is reasonably assured. Revenue from product sales is recognized when title and risk of loss have passed to the customer. Provisions for discounts,
rebates and sales incentives to customers and returns and other adjustments are provided for in the period the related revenues are recorded. Rebate amounts are typically based upon the volume of
purchases using contractual or statutory prices, which may vary by product and by payer. For each type of rebate, the factors used in the calculations of the accrual for that rebate include the
identification of the products subject to the rebate, the applicable price terms, and the estimated lag time between sale and payment of the rebate, which can be significant. Sales incentives to
customers are not material. Historical data is readily available and reliable, and is used for estimating the amount of the reduction in gross revenues. Revenue from the launch of a new product, from
an improved version of an existing product, or for shipments in excess of a customer's normal requirements are recorded when the conditions noted above are met. In those situations, management records
a returns reserve for such revenue, if necessary. Sales of product rights for marketable products are recorded as revenue upon disposition of the rights.   

Research and Development Expenses     

          Internal research and development (R D) expenses are expensed as incurred. Clinical trial costs incurred by third parties are expensed
as the contracted work is performed. Where contingent milestone payments are due to third parties under research and development collaborations for pre-commercialization milestones, the milestone
payment obligations are expensed when the milestone results are achieved.   

Payments
made to third parties subsequent to regulatory approval are capitalized as intangible assets and amortized to cost of products sold over the remaining useful life of the related product.   

Collaborations and Other Arrangements     

          The company enters into collaborative agreements with third parties to develop and commercialize drug candidates. Collaborative
activities may include joint research and development and commercialization of new products. AbbVie generally receives certain licensing rights under these arrangements. These collaborations often
require upfront payments and may include additional milestone, research and development cost sharing, royalty or profit share payments, contingent upon the occurrence of certain future events linked
to the success of the asset in development and commercialization. Upfront payments associated with collaborative arrangements during the development stage are expensed to acquired in-process research
and development (IPR D) expenses in the consolidated statements of earnings. Subsequent payments made to the partner for the achievement of milestones during the development stage are expensed to R D
expenses in the consolidated statements of earnings when the milestone is achieved. Milestone payments made to the partner subsequent to regulatory approval are capitalized as intangible assets and
amortized to cost of products sold over the estimated useful life of the related asset. Royalties are expensed to cost of products sold in the consolidated statements of earnings when incurred.   

Advertising     

          Costs associated with advertising are expensed as incurred and are included in SG A expenses in the consolidated statements of
earnings. Advertising expenses were $704 million, $665 million, and $626 million in 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively.   

Pension and Other Post-Employment Benefits     

          AbbVie records annual expenses relating to its defined benefit pension and other post-employment plans based on calculations which
include various actuarial assumptions, including discount rates, assumed asset rates of return, compensation increases, turnover rates and health care cost trend rates. AbbVie reviews its actuarial
assumptions on an annual basis and makes modifications to the assumptions based on current rates and trends. Actuarial losses and gains are amortized over the remaining service attribution periods of
the employees under the corridor method, in accordance with the rules for accounting for post-employment benefits. Differences between the expected long-term return on plan assets and the actual
annual return are amortized to net periodic benefit cost over a five-year period.   

Income Taxes     

          Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method. Provisions for federal, state and foreign income taxes are
calculated on reported pretax earnings based on current tax laws. Deferred taxes are provided using enacted tax rates on the future tax consequences of temporary differences, which are the differences
between the financial statement carrying amount of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and the tax benefits of carryforwards. A valuation allowance is established or maintained when,
based on currently available information, it is more likely than not that all or a portion of a deferred tax asset will not be realized.   

Cash and Equivalents     

          Cash and equivalents include time deposits and money market funds with original maturities at the time of purchase of three months or
less.   

Investments     

          Short-term investments consist primarily of time deposits and held-to-maturity debt securities. Investments in marketable equity
securities are classified as available-for-sale and are recorded at fair value with any unrealized holding gains or losses, net of tax, included in accumulated other comprehensive loss (AOCI) in
AbbVie's consolidated balance sheets. Investments in equity securities that are not traded on public stock exchanges and held-to-maturity debt securities are recorded at cost.   

          AbbVie
reviews the carrying value of investments each quarter to determine whether an other than temporary decline in fair value exists. AbbVie considers factors affecting the investee,
factors affecting the industry the investee operates in and general equity market trends. The company considers the length of time an investment's fair value has been below cost and the near-term
prospects for recovery. When AbbVie determines that an other than temporary decline has occurred, a cost basis investment is written down with a charge to other expense (income), net in the
consolidated statements of earnings and an available-for-sale investment's unrealized loss is reclassified from AOCI to other expense (income), net in the consolidated statements of earnings.   

Accounts Receivable     

          Accounts receivable are stated at their net realizable value. The allowance against gross accounts receivable reflects the best
estimate of probable losses inherent in the receivables portfolio determined on the basis of historical experience, specific allowances for known troubled accounts and other currently available
information. Accounts receivable are written off after all reasonable means to collect the full amount (including litigation, where appropriate) have been exhausted. The allowance was
$78 million and $74 million at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively.   

Inventories     

          Inventories are valued at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out basis) or market. Cost includes material and conversion costs.
Inventories, net, consist of the following:   

Inventories,
net as of December 31, 2015 included $356 million acquired through the acquisition of Pharmacyclics, Inc. (Pharmacyclics) on May 26, 2015. Refer
to Note 5 for additional information.   

Property and Equipment     

Depreciation
for property and equipment is recorded on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets. The estimated useful life for buildings ranges from 10 to
50 years and five to 20 years for equipment. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the life of the related facility lease (including any renewal periods, if appropriate) or the
asset, whichever is shorter. Depreciation expense was $417 million, $383 million, and $388 million in 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. Equipment includes certain computer
software and software development costs incurred in connection with developing or obtaining software for internal use and is amortized over three to 10 years. Assets under capital leases
included in property and equipment in the consolidated balance sheets are not material.   

Litigation and Contingencies     

          Loss contingency provisions are recorded when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the liability can be
reasonably estimated based on existing information. When a best estimate cannot be made, the minimum loss contingency amount in a probable range is recorded. Legal fees are expensed as incurred.   

          AbbVie
accrues for product liability claims, on an undiscounted basis, when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated
based on existing information. The liabilities are evaluated quarterly and adjusted if necessary as additional information becomes available. Receivables for insurance recoveries, if any, for product
liability claims are recorded as assets, on an undiscounted basis, when it is probable that a recovery will be realized.   

Business Combinations     

          Results of operations of acquired companies are included in AbbVie's results of operations beginning on the respective acquisition
dates. Assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recognized at the date of acquisition at their respective fair values. Any excess of the fair value consideration transferred over the estimated fair
values of the net assets acquired is recognized as goodwill. Contingent consideration is recognized at the estimated fair value on the acquisition date, which is determined by utilizing a probability
weighted discounted cash flow model. Subsequent changes to the fair value of contingent payments are recognized in other expense (income), net in the consolidated statements of earnings. The fair
value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in certain cases may be subject to revision based on the final determination of fair value. Legal costs, due diligence costs, business valuation costs
and all other business acquisition costs are expensed when incurred.   

Goodwill and Intangible Assets     

          Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are recorded at fair value using a discounted cash flow model. The discounted cash
flow model requires assumptions about the timing and amount of future net cash flows, risk, the cost of capital, and terminal values of market participants. Definite-lived intangibles are amortized
over their estimated useful lives. AbbVie reviews the recoverability of definite-lived intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset may not be
recoverable. AbbVie first compares the projected undiscounted cash flows to be generated by the asset to its carrying value. If the undiscounted cash flows of an intangible
asset are less than the carrying value of an intangible asset, the intangible asset is written down to its fair value, which is usually the discounted cash flow amount, and a loss is recorded equal to
the excess of the asset's net carrying value over its fair value. Where cash flows cannot be identified for an individual asset, the review is applied at the lowest level for which cash flows are
largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities.   

          Goodwill
and indefinite-lived assets are not amortized but are subject to an impairment review annually and more frequently when indicators of impairment exist. An impairment of goodwill
would occur if the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeded the fair value of that reporting unit. Indefinite-lived   

intangible
assets, which consist of capitalized IPR D, would occur if the fair value of the IPR D intangible asset is less than the carrying amount.   

          The
company tests its goodwill for impairment by first assessing qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value is less than its carrying amount.
If the company concludes it is more likely than not that the fair value of reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, a quantitative impairment test is performed. AbbVie tests indefinite-lived
intangible assets using a quantitative impairment test. For its quantitative impairment test, the company uses an estimated future cash flow approach that requires significant judgment with respect to
future volume, revenue and expense growth rates, changes in working capital use, foreign currency exchange rates, the selection of an appropriate discount rate, asset groupings and other assumptions
and estimates. The estimates and assumptions used are consistent with the company's business plans and a market participant's views of a company and similar companies. The use of alternative estimates
and assumptions could increase or decrease the estimated fair value of the assets, and potentially result in different impacts to the company's results of operations. Actual results may differ from
the company's estimates.   

          Based
upon the company's most recent annual impairment test performed in the third quarter of 2015, the company concluded goodwill was not impaired. In 2015 and 2013, no intangible
impairment charges were recorded. In 2014, AbbVie recorded an impairment charge of $37 million related to certain on-market product rights in Japan due to increased generic competition. The
charge was included in cost of products sold in the consolidated statements of earnings.   

Acquired In-Process Research and Development     

          The initial costs of rights to IPR D projects acquired in an asset acquisition are expensed as IPR D in the consolidated statements of
earnings unless the project has an alternative future use. These costs include initial payments incurred prior to regulatory approval in connection with research and development collaboration
agreements that provide rights to develop, manufacture, market and/or sell pharmaceutical products. The fair value of IPR D projects acquired in a business combination are capitalized and accounted
for as indefinite-lived intangible assets until the underlying project receives regulatory approval, at which point the intangible asset will be accounted for as a definite-lived intangible asset, or
discontinuation, at which point the intangible asset will be written off. Development costs incurred after the acquisition are expensed as incurred. Indefinite- and definite-lived assets are subject
to impairment reviews as discussed previously.   

Foreign Currency Translation     

          Foreign subsidiary earnings are translated into U.S. dollars using average exchange rates. The net assets of foreign subsidiaries are
translated into U.S. dollars using period end exchange rates. The U.S. dollar effects that arise from translating the net assets of these subsidiaries at changing rates are recognized in other
comprehensive (loss) income (OCI) in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income. The net assets of subsidiaries in highly inflationary economies are remeasured as if the functional currency
were the reporting currency. The remeasurement is recognized in net foreign exchange loss in the consolidated statements of earnings and is immaterial for all years presented.   

Derivatives     

          All derivative instruments are recognized as either assets or liabilities at fair value in AbbVie's consolidated balance sheets and are
classified as current or long-term based on the scheduled maturity of the instrument. The accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative instrument depends on whether it has been formally
designated and qualifies as part of a hedging relationship under the applicable accounting standards and, further, on the type of hedging relationship.   

For
derivatives formally designated as hedges, the company assesses at inception and quarterly thereafter, whether the hedging derivatives are highly effective in offsetting changes in
the fair value or cash flows of the hedged item. The changes in fair value of a derivative designated as a fair value hedge and of the hedged item attributable to the hedge risk are recognized in
earnings immediately. Fair value hedges are used to hedge the interest rate risk associated with certain of the company's fixed-rate debt. The effective portions of changes in the fair value of a
derivative designated as a cash flow hedge are reported in AOCI and are subsequently recognized in earnings consistent with the underlying hedged item. Cash flow hedges are used to manage exposures
from changes in foreign currency exchange rates.   

          The
derivatives that are not designated and do not qualify as hedges are adjusted to fair value through current earnings. If it is determined that a derivative is no longer highly
effective as a hedge, the company discontinues hedge accounting prospectively. Gains or losses are immediately reclassified from AOCI to earnings relating to hedged forecasted transactions that are no
longer probable of occurring. Gains or losses relating to terminations of effective cash flow hedges in which the forecasted transactions are still probable of occurring are deferred and recognized
consistent with the income or loss recognition of the underlying hedged items. Terminations of fair value hedges result in fair value adjustments to the hedged items until the date of termination with
the new bases being accreted to par value on the date of maturity.   

          Derivatives,
including those that are not designated as a hedge, are principally classified in the operating section of the consolidated statements of cash flows, consistent with the
underlying hedged item.   

Recent Accounting Pronouncements     

          In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2014-09,     Summary and Amendments That Create Revenue
from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) and Other Assets and Deferred Costs Contracts with Customers (Subtopic
340-40)   . The amendments in this standard supersede most current revenue recognition requirements. The core principal of the new guidance is that an entity should recognize
revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or
services. AbbVie can apply the amendments using one of the following two methods: (i) retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented, or (ii) modified retrospectively with the
cumulative effect of initially applying the amendments recognized at the date of initial application. In July 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-4,    Revenue from
Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Deferral of the Effective Date   , which deferred the effective date of ASU 2014-09 by one year for all entities. Accordingly, this standard
is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within that reporting period. Early application is permitted only for annual reporting
periods beginning after December 15, 2016, including interim periods within that reporting period. AbbVie is currently assessing the timing of its adoption and the impact of adopting this
guidance on its consolidated financial statements and the implementation approach to be used.   

          In
April 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-03,    Interest Imputation of Interest (Subtopic 835-30): Simplifying the Presentation of Debt
Issuance Costs   . The amendments in ASU 2015-03 require that
debt issuance costs related to a recognized debt liability be presented in the balance sheet as a direct deduction from the carrying amount of that debt liability, consistent with debt discounts. The
standard is effective for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2015, with early adoption permitted on a retrospective basis. AbbVie elected to early adopt this new standard,
effective in the three months ended June 30, 2015. As a result, AbbVie reclassified approximately $7 million and $27 million of net deferred financing costs as of
December 31, 2014 that were previously classified as prepaid expenses and other current assets and other long-term assets, respectively, to long-term debt and lease obligations (current and
non-current). Total debt issuance costs classified as a reduction of long-term debt and lease obligations (current and non-current) were $117 million as of December 31, 2015.   

In
September 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-16,    Business Combinations (Topic 805): Simplifying the Accounting for Measurement-Period
Adjustments   . This standard requires that an acquirer recognize adjustments to provisional amounts that are identified during the measurement period in the reporting period in
which the adjustment amounts are determined. Entities are currently required to retrospectively apply adjustments made to provisional amounts recognized in a business combination. This standard is
effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2015, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The guidance is to be applied prospectively to measurement period adjustments
that occur after the effective date of the guidance with earlier application permitted for financial statements that have not been issued. AbbVie elected to early adopt the standard, effective in the
year ended December 31, 2015. The impact of this adoption was not material.   

          In
November 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-17,    Income Taxes (Topic 740): Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes   . ASU
2015-17 requires that deferred tax liabilities and assets be classified as noncurrent in a classified statement of financial position. Entities are currently required to separate deferred income tax
liabilities and assets into current and noncurrent amounts in a classified statement of financial position. The amendments, which require non-current presentation only (by jurisdiction), are effective
for financial statements issued for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2016 with earlier application permitted as of the beginning of an interim or annual reporting period. The
guidance is to be applied either prospectively to all deferred tax liabilities and assets or retrospectively to all periods presented. AbbVie elected to early adopt this standard on a prospective
basis, effective as of December 31, 2015 in order to simplify the presentation of deferred tax assets and liabilities. Prior periods were not retrospectively adjusted.   

In
January 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-01,    Financial Instruments Overall (Subtopic 825-10): Recognition and Measurement of Financial
Assets and Financial Liabilities   . The standard requires several targeted changes including that equity investments (except those accounted for under the equity method of
accounting, or those that result in consolidation of the investee) be measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net income. The new guidance also changes certain disclosure
requirements and other aspects of current US GAAP. Amendments are to be applied as a cumulative-effect adjustment to the balance sheet as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption. This
standard is effective for fiscal years starting after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The standard does not permit early adoption with the exception of
certain targeted provisions. AbbVie is currently assessing the impact and timing of adopting this guidance on its consolidated financial statements.   

Note 3 Supplemental Financial Information 

Interest Expense, Net     

Interest
expense, net in 2015 included $86 million of bridge financing-related costs incurred in connection with the acquisition of Pharmacyclics. Refer to Note 5 for
additional information. Interest expense, net in 2014 included $141 million of financing related fees incurred in connection with the terminated proposed combination with Shire plc, a
company incorporated in Jersey (Shire).   

Other Expense (Income), Net     

          Other expense (income), net, includes income or expense from the resolution of certain contractual agreements, impairments of equity
securities, and gains and losses on the sale of equity securities. Other   

expense,
net in 2015 primarily consisted of impairments of certain equity securities. Other income, net in 2014 primarily consisted of income of $34 million from the resolution of a contractual
agreement.   

Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities     

Other Long-Term Liabilities     

Note 4 Earnings Per Share 

AbbVie
calculates earnings per share (EPS) using the more dilutive of the treasury stock or the two-class method. The two-class method is an earnings
allocation formula that determines earnings per share for common stock and participating securities according to dividends declared and participation rights in undistributed earnings. Under this
method, all earnings (distributed and undistributed) are allocated to common shares and participating securities based on their respective rights to receive dividends. In addition, participating
securities may include certain performance-based awards that may otherwise be excluded from the calculation of EPS under the treasury-stock method. AbbVie's forfeitable restricted stock units (RSUs)
and restricted stock awards (RSAs), including most performance-based awards, participate in dividends on the same basis as common shares and such dividends are nonforfeitable to the holder once
declared. As a result, these forfeitable RSUs and RSAs meet the definition of a participating security.   

          For
all periods presented, the two-class method was more dilutive. As such, the dilutive effect of unvested RSUs and RSAs of approximately 4 million, 4 million, and
5 million shares for 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, were excluded from the denominator for the calculation of diluted EPS. These awards otherwise would have been included in the calculation
of EPS under the treasury stock method.
Additionally, all earnings (distributed and undistributed) allocable to participating securities, including performance-based awards not otherwise included in the calculation of EPS under the treasury
stock method, were excluded from the numerator for the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share under the two-class method. Earnings allocable to participating securities for 2015, 2014,
and 2013 were $26 million, $9 million, and $26 million, respectively.   

          As
further described in Note 12, AbbVie entered into and executed a $5.0 billion accelerated share repurchase agreement (ASR) with Morgan
Stanley   Co. LLC (Morgan Stanley) on May 26, 2015, pursuant to which AbbVie paid $5.0 billion for an initial delivery of 68 million shares of AbbVie's common
stock. The initial delivery of shares represented approximately 90 percent of the total shares expected to be delivered under the ASR. Morgan Stanley subsequently delivered an additional
5 million shares of AbbVie's common   

stock
to AbbVie in final settlement of the ASR in August 2015. For purposes of calculating EPS, AbbVie reflected the ASR as a repurchase of AbbVie common stock.   

The
number of common shares issuable under stock-based compensation plans that were excluded from the computation of earnings per common share because the effect would have been
antidilutive were not material for all periods presented.   

Note 5 Licensing, Acquisitions and Other Arrangements 

Acquisition of Pharmacyclics     

          On May 26, 2015, AbbVie acquired Pharmacyclics through a tender offer for approximately $20.8 billion, including cash
consideration of $12.4 billion and equity consideration of $8.4 billion. Pharmacyclics is a biopharmaceutical company that develops and commercializes novel therapies for people impacted
by cancer. Pharmacyclics markets IMBRUVICA  (ibrutinib), a Bruton's tyrosine kinase (BTK) inhibitor, targeting B-cell malignancies. Each outstanding Pharmacyclics share was exchanged for
(i) $152.25 in cash and $109.00 in fair market value of AbbVie common stock, (ii) $261.25 in cash, or (iii) $261.25 in fair market value of AbbVie common stock, at the election of
each holder, subject to the election and proration of the consideration at 58 percent cash and 42 percent AbbVie common stock.   

          The
total consideration for the acquisition of Pharmacyclics was approximately $20.8 billion, consisting of cash and approximately 128 million shares of AbbVie common
stock, and is summarized as follows:   

(in millions)    

Fair value of AbbVie common stock issued to Pharmacyclics stockholders  

$  
  8,405  

Cash consideration paid to Pharmacyclics stockholders  

11,749  

Cash consideration paid to Pharmacyclics equity award holders  

616   

Total consideration  

$  
  20,770   

The
acquisition of Pharmacyclics was accounted for as a business combination using the acquisition method of accounting. This method requires, among other things, that assets acquired
and liabilities assumed be recognized at fair value as of the acquisition date. The valuation of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the acquisition has not yet been finalized as of
December 31, 2015. As a result, AbbVie recorded preliminary estimates for the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date.
The completion of the valuation will occur no later than one year from the acquisition date and may result in significant changes to the recognized assets and liabilities.   

The
following table summarizes preliminary fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the May 26, 2015 acquisition date:   

The
fair market value step-up adjustment to inventories of $445 million is being amortized to cost of products sold when the inventory is sold to customers, which is expected to
be a period of approximately 18 months from the acquisition date.   

          Intangible
assets relate to the IMBRUVICA developed product rights, IPR D in the United States related to additional indications for IMBRUVICA, and the contractual rights to IMBRUVICA
profits and losses outside the United States as a result of the collaboration agreement with Janssen Biotech, Inc. and its affiliates (Janssen), one of the Janssen Pharmaceutical companies of
Johnson   Johnson. Refer to Note 6 for additional information regarding the collaboration with Janssen. The acquired definite-lived intangible assets are being amortized over a
weighted-average estimated useful life of 12 years using the estimated pattern of economic benefit. The estimated fair value of the IPR D and identifiable intangible assets was determined using
the "income approach," which is a valuation technique that provides an estimate of the fair value of an asset based on market participant expectations of the cash flows an asset would generate over
its remaining useful life. Some of the more significant assumptions inherent in the development of those asset valuations include the estimated net cash flows for each year for each asset or product
(including net revenues, cost of sales, R D costs, selling and marketing costs, and working capital/contributory asset charges), the appropriate discount rate to select in order to measure the risk
inherent in each future cash flow stream, the assessment of each asset's life cycle, the potential regulatory and commercial success risks, competitive trends impacting the asset and each cash flow
stream, as well as other factors.   

          Goodwill
is calculated as the excess of the consideration transferred over the net assets recognized and represents the future economic benefits arising from the other assets acquired
that could not be individually identified and separately recognized. Specifically, the goodwill recognized from the acquisition of
Pharmacyclics includes expected synergies, including the ability to leverage the respective strengths of each business, expanding the combined company's product portfolio, acceleration of clinical and
commercial presence in oncology and establishment of a strong leadership position in hematological oncology. The goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes.   

From
the acquisition date through December 31, 2015, AbbVie's consolidated statement of earnings for 2015 included net revenues of $774 million and a pre-tax operating loss
of $519 million associated with the acquisition. The operating loss included $346 million of acquisition-related compensation expense, $261 million of inventory step-up and
intangible asset amortization, and $100 million of transaction and integration costs. Of these costs, $294 million was recorded within SG A expenses, $152 million within R D
expenses, and $261 million within cost of products sold in the consolidated statement of earnings for 2015.   

Pro Forma Financial Information     

The following table presents the unaudited pro forma combined results of operations of AbbVie and Pharmacyclics for 2015 and 2014 as if
the acquisition of Pharmacyclics had occurred on January 1, 2014:   

The
unaudited pro forma financial information was prepared using the acquisition method of accounting and was based on the historical financial information of AbbVie and Pharmacyclics.
In order to reflect the occurrence of the acquisition on January 1, 2014 as required, the unaudited pro forma financial information includes adjustments to reflect the incremental amortization
expense to be incurred based on the current preliminary fair values of the identifiable intangible assets acquired; the incremental cost of products sold related to the fair value adjustments
associated with acquisition-date inventory; the additional interest expense associated with the issuance of debt to finance the acquisition; and the reclassification of acquisition, integration and
financing-related costs incurred during the year ended December 31, 2015 to the year ended December 31, 2014. The unaudited pro forma financial information is not necessarily indicative
of what the consolidated results of operations would have been had the acquisition been completed on January 1, 2014. In addition, the unaudited pro forma financial information is not a
projection of the future results of operations of the combined company nor does it reflect the expected realization of any cost savings or synergies associated with the acquisition.   

Other Licensing   Acquisitions Activity     

          Excluding the acquisition of Pharmacyclics, cash outflows related to other acquisitions and investments totaled $964 million,
$622 million, and $405 million in 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. AbbVie recorded IPR D charges of $150 million, $352 million, and $338 million in 2015, 2014,
and 2013, respectively. In 2014, AbbVie also recorded other operating expenses of $750 million related to the collaboration with Calico Life Sciences LLC (Calico). Significant arrangements
impacting 2015, 2014, and 2013, some of which require contingent milestone payments, are summarized below.   

          In
addition to the significant arrangements described below, AbbVie entered into several other arrangements resulting in charges to IPR D of $50 million in 2015,
$77 million in 2014, and $48 million in 2013. In connection with the other individually insignificant arrangements entered into in 2015, AbbVie could make additional payments of up to
$1.2 billion upon the achievement of certain development, regulatory and commercial milestones.   

C 2 N Diagnostics     

          In March 2015, AbbVie entered into an exclusive worldwide license agreement with C 2 N Diagnostics (C 2 N)
to develop and commercialize anti-tau antibodies for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease and other neurological disorders. As part of the agreement, AbbVie made an initial upfront payment of
$100 million,   

which
was expensed to IPR D in 2015. Upon the achievement of certain development, regulatory, and commercial milestones, AbbVie could make additional payments of up to $685 million, as well as
royalties on net sales.   

Calico Life Sciences LLC     

          In September 2014, AbbVie and Calico entered into a novel R D collaboration agreement to discover, develop and commercialize new
therapies for patients with age-related diseases, including neurodegeneration and cancer. In 2014, AbbVie recorded $750 million in other operating expense in the consolidated statement of
earnings related to its commitments under the agreement of which $250 million was paid in 2014 and $500 million was paid in early 2015. Calico is responsible for research and early
development during the first five years and will continue to advance collaboration projects through Phase 2a for a ten year period. AbbVie will have the option to exclusively license
collaboration compounds after completion of Phase 2a. AbbVie will support Calico in its early R D efforts and, upon option exercise, would be responsible for all late-stage development and
commercial activities. Collaboration costs and profits will be shared equally by both companies post option exercise.   

Infinity Pharmaceuticals, Inc.     

          In September 2014, AbbVie entered into a global collaboration agreement with Infinity Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Infinity) to
develop and commercialize duvelisib (IPI-145) for the treatment of patients with cancer. As part of the agreement, AbbVie made an initial upfront payment of $275 million,
which was expensed to IPR D in the third quarter of 2014. In 2015, AbbVie made an additional payment of $130 million, which was recorded in R D expense in the consolidated statement of
earnings, due to the achievement of a development milestone under the collaboration agreement. Upon the achievement of certain development, regulatory and commercial milestones, AbbVie could make
additional payments of up to $400 million. In the United States, the companies will jointly commercialize duvelisib and will share equally in any potential profits. Outside the United States,
AbbVie will be responsible for the commercialization of duvelisib, and Infinity is eligible to receive tiered double-digit royalties on net product sales.   

Ablynx NV     

          In September 2013, AbbVie entered into a global collaboration agreement with Ablynx NV to develop and commercialize the
anti-IL-6R Nanobody, ALX-0061, for the treatment of inflammatory diseases including rheumatoid arthritis and systemic lupus erythematosus, resulting in a charge to IPR D of $175 million. Upon
the achievement of certain development, regulatory and commercial milestones, AbbVie could make additional payments of up to $665 million, as well as royalties on net sales.   

Galapagos NV     

          In September 2013, AbbVie recorded a charge to IPR D of $45 million as a result of entering into a global collaboration
with Galapagos NV (Galapagos) to discover, develop and commercialize cystic fibrosis therapies. Upon the achievement of certain development, regulatory and commercial milestones, AbbVie could
make additional payments of up to $360 million, as well as royalties on net sales.   

Alvine Pharmaceuticals, Inc.     

          In May 2013, AbbVie entered into a global collaboration with Alvine Pharmaceuticals, Inc. to develop ALV003, a novel oral
treatment for patients with celiac disease. As part of the agreement, AbbVie made an initial upfront payment of $70 million, which was expensed to IPR D in the second quarter of 2013. As of
December 31, 2015, AbbVie will not make any additional payments pursuant to this arrangement.   

Other Activity     

United Therapeutics Corporation     

          In August 2015, AbbVie entered into an agreement to purchase a rare pediatric disease priority review voucher (PRV) from United
Therapeutics Corporation. The PRV entitles AbbVie to receive an FDA priority review of a single New Drug Application or Biologics License Application, which reduces the target review time and could
lead to an expedited approval. In exchange for the PRV, AbbVie made a payment of $350 million, which was recorded in R D expenses in the consolidated statement of earnings and as an operating
cash outflow in the consolidated statement of cash flows for 2015. AbbVie intends to use the PRV for an existing R D project.   

Termination of Proposed Combination with Shire     

          On October 15, 2014, AbbVie's board of directors withdrew its previous recommendation to AbbVie stockholders in favor of a
proposed combination with Shire, and recommended stockholders vote against the proposed combination. On October 20, 2014, AbbVie and Shire mutually agreed to terminate the proposed combination.
In 2014, the company incurred transaction and financing-related costs totaling $1.8 billion, of which $1.7 billion was recorded in SG A expenses and $141 million was recorded in
interest expense, net in the consolidated statement of earnings. Included in SG A expenses was a break fee of $1.6 billion, which was tax deductible, paid by AbbVie to Shire in
October 2014 as a result of the termination of the proposed combination. In addition, the company recorded $666 million of net foreign exchange losses primarily due to undesignated
forward contracts that were entered into to hedge anticipated foreign currency cash outflows associated with the terminated proposed combination with Shire and the exit of certain foreign currency
positions. The forward contracts were settled in 2014. In the first quarter of 2015, AbbVie recorded additional foreign exchange losses of $170 million to reflect the completed liquidation of
its remaining foreign currency positions. Refer to Note 10
for further information regarding these forward contracts entered into in anticipation of the proposed combination with Shire.   

Note 6 Collaboration with Janssen Biotech, Inc. 

In
December 2011, Pharmacyclics entered into a worldwide collaboration and license agreement with Janssen for the joint development and
commercialization of IMBRUVICA, a novel, orally active, selective covalent inhibitor of BTK, and certain compounds structurally related to IMBRUVICA, for oncology and other indications, excluding all
immune and inflammatory mediated diseases or conditions and all psychiatric or psychological diseases or conditions, in the United States and outside the United States.   

The
collaboration provides Janssen with an exclusive license to commercialize IMBRUVICA outside of the United States and co-exclusively with AbbVie in the United States. Both parties are
responsible for the development, manufacturing and marketing of any products generated as a result of the collaboration. The collaboration has no set duration or specific expiration date and provides
for potential future development, regulatory and approval milestone payments of up to $200 million to AbbVie.   

          The
collaboration includes a cost sharing arrangement for associated collaboration activities. Except in certain cases, in general, Janssen is responsible for approximately
60 percent of collaboration development costs and AbbVie is responsible for the remaining 40 percent of collaboration development costs. AbbVie and Janssen share pre-tax profits and
losses equally from the commercialization of products. Janssen is responsible for and has exclusive rights to commercialize IMBRUVICA outside the United States. While both parties have co-exclusive
rights to commercialize the products in the United States, AbbVie is the principal in the end customer product sales. Operating expenses for costs incurred under the collaboration are
reported in their respective expense line items, net of any payments due or reimbursements due from Janssen. Revenues and profit share costs related to sales of IMBRUVICA in the United States are
included in net revenues and cost of products sold, respectively. Amounts payable to AbbVie by Janssen for IMBRUVICA sales outside the United States are included in net revenues.   

Janssen's
share of the pre-tax profits in the United States under the collaboration was $306 million for 2015 and was recorded within cost of products sold in the consolidated
statement of earnings. For 2015, AbbVie's share of pre-tax profits outside the United States and cost sharing expenses under the collaboration were $95 million and $159 million,
respectively.   

          At
December 31, 2015, AbbVie's receivable from Janssen was $45 million and AbbVie's payable to Janssen was $134 million, which were classified in accounts and other
receivables, net and accounts payable and accrued liabilities, respectively, in AbbVie's consolidated balance sheet.   

Note 7 Goodwill and Intangible Assets 

Goodwill     

          The following table summarizes the changes in the carrying amount of AbbVie's goodwill:   

Goodwill
additions in 2015 related to the acquisition of Pharmacyclics. Refer to Note 5 for additional information regarding this acquisition. The latest impairment assessment of
goodwill was completed in the third quarter of 2015. As of December 31, 2015, there were no accumulated goodwill impairment losses. Future impairment tests for goodwill will be performed
annually in the third quarter, or earlier if indicators of impairment exist.   

Intangible Assets, Net     

          The following table summarizes AbbVie's intangible assets:   

Intangible
assets with finite useful lives are amortized over their estimated useful lives, which range between 3 to 16 years with an average of 12 years and
11 years for developed product rights and license agreements, respectively. Additions in 2015 were primarily due to the acquisition of Pharmacyclics and those amounts will be amortized using
the estimated pattern of economic benefit. Refer to Note 5 for additional information regarding this acquisition. Additions in 2014 are primarily related to the acquisition of
$80 million of amortizable intangible assets under license agreements for on-market product rights in the United States with an average amortization period of 10 years.   

Amortization
expense for 2015, 2014, and 2013 was $419 million, $403 million, and $509 million, respectively, and is included in cost of products sold in the
consolidated statements of earnings. The anticipated annual amortization expense for definite lived intangible assets recorded as of December 31, 2015 is $655 million in 2016,
$740 million in 2017, $894 million in 2018, $1.0 billion in 2019 and $1.1 billion in 2020. In the third quarter of 2014, an impairment charge of $37 million was
recorded related to certain on-market product rights in Japan due to increased generic competition. The charge was based on a discounted cash flow analysis and was included in cost of products sold in
the consolidated statement of earnings.   

          The
indefinite-lived intangible assets represent acquired IPR D associated with products that have not yet received regulatory approval. The indefinite-lived intangible assets as of
December 31, 2014 relate to IPR D acquired in a business combination. The increase in 2015 was primarily due to the acquisition of Pharmacyclics. The latest impairment assessment of intangible
assets not subject to amortization was completed in the third quarter of 2015. No impairment charges were recorded in 2015. Impairment charges recorded in 2014 related to indefinite-lived intangible
assets were not material. Future impairment tests for indefinite-lived intangible assets will be performed annually in the third quarter, or earlier if indicators of impairment exist.   

Note 8 Restructuring Plans 

AbbVie
continuously evaluates its operations to identify opportunities to optimize its manufacturing and R D operations, commercial infrastructure, and
administrative costs and to respond to changes in its business environment, for example, in conjunction with the loss and expected loss of exclusivity of certain products. As a result, AbbVie
management periodically approves individual restructuring plans to achieve these objectives. In 2015, 2014 and 2013, no such plans were individually material. Restructuring charges recorded in 2015,
2014 and 2013 were $138 million, $23 million, $83 million, respectively, and were primarily related to employee severance and contractual obligations. These charges were recorded
in cost of products sold, R D expenses, and SG A expenses in the consolidated statements of earnings based on classification of the affected employees or operations.   

The
following summarizes the cash activity in the restructuring reserve for 2015, 2014 and 2013:   

Payments
and other adjustments for 2013 included a $23 million reversal of a previously recorded restructuring reserve due to the company's re-evaluation of a prior year decision
to exit a manufacturing facility.   

Note 9 Debt, Credit Facilities, and Commitments and Contingencies 

The
following is a summary of AbbVie's long-term debt:   

(a)    Excludes
the effect of any related interest rate swaps.     

On
September 25, 2015, AbbVie entered into a $2 billion three-year term loan credit agreement and a $2 billion 364-day term loan credit agreement (collectively, the
term loan facilities). In November 2015, AbbVie drew on these term loan facilities and used the proceeds to refinance its $4 billion of senior notes that matured in November 2015.
The borrowings under the term loan facilities bear interest at variable rates which will adjust based on AbbVie's public debt ratings. The term loan facilities may be prepaid without penalty upon
prior notice and contain customary covenants, all of which the company was in compliance with as of December 31, 2015.   

          In
May 2015, the company issued $16.7 billion aggregate principal amount of unsecured senior notes. The senior notes rank equally with all other unsecured and
unsubordinated indebtedness of the company. AbbVie may redeem the senior notes prior to maturity at a redemption price equal to the principal amount of the senior notes redeemed plus a make-whole
premium and, except for the 1.8% notes due 2018, AbbVie may redeem the senior notes at par between one and six months prior to maturity. Debt issuance costs incurred in connection with the offering
totaled $93 million and are being amortized over the respective terms of the senior notes to interest expense, net in the consolidated statements of earnings. The senior notes contain customary
covenants, all of which the company was in compliance with as of December 31, 2015.   

Approximately
$11.5 billion of the net proceeds from the issuance of the senior notes were used to finance the acquisition of Pharmacyclics and approximately $5.0 billion
of the net proceeds were used to finance the ASR with Morgan Stanley. Refer to Notes 5 and 12 for additional information related to the acquisition of Pharmacyclics and the ASR, respectively.   

          In
March 2015, AbbVie entered into an $18 billion, 364-Day Bridge Term Loan Credit Agreement (the bridge loan) in support of the then planned acquisition of Pharmacyclics.
No amounts were drawn under the bridge loan, which was terminated as a result of the company's May 2015 issuance of the senior notes. Interest expense, net in 2015 include $86 million of
costs related to the bridge loan.   

          AbbVie
has outstanding $10.7 billion aggregate principal amount of unsecured senior notes which were issued in 2012. AbbVie may redeem all of the senior notes of each series, at
any time, and some of the senior notes of each series, from time to time, at a redemption price equal to the principal amount of the senior notes redeemed plus a make-whole premium. At
December 31, 2015, the company was in compliance with its senior note covenants.   

Short-Term Borrowings     

          At December 31, 2015 and 2014, short-term borrowings included $400 million and $416 million, respectively, of
commercial paper borrowings. The weighted-average interest rate on short-term borrowings was 0.3 percent and 0.2 percent for 2015 and 2014, respectively.   

          In
October 2014, AbbVie entered into a $3.0 billion five-year revolving credit facility, which matures in October 2019 and replaced a $2.0 billion five-year
revolving credit facility. The revolving credit facility enables the company to borrow funds on an unsecured basis at variable interest rates and contains various covenants. At December 31,
2015, the company was in compliance with all its credit facility covenants. Commitment fees under AbbVie's revolving credit facilities were not material in 2015, 2014 and 2013. No amounts were
outstanding under the credit facility as of December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014.   

Maturities of Long-Term Debt and Capital Lease
Obligations     

          The following table summarizes AbbVie's future minimum lease payments under non-cancelable operating leases and debt maturities and
future minimum lease payments for capital lease obligations as of December 31, 2015:   

Lease
expense was $146 million in 2015, $115 million in 2014, and $107 million in 2013. AbbVie's operating leases generally include renewal options and provide for
the company to pay taxes, maintenance, insurance and other operating costs of the leased property. As of December 31, 2015, annual future minimum lease payments for capital lease obligations
are not material.   

Debt
maturities and capital leases in 2016 include the $2.0 billion floating rate notes due in 2016 drawn under the 364-day term loan credit agreement.   

Contingencies and Guarantees     

          In connection with the separation, AbbVie has indemnified Abbott for all liabilities resulting from the operation of AbbVie's business
other than income tax liabilities with respect to periods prior to the distribution date and other liabilities as agreed to by AbbVie and Abbott. AbbVie has no material exposures to off-balance sheet
arrangements, no special-purpose entities and no activities that included non-exchange-traded contracts accounted for at fair value. In the ordinary course of business, AbbVie has periodically entered
into third-party agreements, such as the assignment of product rights, which have resulted in AbbVie becoming secondarily liable for obligations for which AbbVie had previously been primarily liable.
Based upon past experience, the likelihood of payments under these agreements is remote. AbbVie periodically acquires a business or product rights in which AbbVie agrees to pay contingent
consideration based on attaining certain thresholds or based on the occurrence of certain future events.   

Note 10 Financial Instruments and Fair Value Measures 

Risk Management Policy     

          The company is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate risks related to its business operations. The company's
hedging policy attempts to manage these risks to an acceptable level based on the company's judgment of the appropriate trade-off between risk, opportunity and costs. The company uses derivative
instruments to reduce its exposure to foreign currency exchange rates. The company is also exposed to the risk that its earnings and cash flows could be adversely impacted by fluctuations in interest
rates. The company periodically enters into interest rate swaps, based on judgment, to manage interest costs in which the company agrees to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between
fixed and floating interest amounts calculated by reference to an agreed-upon notional amount. Derivative instruments are not used for trading purposes or to manage exposure to changes in interest
rates for investment securities, and none of the company's outstanding derivative instruments contain credit risk related contingent features; collateral is generally not required.   

Financial Instruments     

          Various AbbVie foreign subsidiaries enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage exposures to changes in foreign
exchange rates for anticipated intercompany transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the local entity. These contracts, with notional amounts totaling
$1.5 billion and $1.4 billion at December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, respectively, are designated as cash flow hedges and are recorded at fair value. Resulting gains
or losses are reflected in OCI. Accumulated gains and losses as of December 31, 2015 will be reclassified from AOCI and included in cost of products sold at the time the products are sold,
generally not exceeding twelve months.   

          The
company also enters into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage its exposure to foreign currency denominated trade payables and receivables and intercompany loans.
These contracts are not designated as hedges and are recorded at fair value. Resulting gains or losses are reflected in net foreign exchange loss in the consolidated statements of earnings and are
generally offset by losses or gains on the foreign currency exposure being managed. At December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, AbbVie held notional amounts of $6.8 billion and
$6.8 billion, respectively, of such undesignated foreign currency forward exchange contracts.   

          In
2014, the company entered into undesignated forward exchange contracts with a total notional amount of $16.9 billion to hedge anticipated foreign currency cash outflows
associated with the terminated proposed combination with Shire. A large portion of these contracts were originally due to mature in the   

first
quarter of 2015 but were net settled in the fourth quarter of 2014. In 2014, the company realized $490 million in net foreign exchange losses associated with the Shire-related forward
exchange contracts.   

          AbbVie
is a party to interest rate hedge contracts, designated as fair value hedges, totaling $11.0 billion and $8.0 billion at December 31, 2015 and
December 31, 2014, respectively. The effect of the hedge is to change a fixed-rate interest obligation to a floating rate for that portion of the debt. AbbVie recorded the contracts at fair
value and adjusted the carrying amount of the fixed-rate debt by an offsetting amount.   

          The
following table summarizes the amounts and location of AbbVie's derivative instruments in the consolidated balance sheets:   

Fair value Derivatives in asset position   
     
  Fair value Derivatives in liability position   

as of December 31 (in millions)   
     
  2015   
     
  2014   
     
  Balance sheet caption   
     
  2015   
     
  2014   
     
  Balance sheet caption   

Foreign currency forward exchange contracts   

Hedging instruments  

$  
  33  

$  
  141  
     
  Prepaid expenses and other  

$  

$  

Accounts payable and accrued liabilities  

Others not designated as hedges  

28  

70  
     
  Prepaid expenses and other  

21  

63  
     
  Accounts payable and accrued liabilities  

Interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges  

9  

Prepaid expenses and other  

81  

180  
     
  Other long-term liabilities   

Total derivatives  

$  
  70  

$  
  211  

$  
  102  

$  
  243  

While
certain derivatives are subject to netting arrangements with the company's counterparties, the company does not offset derivative assets and liabilities within the consolidated
balance sheets.   

          The
unrealized gains/(losses) for the effective portions of the derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges recognized in OCI were $122 million, $193 million and
($77) million for 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. The amount of hedge ineffectiveness was not significant for any of the years presented.   

The
following table summarizes the pre-tax amounts and location in the consolidated statements of earnings of net gains/(losses) recognized in the consolidated statements of earnings for
derivative instruments, including the effective portions of the net gains/(losses) reclassified out of AOCI into net earnings for 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. See Note 12 for the amount
of net gains/(losses) reclassified out of AOCI.   

The
gain/(loss) related to fair value hedges is recognized in interest expense, net in the consolidated statements of earnings and directly offsets the (loss)/gain on the underlying
hedged item, the fixed-rate debt, resulting in no net impact to interest expense, net for all periods presented.   

Fair Value Measures     

          The fair value hierarchy under the accounting standard for fair value measurements consists of the following three
levels:  

Level 1 Valuations based on unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets that the company has
the ability to access;   
            Level 2 Valuations based on quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets, quoted prices for identical or
similar instruments in markets that are not active, and model-based valuations in which all significant inputs are observable in the market; and   
            Level 3 Valuations using significant inputs that are unobservable in the market and include the use of judgment by
the company's management about the assumptions market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability.    

The
following table summarizes the bases used to measure certain assets and liabilities that are carried at fair value on a recurring basis in the consolidated balance sheet as of
December 31, 2015:   

The
following table summarizes the bases used to measure certain assets and liabilities that are carried at fair value on a recurring basis in the consolidated balance sheet as of
December 31, 2014:   

The
fair values for time deposits included in cash and equivalents and short-term investments are determined based on a discounted cash flow analysis reflecting quoted market rates for
the same or similar instruments. The fair values of time deposits approximate their amortized cost due to the short maturities of these instruments. Available-for-sale equity securities consists of
investments for which the fair values are determined by using the published market price per unit multiplied by the number of units held, without consideration of transaction costs. The derivatives
entered into by the company are valued using publicized spot curves for interest rate hedges and publicized forward curves for foreign currency contracts.   

          Cumulative
net unrealized holding gains on available-for-sale equity securities totaled $47 million and $3 million at December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014,
respectively.   

          There
have been no transfers of assets or liabilities between the fair value measurement levels.   

          In
addition to the financial instruments that the company is required to recognize at fair value on the consolidated balance sheets, the company has certain financial instruments that
are recognized at historical cost or some basis other than fair value. The carrying values and fair values of certain financial instruments are summarized in the table below:   

The
following table summarizes the bases used to measure the approximate fair values of the financial instruments as of December 31, 2015:   

The
following table summarizes the bases used to measure the approximate fair values of the financial instruments as of December 31, 2014:   

Investments
consist of cost method investments and held-to-maturity debt securities. To determine the fair values of other cost method investments, the company takes into consideration
recent transactions, as well as the financial information of the investee, which represents a Level 3 basis of fair value measurement. The fair value of held-to-maturity debt securities was
estimated based upon the quoted market prices for the same or similar debt instruments. The fair values of short-term and current borrowings approximate the carrying values due to the short maturities
of these instruments.   

          The
fair values of long-term debt, excluding fair value hedges and the term loans, were determined by using the published market price for the debt instruments, without consideration of
transaction costs, which represents a Level 1 basis of fair value measurement. The fair values of the term loans were determined based on a discounted cash flow analysis using quoted market
rates, which represents a Level 2 basis of fair value measurement. The counterparties to financial instruments consist of select major international financial institutions.   

Concentrations of Risk     

          The company invests excess cash in time deposits and money market funds and diversifies the concentration of cash among different
financial institutions. The company monitors concentrations of credit risk associated with deposits with financial institutions. Credit exposure limits have been established to limit a concentration
with any single issuer or institution.   

          The
functional currency of the company's Venezuela operations is the U.S. dollar due to the hyperinflationary status of the Venezuelan economy. Currency restrictions enacted in Venezuela
require approval from the Venezuelan government to exchange Venezuelan bolivars (VEF) for U.S. dollars and require such exchange to be made at the official exchange rate established by the government.
In the first quarter of 2014, the Venezuelan government expanded the number of exchange mechanisms to three rates of exchange. As of December 31, 2015, these were the official rate of 6.3; the
Supplementary System for the Administration of Foreign Currency (SICAD) rate of approximately 13.5; and the Foreign Exchange Marginal System (SIMADI) rate of approximately 200. In the consolidated
financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2015, the company used the official rate of 6.3 VEF per U.S. dollar, and reported $317 million of net monetary assets and
$210 million of net revenues denominated in the Venezuelan bolivar.   

          On
February 17, 2016, the Venezuelan government announced that it plans to devalue the official rate of 6.3 to 10 VEF to U.S. dollars, and eliminate the SICAD rate of
13.5 VEF to U.S. dollars. The devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar will result in a charge to AbbVie's results of operations in the first quarter of 2016. If AbbVie's net monetary assets
denominated in the Venezuelan bolivar had been converted at a rate of 10 VEF to U.S. dollars at December 31, 2015, the company would have reported a devaluation loss of
$117 million in 2015. If AbbVie's net monetary assets denominated in the Venezuelan bolivar had been converted at the SIMADI rate of 200 at December 31, 2015, the company would have
reported a devaluation loss of $307 million in 2015.   

          The
company cannot predict whether there will be further devaluations of the Venezuelan currency or whether the use of the official rate will continue to be supported by evolving facts
and circumstances, which could result in a significant charge to AbbVie's results of operations at that time.   

The
company also continues to do business with foreign governments in certain oil-exporting countries, including Venezuela and Saudi Arabia, which have experienced a deterioration in
economic conditions. Due to the decline in the price of oil, liquidity issues in certain countries may result in delays in the collection of receivables.   

          Three
U.S. wholesalers accounted for 51 percent and 49 percent of total net accounts receivable as of December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, respectively,
and substantially all of AbbVie's net revenues in the United States are to these three wholesalers. In addition, net governmental receivables outstanding in Greece, Portugal, Italy and Spain totaled
$525 million at December 31, 2015 and $446 million at December 31, 2014.   

HUMIRA
(adalimumab) is AbbVie's single largest product and accounted for approximately 61 percent, 63 percent, and 57 percent of AbbVie's total net revenues in 2015,
2014, and 2013, respectively.   

Note 11 Post-Employment Benefits 

AbbVie
sponsors various pension and other post-employment benefit plans, including defined benefit, defined contribution and termination indemnity plans, which cover most employees
worldwide. In addition, AbbVie provides medical benefits, primarily to eligible retirees in the United States and Puerto Rico, through other post-retirement benefit plans. Net obligations for these
plans have been reflected in the consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2015 and 2014.   

          AbbVie's
principal domestic defined benefit plan is the AbbVie Pension Plan. AbbVie employees who were eligible to participate in the Abbott pension plan on December 31, 2012
automatically became eligible for the AbbVie Pension Plan. During the first quarter of 2013, the AbbVie Pension Plan assumed the obligations and related assets for AbbVie employees from Abbott. AbbVie
made voluntary contributions of   

$150 million,
$370 million, and $145 million in 2015, 2014, and 2013 respectively, to this plan. AbbVie also made a voluntary contribution of $150 million to this plan
subsequent to December 31, 2015.   

          The
benefit plan information in the table below pertains to the global AbbVie-sponsored defined benefit and other post-employment plans:   

The
projected benefit obligations (PBO) in the table above included $1.5 billion and $1.4 billion at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, related to
international defined benefit plans, a number of which generally are not funded as permitted by local regulations. Benefit payments under those plans are funded from company assets. AbbVie considered
the release of the new mortality tables and projection scales by the Society of Actuaries in 2014 and determined they were an improvement of the estimate of future mortality and opted to change to the
new tables in determining the funded status as of December 31, 2014. In 2015, the Society of Actuaries released an improvement scale that adjusted the previously issued 2014 scale which AbbVie
determined was appropriate to utilize in determining the funded status as of December 31, 2015.   

          For
plans reflected in the table above, the accumulated benefit obligations (ABO) were $4.8 billion and $5.0 billion at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. For
those plans reflected in the table above in which the ABO exceeded plan assets at December 31, 2015, the ABO, PBO and aggregate plan assets were $3.1 billion, $3.6 billion and
$2.2 billion, respectively.   

Amounts Recognized in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss and Other Comprehensive (Loss)
Income     

          The defined benefit and other post-employment plans' actuarial (gains) or losses and prior service costs or (credits) not yet
recognized in net periodic benefit cost are included in AOCI, net of tax, and will be amortized to net periodic benefit cost in future periods. The following table summarizes the pre-tax gains and
losses included in other comprehensive (loss) income:   

The
pre-tax amount of actuarial loss and prior service cost included in AOCI at December 31, 2015 that is expected to be recognized in net periodic benefit cost in 2016 is
$87 million for defined benefit plans and $1 million for other post-employment plans.   

Net Periodic Benefit Cost     

Weighted-Average Assumptions Used in Determining Benefit Obligations at the Measurement Date     

The
assumptions used in calculating the December 31, 2015 measurement date benefit obligations will be used in the calculation of net periodic benefit cost in 2016.   

Weighted-Average Assumptions Used in Determining Net Periodic Benefit Cost     

Effective
December 31, 2015, AbbVie elected to change the method it uses to estimate the service and interest cost components of net periodic benefit costs for the AbbVie Pension
Plan and its primary other post-employment benefit plan in the United States as well as certain international defined benefit plans and other post-employment benefit plans. Historically, AbbVie
estimated these service and interest cost components of this expense utilizing a single weighted-average discount rate derived from the yield curve used to measure the benefit obligation at the
beginning of the period. In late 2015, AbbVie elected to utilize a full yield curve approach in the estimation of these components by applying the specific spot rates along the yield curve used in the
determination of the benefit obligation to the relevant projected cash flows. AbbVie elected to make this change to provide a more precise measurement of service and interest costs by improving the
correlation between projected benefit cash flows to the corresponding spot yield curve rates. AbbVie has accounted for this change prospectively as a change in accounting estimate that is inseparable
from a change in accounting principle. Based on current economic conditions, this change is expected to reduce AbbVie's net periodic benefit cost by approximately $41 million in 2016. This
change had no effect on the 2015 expense and will not affect the measurement of AbbVie's total benefit obligations as the change in service cost and interest cost will be completely offset in the
actuarial (gain) loss reported.   

          For
2015, for purposes of measuring post-retirement health care obligations as of the measurement date, the company assumed a 7.3 percent pre-65 (8.3 percent post-65)
annual rate of increase in the per capita cost of covered health care benefits. The rate was assumed to decrease gradually to 4.5 percent in 2064 and remain at that level thereafter. For
purposes of measuring post-retirement health care costs, the company assumed a 7.5 percent pre-65 (7.3 percent post-65) annual rate of increase in the per capita cost of
covered health care benefits. The rate was assumed to decrease gradually to 4.5 percent for 2064 and remain at that level thereafter.   

          Assumed
health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported for health care plans. As of December 31, 2015, a 1 percentage point change in
assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects:   

One percentage 
point   

year ended December 31, 2015 (in millions) (brackets denote a reduction)   
     
  Increase   
     
  Decrease   

Service cost and interest cost  

$  
  12  

$  
  (9  
  )  

Projected benefit obligation  

$  
  116  

$  
  (90  
  )   

Defined Benefit Pension Plan Assets     

(a)    A
mix of pooled index funds and actively managed equity accounts that are benchmarked to various large cap indices.
      (b)    A
mix of pooled index funds and actively managed equity accounts that are benchmarked to various mid cap indices.
      (c)    A
mix of pooled index funds and actively managed equity accounts that are benchmarked to various non-US equity indices in both developed and emerging
markets.
      (d)    Securities
held by actively managed accounts, pooled index funds, and mutual funds.
      (e)    Funds
having global mandates with the flexibility to allocate capital broadly across a wide range of asset classes and strategies, including but not limited
to equities, fixed income, commodities, financial futures, currencies, and other securities, with objectives to outperform agreed upon benchmarks of specific return and volatility targets.
      (f)    Investments
in cash and cash equivalents.     

Equities
that are valued using quoted prices are valued at the published market prices. Equities in a common collective trust or a registered investment company that are valued using
significant other observable inputs are valued at the net asset value (NAV) provided by the fund administrator. The NAV is based on the value of the underlying assets owned by the fund minus its
liabilities. Fixed income securities that are valued using significant other observable inputs are valued at prices obtained from independent financial service industry-recognized vendors. Absolute
return funds and commodities are valued at the NAV provided by the fund administrator.   

          The
following table summarizes the change in the value of plan assets that are measured using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3):   

The
investment mix of equity securities, fixed income and other asset allocation strategies is based upon achieving a desired return, balancing higher return, more volatile equity
securities, and lower return, less volatile fixed income securities. Investment allocations are established for each plan and are generally made across a range of markets, industry sectors,
capitalization sizes, and in the case of fixed income securities, maturities and credit quality. The target investment allocations for the AbbVie Pension Plan is 35 percent in equity
securities, 20 percent in fixed income securities and 45 percent in asset allocation strategies and other holdings. There are no known significant concentrations of risk in the plan
assets of the AbbVie Pension Plan or any other plans' assets.   

          The
plans' expected return on plan assets assumption, as shown above, is based on management's expectations of long-term average rates of return to be achieved by the underlying
investment portfolios. In establishing this assumption, management considers historical and expected returns for the asset classes in which the plans are invested, as well as current economic and
capital market conditions.   

Expected Defined Benefit and Other Post-Employment Plan Payments     

The
above table reflects total benefit payments expected to be paid to participants, which includes payments funded from company assets as well as paid from the plans.   

Other     

          AbbVie's principal defined contribution plan is the AbbVie Savings Plan. AbbVie recorded expense of $73 million in 2015,
$67 million in 2014, and $62 million in 2013 related to this plan. AbbVie provides certain other post-employment benefits, primarily salary continuation arrangements, to qualifying
employees and accrues for the related cost over the service lives of the employees.   

Stock-Based Compensation     

          Stock-based compensation expense was $282 million, $241 million, and $212 million in 2015, 2014, and 2013,
respectively, and is principally classified in SG A for all periods presented, with the remainder classified in R D expenses and cost of products sold. The related tax benefit recognized in 2015,
2014, and 2013 was $89 million, $73 million, and $68 million, respectively.   

Compensation
expense for stock-based awards is measured based on the fair value of the awards, as of the date the stock-based awards are granted and adjusted to the estimated number of
awards that are expected to vest. Forfeitures are estimated based on historical experience at the time of grant and revised in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates.
Compensation cost for stock-based awards is amortized over their service period, which could be shorter than the vesting period if an employee is retirement eligible, with a charge to compensation
expense. For stock-based awards granted to retirement-eligible employees, compensation expense is recognized immediately at the grant date because the employee is able to retain the award without
continuing to provide service. Retirement eligible employees are generally those that are age 55 and have at least ten years of service.   

Prior
to separation, AbbVie employees participated in Abbott's incentive stock program. The AbbVie 2013 Incentive Stock Program, adopted at the time of separation, facilitated the
assumption of certain awards granted under Abbott's incentive stock program and authorizes the post-separation grant of several different forms of benefits, including nonqualified stock options, RSAs,
RSUs, and performance-based RSAs and RSUs. Under the AbbVie 2013 Incentive Stock Program, 100 million shares of common stock were reserved for issuance with respect to post-separation awards
for participants.   

          In
connection with the separation, outstanding Abbott employee stock options, RSAs and RSUs previously issued under Abbott's incentive stock program were adjusted and converted into new
Abbott and AbbVie stock-based awards using a formula designed to preserve the intrinsic value and fair value of the awards immediately prior to the separation. Upon the separation on January 1,
2013, holders of Abbott stock options, RSAs and RSUs generally received one AbbVie stock-based award for each Abbott stock-based award outstanding. These adjusted awards retained the vesting schedule
and expiration date of the original awards. No AbbVie awards have been granted to Abbott employees other than in connection with the separation.   

          In
2015, 2014, and 2013, realized excess tax benefits associated with stock-based compensation and recorded in additional paid-in capital totaled $61 million, $56 million,
and $38 million, respectively, and were presented in the consolidated statements of cash flows as an outflow in operating activities and an inflow in financing activities.   

Stock Options     

          The exercise price for options granted is at least equal to 100 percent of the fair value on the date of grant. Stock options
typically have a contractual term of 10 years and generally vest in one-third increments over a three-year period.   

The
fair value of stock options is determined using the Black-Scholes model. The weighted-average grant-date fair values of stock options granted were $9.96, $9.83, and $6.87 in 2015,
2014, and 2013, respectively. Stock-based compensation expense attributable to options during each of the years presented was not material.   

          The
following table summarizes AbbVie stock option activity in 2015:   

The
aggregate intrinsic value in the table above represents the difference between the exercise price and the company's closing share price on the last day of trading in 2015. The total
intrinsic value of options exercised in 2015, 2014 and 2013 was $216 million, $253 million, and $229 million respectively. The total fair value of options vested during 2015 was
$10 million.   

RSAs   RSUs     

          RSAs and RSUs generally vest in one-third increments over three years. Upon vesting, the recipient receives one share of common stock
for each vested award. AbbVie grants performance-based RSAs and RSUs to selected executives and other key employees with vesting primarily contingent upon AbbVie achieving a minimum return on equity.
The fair value of RSAs and RSUs (including performance-based awards) is determined based on the number of shares granted and the quoted price of AbbVie's common stock on the date of grant. For
purposes of determining compensation expense, AbbVie periodically evaluates whether the performance goals will be achieved. If such goals are not met, no compensation expense is recognized and any
previously recognized compensation expense is reversed.   

          The
following table summarizes AbbVie RSA and RSU activity (including performance-based awards) for both AbbVie and Abbott employees for 2015:   

The
fair market value of RSAs and RSUs vested in 2015, 2014 and 2013 was $335 million, $338 million and $285 million, respectively.   

          As
of December 31, 2015, $239 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to RSAs and RSUs is expected to be recognized as expense over approximately the next two
years.   

Cash Dividends     

          On February 13, May 15, August 14 and November 16, 2015, AbbVie paid quarterly cash dividends of $0.49,
$0.51, $0.51 and $0.51 per share of common stock, respectively, which were declared by the board of directors on October 20, 2014 and February 19, June 18, and
September 11, 2015 respectively. The dividends declared on October 20, 2014 and February 19, 2015, represented an increase of nearly 17 percent and approximately
4 percent, respectively, over the previous quarterly rates of $0.42 per share and $0.49 per share, respectively. On October 30, 2015, the company announced that its board of directors
declared an increase in the company's quarterly cash dividend from $0.51 per share to $0.57 per
share beginning with the dividend payable on February 16, 2016 to stockholders of record as of January 15, 2016. This reflects an increase of approximately 12 percent over the
previous quarterly rate.   

          On
February 14, May 15, August 15, and November 17, 2014, AbbVie paid quarterly cash dividends of $0.40, $0.42, $0.42 and $0.42 per share of common stock,
respectively, which were declared by the board of directors on December 12, 2013 and February 20, June 19, and September 19, 2014, respectively.   

Stock Repurchase Program     

          On February 15, 2013, AbbVie's board of directors authorized a $1.5 billion stock repurchase program. On
October 20, 2014, AbbVie's board of directors authorized a new $5.0 billion stock repurchase program, which was effective immediately and superseded the previous authorization. The
current stock repurchase authorization permits purchases of AbbVie shares from time to time in open market or private transactions at management's discretion depending on the company's cash flows, net
debt level and market conditions. The program has no time limit and can be discontinued at any time.   

          In
March 2015, the board of directors authorized a $5.0 billion increase to the existing stock repurchase program in anticipation of executing an accelerated share
repurchase agreement in connection with the acquisition of Pharmacyclics. On May 26, 2015, AbbVie entered into and executed the $5.0 billion ASR with Morgan Stanley. Pursuant to the
terms of ASR, Morgan Stanley made an initial delivery of approximately 68 million shares of AbbVie's common stock on May 27, 2015, which represented approximately 90 percent of
the total shares expected to be delivered under the ASR. Morgan Stanley subsequently delivered an additional 5 million shares of AbbVie's common stock to AbbVie in final settlement of the ASR
in 2015. AbbVie recorded the aggregate $5.0 billion purchase price as a reduction to common stock held in treasury in the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2015.   

          In
addition to the ASR, AbbVie repurchased approximately 46 million shares, 9 million shares, and 4 million shares for $2.8 billion, $550 million, and
$223 million in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, in the open market. AbbVie settled $300 million of its 2015 open market purchases in 2016. Shares repurchased under these programs are
recorded at acquisition cost, including related expenses, and are available for general corporate purposes. AbbVie's remaining share repurchase authorization was $1.9 billion as of
December 31, 2015.   

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss     

          The following table summarizes the changes in each component of AOCI, net of tax, for 2015, 2014 and 2013:   

Other
comprehensive loss in 2014 includes foreign currency translation adjustments totaling a loss of $1.1 billion, which was principally driven by (i) the impact of the
substantial weakening of the Euro in 2014 on the translation of the company's Euro-denominated assets, and (ii) the weakening of foreign currencies in combination with an increased
concentration of cash denominated in foreign currencies accumulated in anticipation of the terminated proposed combination with Shire plc. Other comprehensive loss in 2015 includes foreign
currency translation adjustments totaling a loss of $667 million, which was principally driven by the impact of the continued weakening of the Euro on the translation of the company's
Euro-denominated assets.   

The
table below presents the impact on AbbVie's consolidated statements of earnings for significant amounts reclassified out of each component of accumulated other comprehensive loss:   

(a)    Amounts
are included in the computation of net periodic benefit cost (see Note 11).
      (b)    Amounts
are included in cost of products sold (see Note 10).     

Other     

          In addition to common stock, AbbVie's authorized capital includes 200 million shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01. As of
December 31, 2015, no shares of preferred stock were issued or outstanding.   

Earnings Before Income Tax Expense     

The
domestic loss before income taxes in 2014 was driven by transaction and financing-related costs associated with the terminated proposed combination with Shire. Refer to Note 5
for further information.   

Income Tax Expense     

Effective Tax Rate Reconciliation     

The
effective tax rate fluctuates year to year due to the allocation of the company's taxable earnings among jurisdictions, as well as certain discrete factors and events in each year,
including acquisitions and collaborations. The effective tax rates in 2015, 2014 and 2013 differed from the statutory tax rate principally due to the benefit from foreign operations which reflects the
impact of lower income tax rates in locations outside the United States, tax exemptions and incentives in Puerto Rico and other foreign tax jurisdictions, and business development activities together
with the cost of repatriation decisions. The effective tax rates for these periods also reflected the benefit from U.S. tax credits principally related to research and development credits, the orphan
drug tax credit and Puerto Rico excise tax credits. The research and development credits for 2015 and 2014 were due to legislation enacted in the fourth quarter of each year that retroactively
extended the credit. The Puerto Rico excise tax credits relate to legislation enacted by Puerto Rico that assesses an excise tax beginning in 2011 on certain products manufactured in Puerto Rico. The
tax is levied on gross inventory purchases from entities in Puerto Rico and is included in cost of products sold in the consolidated statements of earnings. The majority of the tax is creditable for
U.S. income tax purposes. The effective income tax rate in 2015 included a tax benefit of $103 million from a reduction of state valuation allowances.   

The
effective tax rate in 2014 included additional expenses of $129 million related to the Branded Prescription Drug Fee, which is non-deductible, and state valuation allowances
of $129 million. On July 28, 2014, the Internal Revenue Service issued final rules and regulations for the Branded Prescription Drug Fee, an annual non-tax-deductible fee payable to the
federal government under the Affordable Care Act based on an allocation of a company's market share for branded prescription drugs sold to certain government programs in the prior year. The final
rules accelerated the expense recognition criteria for the fee obligation from the year in which the fee is paid, to the year in which the market share used to allocate the fee is determined. This
change required AbbVie and other industry participants to recognize an additional year of expense in 2014.   

The
effective income tax rate in 2015, 2014 and 2013 reflects income tax expenses relating to current earnings outside the United States that are not deemed indefinitely reinvested.   

Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities     

The
increases in the deferred tax liabilities are primarily due to the acquisition of Pharmacyclics in which AbbVie recorded the excess of book basis over tax basis of intangible assets
and investments.   

          Gross
federal net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards as of December 31, 2015 were $293 million and $147 million, respectively, and are available for use
through 2035. Gross state net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards as of December 31, 2015 were $1.3 billion and $152 million, respectively. The state tax carryforwards
expire between 2017 and 2035. As of December 31, 2015, foreign net operating loss carryforwards were $232 million. Foreign net operating loss carryforwards of $177 million expire
between 2018 and 2023, and the remaining do not have an expiration period.   

          As
of December 31, 2015 and 2014, the company had valuation allowances of $70 million and $172 million, respectively, principally related to state net operating
losses and credit carryforwards that are not expected to be realized.   

          Deferred
income taxes have not been provided on approximately $25 billion of the undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries as these earnings have been indefinitely reinvested
for continued use in foreign operations. Due to the complexities in tax laws and assumptions that would have to be made, it is not practicable to estimate the amount of income taxes that would be due
if these earnings were distributed.   

Unrecognized Tax Benefits     

AbbVie
and Abbott entered into a tax sharing agreement, effective on the date of separation, which provides that Abbott is liable for and has indemnified AbbVie against all income tax
liabilities for periods prior to the separation. AbbVie will be responsible for unrecognized tax benefits and related interest and penalties for periods after separation or in instances where an
existing entity was transferred to AbbVie upon separation.   

          The
table above reflects the 2013 reduction of $1.1 billion relating to tax periods prior to the separation for which Abbott is the primary obligor. However, under U.S. Treasury
Regulations, each member of a consolidated group is severally liable for the U.S. federal income tax liability of each other member of the consolidated group. Accordingly, with respect to periods in
which AbbVie was included in Abbott's consolidated group, AbbVie could be liable to the U.S. government for any U.S. federal income tax liability incurred by the consolidated group, to the extent not
discharged by any other member. However, if any such liability were imposed, AbbVie would be entitled to be indemnified by Abbott pursuant to the tax sharing agreement.   

          If
recognized, the net amount of potential tax benefits that would impact the company's effective tax rate is $901 million and $389 million in 2015 and 2014, respectively.
Of the unrecognized tax benefits recorded in the table above as of December 31, 2015, AbbVie would be indemnified for approximately $107 million. The "Increase due to prior year tax
positions" in the table above includes amounts relating to federal, state, and international items as well as prior positions acquired through business development activities during the year.
Uncertain tax positions are generally included as a long-term liability on the consolidated balance sheets.   

AbbVie
recognizes interest and penalties related to income tax matters in income tax expense. In 2015, 2014, and 2013, AbbVie recognized gross income tax expense of $13 million,
$10 million, and $3 million, respectively, for interest and penalties related to income tax matters. At December 31, 2015, 2014, and 2013, AbbVie had $83 million,
$25 million, and $15 million accrued for the payment of gross interest and penalties.   

          The
company is routinely audited by the tax authorities in significant jurisdictions, and a number of audits are currently underway. It is reasonably possible during the next twelve
months that uncertain tax positions may be settled, which could result in a decrease in the gross amount of unrecognized tax benefits. Due to the potential for resolution of federal, state, and
foreign examinations, and the expiration of various statutes of limitation, the company's gross unrecognized tax benefits balance may change within the next twelve months up to $15 million. All
significant federal, state, local, and international matters have been concluded for years through 2005. The company believes adequate provision has been made for all income tax uncertainties.   

Note 14 Legal Proceedings and Contingencies 

AbbVie
is subject to contingencies, such as various claims, legal proceedings and investigations regarding product liability, intellectual property,
commercial, securities and other matters that arise in the normal course of business. Loss contingency provisions are recorded for probable losses at management's best estimate of a loss, or when a
best estimate cannot be made, a minimum loss contingency amount within a probable range is recorded. The recorded accrual balance for litigation at December 31, 2015 was $166 million and
at December 31, 2014 was not significant. Initiation of new legal proceedings or a change in the status of existing proceedings may result in a change in the estimated loss accrued by AbbVie.
While it is not feasible to predict the outcome of all proceedings and exposures with certainty, management believes that their ultimate disposition should not have a material adverse effect on
AbbVie's consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.   

          Subject
to certain exceptions specified in the separation agreement by and between Abbott and AbbVie, AbbVie assumed the liability for, and control of, all pending and threatened legal
matters related to its business, including liabilities for any claims or legal proceedings related to products that had been part   

of
its business but were discontinued prior to the distribution, as well as assumed or retained liabilities, and will indemnify Abbott for any liability arising out of or resulting from such assumed
legal matters.   

          Several
pending lawsuits filed against Unimed Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Solvay Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (a company Abbott acquired in February 2010 and now known as AbbVie Products LLC)
and others are consolidated for pre-trial purposes in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Georgia under the Multi-District Litigation (MDL) Rules as     In re: AndroGel Antitrust
Litigation   , MDL No. 2084. These cases, brought by private plaintiffs and the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), generally
allege Solvay's 2006 patent litigation involving AndroGel was sham litigation and the patent litigation settlement agreement and related agreements with three generic companies violate federal and
state antitrust laws and state consumer protection and unjust enrichment laws. Plaintiffs generally seek monetary damages and/or injunctive relief and attorneys' fees. MDL No. 2084 includes:
(a) four individual plaintiff lawsuits; (b) six purported class actions; and (c)    Federal Trade Commission v. Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc. et
al.    Following the district court's dismissal of all plaintiffs' claims, appellate proceedings led to the reinstatement of the claims regarding the patent litigation settlement,
which are proceeding in discovery in the district court. The Attorney General of the State of Alaska has served AbbVie with a Civil Investigative Demand, primarily seeking documents that AbbVie
produced in these lawsuits.   

          In
November 2007, GlaxoSmithKline plc (GSK) filed a lawsuit against Abbott in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California alleging that Abbott
violated federal antitrust and various state laws in connection with the 2003 Norvir re-pricing. In March 2011, a jury found that Abbott did not violate antitrust laws, but breached its license
agreement with GSK. In January 2014, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit reversed this verdict and remanded the case for a new trial due to the alleged improper exclusion
of a potential juror. The case was returned to the district court in California, but after GSK dismissed its federal antitrust claims, the case was transferred in April 2015 to the United
States District Court for the Middle District of North Carolina, where pre-trial proceedings are pending. AbbVie assumed the liability for and control of this proceeding in connection with its
separation from Abbott.   

          Lawsuits
are pending against AbbVie and others generally alleging that the 2005 patent litigation settlement involving Niaspan entered into between Kos Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (a company
acquired by Abbott in 2006 and presently a subsidiary of AbbVie) and a generic company violates federal and state antitrust laws and state unfair and deceptive trade practices and unjust enrichment
laws. Plaintiffs generally seek monetary damages and/or injunctive relief and attorneys' fees. The lawsuits consist of three individual plaintiff lawsuits and two consolidated purported class actions:
one brought by three named direct purchasers of Niaspan and the other brought by ten named end-payor purchasers of Niaspan. The cases are consolidated for pre-trial proceedings in the United States
District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania under the MDL Rules as    In re: Niaspan Antitrust Litigation   , MDL No. 2460. The office of
the Attorney General of the State of Alaska has served AbbVie with a Civil Investigative Demand, primarily seeking documents that AbbVie produced in this lawsuit.   

In
September 2014, the FTC filed suit in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania against AbbVie and others, alleging that the 2011 patent
litigation with two generic companies regarding AndroGel was sham litigation and the patent litigation settlement with one of those generic companies violates federal antitrust laws. The FTC's
complaint seeks monetary damages and injunctive relief. In May 2015, the court dismissed the FTC's claim regarding the patent litigation settlement. The office of the Attorney General of the
State of Alaska has served AbbVie with a Civil Investigative Demand, primarily seeking documents that AbbVie produced in this lawsuit.   

In
March 2015, the State of Louisiana filed a lawsuit,    State of Louisiana v. Fournier Industrie et Sante, et al.   , against AbbVie,
Abbott and affiliated Abbott entities in Louisiana state court. Plaintiff alleges that patent
applications and patent litigation filed and other alleged conduct from the early 2000's and before related to the drug TriCor violated Louisiana state antitrust and unfair trade practices laws. The
lawsuit   

seeks
monetary damages and attorneys' fees. In August 2015, the court dismissed the case as time-barred. The state's appeal of that dismissal is pending.   

          In
August 2013, a putative class action lawsuit,    Sidney Hillman Health Center of Rochester, et al. v. AbbVie Inc., et al.   ,
was filed against AbbVie in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois by three healthcare benefit providers alleging violations of Federal Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt
Organizations (RICO) statutes and state deceptive business practice and unjust enrichment laws in connection with reimbursements for certain uses of Depakote from 1998 to 2012. Plaintiffs seek
monetary damages and/or equitable relief and attorneys' fees.   

          In
November 2014, a putative class action lawsuit,    Medical Mutual of Ohio v. AbbVie Inc., et al.   , was filed against several
manufacturers of testosterone replacement therapies (TRTs), including AbbVie, in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois on behalf of all insurance companies, health
benefit providers, and other third party payors who paid for TRTs, including AndroGel. The claims asserted include violations of the federal RICO Act and state consumer fraud and deceptive trade
practices laws. The complaint seeks monetary damages and injunctive relief. A similar lawsuit,    Allied Services Division Welfare Fund v. AbbVie Inc., et
al.   , was filed in the same court in October 2015 on behalf of the same putative class members and a putative class of consumers.   

          Product
liability cases are pending in which plaintiffs generally allege that AbbVie and other manufacturers of TRTs did not adequately warn about risks of certain injuries, primarily
heart attacks, strokes and blood clots. Approximately 2,500 claims are consolidated for pre-trial purposes in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois under the MDL Rules
as    In re: Testosterone Replacement Therapy Products Liability Litigation   , MDL No. 2545. Approximately 170 claims are pending in various
state courts. Plaintiffs seek compensatory and punitive damages.   

          Product
liability cases are pending in which plaintiffs generally allege that AbbVie did not adequately warn about risk of certain injuries, primarily various birth defects, arising from
use of Depakote. Over ninety percent of the approximately 715 claims are pending in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Illinois, and the rest are pending in various other
federal and state courts. Plaintiffs seek compensatory and punitive damages.   

          In
November 2014, five individuals filed a putative class action lawsuit on behalf of purchasers and sellers of certain Shire securities between June 20 and
October 14, 2014, against AbbVie and its chief executive officer in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois alleging that the defendants made
and/or are responsible for material misstatements in violation of federal securities laws in connection with AbbVie's proposed transaction with Shire. The complaint seeks monetary damages and
injunctive relief.   

          In
December 2014, a shareholder derivative lawsuit,    Plumbers   Steamfitters Local 60 Pension Plans v. J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, et
al.   , was filed in Delaware Chancery Court, alleging that AbbVie's directors breached their fiduciary duties in connection with the approval and termination of AbbVie's proposed
transaction with Shire. The lawsuit seeks monetary damages for AbbVie, among other relief.   

Note 15 Segment and Geographic Area Information 

AbbVie
operates in one business segment pharmaceutical products. Substantially all of AbbVie's net revenues in the United States are to three wholesalers. Outside the United
States, products are sold primarily to health care providers or through distributors, depending on the market served. The following tables detail AbbVie's worldwide net revenues:   

Net
revenues to external customers by geographic area, based on product shipment destination, were as follows:   

Long-lived
assets include net property and equipment of $2.6 billion and $2.5 billion as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, of which $1.9 billion and
$1.8 billion, respectively, was located in the United States and Puerto Rico and $513 million and $551 million, respectively, was located in Europe.   

Note 16 Quarterly Financial Data (unaudited) 

(a)    Results
for the first quarter of 2015 included after-tax foreign exchange losses of $170 million related to the liquidation in 2015 of remaining
foreign currency positions related to the terminated proposed combination with Shire in 2014, a $100 million after-tax charge as a result of entering into an exclusive worldwide license
agreement with C 2 N and after-tax costs of $41 million incurred in connection with the with the acquisition of Pharmacyclics.
      (b)    Second
quarter results for 2015 included after-tax costs totaling $215 million incurred in connection with the acquisition and integration of
Pharmacyclics. In 2014, second quarter results included an after-tax charge of $40 million related to a regulatory milestone made to a collaboration partner for regulatory milestones related to
the company's HCV program.
      (c)    Results
for the third quarter of 2015 included a $350 million after-tax charge related to the purchase of a rare pediatric disease PRV from United
Therapeutics Corporation, after after-tax costs totaling $85 million incurred in connection with the acquisition and integration of Pharmacyclics, and an $83 million after-tax charge due
to the achievement of a development milestone under the global collaboration with Infinity. In 2014, third quarter results included a $173 million after-tax charge as a result of entering into
a global collaboration with Infinity, a $250 million after-tax charge related to a research and development collaboration agreement with Calico, and transaction and financing-related    

and
other costs aggregating $172 million after-tax that were incurred in connection with the terminated proposed combination with Shire. Refer to Note 5 for further information relating
to the termination of the proposed combination with Shire and the collaborations with Calico and Infinity.    

(d)    Net
revenues and gross margin in 2015 included milestone revenue of $40 million from a collaboration partner related the company's oncology program.
Net revenues and gross margin in 2014 include royalty income of $81 million relating to prior periods as a result of the settlement of a licensing arrangement.
      (e)    Fourth
quarter results for 2015 included after-tax costs totaling $68 million incurred in connection with the acquisition and integration of
Pharmacyclics and after-tax charges of $101 million to increase the company's litigation reserves. For 2014, results for the fourth quarter included after-tax transaction and financing-related
and other costs incurred in connection with the terminated proposed combination with Shire aggregating $1.6 billion and a $500 million after-tax charge related to the research and
development collaboration agreement with Calico.
      (f)    Basic
loss per share for the fourth quarter of 2014 was calculated under the treasury-stock method as it was more dilutive. Approximately 36 million
common shares were excluded from the computation of diluted (loss) per share assuming dilution because the effect would have been anti-dilutive.     

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM     

  The
Board of Directors and Shareholders of AbbVie Inc.   

          We
have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of AbbVie Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, and the related consolidated statements of
earnings, comprehensive income, equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2015. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.   

          We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.   

          In
our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of AbbVie Inc. and subsidiaries at
December 31, 2015 and 2014, and the consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2015, in conformity with
U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.   

          We
also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), AbbVie Inc. and subsidiaries' internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2015, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission (2013 framework) and our report dated February 19, 2016 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.   

  /s/
Ernst   Young LLP   

  Chicago,
Illinois 
February 19, 2016   

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 

None.

ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 

Disclosure Controls and Procedures      

Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures.        The Chief Executive Officer, Richard A.
Gonzalez,
and the Chief Financial Officer, William J. Chase, evaluated the effectiveness of AbbVie's disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report, and concluded
that AbbVie's disclosure controls and procedures were effective to ensure that information AbbVie is required to disclose in the reports that it files or submits with the Securities and Exchange
Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the Commission's rules and forms, and to ensure that
information required to be disclosed by AbbVie in the reports that it files or submits under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is accumulated and communicated to AbbVie's management, including its
principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.   

Internal Control Over Financial Reporting      

Management's annual report on internal control over financial reporting.        Management's report on
internal
control over financial reporting is included on page 105 hereof. The report of AbbVie's independent registered public accounting firm related to its assessment of the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting is included on page 106 hereof.   

Changes in internal control over financial reporting.        As part of its separation from Abbott, in 2014
AbbVie began a phased global implementation of a new enterprise resource planning system, related technology infrastructure and transaction processing services to replace the information technology
infrastructure and transactional services provided to AbbVie by Abbott under various transition services agreements. These initiatives, which were completed in 2015, included modifications to the
design and operation of controls over financial reporting. AbbVie reviewed these controls for design effectiveness prior to the implementation of each phase.   

          There
were no other changes in AbbVie's internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) that have materially
affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, AbbVie's internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended December 31, 2015.   

Inherent Limitations on Effectiveness of Controls.        AbbVie's management, including its Chief
 Executive
Officer and its Chief Financial Officer, do not expect that AbbVie's disclosure controls or internal control over financial reporting will prevent or detect all errors and all fraud. A control system,
no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. The design of a control system must reflect the fact
that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Further, because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of
controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, have been detected. These inherent
limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Controls can also be circumvented by the individual
acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls.   

          The
design of any system of controls is based in part on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in
achieving its stated goals under all
potential future conditions. Projections of any evaluation of controls effectiveness to future periods are subject to risks. Over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions
or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures.   

ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 

None.

Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting            

          Management of AbbVie is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial
reporting, as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. AbbVie's internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
However, all internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with
respect to financial statement preparation and reporting.   

          Management
assessed the effectiveness of AbbVie's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015. In making this assessment, management used the criteria set
forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in    Internal Control-Integrated Framework    (2013 framework). Based on
that assessment, management concluded that AbbVie maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015, based on the COSO criteria.   

          On
May 26, 2015, AbbVie acquired Pharmacyclics, Inc. (Pharmacyclics), which represents a material change in the internal control over financial reporting since management's
last assessment of effectiveness. Management has excluded Pharmacyclics from its assessment of and conclusion on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2015. AbbVie's consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2015 included $1 billion of total assets (excluding goodwill and other intangible assets which were
included in management's assessment of internal controls over financial reporting) related to Pharmacyclics. In addition, AbbVie's consolidated statement of net earnings for 2015 included
$774 million of net revenues and reflected a net loss of $331 million related to Pharmacyclics.   

          The
effectiveness of AbbVie's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015 has been audited by Ernst   Young LLP, an independent registered
public accounting firm, as stated in their attestation report appearing on page 106 hereof, which expresses an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of AbbVie's internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2015.   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM            

  The
Board of Directors and Shareholders of AbbVie Inc.   

          We
have audited AbbVie Inc. and subsidiaries' internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015, based on criteria established in Internal
Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) (the COSO criteria). AbbVie Inc. and subsidiaries'
management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over
financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial
Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.   

          We
conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control
over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and
performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.   

          A
company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures
that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.   

          Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.   

          As
indicated in the accompanying Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting, management's assessment of and conclusion on the effectiveness of internal control over
financial reporting did not include internal controls of Pharmacyclics, Inc., which was acquired on May 26, 2015 and is included in the 2015 consolidated financial statements of
AbbVie Inc. and subsidiaries and constituted $1 billion of total assets (excluding goodwill and other intangible assets which were included in management's assessment of and conclusions
on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting) as of December 31, 2015 and $774 million and $331 million of revenues and net loss, respectively, for the year
then ended. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting of AbbVie Inc. and subsidiaries also did not include an evaluation of the internal control over financial reporting of
Pharmacyclics, Inc.   

          In
our opinion, AbbVie Inc. and subsidiaries' maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015, based on
the COSO criteria.   

          We
also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2015
and 2014, and the related
consolidated statements of earnings, comprehensive income, equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2015 of AbbVie Inc. and subsidiaries and our
report dated February 19, 2016 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.   

  /s/
Ernst   Young LLP   

  Chicago,
Illinois 
February 19, 2016   

PART III            

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 

Incorporated
herein by reference are "Information Concerning Director Nominees," "The Board of Directors and its Committees Committees of the Board
of Directors," "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance," and "Procedure for Recommendation and Nomination of Directors and Transaction of Business at Annual Meeting" to be
included in the 2016 AbbVie Inc. Proxy Statement. The 2016 Definitive Proxy Statement will be filed on or about March 21, 2016. Also incorporated herein by reference is the text found
under the caption, "Executive Officers of the Registrant" on pages 26 and 27 hereof.   

AbbVie's
code of business conduct requires all its business activities to be conducted in compliance with all applicable laws, regulations, and ethical principles and values. All
directors, officers, and employees of AbbVie are required to read, understand, and abide by the requirements of the code of business conduct applicable to them. AbbVie's code of business conduct is
available in the corporate governance section of AbbVie's investor relations website at www.abbvieinvestor.com.   

          Any
waiver of the code of business conduct for directors or executive officers may be made only by AbbVie's audit committee. AbbVie will disclose any amendment to, or waiver from, a
provision of the code of conduct for the principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or controller, or persons performing similar functions, on its website
within four business days following the date of the amendment or waiver. In addition, AbbVie will disclose any waiver from the code of business conduct for the other executive officers and for
directors on the website.   

          AbbVie
has a chief ethics and compliance officer who reports to the chief executive officer and to the public policy committee. The chief ethics and compliance officer is responsible for
overseeing, administering, and monitoring AbbVie's compliance program.   

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 

The
material to be included in the 2016 Proxy Statement under the headings "Director Compensation," "Executive Compensation," and "Compensation Committee
Report" is incorporated herein by reference. The 2016 Definitive Proxy Statement will be filed on or about March 21, 2016.   

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 

(a)       Equity Compensation Plan Information.     

The following table presents information as of December 31, 2015 about AbbVie's equity compensation plans under which AbbVie common stock has been
authorized for issuance:   

Plan Category    
     
   (a) 
Number of 
securities to be 
issued upon 
exercise of 
outstanding 
options, 
warrants and 
rights(1)    
     
   (b) 
Weighted- 
average exercise 
price of 
outstanding 
options, 
warrants and 
rights(2)    
     
   (c) 
Number of 
securities 
remaining 
available for 
future issuance 
under equity 
compensation 
plans (excluding 
securities 
reflected in 
column (a))     

Equity compensation plans approved by security holders  

34,485,674  

$  
  30.64  

86,286,146  

Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders  

Total  

34,485,674  

$  
  30.64  

86,286,146   

(1)    Includes
20,061,746 shares issuable under AbbVie's Incentive Stock Program pursuant to awards granted by Abbott and adjusted into AbbVie awards in
connection with AbbVie's separation from Abbott.
      (2)    The
weighted-average exercise price does not include outstanding restricted stock units and restricted stock awards that have no exercise price.    

(b)     Information Concerning Security Ownership.       Incorporated herein by reference is the material
under the heading "Securities Ownership Securities Ownership of Executive Officers and Directors" in the 2016 Proxy Statement. The 2016 Definitive Proxy Statement will be filed on or about
March 21, 2016.    

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 

The
material to be included in the 2016 Proxy Statement under the headings "The Board of Directors and its Committees," "Corporate Governance Materials," and
"Procedures for Approval of Related Person Transactions" is incorporated herein by reference. The 2016 Definitive Proxy Statement will be filed on or about March 21, 2016.   

ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES 

The
material to be included in the 2016 Proxy Statement under the headings "Audit Fees and Non-Audit Fees" and "Policy on Audit Committee Pre-Approval of Audit
and Permissible Non-Audit Services of the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm" is incorporated herein by reference. The 2016 Definitive Proxy Statement will be filed on or about
March 21, 2016.   

PART IV            

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 

(a)     Documents filed as part of this Form 10-K.   

(1)     Financial Statements:       See Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," on
page 47 hereof, for a list of financial statements.
      (2)     Financial Statement Schedules:       All schedules omitted are inapplicable or the information
required is shown in the consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.
      (3)     Exhibits Required by Item 601 of Regulation S-K:       The information called for by
this paragraph is incorporated herein by reference to the Exhibit Index on pages 111 through 113 of this Form 10-K.
     
   (b)     Exhibits filed:       See Exhibit Index on pages 111 through 113.
      (c)     Financial Statement Schedules:       None applicable.    

SIGNATURES            

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, AbbVie Inc.
has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.   

AbbVie Inc.  

By:  
      
   /s/ RICHARD A. GONZALEZ 

Name:  
     
  Richard A. Gonzalez  

Title:  
     
  Chairman of the Board and 
Chief Executive Officer  

Date: February 19, 2016  

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of AbbVie Inc. on February 19,
2016 in the capacities indicated below.   

/s/ RICHARD A. GONZALEZ 

Richard A. Gonzalez 
Chairman of the Board and 
Chief Executive Officer 
(Principal Executive Officer)  
     
  /s/ WILLIAM J. CHASE 

William J. Chase 
Executive Vice President, 
Chief Financial Officer 
(Principal Financial Officer)  

/s/ THOMAS A. HURWICH 

Thomas A. Hurwich 
Vice President, Controller 
(Principal Accounting Officer)  

/s/ ROBERT J. ALPERN, M.D. 

Robert J. Alpern, M.D. 
Director of AbbVie Inc.  
      
   /s/ ROXANNE S. AUSTIN 

Roxanne S. Austin 
Director of AbbVie Inc.  

/s/ WILLIAM H.L. BURNSIDE 

William H.L. Burnside 
Director of AbbVie Inc.  
      
   /s/ EDWARD M. LIDDY 

Edward M. Liddy 
Director of AbbVie Inc.  

/s/ EDWARD J. RAPP 

Edward J. Rapp 
Director of AbbVie Inc.  
      
   /s/ ROY S. ROBERTS 

Roy S. Roberts 
Director of AbbVie Inc.  

/s/ GLENN F. TILTON 

Glenn F. Tilton 
Director of AbbVie Inc.  
      
   /s/ FREDERICK H. WADDELL 

Frederick H. Waddell 
Director of AbbVie Inc.  

EXHIBIT INDEX   ABBVIE INC.   ANNUAL REPORT   FORM 10-K   2015            

Exhibits 32.1 and 32.2 are furnished herewith and should not be deemed to be "filed" under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934.   

Exhibit 
Number    
     
   Exhibit Description    

2.1  
     
  *Agreement and Plan of Reorganization by and among AbbVie Inc., Oxford Amherst Corporation, Oxford Amherst LLC and Pharmacyclics, Inc. dated as of March 4, 2015 (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 2.1 of the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on March 6, 2015).  

2.2  
      
   *Amendment No. 1 to Agreement and Plan of Reorganization by and among AbbVie Inc., Oxford Amherst Corporation, Oxford Amherst LLC and Pharmacyclics, Inc. dated as of March 22, 2015
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 of the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on March 23, 2015).  

3.1  
      
   *Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of AbbVie Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 2, 2013).  

3.2  
      
   *Amended and Restated By-Laws of AbbVie Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 of the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 2, 2013).  

4.1  
      
   *Indenture dated as of November 8, 2012 between AbbVie Inc. and U.S. Bank National Association (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of Amendment No. 5 to the Company's Registration Statement
on Form 10 filed on November 16, 2012).  

4.2  
      
   *Supplemental Indenture No. 1 dated as of November 8, 2012 among AbbVie Inc. and U.S. Bank National Association, including forms of notes (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of Amendment
No. 5 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form 10 filed on November 16, 2012).  

4.3  
      
   *Supplemental Indenture No. 2 dated May 14, 2015, between AbbVie Inc. and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee, including forms of notes (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the
Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 14, 2015).  

4.4  
      
   *Support Agreement by and among AbbVie Inc., Oxford Amherst Corporation and Robert W. Duggan dated as of March 4, 2015 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the Company's Current Report on
Form 8-K filed on March 6, 2015).  

10.1  
      
   *Form of Agreement Regarding Change in Control by and between AbbVie Inc. and its named executive officers (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.13 of Amendment No. 5 to the Company's Registration
Statement on Form 10 filed on November 16, 2012).**  

10.2  
      
   *AbbVie 2013 Incentive Stock Program (incorporated by reference to Exhibit A to the AbbVie Inc. Definitive Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A dated March 15, 2013).**  

10.3  
      
   *AbbVie 2013 Management Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.14 of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on March 15, 2013).**  

10.4  
      
   AbbVie Performance Incentive Plan, as amended and restated.**  

10.5  
      
   AbbVie Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended and restated.**  

10.6  
      
   AbbVie Non-Employee Directors' Fee Plan, as amended and restated.**  

Exhibit 
Number    
     
   Exhibit Description    

10.7  
     
  *AbbVie Supplemental Pension Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.18 of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on March 15, 2013).**  

10.8  
      
   AbbVie Supplemental Savings Plan, as amended and restated. **  

10.9  
      
   *Form of AbbVie Inc. Non-Employee Director Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended
March 31, 2013).**  

10.10  
      
   *Form of AbbVie Inc. Performance Restricted Stock Agreement (CEO/Chairman) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended
March 31, 2013).**  

10.11  
      
   *Form of AbbVie Inc. Performance Restricted Stock Agreement (Annual) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 of the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended
March 31, 2013).**  

10.12  
      
   *Form of AbbVie Inc. Performance Restricted Stock Agreement (Interim) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 of the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended
March 31, 2013).**  

10.13  
      
   *Form of AbbVie Inc. Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 of the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31,
2013).**  

10.14  
      
   *Pharmacyclics, Inc. 2014 Equity Incentive Award Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-8 filed on May 27, 2015).**  

10.15  
      
   *Revolving Credit Agreement, dated as of August 18, 2014, among AbbVie Inc., AbbVie Private Limited, AbbVie Holdings Private Limited, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and the lenders and other parties party thereto
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on August 21, 2014).  

10.16  
      
   *Amendment No. 1 to Revolving Credit Agreement, dated as of March 16, 2015, by and among AbbVie Inc., JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, and the lenders party thereto (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on March 20, 2015).  

10.17  
      
   *Three-Year Term Loan Agreement, dated as of September 25, 2015, among AbbVie, Bank of America, N.A. and the lenders and other parties party thereto (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the
Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 29, 2015).  

10.18  
      
   *364-Day Term Loan Credit Agreement, dated as of September 25, 2015, among AbbVie, Bank of America, N.A. and the lenders and other parties party thereto (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the
Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 29, 2015).  

10.19  
      
   *364-Day Bridge Term Loan Credit Agreement, dated as of March 27, 2015, among the Company, as borrower, the various financial institutions party thereto, as lenders, and Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc.,
as administrative agent (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on March 30, 2015).  

10.20  
      
   *Underwriting Agreement, dated as of May 5, 2015, by and among AbbVie Inc., and Morgan Stanley   Co. LLC, Barclays Capital Inc., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and Merrill Lynch,
Pierce, Fenner   Smith Incorporated, as representatives of the several other underwriters named therein (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1.1 of the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 7, 2015).  

Exhibit 
Number    
     
   Exhibit Description    

12  
     
  Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges  

21  
      
   Subsidiaries of AbbVie Inc.  

23  
      
   Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.  

31.1  
      
   Certification of Chief Executive Officer Required by Rule 13a-14(a) (17 CFR 240.13a-14(a)).  

31.2  
      
   Certification of Chief Financial Officer Required by Rule 13a-14(a) (17 CFR 240.13a-14(a)).  

32.1  
      
   Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

32.2  
      
   Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

101  
      
   The following financial statements and notes from the AbbVie Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 filed on February 19, 2016, formatted in XBRL: (i)
 Consolidated Statements of Earnings; (ii) Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income; (iii) Consolidated Balance Sheets; (iv) Consolidated Statements of Equity; (v) Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows; and
(vi) the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  

The AbbVie Inc. 2016 Definitive Proxy Statement will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission under separate cover on or about March 21, 2016.  

*    Incorporated
herein by reference. Commission file number 001-35565.      **    Denotes
management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be filed as an exhibit hereto.     

AbbVie
will furnish copies of any of the above exhibits to a stockholder upon written request to the Secretary, AbbVie Inc., 1 North Waukegan Road, North Chicago, Illinois 60064.   

<EX-10.4>
 2
 a2227341zex-10_4.htm
 EX-10.4

Exhibit 10.4   
     
   ABBVIE PERFORMANCE INCENTIVE PLAN   
     
  (Amended and Restated Effective as of January 1, 2015)  

ABBVIE   
   PERFORMANCE INCENTIVE PLAN   
     
   SECTION 1   
   INTRODUCTION   
     
  1.1                                   ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PLAN.  AbbVie Inc. ( AbbVie ) established the AbbVie 2013 Performance Incentive Plan (the  Plan ) effective as of January 1, 2013 (the  Effective Date ).  The Plan is hereby amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2015.  
     
  1.2                                   PURPOSES OF THE PLAN.  The purposes of the Plan are to:  
     
  (a)                                     Provide flexibility to AbbVie in its ability to attract, motivate, and retain the services of participants in the Plan ( Participants ) who make significant contributions to AbbVie s success and to allow Participants to share in the success of AbbVie;  
     
  (b)                                     Optimize the profitability and growth of AbbVie through incentives which are consistent with AbbVie s goals and which link the performance objectives of Participants to those of AbbVie s stockholders; and  
     
  (c)                                      Provide Participants with an incentive for excellence in individual performance.  
     
   SECTION 2   
   ADMINISTRATION   
     
  2.1                                   GENERAL.  The Plan shall be administered by the Compensation Committee (the  Committee ) appointed by the Board of Directors of AbbVie (the  Board ).  
     
  2.2                                   AUTHORITY OF THE COMMITTEE.  The Committee will have full authority to administer the Plan, including the authority to interpret and construe any provision of the Plan, and all rules, regulations and interpretations shall be conclusive and binding on all persons.  The Committee has sole responsibility for selecting Participants, establishing performance objectives, setting award targets, and determining award amounts.  
     
  2.3                                   DELEGATION BY THE COMMITTEE.  The Committee from time to time may delegate the performance of certain ministerial functions in connection with the Plan, such as the keeping of records, to such person or persons as the Committee may select.  The cost of administration of the Plan will be paid by AbbVie.  
     
  2.4                                   PERFORMANCE INCENTIVE PLAN RULES.  The Plan shall be administered in accordance with the Performance Incentive Plan ( PIP ) Rules, which are attached hereto as Supplement A.  
     
  1      

SECTION 3   
   ELIGIBILITY AND PARTICIPATION   
     
  3.1                                   ELIGIBILITY AND PARTICIPATION.  Eligibility for participation in the Plan shall be limited to senior officers of AbbVie and its subsidiaries. Participants in the Plan will be determined annually by the Committee from those senior officers eligible to participate in the Plan.  
     
   SECTION 4   
   PERFORMANCE OBJECTIVES   
     
  4.1                                   PERFORMANCE OBJECTIVES.  The Plan s performance objectives (the  Performance Objectives ) shall be determined with reference to AbbVie s consolidated net earnings prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  
     
  4.2                                   INDIVIDUAL BASE AWARD ALLOCATION   DEFINED.  The base award allocation for the Chief Executive Officer, if a Participant for such fiscal year, shall be .0015 of the consolidated net earnings of AbbVie for that fiscal year.  The base award allocation for the Chief Operating Officer, if a Participant for such fiscal year, shall be .0010 of the consolidated net earnings of AbbVie for that fiscal year.  The base award allocation for any other Participant shall be .00075 of the consolidated net earnings of AbbVie for that fiscal year.  Each such base award will be increased by interest, at prevailing market rates, accrued on awards deferred or paid to grantor trusts.  
     
   SECTION 5   
   FINAL AWARDS   
     
  5.1                                   FINAL AWARD ALLOCATION.  As soon as practical after the close of each fiscal year, a Participant s final award allocation will be determined solely on the basis of the Performance Objectives.  In determining a Participant s final award allocation, the Committee will have the discretion to reduce but not increase a Participant s base award allocation (as increased by the last sentence of Section 4.2), provided that a Participant s individual performance will be considered by the Committee in exercising that discretion.  
     
  5.2                                   PAYMENT OF AWARDS.  A Participant s final award allocation will be paid or deferred in accordance with rules adopted by the Committee which are intended to comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.  
     
   SECTION 6   
   DURATION, AMENDMENT, AND TERMINATION   
     
  6.1                                   DURATION OF THE PLAN.  The Plan shall commence on the Effective Date, as described in Section 1.1 hereof, and shall remain in effect until terminated by the Board.  
     
  6.2                                   AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION.  The Board, in its sole discretion, may modify or amend any or all of the provisions of the Plan at any time and, without notice, may suspend or terminate it entirely.  However, no such modification may, without the consent of the  
     
  2      

Participant, reduce the right of a Participant to a payment or distribution to which the Participant is entitled by reason of an outstanding award allocation.  
     
   SECTION 7   
   SUCCESSORS   
     
  7.1                                   OBLIGATIONS.  All obligations of AbbVie under the Plan with respect to awards granted hereunder shall be binding on any successor to AbbVie, whether the existence of such successor is the result of a direct or indirect purchase, merger, consolidation, or otherwise, of all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of AbbVie.  
     
  3      

SUPPLEMENT A   
     
      PERFORMANCE INCENTIVE PLAN (PIP) RULES   
     
  The following rules (the  Rules ) shall govern the administration of the AbbVie Performance Incentive Plan ( PIP ) and any comparable successor plan.  Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined in these Rules shall have the meaning provided in the PIP.  These Rules are amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2015 and shall remain in effect until amended by the Committee:  
     
  1.                                           Fiscal Year   .  The term  fiscal year,  as used in the PIP, means the fiscal period from time to time employed by AbbVie for the purpose of reporting earnings to stockholders.  
     
  2.                                           Consolidated Net Earnings   .   Consolidated Net Earnings  shall be the consolidated net earnings for such fiscal year as stated in AbbVie s Audited Financial Statements, shall reflect the incremental cost of FAS 123(R) in the current year and may, at the Compensation Committee s   discretion, be adjusted to exclude acquired in-process research and development costs, and other specified items, net of income taxes.  
     
  3.                                           Naming of Participants   .  For any fiscal year, all participants in the PIP must be named by the Committee prior to the completion of the immediately preceding fiscal year.  A PIP participant may not be an active participant in the AbbVie 2013 Management Incentive Plan (the  MIP ) in the same fiscal year.  
     
  4.                                           Inclusion in Pensionable Earnings   .  The full amount of any PIP award earned under Rule 5 will be included in the participant s pensionable earnings.  
     
  5.                                           Time of Payment   .  A participant must direct payment or deferral of an allocation made to the participant under the PIP by one or more of the following methods; provided, however, that the grantor trust method described in paragraph (b) below may be elected only by a participant who became a PIP participant before January 1, 2015:  
     
  (a)                                     In cash to the participant, which payment shall be made no later than the last day of the  applicable 2  month period,  as such term is defined in Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(A);  
     
  (b)                                     A portion in cash and deposited to a grantor trust (the  Grantor Trust ) established by the participant (in a form which the Committee determines is substantially similar to the trust in Exhibit A) and the balance withheld on behalf of the participant to satisfy the participant s aggregate federal, state and local individual income and employment taxes; provided that all payments or contributions to the Grantor Trust and participant contemplated by this Rule 5(b) shall be made no later than the last day of the  applicable 2  month period,  as such term is defined in Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(A); or  
     
  (c)                                      Deferral of payment until the time and in the manner determined under Rule 17.  
     
  1      

Amounts paid under the PIP will not be considered amounts paid under the MIP for purposes of subsections 3.3 and 3.4 and Section 4 of the MIP.  The base salaries of PIP participants will not be considered for determination of the MIP amount in subsection 3.3 of the MIP.  
     
  6.                                           Time of Election   .  
     
  (a)                                     A participant must make the election described in Rule 5 by filing it with the Committee before expiration of the election period established by the Committee, which period shall end    no later than December 31 of the fiscal year prior to the year during which the performance incentive compensation is earned under the PIP.  
     
  (b)                                     Notwithstanding the timing requirements of Rule 6(a), an individual who newly becomes eligible to participate in the PIP by being designated as a participant under subsection 3.1 of the PIP (and who was not eligible to participate in any other plan that would be aggregated with the Plan under Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(c)) may make the an initial deferral election described in Rule 5 by filing it with the Committee or its delegate within the thirty (30) day period immediately following the date he or she first is designated as participant, provided that the compensation deferred pursuant to such election relates solely to services performed after the date of such election.  For this purpose, an election shall be deemed to apply to compensation paid for services performed after the election if the election applies to no more than the amount prescribed by Treasury Regulation  1.409A-2(a)(7)(i).  
     
  (c)                                      Any election described in Rule 5 shall be irrevocable for the fiscal year to which the election applies.  
     
  7.                                           Accounts   .  The Committee shall establish accounts for participants who have made elections pursuant to Rule 5(b) or 5(c) as follows.  
     
  (a)                                     The Committee will maintain a  Deferred Account  in the name of each participant who has elected to defer payment of all or a portion of his or her PIP award under Rule 5(c).  The Deferred Account shall consist of allocations deferred according to Rule 5(c) and any adjustments made in accordance with Rule 8.  For each Transferred Employee (as such term is defined in the Employee Matters Agreement by and between Abbott Laboratories and AbbVie, dated as of December 31, 2012) who participated in the 1998 Abbott Laboratories Performance Incentive Plan and the rules thereunder (the  Abbott PIP ) prior to the Effective Date, the Deferred Account shall be credited with a starting balance equal to the amount, if any, in such Transferred Employee s Deferred Account (as such term is used in the Abbott PIP) immediately prior to the Effective Date.  
     
  (b)                                     The Committee will maintain two separate Accounts, a  Pre-Tax Account  and an  After-Tax Account,  in the name of each participant who has declined to defer allocations by electing to have a portion of his or her PIP award deposited in cash to a Grantor Trust according to Rule 5(b).  The Pre-Tax Account shall consist of  
     
  2      

the aggregate of all allocations contemplated by Rule 5(b), whether deposited to the participant s Grantor Trust or withheld on behalf of the participant to satisfy the participant s aggregate federal, state and local individual income and employment taxes, and any adjustments made in accordance with Rule 9.  The After-Tax Account shall consist of after-tax allocations deposited to the participant s Grantor Trust in cash according to Rule 5(b) and any adjustments made in accordance with Rule 10.  
     
  8.                                           Adjustment of Deferred Accounts   .  At the end of each fiscal year, a participant s Deferred Account will be adjusted as follows:  
     
  (a)                                     First, reduced by an amount equal to any distribution made to the participant during the year according to Rule 17 or Rule 18;  
     
  (b)                                     Next, increased by an amount equal to any allocation for that year that is deferred according to Rule 5(c); and  
     
  (c)                                      Last, increased by an amount equal to the interest earned for that year according to Rule 11.  
     
  9.                                           Adjustment of Pre-Tax Accounts   .  At the end of each fiscal year, a participant s Pre-Tax Account will be adjusted as follows:  
     
  (a)                                     First, reduced, in any year in which the participant is entitled to receive a distribution from his or her Grantor Trust, by an amount equal to the distribution that would have been made to the participant if the aggregate amounts allocated according to Rule 5(b) had instead been deferred under Rule 5(c);  
     
  (b)                                     Next, increased by an amount equal to any allocation for that year that is paid to the participant and withheld on behalf of the participant to satisfy the participant s aggregate federal, state and local individual income and employment taxes (including the amount paid to the participant s Grantor Trust) according to Rule 5(b); and  
     
  (c)                                      Last, increased by an amount equal to the interest earned for that year according to Rule 11.  
     
  10.                                    Adjustment of After-Tax Accounts   .  At the end of each fiscal year, a participant s After-Tax Account will be adjusted as follows:  
     
  (a)                                     First, reduced, in any year in which the participant is in receipt of a distribution from his or her Grantor Trust, by an amount calculated as provided in Rule 28 which represents the distribution for such year;  
     
  (b)                                     Next, increased by an amount equal to the allocation for that year that is deposited in the participant s Grantor Trust according to Rule 5(b); and  
     
  (c)                                      Last, increased by an amount equal to the interest earned for that year according to Rule 11.  
     
  3      

11.                                    Interest Accruals on Accounts   .  
     
  This Rule 11 shall apply only to a participant who joined the PIP before January 1, 2015.  
     
  (a)                                     As of the end of each fiscal year, a participant s Deferred Account or Pre-Tax Account, as applicable, shall be credited with interest ( Interest ) at the following rate:  
     
  (i)                           the average of the  prime rate  of interest set forth on the Bloomberg Screen BTMM or comparable successor quotation service on the first business day of January and the last business day of each month of the fiscal year; plus  
     
  (ii)                        two hundred twenty-five (225) basis points.  
     
  (b)                                     As of the end of each fiscal year, a participant s After-Tax Account shall be credited with the amount of Interest set forth above, multiplied by (one minus the aggregate of the applicable federal, state and local individual income tax rates and employment tax rate, determined in accordance with Rules 25 and 26) (the  After-Tax Interest ).  
     
  (c)                                      The Interest and After-Tax Interest, as applicable, shall be credited on the conditions established by the Committee, provided that any award allocation shall be considered to have been made and credited to a participant s Account as of the first day of the fiscal year in which the award is made.  
     
  12.                                    Interest Payments   .  In addition to any allocation made to a participant for any fiscal year in accordance with Rule 5(b), AbbVie shall also make a payment (an  Interest Payment ) with respect to each participant who has established a Grantor Trust for each year in which the Grantor Trust is in effect.  The Interest Payment shall equal the excess, if any, of the participant s adjustment in Rule 9(c), over the net earnings of the participant s Grantor Trust for the year, as adjusted by the amounts described in Schedule A, if any, and shall be paid within the thirty (30)-day period beginning April 1 of the following fiscal year.  A portion of such Interest Payment, equal to the excess, if any, of the Net Interest Accrual over the net earnings of the participant s Grantor Trust, shall be deposited in the participant s Grantor Trust, with the balance paid to, or withheld on behalf of, the Participant; provided, however, in the event that the net earnings of the participant s Grantor Trust exceed the Net Interest Accrual, a distribution from the Grantor Trust shall be required in accordance with Rule 31.  A participant s Net Interest Accrual for a year is an amount equal to the After-Tax Interest credited to the participant s After-Tax Account for that year in accordance with Rule 11(b).  
     
  13.                                    Grantor Trust Assets   .  Each participant s Grantor Trust assets shall be invested solely in the instruments specified by investment guidelines established by the Committee.  Such investment guidelines, once established, may be changed by the Committee, provided that any change shall not take effect until the year following the year in which the change is made and provided further that the instruments specified shall be consistent with the provisions of Section 3(b) of the form of Grantor Trust attached hereto as Exhibit A.  
     
  4      

14.                                    Designation of Beneficiaries   .  Subject to the conditions and limitations set forth below, each participant and, after a participant s death, each primary beneficiary designated by a participant in accordance with the provisions of this Rule 14, shall have the right from time to time to designate a primary beneficiary or beneficiaries and a successive or contingent beneficiary or beneficiaries to receive unpaid amounts from the participant s Deferred Account under the PIP.  Beneficiaries may be a natural person or persons or a fiduciary, such as a trustee of a trust or the legal representative of an estate.  Any such designation shall take effect upon the death of the participant or such beneficiary, as the case may be, or, in the case of any fiduciary beneficiary, upon the termination of all of its duties (other than the duty to dispose of the right to receive amounts remaining to be paid under the PIP).  The conditions and limitations relating to the designation of beneficiaries are as follows:  
     
  (a)                                     A nonfiduciary beneficiary shall have the right to designate a further beneficiary or beneficiaries only if the original participant or the next preceding primary beneficiary, as the case may be, shall have expressly so provided in writing; and  
     
  (b)                                     A fiduciary beneficiary shall designate as a further beneficiary or beneficiaries only those persons or other fiduciaries that are entitled to receive the amounts payable from the participant s account under the trust or estate of which it is a fiduciary.  
     
  Any beneficiary designation or grant of any power to any beneficiary under this Rule 14 may be exercised only by an instrument in writing, executed by the person making the designation or granting such power and filed with the Secretary of AbbVie during the person s lifetime or prior to the termination of a fiduciary s duties.  If a deceased participant or a deceased nonfiduciary beneficiary who had the right to designate a beneficiary as provided above dies without having designated a further beneficiary, or if no beneficiary designated as provided above is living or qualified and acting, the Committee, in its discretion, may direct distribution of the amount remaining from time to time to either: (i)  any one or more or all of the next of kin (including the surviving spouse) of the participant or the deceased beneficiary, as the case may be, and in such proportions as the Committee determines; or (ii)  the legal representative of the estate of the deceased participant or deceased beneficiary as the case may be.  
     
  15.                                    Non-assignability and Facility of Payment   .  Amounts payable to participants and their beneficiaries under the PIP are not in any way subject to their debts and other obligations, and may not be voluntarily or involuntarily sold, transferred or assigned; provided that the provisions of these Rules shall not be construed as restricting in any way a designation right granted to a beneficiary under Rule 14.  When a participant or the beneficiary of a participant is under legal disability, or in the Committee s opinion is in any way incapacitated so as to be unable to manage his or her financial affairs, the Committee may direct that payments shall be made to the participant s or beneficiary s legal representative, or to a relative or friend of the participant or beneficiary for the benefit of the participant or beneficiary, or the Committee may direct the payment or distribution for the benefit of the participant or beneficiary in any manner that the Committee determines.  
     
  5      

16.                                    Payer of Amounts Allocated to Participants   .  Any amount allocated to a participant in the PIP and any interest credited thereto will be paid by the employer (or such employer s successor) by whom the participant was employed during the fiscal year for which any amount was allocated, and for that purpose, if a participant shall have been employed by two or more employers during any fiscal year the amount allocated under the PIP for that year shall be an obligation of each of the respective employers in proportion to the respective amounts of base salary paid by each of them in that fiscal year.  
     
  17.                                    Manner of Payment of Deferred Accounts   .  Subject to Rule 18, a participant shall elect to receive payment of his Deferred Account in substantially equal annual installments over a minimum period of ten years, or a longer period, at the time of his deferral election under Rule 5.  Payment of a participant s Deferred Account shall commence on the first business day of January of the year following the year in which the participant incurs a termination of employment.  
     
  18.                                    Payment Upon Termination Following Change in Control   .  Notwithstanding any other provision of the PIP or the provisions of any award made under the PIP, if a participant incurs a termination of employment with AbbVie and its subsidiaries for any reason within two (2) years following the date of a Change in Control, provided that the event constituting a Change in Control is also a  change in control event , as such term is defined in Treasury Regulation  1.409A-3(i)(5): (a) with respect to a participant whose allocations under the PIP are deferred in accordance with Rule 5(c), the aggregate unpaid balance of the participant s Deferred Account shall be paid to such participant in a lump sum within thirty (30) days following the date of such termination of employment, and (b) with respect to a participant whose allocations under the PIP are made pursuant to Rule 5(b), (i) the aggregate of the participant s unpaid allocation under Rule 5(b) (if any) for the fiscal year in which the termination occurs and (ii) a pro rata portion of the unpaid Guaranteed Rate Payment under Rule 12 attributable to the portion of the year elapsed prior to the date of termination, shall be paid to such participant s Grantor Trust in a lump sum within thirty (30) days following the date of such termination of employment.  
     
  19.                                    Change in Control   .  A  Change in Control  shall be deemed to have occurred on the earliest of the following dates:  
     
  (a)                                     the date any Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of AbbVie (not including in the securities beneficially owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from AbbVie or its Affiliates) representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of AbbVie s then outstanding securities, excluding any Person who becomes such a Beneficial Owner in connection with a transaction described in clause (i) of paragraph (c) below; or  
     
  (b)                                     the date the following individuals cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the number of directors then serving: individuals who, on the Effective Date, constitute the Board and any new director (other than a director whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened election contest, including but not limited to a consent solicitation, relating to the election of directors of AbbVie) whose appointment or election by the Board or nomination for election by AbbVie s stockholders was approved or recommended by a vote  
     
  6      

of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who either were directors on the Effective Date or whose appointment, election or nomination for election was previously so approved or recommended; or  
     
  (c)                                      the date on which there is consummated a merger or consolidation of AbbVie or any direct or indirect subsidiary of AbbVie with any other corporation or other entity, other than (i) a merger or consolidation (A) immediately following which the individuals who comprise the Board immediately prior thereto constitute at least a majority of the Board of Directors of AbbVie, the entity surviving such merger or consolidation or, if AbbVie or the entity surviving such merger or consolidation is then a subsidiary, the ultimate parent thereof and (B) which results in the voting securities of AbbVie outstanding immediately prior to such merger or consolidation continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity or any parent thereof), in combination with the ownership of any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of AbbVie or any subsidiary of AbbVie, at least 50% of the combined voting power of the securities of AbbVie or such surviving entity or any parent thereof outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation, or (ii) a merger or consolidation effected to implement a recapitalization of AbbVie (or similar transaction) in which no Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of AbbVie (not including in the securities Beneficially Owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from AbbVie or its Affiliates) representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of AbbVie s then outstanding securities; or  
     
  (d)                                     the date the stockholders of AbbVie approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of AbbVie or there is consummated an agreement for the sale or disposition by AbbVie of all or substantially all of AbbVie s assets, other than a sale or disposition by AbbVie of all or substantially all of AbbVie s assets to an entity, at least 50% of the combined voting power of the voting securities of which are owned by stockholders of AbbVie, in combination with the ownership of any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of AbbVie or any subsidiary of AbbVie, in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of AbbVie immediately prior to such sale.  
     
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a  Change in Control  shall not be deemed to have occurred by virtue of the consummation of any transaction or series of integrated transactions immediately following which the record holders of the common stock of AbbVie immediately prior to such transaction or series of transactions continue to have    substantially the same proportionate ownership in an entity which owns all or substantially all of the assets of AbbVie immediately following such transaction or series of transactions.  
     
  For purposes of these Rules:  Affiliate  shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under Section 12 of the Exchange Act;  Beneficial Owner  shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act;  Exchange Act  shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time; and  Person  shall have the meaning given in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act, as modified and used in  
     
  7      

Sections 13(d) and 14(d) thereof, except that such term shall not include (i) AbbVie or any of its subsidiaries, (ii) a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of AbbVie or any of its Affiliates, (iii) an underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities, or (iv) a corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the stockholders of AbbVie in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of AbbVie.  
     
  20.                                    Potential Change in Control   .  A  Potential Change in Control  shall exist during any period in which the circumstances described in paragraph (a), (b), (c) or (d), below, exist (provided, however, that a Potential Change in Control shall cease to exist not later than the occurrence of a Change in Control):  
     
  (a)                                     AbbVie enters into an agreement, the consummation of which would result in the occurrence of a Change in Control, provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this paragraph (a) shall cease to exist upon the expiration or other termination of all such agreements.  
     
  (b)                                     Any Person (without regard to the exclusions set forth in subsections (i) through (iv) of such definition) publicly announces an intention to take or to consider taking actions the consummation of which would constitute a Change in Control; provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this paragraph (b) shall cease to exist upon the withdrawal of such intention, or upon a determination by the Board that there is no reasonable chance that such actions would be consummated.  
     
  (c)                                      Any Person becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of AbbVie representing 10% or more of either the then outstanding share of common stock of AbbVie or the combined voting power of AbbVie s then outstanding securities (not including any securities beneficially owned by such Person which are or were acquired directly from AbbVie or its Affiliates).  
     
  (d)                                     The Board adopts a resolution to the effect that, for purposes of this Agreement, a Potential Change in Control exists; provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this paragraph (d) shall cease to exist upon a determination by the Board that the reasons that gave rise to the resolution providing for the existence of a Potential Change in Control have expired or no longer exist.  
     
  21.                                    Prohibition Against Amendment   .  The provisions of Rules 18, 19, 20 and this Rule 21 may not be amended or deleted, or superseded by any other Rule, (i) during the pendency of a Potential Change in Control and (ii) during the period beginning on the date of a Change in Control and ending on the date five (5) years following such Change in Control.  
     
  22.                                    Reliance Upon Advice   .  The Board and the Committee may rely upon any information or advice furnished to it by any officer of AbbVie or by AbbVie s independent auditors, or other consultants, and shall be fully protected in relying upon such information or advice.  No member of the Board or the Committee shall be liable for any act or failure to act on  
     
  8      

their part, excepting only any acts done or omitted to be done in bad faith, nor shall they be liable for any act or failure to act of any other member.  
     
  23.                                    Taxes   .  Any employer shall be entitled, if necessary or desirable, to pay or withhold the amount of any federal, state or local tax attributable to any amounts payable by it under the PIP, and may require payment from the participant in an amount necessary to satisfy such taxes prior to remitting such taxes.  
     
  24.                                    Rights of Participants   .  Employment rights of participants with AbbVie and its subsidiaries shall not be enlarged or affected by reason of establishment of or inclusion as a participant in the PIP.  Nothing contained in the PIP shall require AbbVie or any subsidiary to segregate or earmark any assets, funds or property for the purpose of payment of any amounts which may have been deferred.  The Deferred, Pre-Tax and After-Tax Accounts established in accordance with Rule 7 are for the convenience of the administration of the PIP and no trust relationship with respect to such Accounts is intended or should be implied.  Participant s rights shall be limited to payment to them at the time or times and in such amounts as are contemplated by the PIP and these Rules.  Any decision made by the Board or the Committee, which is within the sole and uncontrolled discretion of either, shall be conclusive and binding upon the other and upon all other persons whomsoever.  
     
  25.                                    Employment Tax Assumptions   .  For purposes of these Rules, a participant s employment tax rate shall be deemed to be the highest marginal rate of Federal Insurance Contribution Act taxes in effect in the calendar year in which a calculation under the applicable Rule is to be made.  
     
  26.                                    Income Tax Assumptions   .  For purposes of these Rules, a participant s federal income tax rate shall be deemed to be the highest marginal rate of federal income individual tax in effect in the calendar year in which a calculation under the Rules is to be made, and state and local tax rates shall be deemed to be the highest marginal rates of individual income tax in effect in the state and locality of the participant s residence on the date such a calculation is made, net of any federal tax benefits without a benefit for any net capital losses.  
     
  27.                                    Change of Conditions Relating to Payments   .  No change to the time of payment or the time of commencement of payment and any period over which payment shall be made shall be effected except in strict compliance with the subsequent election requirements of Treasury Regulation  1.409A-2(b) to the extent subject thereto.  
     
  28.                                    Administrator s Calculation of Grantor Trust Distributions   . The administrator shall calculate the amount to be distributed from a participant s Grantor Trust in any year in which the participant is entitled to a benefit distribution by multiplying (i) the amount of the reduction determined in accordance with Rule 9(a), by (ii) a fraction, the numerator of which is the balance in the participant s After-Tax Account as of the end of the prior fiscal year and the denominator of which is the balance of the participant s Pre-Tax Account as of that same date.  
     
  9      

29.                                    Code Section 409A   .  To the extent applicable, it is intended that these Rules comply with the provisions of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ( Code Section 409A ).  The Rules will be administered and interpreted in a manner consistent with this intent, and any provision that would cause the Rules to fail to satisfy Code Section 409A will have no force and effect until amended to comply therewith (which amendment may be retroactive to the extent permitted by Code Section 409A).  Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, for all purposes of these Rules, a participant shall not be deemed to have had a termination of employment until the participant has incurred a separation from service as defined in Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(h) and, to the extent required to avoid accelerated taxation and/or tax penalties under Code Section 409A and applicable guidance issued thereunder, payment of the amounts payable under the Rules that would otherwise be payable during the six-month period after the date of termination shall instead be paid on the first business day after the expiration of such six-month period, plus interest thereon, at a rate equal to the rate specified in Rule 11 (to the extent that such interest is not already provided to the participant under Rule 12), from the respective dates on which such amounts would otherwise have been paid until the actual date of payment.  In addition, for purposes of these Rules, each amount to be paid and each installment payment shall be construed as a separate identified payment for purposes of Code Section 409A.  
     
  30.                                    Domestic Relations Order   .  In accordance with Treasury Regulation  1.409A-3(j)(4)(ii), distributions shall be made to an individual (other than to the participant) pursuant to the terms of a  domestic relations order  (as defined in Section 414(p)(1)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended), as determined and administered by the AbbVie Senior Vice President, Human Resources (or the individual holding equivalent duties and responsibilities) or his or her delegate, provided that such order (a) does not require the plan to provide any type or form of benefit, or any option not otherwise provided under the plan, (b) does not require the plan to provide increased benefits, and (c) does not require the payment of benefits to an alternate payee which are required to be paid to another alternate payee under another order.  
     
  31.                                    Grantor Trusts   .  AbbVie, as the administrator of the participant s Grantor Trust, may direct the trustee to distribute to the participant from the income of such Grantor Trust, a sum of money sufficient to pay the taxes on the Grantor Trust earnings for such year, to the extent a sufficient sum of money has not been paid to, or withheld on behalf of, the participant pursuant to Rule 12.  The taxes shall be determined in accordance with Rules 25 and 26.  
     
  10      

EXHIBIT A   
     
   IRREVOCABLE GRANTOR TRUST AGREEMENT   
     
  THIS AGREEMENT, made this            day of                         , 20    , by and between                                                of                       , Illinois (the  grantor ), and The Northern Trust Company located at Chicago, Illinois, as trustee (the  trustee ),  
     
  WITNESSETH THAT:  
     
  WHEREAS, the grantor desires to establish and maintain a trust to hold certain benefits received by the grantor under the AbbVie 2013 Performance Incentive Plan, as it may be amended from time to time;  
     
  NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows:  
     
   ARTICLE I             INTRODUCTION   
     
  I-1           NAME.  This agreement and the trust hereby evidenced (the  trust ) may be referred to as the                               20     Grantor Trust .  
     
  I-2           THE TRUST FUND.  The  trust fund  as at any date means all property then held by the trustee under this agreement.  
     
  I-3           STATUS OF THE TRUST.  The trust shall be irrevocable.  The trust is intended to constitute a grantor trust under Sections 671-678 of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, and shall be construed accordingly.  
     
  I-4           THE ADMINISTRATOR.  AbbVie Inc. ( AbbVie ) shall act as the  administrator  of the trust, and as such shall have certain powers, rights and duties under this agreement as described below.  AbbVie will certify to the trustee from time to time the person or persons authorized to act on behalf of AbbVie as the administrator.  The trustee may rely on the latest certificate received without further inquiry or verification.  
     
  I-5           ACCEPTANCE.  The trustee accepts the duties and obligations of the  trustee  hereunder, agrees to accept funds delivered to it by the grantor or the administrator, and agrees to hold such funds (and any proceeds from the investment of such funds) in trust in accordance with this agreement.  
     
   ARTICLE II     DISTRIBUTION OF THE TRUST FUND   
     
  II-1         SEPARATE ACCOUNTS.  The administrator shall maintain two separate accounts under the trust, a  rollout account  and a  deferred account.   Funds delivered to the trustee shall be allocated between the accounts by the trustee as directed by the administrator.  As of the end of each calendar year, the administrator shall charge each account with all distributions made from such account during that year; and credit each account with its share of  
     
  1      

income and realized gains and charge each account with its share of expenses and realized losses for the year.  The trustee shall not be required to make any separate investment of the trust fund for the accounts, and may administer and invest all funds delivered to it under the trust as one trust fund.  
     
  II-2         DISTRIBUTIONS FROM THE ROLLOUT ACCOUNT PRIOR TO THE GRANTOR S DEATH.  The trustee shall distribute principal and accumulated income credited to the rollout account to the grantor, if then living, at such times and in such amounts as the administrator shall direct.  
     
  II-3         DISTRIBUTIONS FROM THE DEFERRED ACCOUNT PRIOR TO THE GRANTOR S DEATH.  Principal and accumulated income credited to the deferred account shall not be distributed from the trust prior to the grantor s retirement or other termination of employment with AbbVie or a subsidiary of AbbVie (the grantor s  settlement date  provided that, each year the administrator may direct the trustee to distribute to the grantor a portion of the income of the deferred account for that year, with the balance of such income to be accumulated in that account.  The administrator shall inform the trustee of the grantor s settlement date. Thereafter, the trustee shall distribute the amounts from time to time credited to the deferred account to the grantor, if then living, in a series of annual installments, with the amount of each installment computed by one of the following methods:  
     
  (a)           The amount of each installment shall be equal to the sum of: (i) the amount credited to the deferred account as of the end of the year in which the grantor s settlement date occurs, divided by the number of years over which installments are to be distributed; plus (ii) the net earnings credited to the deferred account for the preceding year (excluding the year in which the grantor s settlement date occurs).  
     
  (b)           The amount of each installment shall be determined by dividing the amount credited to the deferred account as of the end of the preceding year by the difference between (i) the total number of years over which installments are to be distributed, and (ii) the number of annual installment distributions previously made from the deferred account.  
     
  (c)           Each installment (after the first installment) shall be approximately equal, with the amount comprised of the sum of: (i) the amount of the first installment, plus interest thereon at the rate determined under the AbbVie 2013 Performance Incentive Plan, compounded annually; and (ii) the net earnings credited to the deferred account for the preceding year.  
     
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the final installment distribution made to the grantor under this paragraph II-3 shall equal the total principal and accumulated income then held in the trust fund.  The grantor, by writing filed with the trustee and the administrator on or before the end of the calendar year in which the grantor s settlement date occurs (or the end of the calendar year in which this trust is established, if the grantor s settlement date has already occurred), may select both the period (which may not be less than ten years from the end of the calendar year in which the grantor s settlement date occurred) over which the installment distributions are to be made and the method of computing the amount of each installment.  In the absence of such a  
     
  2      

written direction by the grantor, installment distributions shall be made over a period of ten years, and the amount of each installment shall be computed by using the method described in subparagraph (a) next above.  Installment distributions under this Paragraph II-3 shall be made as of January 1 of each year, beginning with the calendar year following the year in which the grantor s settlement date occurs.  The administrator shall inform the trustee of the amount of each installment distribution under this paragraph II-3, and the trustee shall be fully protected in relying on such information received from the administrator.  
     
  II-4         DISTRIBUTIONS FROM THE TRUST FUND AFTER THE GRANTOR S DEATH.  The grantor, from time to time may name any person or persons (who may be named contingently or successively and who may be natural persons or fiduciaries) to whom the principal of the trust fund and all accrued or undistributed income therefrom shall be distributed in a lump sum or, if the beneficiary is the grantor s spouse (or a trust for which the grantor s spouse is the sole income beneficiary), in installments, as directed by the grantor, upon the grantor s death.  If the grantor directs an installment method of distribution to the spouse as beneficiary, any amounts remaining at the death of the spouse beneficiary shall be distributed in a lump sum to the executor or administrator of the spouse beneficiary s estate.  If the grantor directs an installment method of distribution to a trust for which the grantor s spouse is the sole income beneficiary, any amounts remaining at the death of the spouse shall be distributed in a lump sum to such trust.  Despite the foregoing, if (i) the beneficiary is a trust for which the grantor s spouse is the sole income beneficiary, (ii) payments are being made pursuant to this paragraph II-4 other than in a lump sum and (iii) income earned by the trust fund for the year exceeds the amount of the annual installment payment, then such trust may elect to withdraw such excess income by written notice to the trustee.  Each designation shall revoke all prior designations, shall be in writing and shall be effective only when filed by the grantor with the administrator during the grantor s lifetime.  If the grantor fails to direct a method of distribution, the distribution shall be made in a lump sum.  If the grantor fails to designate a beneficiary as provided above, then on the grantor s death, the trustee shall distribute the balance of the trust fund in a lump sum to the executor or administrator of the grantor s estate.  
     
  II-5         FACILITY OF PAYMENT.  When a person entitled to a distribution hereunder is under legal disability, or, in the trustee s opinion, is in any way incapacitated so as to be unable to manage his or her financial affairs, the trustee may make such distribution to such person s legal representative, or to a relative or friend of such person for such person s benefit.  Any distribution made in accordance with the preceding sentence shall be a full and complete discharge of any liability for such distribution hereunder.  
     
  II-6         PERPETUITIES.  Notwithstanding any other provisions of this agreement, on the day next preceding the end of 21 years after the death of the last to die of the grantor and the grantor s descendants living on the date of this instrument, the trustee shall immediately distribute any remaining balance in the trust to the beneficiaries then entitled to distributions hereunder.  
     
  3      

ARTICLE III  MANAGEMENT OF THE TRUST FUND   
     
  III-1       GENERAL POWERS.  The trustee shall, with respect to the trust fund, have the following powers, rights and duties in addition to those provided elsewhere in this agreement or by law:  
     
  (a)           Subject to the limitations of subparagraph (b) next below, to sell, contract to sell, purchase, grant or exercise options to purchase, and otherwise deal with all assets of the trust fund, in such way, for such considerations, and on such terms and conditions as the trustee decides.  
     
  (b)           To retain in cash such amounts as the trustee considers advisable; and to invest and reinvest the balance of the trust fund, without distinction between principal and income, in obligations of the United States Government and its agencies or which are backed by the full faith and credit of the United States Government or in any mutual fund, common trust fund or collective investment fund which invests solely in such obligations; and any such investment made or retained by the trustee in good faith shall be proper despite any resulting risk or lack of diversification or marketability.  
     
  (c)           To deposit cash in any depositary (including the banking department of the bank acting as trustee) without liability for interest, and to invest cash in savings accounts or time certificates of deposit bearing a reasonable rate of interest in any such depositary.  
     
  (d)           To invest, subject to the limitations of subparagraph (b) above, in any common or commingled trust fund or funds maintained or administered by the trustee solely for the investment of trust funds.  
     
  (e)           To borrow from anyone, with the administrator s approval, such sum or sums from time to time as the trustee considers desirable to carry out this trust, and to mortgage or pledge all or part of the trust fund as security.  
     
  (f)            To retain any funds or property subject to any dispute without liability for interest and to decline to make payment or delivery thereof until final adjudication by a court of competent jurisdiction or until an appropriate release is obtained.  
     
  (g)           To begin, maintain or defend any litigation necessary in connection with the administration of this trust, except that the trustee shall not be obliged or required to do so unless indemnified to the trustee s satisfaction.  
     
  (h)           To compromise, contest, settle or abandon claims or demands.  
     
  (i)            To give proxies to vote shares of stock and other voting securities, to join in or oppose (alone or jointly with others) voting trusts, mergers, consolidations, foreclosures, reorganizations, liquidations, or other changes in the financial structure of any corporation, and to exercise or sell stock subscription or conversion rights.  
     
  4      

(j)            To hold securities or other property in the name of a nominee, in a depositary or in any other way, with or without disclosing the trust relationship.  
     
  (k)           To divide or distribute the trust fund in undivided interests or wholly or partly in kind.  
     
  (l)            To pay any tax imposed on or with respect to the trust; to defer making payment of any such tax if it is indemnified to its satisfaction in the premises; and to require before making any payment such release or other document from any lawful taxing authority and such indemnity from the intended payee as the trustee consider necessary for its protection.  
     
  (m)          To deal without restriction with the legal representative of the grantor s estate or the trustee or other legal representative of any trust created by the grantor or a trust or estate in which a beneficiary has an interest, even though the trustee, individually, shall be acting in such other capacity without liability for any loss that may result.  
     
  (n)           To appoint or remove by written instrument any bank or corporation qualified to act as successor trustee, wherever located, as special trustee as to part or all of the trust fund, including property as to which the trustee does not act, and such special trustee, except as specifically limited or provided by this or the appointing instrument, shall have all of the rights, titles, powers, duties, discretions and immunities of the trustee, without liability for any action taken or omitted to be taken under this or the appointing instrument.  
     
  (o)           To appoint or remove by written instrument any bank, wherever located, as custodian of part or all of the trust fund, and each such custodian shall have such rights, powers, duties and discretions as are delegated to it by the trustee.  
     
  (p)           To employ agents, attorneys, accountants or other persons, and to delegate to them such powers as the trustee considers desirable, and the trustee shall be protected in acting or refraining from acting on the advice of persons so employed without court action.  
     
  (q)           To perform any and all other acts which in the trustee s judgment are appropriate for the proper management, investment and distribution of the trust fund.  
     
  III-2       PRINCIPAL AND INCOME.  Any income earned on the trust fund which is not distributed as provided in Article II shall be accumulated and from time to time added to the principal of the trust. The grantor s interest in the trust shall include all assets or other property held by the trustee hereunder, including principal and accumulated income.  
     
  III-3       STATEMENTS.  The trustee shall prepare and deliver monthly to the administrator and annually to the grantor, if then living, otherwise to each beneficiary then entitled to distributions under this agreement, a statement (or series of statements) setting forth (or which taken together set forth) all investments, receipts, disbursements and other transactions effected by the trustee during the reporting period; and showing the trust fund and the value thereof at the end of such period.  
     
  5      

III-4       COMPENSATION AND EXPENSES.  All reasonable costs, charges and expenses incurred in the administration of this trust, including compensation to the trustee, any compensation to agents, attorneys, accountants and other persons employed by the trustee, and expenses incurred in connection with the sale, investment and reinvestment of the trust fund shall be paid from the trust fund.  
     
   ARTICLE IV  GENERAL PROVISIONS   
     
  IV-1        INTERESTS NOT TRANSFERABLE.  The interests of the grantor or other persons entitled to distributions hereunder are not subject to their debts or other obligations and may not be voluntarily or involuntarily sold, transferred, alienated, assigned or encumbered.  
     
  IV-2        DISAGREEMENT AS TO ACTS.  If there is a disagreement between the trustee and anyone as to any act or transaction reported in any accounting, the trustee shall have the right to a settlement of its account by any proper court.  
     
  IV-3        TRUSTEE S OBLIGATIONS.  No power, duty or responsibility is imposed on the trustee except as set forth in this agreement.  The trustee is not obliged to determine whether funds delivered to or distributions from the trust are proper under the trust, or whether any tax is due or payable as a result of any such delivery or distribution. The trustee shall be protected in making any distribution from the trust as directed pursuant to Article II without inquiring as to whether the distributee is entitled thereto; and the trustee shall not be liable for any distribution made in good faith without written notice or knowledge that the distribution is not proper under the terms of this agreement.  
     
  IV-4        GOOD FAITH ACTIONS.  The trustee s exercise or non-exercise of its powers and discretions in good faith shall be conclusive on all persons.  No one shall be obliged to see to the application of any money paid or property delivered to the trustee.  The certificate of the trustee that it is acting according to this agreement will fully protect all persons dealing with the trustee.  
     
  IV-5        WAIVER OF NOTICE.  Any notice required under this agreement may be waived by the person entitled to such notice.  
     
  IV-6        CONTROLLING LAW.  The laws of the State of Illinois shall govern the interpretation and validity of the provisions of this agreement and all questions relating to the management, administration, investment and distribution of the trust hereby created.  
     
  IV-7        SUCCESSORS.  This agreement shall be binding on all persons entitled to distributions hereunder and their respective heirs and legal representatives, and on the trustee and its successors.  
     
  6      

ARTICLE V  CHANGES IN TRUSTEE   
     
  V-1         RESIGNATION OR REMOVAL OF TRUSTEE.  The trustee may resign at any time by giving thirty (30) days  advance written notice to the administrator and the grantor.  The administrator may remove a trustee by written notice to the trustee and the grantor.  
     
  V-2         APPOINTMENT OF SUCCESSOR TRUSTEE.  The administrator shall fill any vacancy in the office of trustee as soon as practicable by written notice to the successor trustee; and shall give prompt written notice thereof to the grantor, if then living, otherwise to each beneficiary then entitled to payments or distributions under this agreement. A successor trustee shall be a bank (as defined in Section 581 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended).  
     
  V-3         DUTIES OF RESIGNING OR REMOVED TRUSTEE AND OF SUCCESSOR TRUSTEE.  A trustee that resigns or is removed shall furnish promptly to the administrator and the successor trustee an account of its administration of the trust from the date of its last account. Each successor trustee shall succeed to the title to the trust fund vested in its predecessor without the signing or filing of any instrument, but each predecessor trustee shall execute all documents and do all acts necessary to vest such title of record in the successor trustee.  Each successor trustee shall have all the powers conferred by this agreement as if originally named trustee.  No successor trustee shall be personally liable for any act or failure to act of a predecessor trustee. With the approval of the administrator, a successor trustee may accept the account furnished and the property delivered by a predecessor trustee without incurring any liability for so doing, and such acceptance will be complete discharge to the predecessor trustee.  
     
   ARTICLE VI  AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION   
     
  VI-1        AMENDMENT.  With the consent of the administrator, this trust may be amended from time to time by the grantor, if then living, otherwise by a majority of the beneficiaries then entitled to payments or distributions hereunder, except as follows:  
     
  (a)           The duties and liabilities of the trustee cannot be changed substantially without its consent.  
     
  (b)           This trust may not be amended so as to make the trust revocable.  
     
  VI-2        TERMINATION.  This trust shall not terminate, and all rights, titles, powers, duties, discretions and immunities imposed on or reserved to the trustee, the administrator, the grantor and the beneficiaries shall continue in effect, until all assets of the trust have been distributed by the trustee as provided in Article II.  
     
  *      *      *  
     
  7      

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the grantor and the trustee have executed this agreement as of the day and year first above written.  

Grantor           

The Northern Trust   Company as Trustee           

By           

Its              
     
  8      

</EX-10.4>

<EX-10.5>
 3
 a2227341zex-10_5.htm
 EX-10.5

Exhibit 10.5   
     
   ABBVIE DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN   
     
  (Amended and Restated Effective as of January 1, 2015)  

ABBVIE   
   DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN   
     
   ARTICLE I     INTRODUCTION   
     
  Section 1.1             Purpose .  The AbbVie Deferred Compensation Plan (the  Plan ) is designed to assist the Employers in attracting and retaining key employees by providing Eligible Employees with the opportunity to defer the receipt of a portion of their compensation and to have that deferred compensation treated as if it were invested pending its distribution by the Plan.  
     
  Section 1.2             ERISA .  The Plan is intended to be exempt from Parts 2, 3, and 4 of Title I of ERISA and, therefore, participation in the Plan is limited to a select group of management and highly compensated employees, within the meaning of ERISA Sections 201(2), 301(a)(3) and 401(a)(1).  
     
  Section 1.3             Employers .  
     
  (a)           After the Effective Date, any Subsidiary of the Company that is not then an Employer may adopt the Plan with the Company s consent as described in  Section 13.12 .  
     
  (b)           Each Employer shall be liable to the Company for an amount equal to the Plan benefits earned by its Eligible Employees.  Where an Eligible Employee has been employed by more than one Employer, the Plan Administrator shall allocate the liability to the Company associated with that Eligible Employee s Plan benefits among his or her Employers.  The Plan Administrator shall establish procedures for determining the time at which and manner in which the Employers shall pay this liability to the Company.  
     
  Section 1.4             Effective Date .  The Plan was adopted effective as of January 1, 2013 (the  Effective Date ).  The Plan hereby is amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2015 (the  Restatement Effective Date ).  
     
  Section 1.5             Transfer of Liabilities from Abbott Laboratories Plan .  As part of the Separation and Distribution Agreement by and between Abbott Laboratories and AbbVie Inc. dated as of November 28, 2012, Abbott and AbbVie entered into the Employee Matters Agreement dated as of December 31, 2012 (the  EMA ).  In accordance with the EMA, all liabilities for AbbVie Employees (as defined in the EMA) under the Abbott Laboratories Deferred Compensation Plan were transferred to the Plan and the Plan became liable to pay all such benefits to such participants.  Supplement A to the Plan sets forth the additional rules applicable to the transferred benefits and transferred participants.  
     
   ARTICLE II       DEFINITIONS  
     
  When used in this Plan, unless the context clearly requires a different meaning, the following words and terms shall have the meanings set forth below.  Whenever appropriate, words used in  
     
 1   

the singular shall be deemed to include the plural, and  vice versa , and the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the feminine gender.  
     
  Section 2.1             Account .   Account(s)  means the account(s) established for record keeping purposes for each Participant pursuant to  Article VI .  
     
  Section 2.2             Base Compensation .   Base Compensation  means, subject to the last sentence of this Section, the Participant s total compensation earned in a Plan Year for personal service actually rendered to an Employer, before deductions for (a) Deferral Elections made pursuant to  Section 4.1  or (b) contributions made on the Participant s behalf to any Employer Savings Plan or to any cafeteria plan under Section 125 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ), maintained by an Employer.   Base Compensation  for Plan purposes  excludes  Sales-Related Compensation, Eligible Bonuses, all other bonuses, commissions, relocation expenses, reimbursements, expense allowances, fringe benefits (cash or noncash), welfare benefits (whether or not those amounts are includible in gross income) and other non-regular forms of compensation.  
     
  Section 2.3             Beneficiary .   Beneficiary  means the person, persons or entity designated by the Participant to receive any benefits payable under the Plan pursuant to  Article IX .  
     
  Section 2.4             Board of Review .   Board of Review  means the AbbVie Employee Benefit Board of Review appointed and acting under the AbbVie Pension Plan and having the powers and duties described in this Plan.  
     
  Section 2.5             Company .   Company  means AbbVie Inc., its successors, any organization into which or with which AbbVie Inc. may merge or consolidate or to which all or substantially all of its assets may be transferred.  
     
  Section 2.6             Deferral Election .   Deferral Election  means an election under the Plan by a Participant to defer the receipt of a portion of his or her Eligible Compensation made on a Deferral Election Form.  
     
  Section 2.7             Deferral Election Form .   Deferral Election Form  means the form provided to the Participant by the Plan pursuant to  Section 4.1  on which the Participant makes his or her Deferral Election.  
     
  Section 2.8             Deferral Account .   Deferral Account(s)  means the account(s) established for record keeping purposes for each Participant s Deferral Election pursuant to  Section 6.1 .  
     
  Section 2.9             Disability .  The date of  Disability  of a Participant means the date on which the Participant is, by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than twelve months, eligible to receive income replacement benefits for a period of six or more months under the terms of the AbbVie Long-Term Disability Plan ( LTD Plan ) or, for a Participant whose Employer does not participate in the LTD Plan, such similar accident and health plan in which his or her Employer participates.  
     
 2   

Section 2.10           Distribution Election .   Distribution Election  is defined in  Section 4.3(a) .  
     
  Section 2.11           Distribution Election Form .   Distribution Election Form  means the form provided to the Participant by the Plan pursuant to  Section 4.3  on which the Participant specifies the time at which the amounts credited to one of the Participant s Account(s) are to be distributed and their method of payment.  
     
  Section 2.12           Effective Date .   Effective Date  and  Restatement Effective Date  are defined in  Section 1.4 .  
     
  Section 2.13           Eligibility Date .   Eligibility Date  is defined in  Section 3.1(b) .  
     
  Section 2.14           Eligible Bonus .   Eligible Bonus  means an annual cash incentive bonus for a Plan Year that the Plan Administrator, or its delegate, has designated as being eligible for deferral under the Plan.  As of the Restatement Effective Date, cash bonuses paid to Eligible Employees under the AbbVie Cash Profit Sharing Plan, the AbbVie Incentive Plan, the AbbVie Managerial Incentive Plan, the AbbVie Management Incentive Plan, the AbbVie Performance Incentive Plan, or any other similar Employer-sponsored annual incentive bonus plan with a performance period commencing on January 1 and ending on December 31 of the applicable Plan Year are eligible for deferral under the Plan.  
     
  Section 2.15           Eligible Compensation .   Eligible Compensation  means the Participant s Base Compensation, Sales-Related Compensation and Eligible Bonus(es).  
     
  Section 2.16           Eligible Employee .   Eligible Employee  means any person employed by an Employer who is both:  
     
  (i)            a United States employee or an expatriate who is based and paid in the United States; and  
     
   (ii)           shown as having a grade level of 20 (or equivalent level of compensation if on a different pay grade system) or higher on his or her Employer s Human Resource System;     
     
  and who is  not :  
     
  (a)           both a corporate officer of the Company  and  designated as eligible to participate in the AbbVie Supplemental Savings Plan, except as contemplated by  Section 3.1  hereof for the Plan Year in which the person is first named a corporate officer;  
     
  (b)           an individual who provides services to an Employer under a contract, arrangement or understanding with either the individual directly or with an agency or leasing organization that treats the individual as either an independent contractor or an employee of such agency or leasing organization, even if such individual is subsequently determined (by an Employer, the Internal Revenue Service, any other governmental agency, judicial action, or otherwise) to  
     
 3   

have been a common law employee of an Employer rather than an independent contractor or employee of such agency or leasing organization; or  
     
  (c)           any Employee who is employed by an Employer located in Puerto Rico, other than any person designated as a  U.S. Expatriate  on the records of an Employer.  
     
  For all Plan purposes, an individual shall be an  Eligible Employee  for any Plan Year only if during that Plan Year an Employer treats that individual as its employee for purposes of employment taxes and wage withholding for Federal income taxes, even if such individual is subsequently determined (by an Employer, the Internal Revenue Service, any other governmental agency, judicial action, or otherwise) to have been a common law employee of an Employer in that Plan Year.  
     
  Section 2.17           Employer .   Employer  shall mean the Company, the participating Employers on the Effective Date, and any Subsidiary of the Company that subsequently adopts the Plan in the manner provided in  Section 13.12 .  
     
  Section 2.18           Employer Contribution .   Employer Contribution  means the contribution deemed to have been made by an Employer pursuant to  Section 5.1 .  
     
  Section 2.19           Employer Contribution Account .   Employer Contribution Account(s)  means the account(s) established for record keeping purposes for each Participant s Employer Contributions pursuant to  Section 6.1 .  
     
  Section 2.20           Employer Savings Plan .   Employer Savings Plan  means any defined contribution retirement plan that is maintained by an Employer, qualified under Code Section 401(a), and includes a cash or deferred arrangement under Code Section 401(k).  The term shall specifically include, but not be limited to, the AbbVie Savings Plan.  
     
  Section 2.21           ERISA .   ERISA  means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.  
     
  Section 2.22           Hardship Distribution .   Hardship Distribution  is defined in  Section 8.5(a) .  
     
  Section 2.23           In-Service Distribution .   In-Service Distribution  is defined in  Section 4.3 .  
     
  Section 2.24           Initial Election .   Initial Election  is defined in  Section 4.3(a) .  
     
  Section 2.25           Investment Election .   Investment Election  is defined in  Section 4.2(a) .  
     
  Section 2.26           Investment Election Form .   Investment Election Form  means the form provided to the Participant by the Plan pursuant to  Section 4.2  on which the Participant specifies the Investment Funds in which the Participant s Account(s) are to be deemed to be invested.  
     
 4   

Section 2.27           Investment Fund(s) .   Investment Fund(s)  means one or more of the funds selected by the Plan Administrator pursuant to  Section 4.2 .  
     
  Section 2.28           Investment Fund Subaccounts .   Investment Fund Subaccounts  is defined in  Section 6.1(b) .  
     
  Section 2.29           Matching DCP Deferral .   Matching DCP Deferral  for a Participant for a Plan Year is an amount equal to the total dollar amount of the Participant s deferrals for the Plan Year pursuant to Employee Deferral Elections under Section 4.1(b), but in no event shall a Participant s Matching DCP Deferral for a Plan Year exceed the amount by which (a) the total of the Participant s Base Compensation plus Sales-Related Compensation for the Plan Year up to the limit on compensation as defined in Code Section 401(a)(17) exceeds (b) the total of the Participant s Base Compensation plus Sales-Related Compensation for the Plan Year less the total dollar amount deferred pursuant to Employee Deferral Elections under Section 4.1(b) for the Plan Year.  
     
  Section 2.30           Participant .   Participant  means any Eligible Employee who elects to participate in this Plan by filing a Deferral Election, Investment Fund Election, and Distribution Election as provided in  Article IV  or is a Transferred Participant or a Post-Distribution Participant.  
     
  Section 2.31           Plan .   Plan  means the AbbVie Deferred Compensation Plan.  
     
  Section 2.32           Plan Administrator .   Plan Administrator  means the Board of Review.  
     
  Section 2.33           Plan Year .   Plan Year  means a twelve-month period beginning January 1 and ending the following December 31.  
     
  Section 2.34           Post-Distribution Participant.    Post-Distribution Participant  means: (a) a Post-Distribution AbbVie Employee (as defined in the EMA) who (i) was an employee of Abbott or its subsidiary as of immediately prior to the Separation (as defined in the Separation Agreement) and is transferred to or hired by AbbVie or its Subsidiary after the Separation (as defined in the Separation Agreement), and (ii) had the liabilities associated with his or her account balances in the Abbott Deferred Compensation transferred to this Plan in accordance with Supplement A; and (b) any other individual on whose behalf liabilities are transferred from the Abbott Deferred Compensation Plan to the Plan in accordance with Supplement A in connection with an employment transfer during the Transition Period (as defined in the EMA).  
     
  Section 2.35           Rate of Return .   Rate of Return  means, for each Investment Fund, an amount equal to the net gain or net loss (expressed as a percentage) on the assets of that Investment Fund.  
     
  Section 2.36           Retirement .   Retirement  means a Termination of Employment after having satisfied the age and service requirements of subsection (a) or (b) below, as applicable:  
     
  (a)           With respect to Participants covered by the AbbVie Pension Plan (the  Pension Plan ):  
     
 5   

(i)            for any Transferred Participant or Post-Distribution Participant who has an Old Formula Benefit (as defined in the Pension Plan), the date on which the Participant attains age 50 and completes 10 years of  vesting service  (as such term is described in the Pension Plan); or  
     
  (ii)           for any Transferred Participant or Post-Distribution Participant who does not have an Old Formula Benefit (as defined in the Pension Plan) under the Pension Plan and any Participant who does not fall into the preceding categories hired by AbbVie on or after the Effective Date, the date on which the Participant attains age 55 and completes 10 years of  vesting service  (as such term is described in the Pension Plan).  
     
  (b)           With respect to Participants covered by the AbbVie Pension Plan for Former BASF and Former Solvay Employees, the date on which the Participant attains age 55 and completes 5 years of vesting service (as such term is described in the AbbVie Pension Plan for Former BASF and Former Solvay Employees).  
     
  Section 2.37           Sales-Related Compensation .   Sales-Related Compensation  means, subject to the last sentence of this Section, the Participant s sales bonuses, sales incentives and sales commissions earned in a Plan Year from an Employer, before deductions for (a) Deferral Elections made pursuant to  Section 4.1  or (b) contributions made on the Participant s behalf to any Employer Savings Plan or to any cafeteria plan under Code Section 125 maintained by an Employer.   Sales-Related Compensation  for Plan purposes  excludes  Base Compensation, Eligible Bonuses, and all other compensation not specifically categorized as a sales bonus, sales incentive or sales commission.  
     
  Section 2.38           Separation Date .   Separation Date  has the meaning set forth in the Separation Agreement.  
     
  Section 2.39           Subsequent Election .   Subsequent Election  is defined in  Section 4.3(c) .  
     
  Section 2.40           Subsidiary .   Subsidiary  means any corporation, limited liability company, partnership, joint venture, or business trust organized in the United States 50 percent or more of the voting stock of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company.  
     
  Section 2.41           Termination of Employment .   Termination of Employment  means the cessation of a Participant s services as an employee, whether voluntary or involuntary, for any reason other than death; provided, that the Participant shall not be considered to have terminated employment for purposes of the Plan until he or she would be considered to have incurred a  separation from service  from the Employer within the meaning of Code Section 409A.  
     
  Section 2.42           Transferred Participant .   Transferred Participant  means an AbbVie Employee (as defined in the EMA), excluding a Post-Distribution AbbVie Employee (as defined in the EMA), who accepts an offer of employment or continues employment with or is transferred to AbbVie or one of its Subsidiaries under the Separation Agreement on or immediately after the Separation Date.  
     
  Section 2.43           Unforeseeable Emergency .   Unforeseeable Emergency  means a severe financial hardship to the Participant resulting from an illness or accident of the Participant, the  
     
 6   

Participant s spouse or a dependent of the Participant, loss of the Participant s property due to casualty (including the need to rebuild a home following damage to a home not otherwise covered by insurance, for example, not as a result of a natural disaster), or other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances arising as a result of events beyond the control of the Participant as determined by the Plan Administrator.  
     
   ARTICLE III       PARTICIPATION  
     
  Section 3.1             Participation .  
     
  (a)           Except as provided in  Section 3.1(b)  and  (c) , an Eligible Employee may become a Participant by making a Deferral Election, Investment Fund Election, and Distribution Election pursuant to  Article IV  on or before the deadline set by the Plan Administrator pursuant to  Section 4.4 .  
     
  (b)           A newly hired individual who is an Eligible Employee shall become eligible to participate in the Plan on the first day of the month next following the month after the individual s date of hire (the  Eligibility Date   provided  that in no event shall such individual begin to participate in the plan later than 90 days following his or her date of hire.  Notwithstanding the election requirements of  Section 3.1(a) , a newly Eligible Employee who was not eligible to participate in any other plan that would be aggregated with the Plan under Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(c) may make a Deferral Election, Investment Fund Election and Distribution Election pursuant to  Article IV  within the 30-day period immediately following the Eligibility Date.  Any such election shall become effective for Eligible Compensation earned no earlier than the first payroll period commencing after receipt of the election by the Plan Administrator and shall be irrevocable for the remainder of the Plan Year.  
     
  (c)           An individual who becomes an Eligible Employee as a result of a job promotion or transfer may make a Deferral Election, Investment Fund Election and Distribution Election pursuant to  Article IV  only with respect to Eligible Compensation to be earned in the Plan Year next following the year of such promotion or transfer.  Any such election shall be made in accordance with  Article IV  and shall become effective for Eligible Compensation earned in the Plan Year following the year in which the election is made.  
     
  (d)           Participation of Transferred Participants and Post-Distribution Participants shall be governed by Supplement A.  
     
  Section 3.2             Termination of Participation .  A Participant who ceases to be an Eligible Employee due to a Termination of Employment will remain a Participant but (i) may no longer make Deferral Elections with respect to any Plan Year following the year of such termination and (ii) all deferrals under the Plan shall cease as of the date of the Participant s Termination of Employment.  A Participant who ceases to be an Eligible Employee due to a job promotion (or demotion) may no longer make Deferral Elections with respect to any Plan Year following the year of such promotion or demotion but the Participant s Deferral Elections for the Plan Year in which such promotion or demotion occurs shall remain irrevocable.  A Participant shall remain a Participant until (i) his or her death or (ii) his or her Accounts have been distributed.  
     
 7   

ARTICLE IV       ELECTION FORMS  
     
  Section 4.1             Deferral Elections .  
     
  (a)           Participants shall make their Deferral Elections annually on a form provided by the Plan Administrator (a  Deferral Election Form ). Each Deferral Election shall apply to only a single Plan Year.  
     
  (b)           On his or her Deferral Election Form, the Participant shall specify the amount (expressed as a percentage) of his or her Base Compensation, the amount (expressed as a percentage) of his or her Sales-Related Compensation, and the amount (expressed as a percentage) of his or her Eligible Bonuses that the Participant elects to defer for that Plan Year together with such other information as the Plan Administrator may, in its sole and absolute discretion, require.  
     
  (c)           For any Plan Year, a Participant may elect to defer:  
     
  (i)            five percent (5%) to seventy-five percent (75%) of his or her Base Compensation (in whole percentage increments),  
     
  (ii)           five percent (5%) to seventy-five percent (75%) of his or her Sales-Related Compensation (in whole percentage increments), and  
     
   (iii)          five percent (5%) to seventy-five percent (75%) of his or her Eligible Bonus(es) (in whole percentage increments);     
     
  provided, however, that in no event may a Participant elect to defer his or her Eligible Compensation to the extent that his or her remaining compensation would be insufficient to satisfy all applicable withholding taxes and contributions required under Employer-sponsored benefit plans in which the Participant participates.  
     
  (d)           A Participant may not revoke his or her Deferral Election at any time after the deadline for making such Deferral Election set by the Plan Administrator pursuant to  Section 4.4 .  
     
  Section 4.2             Investment Elections .  The Plan Administrator shall, from time to time, make available investment options (the  Investment Funds ) that serve as benchmark funds for the amounts a Participant defers under the Plan.  A Participant s Plan deferrals shall not actually be invested in the Investment Funds and the Participant shall not be considered a shareholder of any of the Investment Funds he or she selects by virtue of participation in the Plan.  Instead, the Participant s Plan deferrals shall be considered invested in, and his or her Plan Account shall reflect such Investment Fund s Rate of Return. A Participant s election of investments shall be subject to the following rules:  
     
  (a)           Participants shall make their investment elections on an Investment Election Form provided by the Plan Administrator (an  Investment Election ).  
     
 8   

(b)           The Investment Election Form completed by the Participant shall apply only to the Eligible Compensation being deferred in a single Plan Year and shall specify the Investment Funds in which the deferrals for each such Plan Year are to be deemed to be invested, and the portion (expressed in whole percentage increments) of the deferrals for such Plan Year that are to be deemed to be invested in each such Investment Fund, and shall continue in effect until revoked or changed as permitted by the Plan Administrator.  
     
  Section 4.3             Distribution Elections .  
     
  (a)           Participants shall make their distribution elections in accordance with the Distribution Election Form provided by the Plan Administrator (a  Distribution Election ) as permitted or required by such form.  Each Distribution Election (the  Initial Election ) shall apply only to the Eligible Compensation being deferred in a single Plan Year and must be made by the deadline set by the Plan Administrator pursuant to  Section 4.4 , at which time the Initial Election shall be irrevocable, subject to  Section 4.3(c) .  
     
  (b)           On the Distribution Election Form:  
     
  (i)             Mandatory Retirement Election .  In all cases, the Participant shall select the method of payment from among the methods of payment described in  Section 8.3(a)  to apply in the event payment is made upon Retirement pursuant to this Distribution Election in accordance with  Section 8.3  or  8.4  or upon Disability in accordance with  Section 8.7 .  
     
  (ii)            Optional In-Service Distribution Election .  The Participant shall also have the option to elect that the Eligible Compensation being deferred for that Plan Year shall be paid to the Participant while he or she is still employed by an Employer (an  In-Service Distribution ).  If the Participant elects to receive an In-Service Distribution of the Eligible Compensation being deferred, then the Participant shall also select the year in which the payments are to be made.  A Participant may not elect to receive an In-Service Distribution in a Plan Year that is less than two (2) years after the end of the Plan Year in which the Eligible Compensation is earned.  
     
  (c)           Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in  Section 4.3 , a Participant may change the form of distribution or his or her Distribution Election (a  Subsequent Election ) to the extent permitted by the Plan Administrator and Code Section 409A(a)(4)(C), including the requirements that such Subsequent Election:  
     
  (i)            shall not take effect until at least 12 months after the date on which the Subsequent Election is filed with the Plan Administrator;  
     
  (ii)           shall result in the first distribution subject to such Subsequent Election being made at least five years after the date such distribution would otherwise have been paid pursuant to the previous election; and  
     
  (iii)          shall be filed with the Plan Administrator at least 12 months before the date the first scheduled distribution is to be paid pursuant to the previous election.  
     
 9   

Section 4.4             Deadline for Submitting Election Forms .  The Plan Administrator may set a deadline or deadlines for the receipt of the election forms required under the Plan; provided, however, that, except as provided in  Section 3.1(b) , such forms must be filed on or before the end of the year immediately preceding the Plan Year for which it is to be effective.  
     
   ARTICLE V       EMPLOYER CONTRIBUTIONS  
     
  Section 5.1             Employer Contributions .  Each Participant who makes a Deferral Election will be credited with an Employer Contribution equal to 5% of the Participant s Matching DCP Deferral.  The Plan Administrator may, however, in his or her discretion, otherwise set the amount of the Employer Contribution, subject to and not in excess of applicable limits imposed by the Internal Revenue Service.  
     
  Section 5.2             Allocation of Employer Contributions .  A Participant s Employer Contribution for a Plan Year shall be allocated among the same Investment Funds and in the same proportion as the Participant has elected for his or her deferrals for that Plan Year.  
     
  Section 5.3             Distribution of Employer Contributions .  An Employer Contribution for a Plan Year shall be distributed to the Participant according to the election made by the Participant governing his or her deferrals for that same Plan Year.  
     
   ARTICLE VI       MAINTENANCE AND CREDITING OF ACCOUNTS  
     
  Section 6.1             Maintenance of Accounts .  
     
  (a)           The Plan shall maintain a separate Account for each Deferral Election (a  Deferral Account ) made by a Participant and each Employer Contribution (an  Employer Contribution Account ) made for a Participant.  A Participant s Accounts shall reflect the Participant s Investment Fund Elections and Distribution Elections made pursuant to  Article IV , any Employer Contributions made on behalf of the Participant pursuant to  Article V , adjustments to the Account made pursuant to this  Article VI , and distributions made with respect to the Account pursuant to  Article VIII .  The Accounts shall be used solely as a device for the measurement and determination of the amounts to be paid to the Participants pursuant to this Plan and shall not constitute or be treated as a trust fund of any kind.  
     
  (b)           Each Account shall be divided into separate subaccounts ( Investment Fund Subaccounts ), each of which corresponds to the Investment Fund selected by the Participant pursuant to  Section 4.2(b) .  
     
  Section 6.2             Crediting of Accounts .  
     
  (a)           No later than five (5) business days following the end of each pay period, the Plan shall credit each Participant s Investment Fund Subaccounts to reflect amounts deferred from the Participant s Eligible Compensation during that pay period and the Investment Fund Election made by the Participant with respect to that Eligible Compensation.  
     
 10   

(b)           At the end of each Plan Year, the Plan shall credit each Participant s Investment Fund Subaccounts to reflect any Employer Contribution deemed to have been made on behalf of the Participant for that Plan Year and the allocation of that contribution among the Investment Funds pursuant to  Section 4.2 .  
     
  (c)           The Plan Administrator shall adjust each Investment Fund Subaccount to reflect any transfers under the Plan to or from that Investment Fund Subaccount, as of the end of each business day to reflect any distributions under the Plan made with respect to that Investment Fund Subaccount, and the Rate of Return on the related Investment Fund.  
     
  Section 6.3   Statement of Accounts .  Each Participant shall be issued quarterly statements of his or her Account(s) in such form as the Plan Administrator deems desirable, setting forth the balance to the credit of such Participant in his or her Account(s) as of the end of the most recently completed quarter.  
     
   ARTICLE VII       VESTING AND FORFEITURES  
     
  Section 7.1             Deferral Accounts .  A Participant s Deferral Accounts shall be one hundred percent (100%) vested and non-forfeitable at all times.  
     
  Section 7.2             Employer Contribution Account .  
     
  (a)           A Participant s Employer Contribution Account shall become one hundred percent (100%) vested and non-forfeitable when the matching contributions made by the Participant s Employer on behalf of the Participant under the Employer Savings Plan in which the Participant participates become one hundred percent (100%) vested and non-forfeitable.  
     
  (b)           If a Participant s employment with the Employers terminates (whether voluntarily or involuntarily) before the matching contributions made by the Participant s Employer on behalf of the Participant under the Employer Savings Plan in which the Participant participates become one hundred percent (100%) vested and non-forfeitable, then the Participant shall forfeit his or her related Employer Contribution Account.  
     
   ARTICLE VIII       DISTRIBUTION OF BENEFITS  
     
  Section 8.1             Distribution of Benefits in the Event of a Termination of Employment .  If a Participant elects to receive his or her Plan benefits as an In-Service Distribution, then in the event of that Participant s Termination of Employment (other than due to Retirement) prior to receiving that In-Service Distribution, the Company shall pay that Participant s Plan benefits in a lump-sum to the Participant within 90 days following his or her Termination of Employment.  If a Participant elects to receive his or her Plan benefits upon Retirement, then in the event of that Participant s Termination of Employment prior to the date the Participant attains eligibility for Retirement, the Company shall pay that Participant s Plan benefits in a lump-sum to the Participant within 90 days following his or her Termination of Employment.  
     
 11   

Section 8.2             In-Service Distributions .  Subject to the provisions of  Section 8.6 , the Company shall pay In-Service Distributions in a lump-sum to the Participant on the first business day in February of the year designated by the Participant on his or her Distribution Election Form.  
     
  Section 8.3             Distribution of Benefits in the Event of Retirement .  
     
  (a)           If, pursuant to  Section 4.3 , a Participant has elected to receive his or her Plan benefits for a Plan Year upon his or her Retirement, then the Company shall pay the Participant his or her Plan benefits commencing on the first business day in February next following the date of the Participant s Retirement in any of the following forms pursuant to the Participant s Initial Election or Subsequent Election, as applicable:  
     
  (i)            in substantially equal quarterly or annual installments to the Participant over fifteen (15) years; or  
     
  (ii)           in substantially equal quarterly or annual installments to the Participant over ten (10) years; or  
     
  (iii)          in substantially equal quarterly or annual installments to the Participant over five (5) years; or  
     
  (iv)          in a lump-sum; or  
     
  (v)           if no such election is on file with the Plan Administrator, in substantially equal quarterly installments to the Participant over ten (10) years.  
     
  Quarterly installments shall be paid on the first business day of each calendar quarter and annual installments shall be paid on the first business day of each calendar year.  
     
  (b)           Notwithstanding the provisions of  Section 8.3(a) , in the event that, as of the date of the Participant s Retirement, the Participant s benefits under the Plan do not exceed, in the aggregate, $15,500, the Participant s benefits shall be paid to the Participant in a lump-sum.  
     
  Section 8.4             Distribution of Benefits on the Earlier to Occur of a Participant s Retirement or a Specified Date .  
     
  If a Participant has elected to receive his or her Plan benefits on a specified date pursuant to  Section 4.3(b)(ii) , if the Participant s Retirement occurs prior to such specified date,  
     
  (a)           For amounts deferred for a Transferred Participant or a Post-Distribution Participant with respect to Plan Years beginning prior to January 1, 2008, the Company shall pay the Transferred Participant or the Post-Distribution Participant his or her Plan benefits in a lump sum on the first business day in February next following the Participant s Retirement; and  
     
  (b)           For amounts deferred for a Transferred Participant or a Post-Distribution Participant with respect to Plan Years beginning on or after January 1, 2008, and for amounts deferred for a Participant hired by an Employer on or after the Effective Date of the Plan, the  
     
 12   

Company shall pay the Participant his or her Plan benefits in accordance with  Section 8.3(a) , subject to  Section 8.3(b) .  
     
  Section 8.5             Distributions Due to Unforeseeable Emergency .  
     
  (a)           A Participant may receive the early payment of all or part of the balance in his or her Account(s) in the event of an Unforeseeable Emergency (a  Hardship Distribution ) subject to the following restrictions:  
     
  (i)            The Participant has requested the Hardship Distribution from the Plan Administrator on a form provided by or in the format requested by the Plan Administrator;  
     
  (ii)           The Plan Administrator has determined that an Unforeseeable Emergency has occurred;  
     
  (iii)          The Plan Administrator determines the amount of the Hardship Distribution, which amount will be limited to the amount reasonably necessary to satisfy the emergency need (including any amounts necessary to pay any Federal, state, local or foreign income taxes or penalties reasonably anticipated to result from the Hardship Distribution); and  
     
  (iv)          The Hardship Distribution shall be distributed in a lump-sum within 30 days following determination by the Plan Administrator of the amount of the Hardship Distribution.  
     
  (b)           The circumstances that would constitute a Unforeseeable Emergency will depend on the facts and circumstances of each case, but, in any case, a Hardship Distribution may not be made to the extent that such hardship may be relieved through (i) reimbursement or compensation by insurance or otherwise, (ii) liquidation of the Participant s assets, to the extent that liquidation of the Participant s assets would not itself cause severe financial hardship, or (iii) by cessation of deferrals under this Plan in compliance with Code Section 409A.  
     
  Section 8.6             Distribution of Benefits in the Event of Death .  In the event of a Participant s death prior to the complete distribution of his or her Accounts, the Company shall distribute his or her total Plan benefits to his or her Beneficiary in a lump sum within 90 days after the date of the Participant s death.  
     
  Section 8.7             Distribution of Benefits in the Event of Disability .  In the event of a Participant s Disability, the Company shall pay the Participant his or her Plan benefits commencing on the first business day in February next following the date of the Participant s Disability in the form set forth below:  
     
  (a)           For any Participant who has elected to receive his or her Plan benefits upon Retirement, pursuant to the Participant s Distribution Election to receive his or her Plan benefits in one of the Retirement forms permitted under  Section 8.3(a) , subject to  Section 8.3(b) .  
     
 13   

(b)           For a Participant who has elected to receive his or her Plan benefits as an In-Service Distribution, if the Participant s Disability occurs prior to the date specified in such Distribution Election:  
     
  (i)            For amounts deferred for a Transferred Participant or a Post-Distribution Participant with respect to Plan Years beginning on or subsequent to January 1, 2008, or for amounts deferred for a Participant hired by an Employer on or after the Effective Date of the Plan, pursuant to the Participant s Distribution Election to receive his or her Plan benefits in one of the Retirement forms permitted under  Section 8.3(a) , subject to  Section 8.3(b) .  
     
  (ii)           For amounts deferred for a Transferred Participant or a Post-Distribution Participants with respect to all Plan Years beginning prior to January 1, 2008, pursuant to the Participant s Distribution Election to receive his or her Plan benefits in a lump sum under  Section 4.3(b)(ii) .  
     
  Section 8.8             Postponing or Amending Distributions .  A Participant may postpone a scheduled distribution or amend the form of distribution specified in  Section 8.2, Section 8.3(a)  or  Section 8.4  only by making a Subsequent Election pursuant to the terms of  Section 4.3(c) .  
     
  Section 8.9             Distribution of Benefits Pursuant to a Domestic Relations Order .  The Company shall pay all or a portion of a Participant s Plan benefits in a lump sum to any person other than the Participant pursuant to the terms of a domestic relations order.  For this purpose, a domestic relations order means a judgment, decree or order (including approval of a property settlement agreement) which relates to the provision of child support, alimony payments, or marital property rights to a spouse, former spouse, child or other dependent of the Participant and which is made pursuant to a state domestic relations law (including a community property law).  
     
   ARTICLE IX       BENEFICIARY DESIGNATION  
     
  Section 9.1             Beneficiary Designation .  Each Participant shall have the right, at any time, to designate any person, persons or entity as his or her Beneficiary or Beneficiaries. A Beneficiary designation shall be made, and may be amended, by the Participant by filing a designation with the Plan Administrator, on such form and in accordance with such procedures as the Plan Administrator may establish from time to time.  
     
  Section 9.2             Failure to Designate a Beneficiary .  If a Participant or Beneficiary fails to designate a Beneficiary as provided above, or if all designated Beneficiaries predecease the Participant or his or her Beneficiary, then the Participant s Beneficiary shall be deemed to be, in the following order:  
     
  (a)                                    to the spouse of such person, if any; or 
     
  (b)                                    to the deceased person s estate. 
     
  Section 9.3             Facility of Payment .  When, in the Plan Administrator s opinion, a Participant or Beneficiary is under a legal disability or is incapacitated in any way so as to be  
     
 14   

unable to manage his or her financial affairs, the Plan Administrator may make any benefit payments to the Participant or Beneficiary s legal representative, or spouse, or the Plan Administrator may apply the payment for the benefit of the Participant or Beneficiary in any way the Plan Administrator considers advisable, in each case, without subjecting the Participant or Beneficiary to accelerated taxation and/or tax penalties under Code Section 409A.  
     
   ARTICLE X     ADMINISTRATION OF PLAN   
     
  Section 10.1           Plan Administrator .  The Board of Review, or such person as the Board of Review shall designate pursuant to  Section 10.3 , shall serve as the Plan Administrator of the Plan. The administration of the Plan shall be under the supervision of the Plan Administrator. It shall be a principal duty of the Plan Administrator to see that the Plan is carried out, in accordance with its terms, for the exclusive benefit of persons entitled to participate in the Plan without discrimination among them. Benefits under the Plan shall be paid only if the Plan Administrator decides, in his or her discretion, that the applicant is entitled to them. The Plan Administrator will have full power to administer the Plan in all of its details, subject to applicable requirements of law. For this purpose, the Plan Administrator s powers will include but will not be limited to, the following authority, in addition to all other powers provided by this Plan:  
     
  (a)                                    To make and enforce such rules and regulations as it deems necessary or proper for the efficient administration of the Plan, including the establishment of any claims procedures that may be required by applicable provisions of law; 
     
  (b)                                    To exercise discretion in interpreting the Plan, any interpretation to be reviewed under the arbitrary and capricious standard; 
     
  (c)                                     To exercise discretion in deciding all questions concerning the Plan and the eligibility of any person to participate in the Plan; such decision to be reviewed under the arbitrary and capricious standard; 
     
  (d)                                    To appoint such agents, counsel, accountants, consultants and other persons as may be required to assist in administering the Plan; 
     
  (e)                                     To allocate and delegate its responsibilities under the Plan and to designate other persons to carry out any of its responsibilities under the Plan, any such allocations, delegation or designation to be in writing; 
     
  (f)                                      To determine the amount and type of benefits to which any Participant or Beneficiary shall be entitled hereunder, including the method and date for all valuations under the Plan; 
     
  (g)                                     To receive from the Employers and from Participants such information as shall be necessary for the proper administration of the Plan or any of its programs; 
     
  (h)                                    To maintain or cause to be maintained all the necessary records for the administration of the Plan; 
     
 15   

(i)                                        To receive, review and keep on file (as it deems convenient and proper) reports of benefit payments made by the Plan; 
     
  (j)                                       To determine and allocate among the Employers the liability to the Company associated with Plan benefits in accordance with  Section 1.3  and to determine the time at which and manner in which that liability shall be paid to the Company; 
     
  (k)                                    To make, or cause to be made, equitable adjustments for any mistakes or errors made in the administration of the Plan; and 
     
  (l)                                        To do all other acts which the Plan Administrator deems necessary or proper to accomplish and implement its responsibilities under the Plan. 
     
  Section 10.2           Reliance on Tables, etc .  In administering the Plan, the Plan Administrator will be entitled to the extent permitted by law to rely conclusively on all tables, valuations, certificates, opinions and reports which are furnished by, or in accordance with the instructions of accountants, counsel, or other experts employed or engaged by the Plan Administrator.  
     
  Section 10.3           Delegation .  The Board of Review shall have the authority to appoint another corporation or one or more other persons to serve as the Plan Administrator hereunder, in which event such corporation or person(s) shall exercise all of the powers, duties, responsibilities, and obligations of the Plan Administrator hereunder.  
     
  Section 10.4           Operations .  The day to day operation of the Plan will be handled by the person(s) designated by the Plan Administrator.  
     
  Section 10.5           Uniform Rules .  The Plan Administrator shall administer the Plan on a reasonable and nondiscriminatory basis and shall apply uniform rules to all similarly situated Participants.  
     
  Section 10.6           Plan Administrator s Decisions Final .  Any interpretation of the provisions of the Plan (including, but not limited to, the provisions of any of its programs) and any decision on any matter within the discretion of the Plan Administrator made by the Plan Administrator in good faith shall be binding on all persons. A misstatement or other mistake of fact shall be corrected when it becomes known and the Plan Administrator shall make such adjustment on account thereof as it considers equitable and practicable. Neither the Plan Administrator nor any Employer shall be liable in any manner for any determination of fact made in good faith.  
     
   ARTICLE XI       CLAIMS FOR BENEFITS  
     
  Section 11.1           Claims and Review Procedures .  The Plan Administrator shall adopt procedures for the filing and review of claims in accordance with Section 503 of ERISA.  
     
 16   

ARTICLE XII       AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION OF PLAN  
     
  Section 12.1           Amendment .  The Company may amend this Plan, in whole or in part, at any time provided, however, that no amendment shall be effective to decrease the balance in any Account as accrued at the time of such amendment.  Any amendment which would allow officers of the Company to participate in the Plan shall require the approval of the AbbVie Inc. Board of Directors.  Any amendment which increases the total cost of the Plan to the Employers in excess of $250,000 in each of the three full calendar years next following the date of the amendment shall be approved by the Board of Review.  The Senior Vice President, Human Resources of the Company (or the individual holding equivalent duties and responsibilities) shall approve all other amendments to the Plan and the extension of the Plan to any division or Subsidiary of the Company.  
     
  Section 12.2           Termination .  The Board of Review may at any time terminate the Plan with respect to future Deferral Elections.  The Board of Review may also terminate and liquidate the Plan in its entirety; provided that such termination and liquidation are consistent with the provisions of Code Section 409A.  Upon any such termination, the Company shall pay to the Participant the benefits the Participant is entitled to receive under the Plan, determined as of the termination date, in compliance with Code Section 409A.  
     
   ARTICLE XIII       MISCELLANEOUS  
     
  Section 13.1           Unfunded Plan .  This Plan is intended to be an unfunded plan maintained primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation for a select group of management or highly compensated employees, within the meaning of Sections 201, 301 and 401 of ERISA and therefore meant to be exempt from Parts 2, 3 and 4 of Title I of ERISA.  All payments pursuant to the Plan shall be made from the general funds of the Company and no special or separate fund shall be established or other segregation of assets made to assure payment. No Participant or other person shall have under any circumstances any interest in any particular property or assets of the Company as a result of participating in the Plan.  
     
  Section 13.2           Nonassignability .  Except as specifically set forth in the Plan with respect to the designation of Beneficiaries, neither a Participant nor any other person shall have any right to commute, sell, assign, transfer, pledge, anticipate, mortgage or otherwise encumber, transfer, hypothecate or convey in advance of actual receipt the amounts, if any, payable hereunder, or any part thereof, which are, and all rights to which are, expressly declared to be unassignable and non-transferable.  No part of the amounts payable shall, prior to actual payment, be subject to seizure or sequestration for the payment of any debts, judgments, alimony or separate maintenance owed by a Participant or any other person, nor be transferable by operation of law in the event of a Participant s or any other person s bankruptcy or insolvency.  
     
  Section 13.3           Validity and Severability .  The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Plan shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Plan, which shall remain in full force and effect, and any prohibition or unenforceability in any jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.  
     
 17   

Section 13.4           Governing Law .  The validity, interpretation, construction and performance of this Plan shall in all respects be governed by the laws of the State of Illinois, without reference to principles of conflict of law, except to the extent preempted by federal law.  
     
  Section 13.5           Employment Status .  This Plan does not constitute a contract of employment or impose on the Participant or the Company any obligation for the Participant to remain an employee of the Company or change the status of the Participant s employment or the policies of the Company and its affiliates regarding termination of employment.  
     
  Section 13.6           Underlying Compensation and Incentive Plans and Programs .  Nothing in this Plan shall prevent the Company from modifying, amending or terminating the compensation or the incentive plans and programs pursuant to which Eligible Bonuses or Eligible Compensation are earned and which are deferred under this Plan.  
     
  Section 13.7           Successors of the Company .  The rights and obligations of the Company under the Plan shall inure to the benefit of, and shall be binding upon, the successors and assigns of the Company.  
     
  Section 13.8           Waiver of Breach .  The waiver by the Company of any breach of any provision of the Plan by the Participant shall not operate or be construed as a waiver of any subsequent breach by the Participant.  
     
  Section 13.9           Notice .  Any notice or filing required or permitted to be given to the Company under the Plan shall be sufficient if in writing and hand-delivered, or sent by first class mail to the principal office of the Company, directed to the attention of the Plan Administrator. Such notice shall be deemed given as of the date of delivery, or, if delivery is made by mail, as of the date shown on the postmark.  
     
  Section 13.10            Waiver of Notice .  Any notice required under the Plan may be waived by the person entitled to such notice.  
     
  Section 13.11        Evidence .  Evidence required of anyone under the Plan may be by certificate, affidavit, document or other information which the person acting on it considers pertinent and reliable, and signed, made or presented by the proper party or parties.  
     
  Section 13.12        Additional Employers .  Subject to the consent of the Board of Review, any Subsidiary of the Company may adopt the Plan by filing a written instrument to that effect with the Company.  
     
  Section 13.13        Section 409A .  To the extent applicable, it is intended that the Plan comply with the provisions of Code Section 409A.  The Plan will be administered and interpreted in a manner consistent with this intent, and any provision that would cause the Plan to fail to satisfy Code Section 409A will have no force and effect until amended to comply therewith (which amendment may be retroactive to the extent permitted by Code Section 409A).  Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, to the extent required to avoid accelerated taxation and/or tax penalties under Code Section 409A and applicable guidance issued thereunder, amounts that would otherwise be payable pursuant to the Plan during the six-month period immediately following the Participant s Termination of Employment or Retirement  
     
 18   

shall instead be paid on the first business day after the date that is six months following the Participant s Termination of Employment or Retirement (or upon the Participant s death, if earlier), plus, to the extent subject to a six-month delay, a return equal to the Rate of Return that would be achieved if such amounts were invested in accordance with the Participant s Investment Elections under  Section 4.2  from the respective dates on which such amounts would otherwise have been paid until the actual date of payment.  
     
 19   

SUPPLEMENT A   
     
   TRANSFER OF LIABILITIES FROM THE   
   ABBOTT LABORATORIES DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN   
     
  A-1.         Purpose and Effect .  The purpose of this Supplement A is to provide for the transfer of liabilities from the Abbott Laboratories Deferred Compensation Plan (the  Abbott DCP ) to this Plan with respect to Transferred Participants and Post-Distribution Participants as set forth in the EMA.  
     
  A-2.         Eligibility, Service and Compensation .  Transferred Participants and Post-Distribution Participants shall (a) be eligible to participate in this Plan to the extent they were eligible to participate in the Abbott DCP as of the applicable Transfer Date (as defined in the EMA), and (b) receive credit for vesting and eligibility for all service credited for those purposes under the Abbott DCP as of the Transfer Date (as defined in the EMA) as if that service had been rendered to AbbVie (provided that in the event that any such Transferred Participant or Post-Distribution Participant receives a distribution from the Abbott DCP, the value of such distribution shall be offset against future benefits under the this Plan to the extent necessary to prevent a duplication of benefits).  The compensation paid by Abbott and its subsidiaries to a Transferred Participant or a Post-Distribution Participant that was recognized under the Abbott DCP as of the Transfer Date (as defined in the EMA) shall be credited and recognized for all applicable purposes under this Plan as though it were compensation from AbbVie or its Subsidiaries.  
     
  A-3.         Matching DCP Deferral .  For purposes of determining a Transferred Participant s or a Post-Distribution Participant s Matching DCP Deferrals for the Plan Year in which such participant becomes eligible to participate in the Plan, such participant s deferrals and Base Compensation under the Plan shall be prorated.  
     
  A-4.         Employer Contributions .  For purposes of determining the Employer Contribution under  Section 5.1  for the Plan Year in which a Transferred Participant or a Post-Distribution Participant becomes eligible to participate in the Plan, such participant s Matching DCP Deferrals made under the Abbott DCP shall not be taken into account.  
     
  A-5.         Initial Transfer of Liabilities from Abbott DCP .  As soon as practicable after the Separation Date, and subject to such terms and conditions as the Plan Administrator may establish, all liabilities attributable to Transferred Participants shall be transferred from the Abbott DCP to this Plan.  The Plan shall credit each such Transferred Employee s account with (a) the amount deferred by such individual into the Abbott DCP as of the applicable Transfer Date, plus (b) any employer contributions, whether vested or unvested, deemed to have been made in relation to the amount described in (a), including, in each case, any earnings thereon.  
     
  A-6.         Deferral and Distribution Elections.   The Plan shall recognize, implement and honor all deferral and distribution elections made by each Transferred Participant under the Abbott DCP (including, but not limited to, any election to defer any bonus earned during 2012 but paid in 2013).  
     
 20   

A-7.         Subsequent Transfers .  At such time or times as the Plan Administrator and Abbott (or its delegate) shall agree, and subject to such terms and conditions as the Plan Administrator may establish, all liabilities attributable to Post-Distribution Participants shall be transferred from the Abbott DCP to this Plan.  The Plan shall credit each such Post-Distribution Participant s account with (a) the amount deferred by such individual into the Abbott DCP as of the applicable Transfer Date, plus (b) any employer contributions, whether vested or unvested, deemed to have been made in relation to the amount described in (a), including, in each case, any earnings thereon.  
     
  A-8.         Deferral and Distribution Elections   Post-Distribution Participants .  Post-Distribution Participants are required to make new elections under the Plan upon hire or transfer to AbbVie or its subsidiaries in accordance with  Section 3.1(b) .  Distribution elections made under the Abbott DCP with respect to transferred amounts described in A-7 above shall be recognized, implemented and honored by the Plan and such amounts shall be immediately distributable to such Post-Distribution Participants in accordance with such elections.  Distribution elections with respect to amounts deferred under this Plan on or after the Effective Date shall be in accordance with  Section 4.3  and other applicable provisions of this Plan.  
     
  A-9.         Use of Terms .  Terms used in this Supplement A have the meanings of those terms as set forth in the Plan, unless they are defined in this Supplement A.  All of the terms and provisions of the Plan shall apply to this Supplement A except that where the terms of the Plan and this Supplement A conflict, the terms of this Supplement A shall govern.  
     
 21   

</EX-10.5>

<EX-10.6>
 4
 a2227341zex-10_6.htm
 EX-10.6

Exhibit 10.6   
     
   ABBVIE NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS  FEE PLAN   
     
  (Amended and Restated Effective as of May 6, 2016)  

ABBVIE   
   NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS  FEE PLAN   
     
  SECTION 1.  PURPOSE  
     
  This AbbVie Non-Employee Directors  Fee Plan (the  Plan ) is maintained by AbbVie Inc. (the  Company ) to attract and retain as members of its Board of Directors persons who are not full-time employees of the Company or any of its subsidiaries but whose business experience and judgment are valuable assets to the Company and its subsidiaries.  This document is an amendment and restatement of the Plan adopted by the Company effective January 1, 2013.  The terms of the Plan set forth in this document shall be effective as of May 6, 2016 (the  Effective Date ).  
     
  SECTION 2.  DIRECTORS COVERED  
     
  As used in the Plan, the term  Director  means any person serving on the Board of Directors of the Company on the Effective Date or at any time thereafter who is not a full-time employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.  
     
  SECTION 3.   FEES PAYABLE TO DIRECTORS  
     
  3.1                                  Each Director shall be entitled to a deferred fee of $105,000 per year, earned monthly for each calendar month or portion thereof that the Director holds such position with the Company, excluding the month in which the Director is first elected to such position. 
     
  3.2                                  Lead Director and Executive Committee Chair Fees 
     
  (a)                                    A Director who serves as Lead Director for the Board of Directors shall be entitled to a deferred fee of $25,000 per year, earned monthly for each calendar month or portion thereof that the Director holds such position, excluding the month in which the Director is first elected to such position. 
     
  (b)                                    A Director who serves as Chair of the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors shall be entitled to a deferred fee of $19,200 per year, earned monthly for each calendar month or portion thereof that the Director holds such position, excluding the month in which the Director is first elected to such position. 
     
  3.3                                  Audit Committee Fees 
     
  (a)                                    A Director who serves as Chair of the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors shall be entitled to a deferred fee of $25,000 per year, earned monthly for each calendar month or portion thereof that the Director holds such position, excluding the month in which the Director is first elected to such position. 

(b)                                    Each Director who serves on the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors (other than the Chair of the Audit Committee) shall be entitled to a deferred fee of $6,000 per year, earned monthly for each calendar month or portion thereof that the Director holds such position, excluding the month in which the Director is first elected to such position. 
     
  3.4                                  A Director who serves as Chair of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors shall be entitled to a deferred fee of $20,000 per year, earned monthly for each calendar month or portion thereof that the Director holds such position, excluding the month in which the Director is first elected to such position. 
     
  3.5                                  A Director who serves as Chair of the Nominations Committee of the Board of Directors shall be entitled to a deferred fee of $20,000 per year, earned monthly for each calendar month or portion thereof that the Director holds such position, excluding the month in which the Director is first elected to such position. 
     
  3.6                                  A Director who serves as Chair of any other Committee created by the Board of Directors shall be entitled to a deferred fee of $20,000 per year, earned monthly for each calendar month or portion thereof that the Director holds such position, excluding the month in which the Director is first elected to such position. 
     
  3.7                                  A Director s Deferred Fee Account shall be credited with interest annually. The rate of interest credited to deferred fees shall be equal to: (a) the average of the  prime rate  of interest set forth on the Bloomberg Screen BTMM or comparable successor quotation service on the first business day of January and the last business day of each month of the fiscal year; plus (b) two hundred twenty-five (225) basis points.  For purposes of this provision, the term  deferred fees  shall include  deferred monthly fees,  and  deferred meeting fees,  and shall also include any such interest credited thereon. 
     
  3.8                                  For purposes of Sections 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.4, 3.5 and 3.6, the automatic deferral of the fees specified therein shall be subject to a Director s election to receive such fees currently pursuant to Section 4.1 or Section 8.1 of the Plan. 
     
  SECTION 4.  PAYMENT OF DIRECTORS  FEES  
     
  4.1                                  Any Director may, by written notice filed with the Secretary of the Company no later than December 31 in a calendar year, elect to receive current payment of all or any portion of the monthly and meeting fees earned by him in calendar years subsequent to the calendar year in which he files such notice, in which case such fees shall not be deferred but shall be paid quarterly as earned and no interest shall be credited thereon.  Such election shall be irrevocable as of December 31 of the year prior to the year in which the fees will be earned. 
     
  Notwithstanding the timing requirements described above, an individual who is newly elected as a Director may make the election described above by filing it with the Secretary of the Company within the thirty (30) day period immediately following the date he or she first becomes a Director eligible to participate in the Plan (and all plans that would be aggregated with the Plan pursuant to Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(c)(2)(i)),  provided  that the  
     
 2   

compensation subject to such election relates solely to services performed after the date of such election and  provided ,  further , that such election shall become irrevocable on the thirtieth day following the date he or she first becomes a Director eligible to participate in the Plan.  In no event shall the fees subject to an election under this Section 4.1 be paid later than the last day of the  applicable 2  month period,  as such term is defined in Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(A).  Any Director who has previously provided notice pursuant to this Section 4.1 may, by written notice filed with the Secretary of the Company no later than December 31 in a calendar year, elect to defer payment of all or a portion of the monthly and meeting fees earned by him in calendar years subsequent to the year in which he files such notice, in which case such fees shall be paid to him in accordance with Section 4.2 below.  
     
  4.2                                  A Director s deferred fees earned pursuant to the Plan shall commence to be paid on the first day of the calendar month next following the earlier of his death or his attainment of age sixty-five (65) if he is not then serving as a Director, or the termination of his service as a Director if he serves as a Director after the attainment of age sixty-five (65). 
     
  4.3                                  A Director s deferred fees that have commenced to be payable pursuant to Section 4.2 shall be payable in annual installments in the order in which they shall have been deferred (i.e., the deferred fees and earnings thereon for the earliest year of service as a Director will be paid on the date provided for in Section 4.2, the deferred fees for the next earliest year of service as a Director will be paid on the anniversary of the payment of the first installment, etc.). 
     
  4.4                                  A Director s deferred fees shall continue to be paid until all deferred fees which he is entitled to receive under the Plan shall have been paid to him (or, in case of his death, to his beneficiary). 
     
  4.5                                  If a Director incurs a termination of service as a Director within two (2) years following the occurrence of a Change in Control (as defined below), the aggregate unpaid balance of such Director s deferred fees plus all unpaid interest credited thereon shall be paid to such Director in a lump sum within thirty (30) days following the date of such termination of service;  provided ,  however , that if such Change in Control does not constitute a  change in control event  (as defined in Treasury Regulation  1.409A-3(i)(5)), then the aggregate unpaid balance of such Director s deferred fees shall be paid in accordance with Sections 4.2 and 4.3. 
     
  Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, if a Director has made the alternative election set forth in Section 8.1, and if such Director incurs a termination of service as a Director within five (5) years following the occurrence of a Change in Control, the aggregate unpaid balance of such Director s fees deposited to the Director s Grantor Trust (as defined below) plus all unpaid interest credited thereon, shall be paid to such Director from the Director s Grantor Trust in a lump sum within thirty (30) days following the date of such termination of service.  
     
  4.6                                  A  Change in Control  shall be deemed to have occurred on the earliest of the following dates: 
     
  (a)                                    the date any Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company (not including in the securities beneficially owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from the Company or its Affiliates)  
     
 3   

representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of the Company s then outstanding securities, excluding any Person who becomes such a Beneficial Owner in connection with a transaction described in clause (i) of paragraph (c) below; or  
     
  (b)                                    the date the following individuals cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the number of directors then serving: individuals who, on the Effective Date, constitute the Board of Directors and any new director (other than a director whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened election contest, including but not limited to a consent solicitation, relating to the election of directors of the Company) whose appointment or election by the Board of Directors or nomination for election by the Company s stockholders was approved or recommended by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who either were directors on the Effective Date or whose appointment, election or nomination for election was previously so approved or recommended; or 
     
  (c)                                     the date on which there is consummated a merger or consolidation of the Company or any direct or indirect subsidiary of the Company with any other corporation or other entity, other than (i) a merger or consolidation (A) immediately following which the individuals who comprise the Board of Directors immediately prior thereto constitute at least a majority of the Board of Directors of the Company, the entity surviving such merger or consolidation or, if the Company or the entity surviving such merger or consolidation is then a subsidiary, the ultimate parent thereof and (B) which results in the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior to such merger or consolidation continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity or any parent thereof), in combination with the ownership of any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company, at least 50% of the combined voting power of the securities of the Company or such surviving entity or any parent thereof outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation, or (ii) a merger or consolidation effected to implement a recapitalization of the Company (or similar transaction) in which no Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company (not including in the securities Beneficially Owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from the Company or its Affiliates) representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of the Company s then outstanding securities; or 
     
  (d)                                    the date the stockholders of the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company or there is consummated an agreement for the sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company s assets, other than a sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company s assets to an entity, at least 50% of the combined voting power of the voting securities of which are owned by stockholders of the Company, in combination with the ownership of any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company, in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of the Company immediately prior to such sale. 
     
 4   

Notwithstanding the foregoing, a  Change in Control  shall not be deemed to have occurred by virtue of the consummation of any transaction or series of integrated transactions immediately following which the record holders of the common stock of the Company immediately prior to such transaction or series of transactions continue to have substantially the same proportionate ownership in an entity which owns all or substantially all of the assets of the Company immediately following such transaction or series of transactions.  
     
  For purposes of this Plan:  Affiliate  shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under Section 12 of the Exchange Act;  Beneficial Owner  shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act;  Exchange Act  shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time; and  Person  shall have the meaning given in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act, as modified and used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) thereof, except that such term shall not include (i) the Company or any of its subsidiaries, (ii) a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company or any of its Affiliates, (iii) an underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities, or (iv) a corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of the Company.  
     
  4.7                                  A  Potential Change in Control  shall exist during any period in which the circumstances described in paragraph (a), (b), (c) or (d), below, exist (provided, however, that a Potential Change in Control shall cease to exist not later than the occurrence of a Change in Control): 
     
  (a)                                    The Company enters into an agreement, the consummation of which would result in the occurrence of a Change in Control, provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this paragraph (a) shall cease to exist upon the expiration or other termination of all such agreements. 
     
  (b)                                    Any Person (without regard to the exclusions set forth in clauses (i) through (iv) of such definition) publicly announces an intention to take or to consider taking actions the consummation of which would constitute a Change in Control; provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this paragraph (b) shall cease to exist upon the withdrawal of such intention, or upon a determination by the Board of Directors that there is no reasonable chance that such actions would be consummated. 
     
  (c)                                     Any Person becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 10% or more of either the then outstanding shares of common stock of the Company or the combined voting power of the Company s then outstanding securities (not including any securities beneficially owned by such Person which are or were acquired directly from the Company or its Affiliates). 
     
  (d)                                    The Board of Directors adopts a resolution to the effect that, for purposes of this Agreement, a Potential Change in Control exists; provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this paragraph (d) shall cease to exist upon a determination by the Board of Directors that the reasons that gave rise to the resolution providing for the existence of a Potential Change in Control have expired or no longer exist. 
     
 5   

4.8                                  The provisions of Sections 4.5, 4.6, 4.7 and this Section 4.8 may not be amended or deleted, nor superseded by any other provision of this Plan, (i) during the pendency of a Potential Change in Control and (ii) during the period beginning on the date of a Change in Control and ending on the date five (5) years following such Change in Control. 
     
  SECTION 5.  CONVERSION TO COMMON STOCK UNITS  
     
  5.1                                  Any Director who is then serving as a director may, by written notice filed with the Secretary of the Company, irrevocably elect to have all or any portion of deferred fees previously earned but not yet paid, transferred from the Director s Deferred Fee Account to a stock account established under this Section 5 ( Stock Account ). Any election as to a portion of such fees shall be expressed as a percentage and the same percentage shall be applied to all such fees regardless of the calendar year in which earned or to all deferred fees earned in designated calendar years, as specified by the Director. A Director may make no more than one notional investment election under this Section 5.l in any calendar year. All such elections may apply only to deferred fees for which an election has not previously been made and shall be irrevocable. 
     
  5.2                                  Any Director may, by written notice filed with the Secretary of the Company, elect to have all or any portion of deferred fees earned subsequent to the date such notice is filed credited to a Stock Account established under this Section 5. Fees covered by such election shall be credited to such account at the end of each calendar quarter in, or for which, such fees are earned. Such election may be revoked or modified by such Director, by written notice filed with the Secretary of the Company, as to deferred fees to be earned in calendar years subsequent to the calendar year such notice is filed, but shall be irrevocable as to deferred fees earned prior to such year. 
     
  5.3                                  Deferred fees credited to a Stock Account under Section 5.1 shall be converted to Common Stock Units by dividing the deferred fees so credited by the closing price of common stock of the Company on the date the notice of election under Section 5 is received by the Company (or the next business day, if there are no sales on such date) as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Reporting System. Deferred fees credited to a Stock Account under Section 5.2 shall be converted to Common Stock Units by dividing the deferred fees so credited by the closing price of common stock of the Company as of the last business day of the calendar quarter for which the credit is made, as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Reporting System. 
     
  5.4                                  Each Common Stock Unit shall be credited with (or adjusted for) the same cash and stock dividends, stock splits and other distributions and adjustments as are received by or applicable to one share of common stock of the Company. All cash dividends and other cash distributions credited to Common Stock Units shall be converted to additional Common Stock Units by dividing each such dividend or distribution by the closing price of common stock of the Company on the payment date for such dividend or distribution, as reported by the New York Stock Exchange Composite Reporting System. 
     
  5.5                                  The value of the Common Stock Units credited each Director shall be paid to the Director in cash on the dates specified in Section 4.3 (or, if applicable, Section 4.5). The amount 
     
 6   

of each payment shall be determined by multiplying the Common Stock Units payable on each date specified in Section 4.3 (or, if applicable, Section 4.5) by the closing price of common stock of the Company on the day prior to the payment date (or the next preceding business day if there are no sales on such date), as reported by the New York Stock Exchange Composite Reporting System.  
     
  SECTION 6.  MISCELLANEOUS  
     
  6.1                                  Each Director or former Director entitled to payment of deferred fees hereunder from time to time may name any person or persons (who may be named contingently or successively) to whom any deferred Director s fees earned by him and payable to him are to be paid in case of his death before he receives any or all of such deferred Director s fees.  Each designation will revoke all prior designations by the same Director or former Director, shall be in a form prescribed by the Company, and will be effective only when filed by the Director or former Director in writing with the Secretary of the Company during his lifetime. If a deceased Director or former Director shall have failed to name a beneficiary in the manner provided above, or if the beneficiary named by a deceased Director or former Director dies before him or before payment of all the Director s or former Director s deferred Directors  fees, the Company, in its discretion, may direct payment of the remaining installments required by Section 4.3 to either: 
     
  (a)                                    any one or more or all of the next of kin (including the surviving spouse) of the Director or former Director, and in such proportions as the Company determines; or 
     
  (b)                                    the legal representative or representatives of the estate of the last to die of the Director or former Director and his last surviving beneficiary. 
     
  The person or persons to whom any deceased Director s or former Director s deferred Directors  fees are payable under this Section will be referred to as his  beneficiary.   
     
  6.2                                  Establishment of the Plan and coverage thereunder of any person shall not be construed to confer any right on the part of such person to be nominated for reelection to the Board of Directors of the Company, or to be reelected to the Board of Directors. 
     
  6.3                                  Payment of deferred Directors  fees will be made only to the person entitled thereto in accordance with the terms of the Plan, and deferred Directors  fees are not in any way subject to the debts or other obligations of persons entitled thereto, and may not be voluntarily or involuntarily sold, transferred or assigned. When a person entitled to a payment under the Plan is under legal disability or, in the Company s opinion, is in any way incapacitated so as to be unable to manage his financial affairs, the Company may direct that payment be made to such person s legal representative, or to a relative or friend of such person for his benefit. Any payment made in accordance with the preceding sentence shall be in complete discharge of the Company s obligation to make such payment under the Plan. 
     
  6.4                                  Any action required or permitted to be taken by the Company under the terms of the Plan shall be by affirmative vote of a majority of the members of the Board of Directors then in office. 
     
 7   

6.5                                  To the extent applicable, it is intended that the Plan comply with the provisions of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ( Code Section 409A ).  The Plan will be administered and interpreted in a manner consistent with this intent, and any provision that would cause the Plan to fail to satisfy Code Section 409A will have no force and effect until amended to comply therewith (which amendment may be retroactive to the extent permitted by Code Section 409A).  Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, for all purposes of this Plan, a Director shall not be deemed to have had a termination of service as a Director until the Director has incurred a separation from service as defined in Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(h) and, to the extent required to avoid accelerated taxation and/or tax penalties under Code Section 409A and applicable guidance issued thereunder, payment of the amounts payable under the Plan that would otherwise be payable during the six-month period after the date of termination shall instead be paid on the first business day after the expiration of such six-month period, plus interest thereon, at a rate equal to the rate specified in Section 8.8 (to the extent that such interest is not already provided to the Director under Section 8.10), from the respective dates on which such amounts would otherwise have been paid until the actual date of payment.  In addition, for purposes of the Plan, each amount to be paid and each installment payment shall be construed as a separate identified payment for purposes of Code Section 409A. 
     
  SECTION 7.  AMENDMENT AND DISCONTINUANCE  
     
  While the Company expects to continue the Plan, it must necessarily reserve, and does hereby reserve, the right to amend or discontinue the Plan at any time; provided, however, that any amendment or discontinuance of the Plan shall be prospective in operation only, and shall not affect the payment of any deferred Directors  fees theretofore earned by any Director, or the conditions under which any such fees are to be paid or forfeited under the Plan. Any discontinuance of the Plan by the Company shall comply with the requirements of Code Section 409A.  
     
  SECTION 8.  ALTERNATE PAYMENT OF FEES  
     
  8.1                                  A Director who was first elected or appointed to the Board of Directors before January 1, 2016 may, by written notice filed with the Secretary of the Company prior to each calendar year, elect to receive all or a portion of his fees earned in the following calendar year in accordance with the provisions of Section 8.  An election under this Section 8.1 shall become irrevocable as of December 31 of the calendar year prior to the year in which such monthly and meeting fees will be earned (or, in the case of a new Director elected or appointed before January 1, 2016, on the 30th day following the Director s first participation in the Plan and all plans that would be aggregated with the Plan pursuant to Treasury Regulation   1.409A-1(c)(2)(i),  provided  that the compensation subject to such election relates solely to services performed after the date of such election). 
     
  8.2                                  If payment of a Director s fees is made pursuant to Section 8.1, such fees shall not be deferred and a portion of the gross amount of such fees shall be paid currently in cash for the Director directly to a  Grantor Trust  established by the Director in a form determined by the Committee; and the balance of the gross amount of such fees shall be paid currently in cash  
     
 8   

directly to the Director, provided that the portion paid directly to the Director shall be an amount equal to the aggregate federal, state and local individual income taxes attributable to the gross fees paid pursuant to this Section 8.2 (determined in accordance with Section 8.14).  In no event shall such fees be paid to the Grantor Trust or directly to the Director later than the last day of the  applicable 2  month period,  as such term is defined in Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(A).  
     
  8.3                                  The Company will establish and maintain four separate accounts in the name of each Director who has made an election under Section 8.1 as follows: a  Pre-Tax  Fee Account,  an  After-Tax Fee Account,  a  Pre-Tax Stock Account  and an  After-Tax Stock Account  (collectively, the  Accounts ). 
     
  (a)                                    The Pre-Tax Fee Account shall reflect the total amount of any fees paid in cash to a Director or deposited to a Director s Grantor Trust, including the amount equal to the aggregate federal, state and local individual income taxes attributable to the fees paid pursuant to Section 8.2, and Interest to be credited to a Director pursuant to Section 8.8.  The After-Tax Fee Account shall reflect such gross amounts but shall be maintained on an after-tax basis. 
     
  (b)                                    The Pre-Tax Stock Account shall reflect the total amount of fees converted to Common Stock Units pursuant to Section 5, including the amount equal to the aggregate federal, state and local individual income taxes attributable to the fees paid pursuant to Section 8.2, and any adjustments made pursuant to Section 8.9. The After-Tax Stock Account shall reflect such gross amounts but shall be maintained on an after-tax basis. 
     
  (c)                                     The Accounts established pursuant to this Section 8.3 are for the convenience of the administration of the Plan and no trust relationship with respect to such Accounts is intended or should be implied. 
     
  8.4                                  As of the end of each calendar year, the Company shall adjust each Director s Pre-Tax Fee Account as follows: 
     
  (a)                                    FIRST, charge, in any year in which the Director is entitled to receive a distribution from his or her Grantor Trust, an amount equal to the distribution from the fee account maintained thereunder that would have been made to the Director if the aggregate amounts paid according to Section 8.2 had instead been deferred under Section  
     
  (b)                                    NEXT, credit an amount equal to the gross amount of any fees paid for that year, not converted to Common Stock Units, that are paid to the Director (including the amount deposited in the Director s Grantor Trust and the amount equal to the aggregate federal, state and local individual income taxes attributable to the fees paid pursuant to Section 8.2) according to Section 8.2; and 
     
  (c)                                     FINALLY, credit an amount equal to the Interest earned for that year according to Section 8.8. 
     
 9   

8.5                                  As of the end of each calendar year, the Company shall adjust each Director s After-Tax Fee Account as follows: 
     
  (a)                                    FIRST, charge, in any year in which the Director is in receipt of a benefit distribution from his or her Grantor Trust, an amount equal to the product of (i) the distribution that would have been made to the Director if the aggregate amounts paid according to Section 8.2 had instead been deferred under Section 3, multiplied by (ii) a fraction, the numerator of which is the balance in the Director s After-Tax Fee Account as of the end of the prior fiscal year and the denominator of which is the balance of the Director s Pre-Tax Fee Account as of that same date; 
     
  (b)                                    NEXT, credit an amount equal to the fees not converted to Common Stock Units that are paid that year to the Director directly to the Director s Grantor Trust according to Section 8.2; and 
     
  (c)                                     FINALLY, credit an amount equal to the After-Tax Interest earned for that year according to Section 8.8. 
     
  8.6                                  As of the end of each calendar year, the Company shall adjust each Director s Pre-Tax Stock Account as follows: 
     
  (a)                                    FIRST, charge, in any year in which the Director is entitled to receive a distribution from his or her Grantor Trust, an amount equal to the distribution that would have been made to the Director if the aggregate amount of fees paid according to Section 8.2 had instead been deferred under Section 3 and the adjustments had been made under Section  
     
  (b)                                    NEXT, credit an amount equal to the total amount of any fees for that year that are converted to Common Stock Units and paid to the Director (including the amount deposited in the Director s Grantor Trust and the amount equal to the aggregate federal, state and local individual income taxes attributable to the fees paid pursuant to Section 8.2) and allocated to the Stock Account maintained thereunder) according to Section 8.2; and 
     
  (c)                                     NEXT, credit an amount equal to the net earnings of the Director s Grantor Trust for the year; and 
     
  (d)                                    FINALLY, credit an amount equal to the Book Value Adjustments to be made for that year according to Section 8.9. 
     
  8.7                                  As of the end of each calendar year, the Company shall adjust each Director s After-Tax Stock Account as follows: 
     
  (a)                                    FIRST, charge, in any year in which the Director is entitled to receive a distribution from his or her Grantor Trust, an amount equal to the product of (i) the distribution that would have been made to the Director if the aggregate amounts paid according to Section 8.2 had instead been deferred under Section 3 and the adjustments had been made under Section 5, multiplied by (ii) a fraction, the numerator of which is  
     
 10   

the balance in the Director s After-Tax Stock Account as of the end of the prior fiscal year and the denominator of which is the balance of the Director s Pre-Tax Stock Account as of that same date;  
     
  (b)                                    NEXT, credit an amount equal to the fees converted to Common Stock Units that are paid that year to the Director directly to the Director s Grantor Trust and allocated to the Stock Account maintained thereunder according to Section 8.2; and 
     
  (c)                                     NEXT, credit an amount equal to the net earnings of the Director s Grantor Trust for the year; and 
     
  (d)                                    FINALLY, credit an amount equal to the Book Value Adjustments to be made for that year according to Section 8.9. 
     
  8.8                                  The Director s Pre-Tax Fee Account and After-Tax Fee Account shall be credited with interest as follows: 
     
  (a)                                    As of the end of each calendar year, a Director s Pre-Tax Fee Account shall be credited with interest ( Interest ) at the following rate: 
     
  (i)                                        the average of the  prime rate  of interest set forth on the Bloomberg Screen BTMM or comparable successor quotation service on the first business day of January and the last business day of each month of the fiscal year; plus 
     
  (ii)                                     two hundred twenty-five (225) basis points. 
     
  (b)                                    As of the end of each calendar year, a Director s After-Tax Fee Account shall be credited with the amount of Interest set forth above, multiplied by (one minus the aggregate of the applicable federal, state and local individual income tax rates and employment tax rate, determined in accordance with subsection 7.5) (the  After-Tax Interest ). 
     
  8.9                                  As of the end of each calendar year, a Director s Pre-Tax Stock Account and After-Tax Stock Account shall be adjusted as provided in Section 5.4, to the extent applicable, and shall also be adjusted to reflect the increase or decrease in the fair market value of the Company s common stock determined in accordance with Section 5.5, except that (i) any reference to the payment date in such Section shall mean December 31 of the applicable calendar year for purposes of this Section, and (ii) adjustments to the After-Tax Stock Account shall be made on an after-tax basis.  Such adjustments shall be referred to as  Book Value Adjustments.  
     
  8.10                           In addition to any fees paid to a Director s Grantor Trust under Section 8.2 during the year, the Company shall also make a payment (an  Interest Payment ) with respect to each Director who has established a Grantor Trust for each year in which the Grantor Trust is in effect.  The Interest Payment shall equal the excess, if any, of the gross amount of the Interest credited to the Director (as defined in Section 8.8(a)), over the net earnings of the Director s Grantor Trust for the year, and shall be paid within the thirty (30)-day period beginning April 1 of the following calendar year.  A portion of such gross Interest Payment, equal to the excess, if any, of  
     
 11   

the Net Interest Accrual over the net earnings of the Director s Grantor Trust, shall be deposited in the Director s Grantor Trust, with the balance paid to the Director; provided, however, in the event that the net earnings of the Director s Grantor Trust exceeds the Net Interest Accrual, a distribution from the Grantor Trust shall be required in accordance with Section 8.15.  A Director s Net Interest Accrual for a year is an amount equal to the After-Tax Interest credited to the Director s After-Tax Fee Account for that year in accordance with Section 8.8(b).  
     
  8.11                           In addition to the fees paid under Section 8.2 during the year and the Interest Payment described above, the Company shall also make a payment (a  Principal Payment ) with respect to each Director who has established a Grantor Trust for each year in which the Grantor Trust is in effect, to be credited to the Stock Account maintained thereunder.   The Principal Payment shall equal the excess, if any, of 75 percent of the fair market value (as determined in accordance with Section 6.5) of the balance of the Director s Pre-Tax Stock Account on December 31 over the balance in the Stock Account maintained under the Director s Grantor Trust as of that same date, and shall be paid within the thirty (30)-day period beginning April 1 of the following calendar year.  For the calendar year in which the last installment distribution is made from the Director s Grantor Trust (meaning, the year that is X years following the year of the event triggering the payments, where X is the same number of years served by the Director), the payment made under this Section 8.11 shall equal the excess, if any, of 100 percent of the balance of the Director s After-Tax Stock Account over the balance in the Stock Account maintained under the Director s Grantor Trust as of that same date. 
     
  8.12                           Each Director s Grantor Trust assets shall be invested solely in the instruments specified by investment guidelines established by the Committee.  Such investment guidelines, once established, may be changed by the Committee, provided that any change shall not take effect until the year following the year in which the change is made and provided further that the instruments specified shall be consistent with the provisions of Section 3(b) of the form of Grantor Trust established by the Committee. 
     
  8.13                           For purposes of Section 8, a Director s federal income tax rate shall be deemed to be the highest marginal rate of federal individual income tax in effect in the calendar year in which a calculation under this Section is to be made and state and local tax rates shall be deemed to be the highest marginal rates of individual income tax in effect in the state and locality of the Director s residence on the date such a calculation is made, net of any federal tax benefits without a benefit for any net capital losses. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, if a Director is not a citizen or resident of the United States, his or her income tax rates shall be deemed to be the highest marginal income tax rates actually imposed on the Director s benefits under this Plan or earnings under his or her Grantor Trust without a benefit for any net capital losses. 
     
  8.14                           If a portion of a Director s fees have been paid to a Grantor Trust pursuant to Section 8.2, then those fees and earnings thereon shall be paid to him from the Grantor Trust in the order in which they were earned (i.e., the fees for the earliest year of service as a Director will be the first fees distributed from the Grantor Trust(s), the fees for the next earliest year of service as a Director will be paid on the anniversary of the payment of the first installment, etc.).  The distribution of a Director s fees shall continue until all fees which the Director is entitled to receive under the Plan shall have been paid in accordance with the terms of the Grantor Trust(s). 
     
 12   

8.15                           AbbVie, as the administrator of the Director s Grantor Trust, may direct the trustee to distribute to the Director from the income of such Grantor Trust, a sum of money sufficient to pay the taxes on trust earnings for such year, to the extent a sufficient sum of money has not been paid to the Director pursuant to Section 8.10 or 8.11, as applicable.  The taxes shall be determined in accordance with Section 8.13. 
     
  8.16                           AbbVie, as the administrator of the Director s Grantor Trust, may direct the trustee to pay the appropriate federal, state and local individual income taxes attributable to the fees and other payments paid to the Director pursuant to Sections 8.2, 8.10 and 8.11 to the applicable tax authorities on behalf of the Director.  The taxes shall be determined in accordance with Section 8.13. 
     
 13   

</EX-10.6>

<EX-10.8>
 5
 a2227341zex-10_8.htm
 EX-10.8

Exhibit 10.8   
     
   ABBVIE SUPPLEMENTAL SAVINGS PLAN   
     
  (Amended and Restated Effective as of January 1, 2015)  

ABBVIE   
   SUPPLEMENTAL SAVINGS PLAN   
     
  SECTION 1  
  INTRODUCTION  
     
  1-1.             PURPOSE AND EFFECTIVE DATE.  This AbbVie Supplemental Savings Plan (the  Plan ) was established by AbbVie Inc. ( AbbVie ), effective as of January 1, 2013 (the  Effective Date ), to provide eligible management employees of AbbVie an opportunity to accumulate capital for their retirement or other termination of employment in excess of the contributions allowed under the AbbVie Savings Plan (the  Savings Plan ).  The Plan is hereby amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2015.  
     
  1-2.             ERISA.  The Plan is intended to be exempt from Parts 2, 3, and 4 of Title I of ERISA and, therefore, participation in the Plan is limited to a select group of management and highly compensated employees, within the meaning of ERISA Sections 201(2), 301(a)(3) and 401(a)(1).  
     
  1-3.             ADMINISTRATION.  The Plan shall be administered by the Compensation Committee (the  Committee ) appointed by the Board of Directors of AbbVie (the  Board of Directors ).  
     
  1-4.             TRANSFER OF LIABILITIES FROM ABBOTT LABORATORIES PLAN.  As part of the Separation and Distribution Agreement by and between Abbott Laboratories and AbbVie Inc. dated as of November 28, 2012, Abbott and AbbVie entered into the Employee Matters Agreement dated as of December 31, 2012 (the  EMA ).  In accordance with the EMA, all liabilities for AbbVie Employees (as defined in the EMA) under the Abbott Laboratories 401(k) Supplemental Plan were transferred to the Plan and the Plan became liable to pay all such benefits to such participants.  Supplement A to the Plan sets forth the additional rules applicable to the transferred benefits and transferred participants.  
     
  SECTION 2  
  ELIGIBILITY AND PARTICIPATION  
     
  2-1.             PERSONS ELIGIBLE TO PARTICIPATE.  Participation in the Plan shall be limited to employees who are serving as corporate officers of AbbVie as of the Effective Date or who become corporate officers thereafter; provided, however, that no new participants may commence participation in the Plan on or after January 1, 2015. The term  corporate officer  for purposes of the Plan shall mean an individual elected as an officer of AbbVie by its Board of Directors (or designated as such for purposes of the Plan by the Committee), but shall not include assistant secretaries, assistant treasurers, or other assistant officers. In the event an employee ceases to be a corporate officer of AbbVie due to demotion or otherwise while remaining in the employ of AbbVie, (a) such employee s elective deferral in effect for such year shall remain irrevocable, (b) AbbVie s matching contributions under Section 4 shall immediately cease, and (c) such employee shall no longer be eligible to participate in the Plan as of the end of such calendar year.  In the event an employee ceases to be a corporate officer of AbbVie due to termination of employment, such employee shall cease to be eligible to participate in the Plan and any contributions then being made on behalf of such employee shall immediately cease.  
     
  1      

2-2.             PARTICIPANT.  An eligible employee may elect to participate in the Plan by electing to have contributions made on the employee s behalf as provided in Section 5.  
     
  SECTION 3  
  EMPLOYEE CONTRIBUTIONS  
     
  3-1.             ALLOWABLE CONTRIBUTIONS.  An eligible employee may elect to have his employer make  pre-tax contributions  on his behalf in an amount not greater than 18% in total of his compensation in any calendar year for services rendered to his employer. A pre-tax contribution made by an employer on behalf of a participant shall reduce the participant s compensation at the time of payment of such compensation. Each election hereunder shall be in writing, and shall be in multiples of 1% of compensation.  
     
  3-2.             COMPENSATION.  A participant s  compensation  shall have the same meaning as set forth in Article 15 of the Savings Plan.  
     
  3-3.             MAXIMUM EMPLOYEE CONTRIBUTIONS.  Notwithstanding subsection 3-1, in no event shall the sum of:  
     
  (a)                                     the participant s total contributions, pre-tax contributions, supplemental deposits and supplemental pre-tax contributions made under the Savings Plan; plus  
     
  (b)                                     the participant s total pre-tax contributions made under the Plan;  
     
  for any calendar year, exceed 18% of the employee s compensation for such year.  In the event the limitation described in this subsection 3-3 would be exceeded for any participant, the participant s pre-tax contributions made under this Plan shall be reduced until the limit is not exceeded.  
     
  3-4.             CHANGE IN SAVINGS PLAN.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in subsections 3-1 and 3-3 above, no action or inaction by an employee under the Savings Plan may result in a change in amounts contributed to the Plan in excess of the limit with respect to elective deferrals under Code Section 402(g)(1)(A), (B) and (C) in effect for the year in which the action or inaction occurs.  
     
  SECTION 4  
  EMPLOYER CONTRIBUTIONS  
     
  For the calendar year ending December 31, 2013, and for each subsequent calendar year, AbbVie shall make a contribution on behalf of each Plan participant who makes pre-tax contributions ( basic contributions ) under the Plan during such year at the rate of two percent (2%) of compensation in excess of the limit in effect for such year under Code Section 40l(a)(17).  Such employer contribution shall be in an amount equal to the contribution the participant would have received under the Savings Plan with respect to such basic contributions had such basic contributions been made under the Savings Plan.  
     
  2      

SECTION 5  
  ELECTIONS  
     
  5-1.             ANNUAL ELECTIONS REQUIRED.  Except as provided in subsection 5-2 or Supplement A, a participant shall elect to make pre-tax contributions with respect to compensation earned in any calendar year on or before December 31 of the prior calendar year.  Each such election shall be in writing, shall be filed with the Committee, shall be effective only for the calendar year for which made and shall be irrevocable.  An employee who fails to make a timely election under this subsection 5-1 for a calendar year may not contribute to the Plan during the following year.  
     
  5-2.             NEWLY ELIGIBLE AND NEWLY HIRED EMPLOYEES.  A newly eligible or newly hired corporate officer described in subsection 2-1 shall become eligible to participate in the Plan on the first day of the month next following the month after the individual s date of eligibility or hire, as applicable;  provided  that in no event may such individual begin to participate in the Plan later than 90 days following his or her date of hire.  An eligible employee described in the preceding sentence (who was not eligible to participate in any other plan that would be aggregated with the Plan under Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(c)) shall make the election described in subsection 5-1 within thirty (30) days of the date on which he or she first becomes eligible under the Plan.  Any such election shall become effective for compensation earned no earlier than the first payroll period commencing after receipt of the election by the Committee and shall be irrevocable for the remainder of the calendar year.  Any other newly eligible or newly hired employee shall make the election described in subsection 5-1 no later than December 31 of the year in which such employee first becomes eligible under the Plan.  Any such election shall become effective for compensation earned in the calendar year following the year in which the election is made.  
     
  5-3.             GRANTOR TRUST ELECTION.  At the time of the annual elections described in subsection 5-1, each participant may elect to have his or her pre-tax and employer contributions for the following year deposited in a  Grantor Trust  established by the participant under the circumstances and on the terms described in subsection 6-1, rather than defer such contributions under subsection 5-1.  Any such election shall be irrevocable and shall apply to all pre-tax contributions made during, and employer contributions made for, such calendar year on behalf of such participant.  If the participant fails to make an election under this subsection 5-3, the participant s pre-tax contributions made during, and employer contribution made for, such calendar year shall be handled by AbbVie as described in subsection 6-2 and shall not be deposited in a Grantor Trust in the future.  In no event shall such contributions be paid to the Grantor Trust later than the last day of the  applicable 2  month period,  as such term is defined in Treasury Regulation   1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(A).  
     
  SECTION 6  
  FUNDING EMPLOYER AND EMPLOYEE CONTRIBUTIONS  
     
  6-1.             CONTRIBUTIONS TO BE DEPOSITED IN GRANTOR TRUSTS.  Each participant s pre-tax contributions and employer contributions for which the participant has filed an election under subsection 5-3 shall be deposited in a  Grantor Trust  established by the participant, as described in subsection 6-3, provided such trust is in a form which the Committee determines is substantially similar to the trust attached to this Plan as Exhibit A.  
     
  3      

6-2.             CONTRIBUTIONS TO BE RETAINED BY ABBVIE.  Each participant s pre-tax contributions and employer contributions for which the participant has not filed an election under subsection 5-3 shall be retained by AbbVie and credited to a Deferred Account established under subsection 7-1.  
     
  6-3.             AFTER ESTABLISHMENT OF GRANTOR TRUST.  After a Grantor Trust has been established by a participant under subsection 6-1, all pre-tax contributions and employer contributions made thereafter for which the participant has filed an election under subsection 5-3 shall be deposited in such Grantor Trust (less the aggregate federal, state and local individual income and employment taxes withheld on behalf of the participant (determined under subsection 8-5) attributable to such contributions). Such deposits shall be made as soon as practicable after the last complete payroll period of the calendar quarter in which the contributions are made.  In no event shall such contributions be paid to the Grantor Trust or the participant later than the last day of the  applicable 2  month period,  as such term is defined in Treasury Regulation   1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(A).  
     
  SECTION 7  
  ACCOUNTING  
     
  7-1.             SEPARATE ACCOUNTS.  The Committee shall establish bookkeeping accounts for participants who have made elections pursuant to subsection 5-1 or 5-3 as follows:  
     
  (a)               The Committee shall maintain a  Deferred Account  in the name of each participant who has elected to defer payment of all or a portion of his or her pre-tax contributions under subsection 5-1.  The Deferred Account shall be comprised of any pre-tax contributions made on behalf of the participant under subsection 3-1 and any other allocations made on behalf of the participant under Section 4, in each case for which the participant has not made an election under subsection 5-3, and any adjustments made pursuant to subsection 7-2.  
     
  (b)               The Committee shall maintain two separate Accounts, a  Pre-Tax Account  and an  After-Tax Account,  in the name of each participant who has declined to defer allocations by electing to have a portion of his or her pre-tax and employer contributions deposited in cash to a Grantor Trust according to subsection 5-3.  The Pre-Tax Account shall consist of the aggregate of all pre-tax contributions contemplated by subsection 3-1, whether deposited to the participant s Grantor Trust or paid in cash to, or withheld on behalf of, the participant, and any adjustments in accordance with subsection 7-3.  The After-Tax Account shall consist of employer contributions deposited to the participant s Grantor Trust in cash according to subsection 5-3 and any adjustments made in accordance with subsection 7-4.  
     
  7-2.             ADJUSTMENT OF DEFERRED ACCOUNTS.  No later than as of the end of each calendar year, each participant s Deferred Account shall be adjusted by the Committee as follows:  
     
  4      

(a)               FIRST, reduced by an amount equal to any distribution made to the participant during that year pursuant to subsection 7-11 or 7-12;  
     
  (b)               NEXT, increased by an amount equal to any pre-tax contributions and employer contributions made on behalf of such participant for that year for which the participant has not made an election under subsection 5-3; and  
     
  (c)               FINALLY, increased by an amount equal to the Interest earned for that year pursuant to subsection 7-5.  
     
  7-3.             ADJUSTMENT OF PRE-TAX ACCOUNTS.  No later than as of the end of each calendar year, each participant s Pre-Tax Account shall be adjusted by the Committee as follows:  
     
  (a)              FIRST, reduced, in any year in which the participant is entitled to receive a distribution from his or her Grantor Trust, by an amount equal to the distribution that would have been made to the participant if the aggregate amounts allocated according to subsection 5-3 had instead been deferred under subsection 5-1;  
     
  (b)               NEXT, increased by an amount equal to any pre-tax contributions and employer contributions made on behalf of the participant for that year that are paid to, or withheld on behalf of, the participant (including any contributions paid to the participant s Grantor Trust) according to subsection 5-3; and  
     
  (c)               FINALLY, increased by an amount equal to the Interest earned for that year pursuant to subsection 7-5.  
     
  7-4.             ADJUSTMENT OF AFTER-TAX ACCOUNTS.  No later than as of the end of each calendar year, each participant s After-Tax Account shall be adjusted by the Committee as follows:  
     
  (a)               FIRST, reduced, in any year in which the participant is in receipt of a benefit distribution from his or her Grantor Trust, by an amount calculated as provided by subsection 7-16 which represents the distribution for such year;  
     
  (b)               NEXT, increased by an amount equal to any pre-tax contributions and employer contributions made on behalf of the participant for that year that are deposited in the participant s Grantor Trust according to subsection 5-3; and  
     
  (c)               FINALLY, increased by an amount equal to the After-Tax Interest earned for that year pursuant to subsection 7-5.  
     
  7-5.             INTEREST ACCRUALS ON ACCOUNTS.  
     
  (a)               No later than as of the end of each calendar year, a participant s Deferred Account or Pre-Tax Account, as applicable, shall be credited with interest ( Interest ) at the following rate:  
     
  5      

(i)                the average of the  prime rate  of interest as set forth on the Bloomberg Screen BTMM or comparable successor quotation service on the first business day of January and the last business day of each month of the calendar year; plus  
     
  (ii)               two hundred twenty-five (225) basis points.  
     
  (b)               No later than as of the end of each calendar year, a participant s After-Tax Account shall be credited with the amount of Interest set forth above, multiplied by (one minus the aggregate of the applicable federal, state and local individual income tax rates and employment tax rate, determined in accordance with subsections 8-4 and 8-5) (the  After-Tax Interest ).  
     
  (c)               The Interest and After-Tax Interest, as applicable, shall be credited on the conditions established by the Committee.  
     
  7-6.             INTEREST PAYMENTS.    In addition to any employer contribution made on behalf of a participant for any calendar year pursuant to Section 4, AbbVie shall also make a payment (an  Interest Payment ) with respect to each participant who has established a Grantor Trust for each year in which the Grantor Trust is in effect.  The Interest Payment shall equal the excess, if any, of the participant s adjustment in subsection 7-3(c) over the net earnings of the participant s Grantor Trust for the year, as adjusted by the amounts described in Schedule A, if applicable, and shall be paid within the thirty (30)-day period beginning April 1 of the following fiscal year.  A portion of such Interest Payment, equal to the excess, if any, of the Net Interest Accrual over the net earnings of the participant s Grantor Trust, shall be deposited in the participant s Grantor Trust, with the balance paid to, or withheld on behalf of, the participant; provided, however, in the event that the net earnings of the participant s Grantor Trust exceed the Net Interest Accrual, a distribution from the Grantor Trust shall be required in accordance with subsection 8-11.  A participant s Net Interest Accrual for a year is an amount equal to the After-Tax Interest credited to the participant s After-Tax Account for that year in accordance with subsection 7-5.  
     
  7-7.             GRANTOR TRUST ASSETS.  Each participant s Grantor Trust assets shall be invested solely in the instruments specified by investment guidelines established by the Committee.  Such investment guidelines, once established, may be changed by the Committee, provided that any change shall not take effect until the year following the year in which the change is made and provided further that the instruments specified shall be consistent with the provisions of Section 3(b) of the form of Grantor Trust attached hereto as Schedule B.  
     
  7-8.             DESIGNATION OF BENEFICIARIES.  Subject to the conditions and limitations set forth below, each participant, and after a participant s death, each primary beneficiary designated by a participant in accordance with the provisions of this subsection 7-8, shall have the right from time to time to designate a primary beneficiary or beneficiaries and, successive or contingent beneficiary or beneficiaries to receive unpaid amounts from the participant s Deferred Account under the Plan.  Beneficiaries may be a natural person or persons or a fiduciary, such as a trustee of a trust or the legal representative of an estate.  Any such designation shall take effect upon the death of the participant or such beneficiary, as the case may be, or in the case of any  
     
  6      

fiduciary beneficiary, upon the termination of all of its duties (other than the duty to dispose of the right to receive amounts remaining to be paid under the Plan).  The conditions and limitations relating to the designation of beneficiaries are as follows:  
     
  (a)               A nonfiduciary beneficiary shall have the right to designate a further beneficiary or beneficiaries only if the original participant or the next preceding primary beneficiary, as the case may be, shall have expressly so provided in writing; and  
     
  (b)               A fiduciary beneficiary shall designate as a further beneficiary or beneficiaries only those persons or other fiduciaries who are entitled to receive the amounts payable from the participant s account under the trust or estate of which it is a fiduciary.  
     
  Any beneficiary designation or grant of any power to any beneficiary under this subsection may be exercised only by an instrument in writing, executed by the person making the designation or granting such power and filed with the Secretary of AbbVie during such person s lifetime or prior to the termination of a fiduciary s duties.  If a deceased participant or a deceased nonfiduciary beneficiary who had the right to designate a beneficiary as provided above dies without having designated a further beneficiary, or if no beneficiary designated as provided above is living or qualified and acting, the Committee, in its discretion, may direct distribution of the amount remaining from time to time to either:  
     
  (i)               any one or more or all of the next of kin (including the surviving spouse) of the participant or the deceased beneficiary, as the case may be, and in such proportions as the Committee determines; or  
     
  (ii)               the legal representative of the estate of the deceased participant or deceased beneficiary as the case may be.  
     
  7-9.             NON-ASSIGNABILITY AND FACILITY OF PAYMENT.  Amounts payable to participants and their beneficiaries under the Plan are not in any way subject to their debts and other obligations, and may not be voluntarily or involuntarily sold, transferred or assigned; provided that the preceding provisions of this section shall not be construed as restricting in any way a designation right granted to a beneficiary pursuant to the terms of subsection 7-8.  When a participant or the beneficiary of a participant is under legal disability, or in the Committee s opinion is in any way incapacitated so as to be unable to manage his or her financial affairs, the Committee may direct that payments shall be made to the participant s or beneficiary s legal representative, or to a relative or friend of the participant or beneficiary for the benefit of the participant or beneficiary, or the Committee may direct the payment or distribution for the benefit of the participant or beneficiary in any manner that the Committee determines.  
     
  7-10.           PAYER OF AMOUNTS ALLOCATED TO PARTICIPANTS.  Any employer contribution made on behalf of a participant in the Plan and any interest credited with respect thereto will be paid by the employer (or such employer s successor) by whom the participant was employed during the calendar year for which any amount was contributed, and for that purpose, if a participant shall have been employed by two or more employers during any calendar year the amount allocated under this Plan for that year shall be an obligation of each of the respective  
     
  7      

employers in proportion to the respective amounts of compensation paid by each of them in that calendar year.  
     
  7-11.           MANNER OF PAYMENT OF DEFERRED ACCOUNTS.  Subject to subsection 7-12, a participant shall elect to receive payment of his or her Deferred Account in substantially equal annual installments over a minimum period of ten years, or a longer period, at the time of his or her election for such calendar year under subsection 5-1.  Payment of a participant s Deferred Account shall commence on the first business day of January of the year following the year in which the participant incurs a termination of employment.  
     
  7-12.           PAYMENT UPON TERMINATION FOLLOWING CHANGE IN CONTROL. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, if a participant incurs a termination of employment with AbbVie and its subsidiaries for any reason within two (2) years following the date of a Change in Control, provided that the event constituting a Change in Control is also a  change in control event,  as such term is defined in Treasury Regulation   1.409A-3(i)(5): (a) with respect to a participant whose contributions under the Plan are deferred in accordance with subsection 5-1, the aggregate unpaid balance of the participant s Deferred Account shall be paid to such participant in a lump sum within thirty (30) days following the date of such termination of employment, and (b) with respect to a participant whose contributions under the Plan are made pursuant to subsection 5-5, (i) the aggregate of the participant s unpaid contributions under subsection 5-5 (if any) for the fiscal year in which the termination occurs and (ii) a pro rata portion of the unpaid Interest Payment under subsection 7-6 attributable to the portion of the year elapsed prior to the date of termination, shall be paid to such participant s Grantor Trust in a lump sum within thirty (30) days following the date of such termination of employment.  
     
  7-13.           CHANGE IN CONTROL.  A  Change in Control  shall be deemed to have occurred on the earliest of the following dates:  
     
  (a)               the date any Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of AbbVie (not including in the securities beneficially owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from AbbVie or its Affiliates) representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of AbbVie s then outstanding securities, excluding any Person who becomes such a Beneficial Owner in connection with a transaction described in clause (i) of paragraph (c) below; or  
     
  (b)               the date the following individuals cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the number of directors then serving: individuals who, on the date hereof, constitute the Board of Directors and any new director (other than a director whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened election contest, including but not limited to a consent solicitation, relating to the election of directors of AbbVie) whose appointment or election by the Board of Directors or nomination for election by AbbVie s shareholders was approved or recommended by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who either were directors on the date hereof or whose appointment, election or nomination for election was previously so approved or recommended; or  
     
  8      

(c)               the date on which there is consummated a merger or consolidation of AbbVie or any direct or indirect subsidiary of AbbVie with any other corporation or other entity, other than (i) a merger or consolidation (A) immediately following which the individuals who comprise the Board of Directors immediately prior thereto constitute at least a majority of the Board of Directors of AbbVie, the entity surviving such merger or consolidation or, if AbbVie or the entity surviving such merger or consolidation is then a subsidiary, the ultimate parent thereof and (B) which results in the voting securities of AbbVie outstanding immediately prior to such merger or consolidation continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity or any parent thereof), in combination with the ownership of any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of AbbVie or any subsidiary of AbbVie, at least 50% of the combined voting power of the securities of AbbVie or such surviving entity or any parent thereof outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation, or (ii) a merger or consolidation effected to implement a recapitalization of AbbVie (or similar transaction) in which no Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of AbbVie (not including in the securities Beneficially Owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from AbbVie or its Affiliates) representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of AbbVie s then outstanding securities; or  
     
  (d)               the date the shareholders of AbbVie approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of AbbVie or there is consummated an agreement for the sale or disposition by AbbVie of all or substantially all of AbbVie s assets, other than a sale or disposition by AbbVie of all or substantially all of AbbVie s assets to an entity, at least 50% of the combined voting power of the voting securities of which are owned by shareholders of AbbVie in combination with the ownership of any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of AbbVie or any subsidiary of AbbVie, in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of AbbVie immediately prior to such sale.  
     
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a  Change in Control  shall not be deemed to have occurred by virtue of the consummation of any transaction or series of integrated transactions immediately following which the record holders of the common stock of AbbVie immediately prior to such transaction or series of transactions continue to have    substantially the same proportionate ownership in an entity which owns all or substantially all of the assets of AbbVie immediately following such transaction or series of transactions.  
     
  For purposes of this Plan:  Affiliate  shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under Section 12 of the Exchange Act;  Beneficial Owner  shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act;  Exchange Act  shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time; and  Person  shall have the meaning given in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act, as modified and used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) thereof, except that such term shall not include (i) AbbVie or any of its subsidiaries, (ii) a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of AbbVie or any of its Affiliates, (iii) an underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities, or (iv) a  
     
  9      

corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the shareholders of AbbVie in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of AbbVie.  
     
  7-14.           POTENTIAL CHANGE IN CONTROL.  A  Potential Change in Control  shall exist during any period in which the circumstances described in paragraph (a), (b), (c) or (d), below, exist (provided, however, that a Potential Change in Control shall cease to exist not later than the occurrence of a Change in Control):  
     
  (a)               AbbVie enters into an agreement, the consummation of which would result in the occurrence of a Change in Control, provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this paragraph (a) shall cease to exist upon the expiration or other termination of all such agreements.  
     
  (b)               Any Person (without regard to the exclusions set forth in subsections (i) through (iv) of such definition) publicly announces an intention to take or to consider taking actions the consummation of which would constitute a Change in Control; provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this paragraph (b) shall cease to exist upon the withdrawal of such intention, or upon a determination by the Board of Directors that there is no reasonable chance that such actions would be consummated.  
     
  (c)               Any Person becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of AbbVie representing 10% or more of either the then outstanding shares of common stock of AbbVie or the combined voting power of AbbVie s then outstanding securities (not including any securities beneficially owned by such Person which are or were acquired directly from AbbVie or its Affiliates).  
     
  (d)               The Board of Directors adopts a resolution to the effect that, for purposes of this Agreement, a Potential Change in Control exists; provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this paragraph (d) shall cease to exist upon a determination by the Board of Directors that the reasons that gave rise to the resolution providing for the existence of a Potential Change in Control have expired or no longer exist.  
     
  7-15.           PROHIBITION AGAINST AMENDMENT.  The provisions of subsections 7-12, 7-13, 7-14 and this subsection 7-15 may not be amended or deleted, or superseded by any other provision of this Plan, (a) during the pendency of a Potential Change in Control or (b) during the period beginning on the date of a Change in Control and ending on the date five (5) years following such Change in Control.  
     
  7-16.           ADMINISTRATOR S CALCULATION OF GRANTOR TRUST DISTRIBUTIONS. The Administrator shall calculate the amount to be distributed from a participant s Grantor Trust in any year in which the participant is entitled to a benefit distribution by multiplying (a) the amount of the reduction determined in accordance with subsection 7-3(a), by (b) a fraction, the numerator of which is the balance in the participant s After-Tax Account as of the end of the prior calendar year and the denominator of which is the balance of the participant s Pre-Tax Account as of that same date.  
     
  10      

SECTION 8  MISCELLANEOUS  
     
  8-1.             RULES.  The Committee may establish such rules and regulations as it may consider necessary or desirable for the effective and efficient administration of the Plan.  
     
  8-2.             TAXES.  Any employer shall be entitled, if necessary or desirable, to pay, or withhold the amount of any federal, state or local tax attributable to any amounts payable by it under the Plan and may require payment from the participant in an amount necessary to satisfy such taxes prior to remitting such taxes.  
     
  8-3.             RIGHTS OF PARTICIPANTS.  Employment rights of participants with AbbVie and its subsidiaries shall not be enlarged or affected by reason of establishment of or inclusion as a participant in the Plan. Nothing contained in the Plan shall require AbbVie or any subsidiary to segregate or earmark any assets, funds or property for the purpose of payment of any amounts which may have been deferred.  The Deferred, Pre-Tax and After-Tax Accounts established pursuant to subsection 7-1 are for the convenience of the administration of the Plan and no trust relationship with respect to such Accounts is intended or should be implied.  Participant s rights shall be limited to payment to them at the time or times and in such amounts as are contemplated by the Plan.  Any decision made by the Committee which is within its sole and uncontrolled discretion shall be conclusive and binding upon all persons whomsoever.  
     
  8-4.             EMPLOYMENT TAX ASSUMPTIONS.  For purposes of Sections 7 and 8, a participant s employment tax rate shall be deemed to be the highest marginal rate of Federal Insurance Contributions Act tax in effect in the calendar year in which a calculation under those Sections is to be made.  
     
  8-5.             INCOME TAX ASSUMPTIONS.  For purposes of Sections 7 and 8, a participant s federal income tax rate shall be deemed to be the highest marginal rate of federal individual income tax in effect in the calendar year in which a calculation under those Sections is to be made, and state and local tax rates shall be deemed to be the highest marginal rates of individual income tax in effect in the state and locality of the participant s residence on the date such a calculation is made, net of any federal tax benefits without a benefit for any net capital losses.  
     
  8-6.             GENDER.  For purposes of the Plan, words in the masculine gender shall include the feminine and neuter genders, the singular shall include the plural and the plural shall include the singular.  
     
  8-7.             MANNER OF ACTION BY COMMITTEE.  A majority of the members of the Committee qualified to act on any particular question may act by meeting or by writing signed without meeting, and may execute any instrument or document required or delegate to one of its members authority to sign.  The Committee from time to time may delegate the performance of certain ministerial functions in connection with the Plan, such as the keeping of records, to such person or persons as the Committee may select.  Except as otherwise expressly provided in the Plan, the costs of administration of the Plan will be paid by AbbVie.  Any notice required to be given to, or any document required to be filed with the Committee, will be properly given or filed if mailed or delivered in writing to the Secretary of AbbVie.  
     
  11      

8-8.             RELIANCE UPON ADVICE.  The Board of Directors and the Committee may rely upon any information or advice furnished to it by any Officer of AbbVie or by AbbVie s independent auditors, or other consultants, and shall be fully protected in relying upon such information or advice.  No member of the Board of Directors or the Committee shall be liable for any act or failure to act on their part, excepting only any acts done or omitted to be done in bad faith, nor shall they be liable for any act or failure to act of any other member.  
     
  8-9.             CHANGE OF CONDITIONS RELATING TO PAYMENTS.  No change to the time of payment or the time of commencement of payment and any period over which payment shall be made shall be effected except in strict compliance with the subsequent election requirements of Treasury Regulation   1.409A-2(b), to the extent subject thereto.  
     
  8-10.           CODE SECTION 409A.  To the extent applicable, it is intended that the Plan comply with the provisions of Code Section 409A.  The Plan will be administered and interpreted in a manner consistent with this intent, and any provision that would cause the Plan to fail to satisfy Code Section 409A will have no force and effect until amended to comply therewith (which amendment may be retroactive to the extent permitted by Code Section 409A).  Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, for all purposes of the Plan, a participant shall not be deemed to have had a termination of employment until the participant has incurred a separation from service as defined in Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(h) and, to the extent required to avoid accelerated taxation and/or tax penalties under Code Section 409A and applicable guidance issued thereunder, payment of the amounts payable under the Plan that would otherwise be payable during the six-month period after the date of termination shall instead be paid on the first business day after the expiration of such six-month period, plus interest thereon, at a rate equal to the rate of Interest provided in subsection 7-5(a) (to the extent that such interest is not already provided to the participant under subsection 7-6), from the respective dates on which such amounts would otherwise have been paid until the actual date of payment.  In addition, for purposes of the Plan, each amount to be paid and each installment payment shall be construed as a separate identified payment for purposes of Code Section 409A.  
     
  8-11.           DOMESTIC RELATIONS ORDER.  In accordance with Treasury Regulation 1.409A-3(j)(4)(ii), distributions shall be made to an individual (other than to the participant) pursuant to the terms of a  domestic relations order  (as defined in Code Section 414(p)(1)(B)), as determined and administered by the AbbVie Senior Vice President, Human Resources (or the individual holding equivalent duties and responsibilities) or his or her delegate, provided that such order (a) does not require the Plan to provide any type or form of benefit or any option not otherwise provided under the Plan, (b) does not require the Plan to provide increased benefits, and (c) does not require the payment of benefits to an alternate payee which are required to be paid to another alternate payee under another order.  
     
  8-12.           GRANTOR TRUSTS.  AbbVie, as the administrator of the participant s Grantor Trust, may direct the trustee to distribute to such participant from the income of such Grantor Trust an amount sufficient to pay the taxes on the Grantor Trust earnings for such year, to the extent a sufficient sum of money has not been paid to, or withheld on behalf of, the participant pursuant to subsection 7-6.  The taxes shall be determined in accordance with subsections 8-4 and 8-5.  
     
  12      

SECTION 9  AMENDMENT, TERMINATION AND CHANGE OF  CONDITIONS RELATING TO PAYMENTS  
     
  The Plan will be effective from its effective date until terminated by the Board of Directors.  The Board of Directors reserves the right to amend the Plan from time to time and to terminate the Plan at any time. No such amendment or any termination of the Plan shall reduce any fixed or contingent obligations which shall have arisen under the Plan prior to the date of such amendment or termination.  
     
  13      

EXHIBIT A   
     
   IRREVOCABLE GRANTOR TRUST AGREEMENT   
     
  THIS AGREEMENT, made this              day of                           , 20      , by and between                            of                         , Illinois (the  grantor ), and The Northern Trust Company located at Chicago, Illinois, as trustee (the  trustee ),  
     
  WITNESSETH THAT:  
     
  WHEREAS, the grantor desires to establish and maintain a trust to hold certain benefits received by the grantor under the AbbVie Supplemental Savings Plan, as it may be amended from time to time;  
     
  NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows:  
     
  ARTICLE I  INTRODUCTION  
     
  I-1.              NAME. This agreement and the trust hereby evidenced (the  trust ) may be referred to as the                   Grantor Trust .  
     
  I-2.              THE TRUST FUND.  The  trust fund  as at any date means all property then held by the trustee under this agreement.  
     
  I-3.              STATUS OF THE TRUST.  The trust shall be irrevocable. The trust is intended to constitute a grantor trust under Sections 671-678 of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, and shall be construed accordingly.  
     
  I-4.              THE ADMINISTRATOR. AbbVie Inc. ( AbbVie ) shall act as the  administrator  of the trust, and as such shall have certain powers, rights and duties under this agreement as described below. AbbVie will certify to the trustee from time to time the person or persons authorized to act on behalf of AbbVie as the administrator. The trustee may rely on the latest certificate received without further inquiry or verification.  
     
  I-5.              ACCEPTANCE.  The trustee accepts the duties and obligations of the  trustee  hereunder, agrees to accept funds delivered to it by the grantor or the administrator, and agrees to hold such funds (and any proceeds from the investment of such funds) in trust in accordance with this agreement.  
     
  ARTICLE II  DISTRIBUTION OF THE TRUST FUND  
     
  II-1.            DEFERRED ACCOUNT.  The administrator shall maintain a  deferred account  under the trust. As of the end of each calendar year, the administrator shall charge the deferred account with all distributions made from such account during that year; and credit such account  
     
  1      

with income and realized gains and charge such account with expenses and realized losses for the year.  
     
  II-2.            DISTRIBUTIONS FROM THE DEFERRED ACCOUNT PRIOR TO THE GRANTOR S DEATH.  Principal and accumulated income credited to the deferred account shall not be distributed from the trust prior to the grantor s retirement or other termination of employment with AbbVie or a subsidiary of AbbVie (the grantor s  settlement date  provided that, each year the administrator may direct the trustee to distribute to the grantor a portion of the income of the deferred account for that year, with the balance of such income to be accumulated in that account.  The administrator shall inform the trustee of the grantor s settlement date. Thereafter, the trustee shall distribute the amounts from time to time credited to the deferred account to the grantor, if then living, either in a lump-sum payable as soon as practicable following the settlement date, or in a series of annual installments, with the amount of each installment computed by one of the following methods:  
     
  (a)               The amount of each installment shall be equal to the sum of: (i) the amount credited to the deferred account as of the end of the year in which the grantor s settlement date occurs, divided by the number of years over which installments are to be distributed; plus (ii) the net earnings credited to the deferred account for the preceding year (excluding the year in which the grantor s settlement date occurs).  
     
  (b)               The amount of each installment shall be determined by dividing the amount credited to the deferred account as of the end of the preceding year by the difference between (i) the total number of years over which installments are to be distributed, and (ii) the number of annual installment distributions previously made from the deferred account.  
     
  (c)               Each installment (after the first installment) shall be approximately equal, with the amount comprised of the sum of: (i) the amount of the first installment, plus interest thereon at the rate determined under the AbbVie Supplemental Savings Plan, compounded annually; and (ii) the net earnings credited to the deferred account for the preceding year.  
     
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the final installment distribution made to the grantor under this paragraph II-2 shall equal the total principal and accumulated income then held in the trust fund. The grantor, by writing filed with the trustee and the administrator on or before the end of the calendar year in which the grantor s settlement date occurs, may select either the lump-sum or an installment payment method and, if an installment method is selected, may select both the period (which may not be less than ten years from the end of the calendar year in which the grantor s settlement date occurred) over which the installment distributions are to be made and the method of computing the amount of each installment.  In the absence of such a written direction by the grantor, installment distributions shall be made over a period of ten years, and the amount of each installment shall be computed by using the method described in subparagraph (a) next above.  Installment distributions under this paragraph II-2 shall be made as of January 1 of each year, beginning with the calendar year following the year in which the grantor s settlement date occurs.  The administrator shall inform the trustee of the amount of each installment distribution under this  
     
  2      

paragraph II-2, and the trustee shall be fully protected in relying on such information received from the administrator.  
     
  II-3.            DISTRIBUTIONS AFTER THE GRANTOR S DEATH.  The grantor may, from time to time, name any person or persons (who may be named contingently or successively and who may be natural persons or fiduciaries) to whom the principal of the trust fund and all accrued or undistributed income thereof shall be distributed in a lump sum or, if the beneficiary is the grantor s spouse (or a trust for which the grantor s spouse is the sole income beneficiary), in installments, as directed by the grantor, upon the grantor s death.  If the grantor directs an installment method of distribution to the spouse as beneficiary, any amounts remaining at the death of the spouse beneficiary shall be distributed in a lump sum to the executor or administrator of the spouse beneficiary s estate.  If the grantor directs an installment method of distribution to a trust for which the grantor s spouse is the sole income beneficiary, any amounts remaining at the death of the spouse shall be distributed in a lump sum to such trust.  Despite the foregoing, if (i) the beneficiary is a trust for which the grantor s spouse is the sole income beneficiary, (ii) payments are being made pursuant to this paragraph II-3 other than in a lump sum and (iii) income earned by the trust fund for the year exceeds the amount of the annual installment payment, then such trust may elect to withdraw such excess income by written notice to the trustee.  Each designation shall revoke all prior designations, shall be in writing and shall be effective only when filed by the grantor with the administrator during the grantor s lifetime.  If the grantor fails to direct a method of distribution, the distribution shall be made in a lump sum. If the grantor fails to designate a beneficiary as provided above, then on the grantor s death, the trustee shall distribute the balance of the trust fund in a lump sum to the executor or administrator of the grantor s estate.  
     
  II-4.            FACILITY OF PAYMENT.  When a person entitled to a distribution hereunder is under legal disability, or, in the trustee s opinion, is in any way incapacitated so as to be unable to manage his or her financial affairs, the trustee may make such distribution to such person s legal representative, or to a relative or friend of such person for such person s benefit.  Any distribution made in accordance with the preceding sentence shall be a full and complete discharge of any liability for such distribution hereunder.  
     
  II-5.            PERPETUITIES.  Notwithstanding any other provisions of this agreement, on the day next preceding the end of 21 years after the death of the last to die of the grantor and the grantor s descendants living on the date of this instrument, the trustee shall immediately distribute any remaining balance in the trust to the beneficiaries then entitled to distributions hereunder.  
     
  ARTICLE III  MANAGEMENT OF THE TRUST FUND  
     
  III-1.          GENERAL POWERS.  The trustee shall, with respect to the trust fund, have the following powers, rights and duties in addition to those provided elsewhere in this agreement or by law:  
     
  (a)                                     Subject to the limitations of subparagraph (b) next below, to sell, contract to sell, purchase, grant or exercise options to purchase, and otherwise deal with all assets of the trust fund, in such way, for such considerations, and on such terms and conditions as the trustee decides.  
     
  3      

(b)               To retain in cash such amounts as the trustee considers advisable; and to invest and reinvest the balance of the trust fund, without distinction between principal and income, in obligations of the United States Government and its agencies or which are backed by the full faith and credit of the United States Government or in any mutual fund, common trust fund or collective investment fund which invests solely in such obligations; and any such investment made or retained by the trustee in good faith shall be proper despite any resulting risk or lack of diversification or marketability.  
     
  (c)               To deposit cash in any depositary (including the banking department of the bank acting as trustee) without liability for interest, and to invest cash in savings accounts or time certificates of deposit bearing a reasonable rate of interest in any such depositary.  
     
  (d)               To invest, subject to the limitations of subparagraph (b) next above, in any common or commingled trust fund or funds maintained or administered by the trustee solely for the investment of trust funds.  
     
  (e)               To borrow from anyone, with the administrator s approval, such sum or sums from time to time as the trustee considers desirable to carry out this trust, and to mortgage or pledge all or part of the trust fund as security.  
     
  (f)                To retain any funds or property subject to any dispute without liability for interest and to decline to make payment or delivery thereof until final adjudication by a court of competent jurisdiction or until an appropriate release is obtained.  
     
  (g)               To begin, maintain or defend any litigation necessary in connection with the administration of this trust, except that the trustee shall not be obliged or required to do so unless indemnified to the trustee s satisfaction.  
     
  (h)               To compromise, contest, settle or abandon claims or demands.  
     
  (i)                To give proxies to vote stocks and other voting securities, to join in or oppose (alone or jointly with others) voting trusts, mergers, consolidations, foreclosures, reorganizations, liquidations, or other changes in the financial structure of any corporation, and to exercise or sell stock subscription or conversion rights.  
     
  (j)                To hold securities or other property in the name of a nominee, in a depositary, or in any other way, with or without disclosing the trust relationship.  
     
  (k)               To divide or distribute the trust fund in undivided interests or wholly or partly in kind.  
     
  (l)                To pay any tax imposed on or with respect to the trust; to defer making payment of any such tax if it is indemnified to its satisfaction in the premises; and to require before making any payment such release or other document from any lawful taxing  
     
  4      

authority and such indemnity from the intended payee as the trustee considers necessary for its protection.  
     
  (m)              To deal without restriction with the legal representative of the grantor s estate or the trustee or other legal representative of any trust created by the grantor or a trust or estate in which a beneficiary has an interest, even though the trustee, individually, shall be acting in such other capacity, without liability for any loss that may result.  
     
  (n)               To appoint or remove by written instrument any bank or corporation qualified to act as successor trustee, wherever located, as special trustee as to part or all of the trust fund, including property as to which the trustee does not act, and such special trustee, except as specifically limited or provided by this or the appointing instrument, shall have all of the rights, titles, powers, duties, discretions and immunities of the trustee, without liability for any action taken or omitted to be taken under this or the appointing instrument.  
     
  (o)               To appoint or remove by written instrument any bank, wherever located, as custodian of part or all of the trust fund, and each such custodian shall have such rights, powers, duties and discretions as are delegated to it by the trustee.  
     
  (p)               To employ agents, attorneys, accountants or other persons, and to delegate to them such powers as the trustee considers desirable, and the trustee shall be protected in acting or refraining from acting on the advice of persons so employed without court action.  
     
  (q)               To perform any and all other acts which in the trustee s judgment are appropriate for the proper management, investment and distribution of the trust fund.  
     
  III-2.          PRINCIPAL AND INCOME.  Any income earned on the trust fund which is not distributed as provided in Article II shall be accumulated and from time to time added to the principal of the trust. The grantor s interest in the trust shall include all assets or other property held by the trustee hereunder, including principal and accumulated income.  
     
  III-3.          STATEMENTS.  The trustee shall prepare and deliver monthly to the administrator and annually to the grantor, if then living, otherwise to each beneficiary then entitled to distributions under this agreement, a statement (or series of statements) setting forth (or which taken together set forth) all investments, receipts, disbursements and other transactions effected by the trustee during the reporting period; and showing the trust fund and the value thereof at the end of such period.  
     
  III-4.          COMPENSATION AND EXPENSES.  All reasonable costs, charges and expenses incurred in the administration of this trust, including compensation to the trustee, any compensation to agents, attorneys, accountants and other persons employed by the trustee, and expenses incurred in connection with the sale, investment and reinvestment of the trust fund shall be paid from the trust fund.  
     
  5      

ARTICLE IV  GENERAL PROVISIONS  
     
  IV-1.           INTERESTS NOT TRANSFERABLE.  The interests of the grantor or other persons entitled to distributions hereunder are not subject to their debts or other obligations and may not be voluntarily or involuntarily sold, transferred, alienated, assigned or encumbered.  
     
  IV-2.           DISAGREEMENT AS TO ACTS.  If there is a disagreement between the trustee and anyone as to any act or transaction reported in any accounting, the trustee shall have the right to a settlement of its account by any proper court.  
     
  IV-3.           TRUSTEE S OBLIGATIONS.  No power, duty or responsibility is imposed on the trustee except as set forth in this agreement.  The trustee is not obliged to determine whether funds delivered to or distributions from the trust are proper under the trust, or whether any tax is due or payable as a result of any such delivery or distribution.  The trustee shall be protected in making any distribution from the trust as directed pursuant to Article II without inquiring as to whether the distributee is entitled thereto; and the trustee shall not be liable for any distribution made in good faith without written notice or knowledge that the distribution is not proper under the terms of this agreement.  
     
  IV-4.           GOOD FAITH ACTIONS.  The trustee s exercise or non-exercise of its powers and discretions in good faith shall be conclusive on all persons.  No one shall be obliged to see to the application of any money paid or property delivered to the trustee.  The certificate of the trustee that it is acting according to this agreement will fully protect all persons dealing with the trustee.  
     
  IV-5.           WAIVER OF NOTICE.  Any notice required under this agreement may be waived by the person entitled to such notice.  
     
  IV-6.           CONTROLLING LAW.  The laws of the State of Illinois shall govern the interpretation and validity of the provisions of this agreement and all questions relating to the management, administration, investment and distribution of the trust hereby created.  
     
  IV-7.           SUCCESSORS.  This agreement shall be binding on all persons entitled to distributions hereunder and their respective heirs and legal representatives, and on the trustee and its successors.  
     
  ARTICLE V  CHANGES IN TRUSTEE  
     
  V-1.            RESIGNATION OR REMOVAL OF TRUSTEE.  The trustee may resign at any time by giving thirty days  advance written notice to the administrator and the grantor.  The administrator may remove a trustee by written notice to the trustee and the grantor.  
     
  V-2.            APPOINTMENT OF SUCCESSOR TRUSTEE.  The administrator shall fill any vacancy in the office of trustee as soon as practicable by written notice to the successor trustee; and shall give prompt written notice thereof to the grantor, if then living, otherwise to each beneficiary  
     
  6      

then entitled to payments or distributions under this agreement.  A successor trustee shall be a bank (as defined in Section 581 of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended).  
     
  V-3.            DUTIES OF RESIGNING OR REMOVED TRUSTEE AND OF SUCCESSOR TRUSTEE.  A trustee that resigns or is removed shall furnish promptly to the administrator and the successor trustee an account of its administration of the trust from the date of its last account. Each successor trustee shall succeed to the title to the trust fund vested in its predecessor without the signing or filing of any instrument, but each predecessor trustee shall execute all documents and do all acts necessary to vest such title of record in the successor trustee.  Each successor trustee shall have all the powers conferred by this agreement as if originally named trustee.  No successor trustee shall be personally liable for any act or failure to act of a predecessor trustee. With the approval of the administrator, a successor trustee may accept the account furnished and the property delivered by a predecessor trustee without incurring any liability for so doing, and such acceptance will be complete discharge to the predecessor trustee.  
     
  ARTICLE VI  AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION  
     
  VI-1.           AMENDMENT.  With the consent of the administrator, this trust may be amended from time to time by the grantor, if then living, otherwise by a majority of the beneficiaries then entitled to payments or distributions hereunder, except as follows:  
     
  (a)               The duties and liabilities of the trustee cannot be changed substantially without its consent.  
     
  (b)               This trust may not be amended so as to make the trust revocable.  
     
  VI-2.           TERMINATION.  This trust shall not terminate, and all rights, titles, powers, duties, discretions and immunities imposed on or reserved to the trustee, the administrator, the grantor and the beneficiaries shall continue in effect, until all assets of the trust have been distributed by the trustee as provided in Article II.  
     
  *      *      *  
     
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the grantor and the trustee have executed this agreement as of the day and year first above written.  

Grantor           

The Northern Trust   Company, as Trustee           

By       

Its       

7      

SUPPLEMENT A   
     
  SPECIAL RULES RELATED TO TRANSFER FROM ABBOTT LABORATORIES 401(k) SUPPLEMENTAL PLAN  
     
  A-1.             Purpose and Effect   .  The purpose of this Supplement A is to provide for the transfer of liabilities from the Abbott Laboratories 401(k) Supplemental Plan (the  Abbott KSP ) to this Plan with respect to Transferred Participants and Post-Distribution Participants as set forth in the EMA.  
     
  A-2.             Eligibility, Service and Compensation   .  Transferred Participants and Post-Distribution Participants shall (a) be eligible to participate in this Plan to the extent they were eligible to participate in the Abbott KSP as of the applicable Transfer Date (as defined in the EMA), and (b) receive credit for vesting and eligibility for all service credited for those purposes under the Abbott KSP as of the Transfer Date (as defined in the EMA) as if that service had been rendered to AbbVie (provided that in the event that any such Transferred Participant or Post-Distribution Participant receives a distribution from the Abbott KSP, the value of such distribution shall be offset against future benefits under the this Plan to the extent necessary to prevent a duplication of benefits).  The compensation paid by Abbott and its subsidiaries to a Transferred Participant or a Post-Distribution Participant that was recognized under the Abbott KSP as of the Transfer Date (as defined in the EMA) shall be credited and recognized for all applicable purposes under this Plan as though it were compensation from AbbVie or its Subsidiaries.  
     
  A-3.             Initial Transfer of Liabilities from Abbott KSP   .  As soon as practicable after the Separation (as defined in the Separation Agreement), and subject to such terms and conditions as the Plan Administrator may establish, all liabilities attributable to Transferred Participants shall be transferred from the Abbott KSP to this Plan.  The Plan shall credit each such Transferred Participant s account with (a) the amount deferred by such individual into the Abbott KSP as of the applicable Transfer Date (as defined in the EMA), plus (b) any employer contributions, whether vested or unvested, deemed to have been made in relation to the amount described in (a), including, in each case, any earnings thereon.  
     
  A-4.             Deferral and Distribution Elections.     The Plan shall recognize, implement and honor all deferral and distribution elections made by a Transferred Participant under the Abbott KSP (including, but not limited to, any election to defer any bonus earned during 2012 but paid in 2013).  
     
  A-5.             Subsequent Transfers   .  At such time or times as the Plan Administrator and Abbott (or its delegate) shall agree, and subject to such terms and conditions as the Plan Administrator may establish, all liabilities attributable to Post-Distribution Participants shall be transferred from the Abbott KSP to this Plan.  The Plan shall credit each such Post-Distribution Participant s account with (a) the amount deferred by such individual into the Abbott KSP as of the applicable Transfer Date (as defined in the EMA), plus (b) any employer contributions, whether vested or unvested, deemed to have been made in relation to the amount described in (a), including, in each case, any earnings thereon.  
     
  1      

A-6.             Deferral and Distribution Elections   Post-Distribution Participants   .  Post-Distribution Participants are required to make new elections under the Plan upon hire or transfer to AbbVie or its subsidiaries in accordance with subsection 5-3.  Distribution elections made under the Abbott KSP with respect to transferred amounts in A-5 above shall be recognized, implemented and honored by the Plan and such amounts shall be immediately distributable to such Post-Distribution Participants in accordance with such elections.  Distribution elections with respect to amounts deferred under this Plan on or after the Effective Date shall be in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Plan.  
     
  A-7.             Definitions.     For purposes of this Supplement A, the following terms are defined as follows:  
     
  (a)                Post-Distribution Participant  means: (i) a Post-Distribution AbbVie Employee (as defined in the EMA) who (A) was an employee of Abbott or its subsidiary as of immediately prior to the Separation (as defined in the Separation Agreement) and is transferred to or hired by AbbVie or its Subsidiary after the Separation (as defined in the Separation Agreement), and (B) had the liabilities associated with his or her account balances in the Abbott KSP transferred to this Plan in accordance with this Supplement A; and (ii) any other individual who becomes a Plan participant and on whose behalf liabilities related to his or her prior period of employment with Abbott are transferred from an Abbott retirement plan to an AbbVie retirement plan during the Transition Period (as described in the EMA).  
     
  (b)                Transferred Participant  means an AbbVie Employee (as defined in the EMA), excluding any Post-Distribution AbbVie Employee (as defined in the EMA), who accepts an offer of employment or continues employment with or is transferred to AbbVie or its Subsidiary under the Separation Agreement on or immediately after the Separation (as defined in the Separation Agreement).  
     
  A-8.             Grantor Trusts.     Certain Transferred Participants and Post-Distribution Participants who participated in the Abbott KSP have established grantor trusts in connection with such plan.  Abbott and AbbVie shall use their commercially reasonable best efforts to facilitate the amendment of each such grantor trust to provide that (a) AbbVie is the administrator of such trust and (b) distribution of amounts under such trust is made by reference to termination of employment with AbbVie and its subsidiaries and not termination of employment with Abbott and its subsidiaries.  
     
  A-9.             Use of Terms   .  Terms used in this Supplement A have the meanings of those terms as set forth in the Plan, unless they are defined in this Supplement A.  All of the terms and provisions of the Plan shall apply to this Supplement A except that where the terms of the Plan and this Supplement A conflict, the terms of this Supplement A shall govern.  
     
  2      

</EX-10.8>

<EX-12>
 6
 a2227341zex-12.htm
 EX-12

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 12            

RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES            

          The following table sets forth AbbVie's historical ratios of earnings to fixed charges for the periods indicated. This
information should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and accompanying notes included under Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" and Item 7,
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."   

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 12   
 
  RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES   

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 7
 a2227341zex-21.htm
 EX-21

Exhibit 21   
       
  SUBSIDIARIES OF ABBVIE INC.  
     
   The following is a list of subsidiaries of AbbVie Inc. AbbVie Inc. is not a subsidiary of any other corporation. Where ownership of a subsidiary is less than 100% by AbbVie Inc. or an AbbVie Inc. subsidiary, such has been noted by designating the percentage of ownership.  

Domestic Subsidiaries        

Incorporation            

AbbVie Biopharmaceuticals LLC       

Delaware           

AbbVie Bioresearch Center Inc.       

Delaware           

AbbVie Biotech Ventures Inc.       

Delaware           

AbbVie Biotherapeutics Inc.       

Delaware           

AbbVie Endocrine Inc.       

Delaware           

AbbVie Endocrinology Inc.       

Delaware           

AbbVie Holdings Inc.       

Delaware           

AbbVie Products LLC       

Georgia           

AbbVie Purchasing LLC       

Delaware           

AbbVie Resources Inc.       

Delaware           

AbbVie Resources International Inc.       

Delaware           

AbbVie Respiratory LLC       

Delaware           

AbbVie US Holdings LLC       

Delaware           

AbbVie US LLC       

Delaware           

AbbVie Ventures LLC       

Delaware           

Aeropharm Technology, LLC       

Delaware           

BioDisplay Technologies, Inc.       

Illinois           

Fremont Holding L.L.C.       

Delaware           

IEP Pharmaceutical Devices, LLC       

Delaware           

Knoll Pharmaceutical Company       

New Jersey           

KOS Pharmaceuticals, Inc.       

Delaware           

Life Properties Inc.       

Delaware           

Organics L.L.C.       

Delaware              

Pharmacyclics LLC       

Delaware           

Rowell Laboratories, Inc.       

Minnesota           

Sapphire Merger Sub, Inc.       

Delaware           

Unimed Pharmaceuticals, LLC       

Delaware           

Vernal Holdings Inc.       

Delaware              

Foreign Subsidiaries        

Incorporation            

AbbVie S.A.       

Argentina           

AbbVie Pty Ltd       

Australia           

AbbVie GmbH       

Austria           

AbbVie Bahamas Ltd.       

Bahamas           

AbbVie SA       

Belgium           

AbbVie Ltd       

Bermuda           

AbbVie Biotechnology Ltd       

Bermuda           

AbbVie Holdings Unlimited       

Bermuda           

AbbVie d.o.o.       

Bosnia           

AbbVie Farmac utica Ltda.       

Brazil           

AbbVie Participa  es Ltda.       

Brazil           

AbbVie EOOD       

Bulgaria           

AbbVie Corporation       

Canada           

AbbVie Holdings Corporation       

Canada           

Pharmacyclics Cayman Ltd.       

Cayman Islands           

AbbVie Productos Farmac uticos Limitada       

Chile           

AbbVie Pharmaceutical Trading (Shanghai)   Co., Ltd.       

China              

Pharmacyclics (Shanghai) Management Consulting Services   Limited       

China           

AbbVie S.A.S.       

Colombia           

AbbVie d.o.o.       

Croatia           

AbbVie Limited       

Cyprus           

AbbVie s.r.o.       

Czech Republic           

AbbVie A/S       

Denmark           

AbbVie, S.R.L.       

Dominican Republic           

AbbVie Ltd.       

Egypt           

AbbVie Oy       

Finland           

AbbVie SAS       

France           

AbbVie Holdings SAS       

France           

Abbott Products GmbH       

Germany           

AbbVie Biotechnology GmbH       

Germany           

AbbVie Deutschland GmbH   Co. KG       

Germany           

AbbVie Komplement r GmbH       

Germany           

AbbVie Real Estate Management GmbH       

Germany           

AbbVie (Gibraltar) Holdings Limited       

Gibraltar           

AbbVie (Gibraltar) Limited       

Gibraltar           

AbbVie Pharmaceuticals Societe Anonyme       

Greece           

AbbVie, S.A.       

Guatemala           

AbbVie Limited       

Hong Kong           

AbbVie Kft.       

Hungary           

AbbVie Ireland Holdings Limited       

Ireland              

AbbVie Ireland Unlimited Company       

Ireland           

AbbVie Limited       

Ireland           

AbbVie Manufacturing Management Limited       

Ireland           

Fournier Laboratories Ireland Ltd.       

Ireland           

Pharmacyclics (Europe) Limited       

Ireland           

AbbVie Biopharmaceuticals Ltd.       

Israel           

AbbVie S.r.l.       

Italy           

AbbVie GK       

Japan           

AbbVie Holdings KK       

Japan           

AbbVie Ltd       

Jersey           

AbbVie UK Biopharmaceuticals Ltd       

Jersey           

AbbVie UK Ltd       

Jersey           

AbbVie Ltd       

Korea, South           

AbbVie SIA       

Latvia           

AbbVie UAB       

Lithuania           

AbbVie (Gibraltar) Holdings Limited Luxembourg   S.C.S.       

Luxembourg           

AbbVie International S.  r.l.       

Luxembourg           

AbbVie Investments S.  r.l.       

Luxembourg           

AbbVie Overseas S.  r.l.       

Luxembourg           

AbbVie S.  r.l.       

Luxembourg           

AbbVie Sdn. Bhd.       

Malaysia           

AbbVie Farmac uticos, S.A. de C.V.       

Mexico           

AbbVie B.V.       

Netherlands           

AbbVie Finance B.V.       

Netherlands              

AbbVie Ireland NL B.V.       

Netherlands           

AbbVie Japan Holdings B.V.       

Netherlands           

AbbVie Logistics B.V       

Netherlands           

AbbVie Nederland Holdings B.V.       

Netherlands           

AbbVie Pharmaceuticals B.V.       

Netherlands           

AbbVie Research B.V.       

Netherlands           

AbbVie Venezuela Holdings B.V.       

Netherlands           

AbbVie Limited       

New Zealand           

AbbVie AS       

Norway           

AbbVie, S. de R.L.       

Panama           

AbbVie Polska Sp. z o.o.       

Poland           

AbbVie Sp. z o.o.       

Poland           

AbbVie, L.da       

Portugal           

AbbVie Promo  o, L.da       

Portugal           

AbbVie Corp       

Puerto Rico           

Knoll LLC       

Puerto Rico           

S.C. AbbVie S.R.L.       

Romania           

AbbVie Limited Liability Company       

Russia           

AbbVie Operations Singapore Pte. Ltd.       

Singapore           

AbbVie Pte. Ltd.       

Singapore           

AbbVie Holdings s.r.o.       

Slovakia           

AbbVie s.r.o.       

Slovakia           

AbbVie d.o.o.       

Slovenia           

AbbVie (Pty) Ltd.       

South Africa              

AbbVie Spain, S.L.       

Spain           

Fundaci n AbbVie       

Spain           

AbbVie AB       

Sweden           

AbbVie AG       

Switzerland           

AbbVie Biopharmaceuticals GmbH       

Switzerland           

Pharmacyclics Switzerland GmbH       

Switzerland           

AbbVie Ltd.       

Thailand 99.9997%           

AbbVie Sarl       

Tunisia           

AbbVie T bbi  la lar Sanayi ve Ticaret   Limited  irketi       

Turkey           

AbbVie Ltd       

United Kingdom           

AbbVie Australasia Holdings Limited       

United Kingdom           

AbbVie Investments Limited       

United Kingdom           

AbbVie Trustee Company Limited       

United Kingdom           

AbbVie UK Holdco Limited       

United Kingdom           

AbbVie S.A.       

Uruguay              

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 8
 a2227341zex-23.htm
 EX-23

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 23            

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM            

          We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following Registration Statements:   

(1)    Registration
Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-185561) pertaining to the AbbVie 2013 Incentive Stock Program,
      (2)    Registration
Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-185562) pertaining to the AbbVie 2013 Employee Stock Purchase Plan for Non-U.S. Employees,
      (3)    Registration
Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-185563) pertaining to the AbbVie Deferred Compensation Plan,
      (4)    Registration
Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-185564) pertaining to the AbbVie Savings Program,
      (5)    Registration
Statement (Form S-3 No. 333-203677) pertaining to debt securities of AbbVie Inc.,
      (6)    Registration
Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-204466) pertaining to the Pharmacyclics, Inc. 2014 Equity Incentive Awards Plan, and
      (7)    Registration
Statement (Form S-3 No. 333-207422) pertaining to the AbbVie 2013 Incentive Stock Program;    

of
our reports dated February 19, 2016, with respect to the consolidated financial statements of AbbVie Inc. and subsidiaries and the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting of AbbVie Inc. and subsidiaries included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) of AbbVie Inc. and subsidiaries for the year ended December 31, 2015.   

  /s/
Ernst   Young LLP   

  Chicago,
Illinois 
February 19, 2016   

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 23   
 
  CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 9
 a2227341zex-31_1.htm
 EX-31.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 31.1            

Certification of Chief Executive Officer   Required by Rule 13a-14(a) (17 CFR 240.13a-14(a))            

I,
Richard A. Gonzalez, certify that:   

1.    I
have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of AbbVie Inc.;
      2.    Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;
      3.    Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of AbbVie as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;
      4.    AbbVie's
other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for AbbVie and have:

(a)    Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that
material information relating to AbbVie, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared;
      (b)    Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles;
      (c)    Evaluated
the effectiveness of AbbVie's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
      (d)    Disclosed
in this report any change in AbbVie's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during AbbVie's most recent fiscal quarter that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, AbbVie's internal control over financial reporting; and
     
   5.    AbbVie's
other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to AbbVie's
auditors and the audit committee of AbbVie's board of directors:

(a)    All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect AbbVie's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and
      (b)    Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in AbbVie's internal control over financial
reporting.    

Date: February 19, 2016  
     
  /s/ RICHARD A. GONZALEZ 

Richard A. Gonzalez, Chairman of the Board 
and Chief Executive Officer  

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 31.1   
 
  Certification of Chief Executive Officer Required by Rule 13a-14(a) (17 CFR 240.13a-14(a))   

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 10
 a2227341zex-31_2.htm
 EX-31.2

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 31.2            

Certification of Chief Financial Officer   Required by Rule 13a-14(a) (17 CFR 240.13a-14(a))            

I,
William J. Chase, certify that:   

1.    I
have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of AbbVie Inc.;
      2.    Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;
      3.    Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of AbbVie as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;
      4.    AbbVie's
other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for AbbVie and have:

(a)    Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that
material information relating to AbbVie, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared;
      (b)    Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles;
      (c)    Evaluated
the effectiveness of AbbVie's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
      (d)    Disclosed
in this report any change in AbbVie's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during AbbVie's most recent fiscal quarter that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, AbbVie's internal control over financial reporting; and
     
   5.    AbbVie's
other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to AbbVie's
auditors and the audit committee of AbbVie's board of directors:

(a)    All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect AbbVie's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and
      (b)    Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in AbbVie's internal control over financial
reporting.    

Date: February 19, 2016  
     
  /s/ WILLIAM J. CHASE 

William J. Chase, Executive Vice President, 
Chief Financial Officer  

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 31.2   
 
  Certification of Chief Financial Officer Required by Rule 13a-14(a) (17 CFR 240.13a-14(a))   

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 11
 a2227341zex-32_1.htm
 EX-32.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 32.1            

Certification Pursuant To   18 U.S.C. Section 1350   As Adopted Pursuant To   Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002            

          In connection with the Annual Report of AbbVie Inc. (the "Company") on Form 10-K for the period ended
December 31, 2015 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Report"), I, Richard A. Gonzalez, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify,
pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:   

(1)    The
Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and
      (2)    The
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.    

/s/ RICHARD A. GONZALEZ 

Richard A. Gonzalez 
Chairman of the Board and 
Chief Executive Officer 
February 19, 2016  

A
signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to AbbVie Inc. and will be retained by AbbVie Inc. and furnished to the
Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.   

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 32.1   
 
  Certification Pursuant To 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 As Adopted Pursuant To Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002   

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 12
 a2227341zex-32_2.htm
 EX-32.2

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 32.2            

Certification Pursuant To   18 U.S.C. Section 1350   As Adopted Pursuant To   Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002            

          In connection with the Annual Report of AbbVie Inc. (the "Company") on Form 10-K for the period ended
December 31, 2015 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Report"), I, William J. Chase, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify,
pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:   

(1)    The
Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and
      (2)    The
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.    

/s/ WILLIAM J. CHASE 

William J. Chase 
Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer 
February 19, 2016  

A
signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to AbbVie Inc. and will be retained by AbbVie Inc. and furnished to the
Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.   

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 32.2   
 
  Certification Pursuant To 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 As Adopted Pursuant To Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002   

</EX-32.2>

<EX-101.INS>
 13
 abbv-20151231.xml
 EX-101.INS

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 14
 abbv-20151231.xsd
 EX-101.SCH

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 15
 abbv-20151231_cal.xml
 EX-101.CAL

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 16
 abbv-20151231_def.xml
 EX-101.DEF

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 17
 abbv-20151231_lab.xml
 EX-101.LAB

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 18
 abbv-20151231_pre.xml
 EX-101.PRE

</EX-101.PRE>

