<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20090911_10-K_edgar_data_858877_0001193125-09-190326_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>2670955</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>766376</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>65810</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1469820</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>93</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>9</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-09-190326.hdr.sgml : 20090911
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20090911074041
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-09-190326
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		14
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20090725
FILED AS OF DATE:		20090911
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20090911

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			CISCO SYSTEMS INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000858877
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	COMPUTER COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT [3576]
		IRS NUMBER:				770059951
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			CA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0728

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-18225
		FILM NUMBER:		091064213

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		170 WEST TASMAN DR
		CITY:			SAN JOSE
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			95134-1706
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4085264000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		225 WEST TASMAN DR
		CITY:			SAN JOSE
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			95134-1706

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 LNaDQaro/vTVnGFv8VR8h/zGL8G5euib4TxpVDMUqzs6hKrsbIZeXgwXs9p9DFd7
 aAGr7x6+oLbBt9im5D+WRw==

 0001193125-09-190326.txt : 20090911

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 25, 2009

For the fiscal year ended July 25, 2009 

Table of Contents  

            UNITED STATES        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549        FORM 10-K        (Mark one)    
     For the fiscal year ended July 25, 2009        or        
     For the transition period from                        to
                              Commission file number 0-18225        CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.        (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)        
     Registrant s telephone number, including area code: (408) 526-4000        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:        

Title of Each Class:    
     
     Name of Each Exchange on which Registered     
 
    Common Stock, par value $0.001 per share   
     
  The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC   
     Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None       Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.         Yes         No      Indicate by check
mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.         Yes         No      Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be
filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
the past 90 days.         Yes         No      Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of
Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).         Yes         No      Indicate by check
mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.             Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer 
and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.       

Large accelerated filer        
     
  Accelerated filer        
 
    Non-accelerated filer      (Do not check if a smaller reporting
company)           
     
  Smaller reporting company        
    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act).         Yes         No      Aggregate market value of registrant s common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant, based upon the closing price of a share of the registrant s common stock on January 23, 2009 as reported by
the NASDAQ Global Select Market on that date: $92,804,466,593      Number of shares of the registrant s common stock outstanding as of
September 3, 2009: 5,789,367,923          DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY
REFERENCE        

(1)  
  Portions of the registrant s Annual Report to Shareholders for its fiscal year ended July 25, 2009 are incorporated by reference into Part I and Part II of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K where indicated.     

(2)  
  Portions of the registrant s Proxy Statement relating to the registrant s 2009 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, to be held on November 12, 2009, are incorporated by
reference into Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K where indicated.                 

Table of Contents  

       PART I          

Item 1.   
      
     Business    
      
  3   

General    
      
  3   

Products and Services    
      
  3   

Customers and Markets    
      
  7   

Sales Overview    
      
  8   

Backlog    
      
  9   

Acquisitions, Investments, and Alliances    
      
  9   

Competition    
      
  10   

Research and Development    
      
  11   

Manufacturing    
      
  11   

Patents, Intellectual Property, and Licensing    
      
  12   

Employees    
      
  12   

Executive Officers of the Registrant    
      
  13   
 
    Item 1A.   
      
     Risk Factors    
      
  15   
 
    Item 1B.   
      
     Unresolved Staff Comments    
      
  29   
 
    Item 2.   
      
     Properties    
      
  29   
 
    Item 3.   
      
     Legal Proceedings    
      
  29   
 
    Item 4.   
      
     Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders    
      
  29   

PART II      
 
    Item 5.   
      
     Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity
Securities    
      
  30   
 
    Item 6.   
      
     Selected Financial Data    
      
  30   
 
    Item 7.   
      
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    
      
  30   
 
    Item 7A.   
      
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk    
      
  30   
 
    Item 8.   
      
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data    
      
  30   
 
    Item 9.   
      
     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure    
      
  30   
 
    Item 9A.   
      
     Controls and Procedures    
      
  31   
 
    Item 9B.   
      
     Other Information    
      
  31   

PART III      
 
    Item 10.   
      
     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance    
      
  32   
 
    Item 11.   
      
     Executive Compensation    
      
  32   
 
    Item 12.   
      
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters    
      
  32   
 
    Item 13.   
      
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence    
      
  32   
 
    Item 14.   
      
     Principal Accountant Fees and Services    
      
  32   

PART IV      
 
    Item 15.   
      
     Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules    
      
  33   

Signatures    
      
  37   

Table of Contents  

    This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the  Management s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations,  which is incorporated by reference from our 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders, contains forward-looking statements regarding future events and our future results that are subject to the safe
harbors created under the Securities Act of 1933 (the  Securities Act ) and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ). All statements other than statements of historical facts are statements that could be deemed
forward-looking statements.   These statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections about the industries in which we operate and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. Words such as
 expects,   anticipates,   targets,   goals,   projects,   intends,   plans,   believes,   seeks,   estimates,   continues, 
 endeavors,   strives,   may,  variations of such words, and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements that refer to projections of our future financial
performance, our anticipated growth and trends in our businesses, and other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are only predictions and are
subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict, including those identified below, under  Item 1A. Risk Factors,  and elsewhere herein and in the 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders. Therefore, actual results
may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason.          PART I          ITEM 1. Business
         General       We design, manufacture, and sell Internet Protocol (IP)-based networking and other products related to the communications and information technology (IT) industry and provide services associated with these products and their use. We provide
a broad line of products for transporting data, voice, and video within buildings, across campuses, and around the world. Our products are designed to transform how people connect, communicate, and collaborate. Our products are installed at
enterprise businesses, public institutions, telecommunications companies, commercial businesses and personal residences.      We conduct our
business globally and are managed geographically in five segments: United States and Canada, European Markets, Emerging Markets, Asia Pacific, and Japan. The Emerging Markets theater consists of Eastern Europe, Latin America, the Middle East and
Africa, and Russia and the Commonwealth of Independent States. For revenue and other information regarding these segments, see Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders. Note 15 is incorporated into
this report by reference.      We were incorporated in California in December 1984, and our headquarters are in San Jose, California. The
mailing address of our headquarters is 170 West Tasman Drive, San Jose, California 95134-1706, and our telephone number at that location is (408) 526-4000. Our website is  www.cisco.com . Through a link on the Investor Relations section of
our website, we make available the following filings as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ): our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly
Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. All such filings are available free of charge.         Products and Services       We
sell IP-based networking and other products and services related to the communications and IT industry. Our products and services are designed to address a wide range of customers  needs, including improving productivity, reducing costs, and
gaining a competitive advantage. In addition, our products and services are designed to help customers build their own network infrastructures that support tools and applications that allow them to communicate with key stakeholders, including
customers, prospects, business partners, suppliers, and employees. We focus on delivering networking products and solutions that are designed to simplify and secure customers  network infrastructures. We believe that integrating multiple
network services into our products helps our customers reduce their total cost of network ownership. Our product offerings fall into the following categories: our core technologies, routing and switching; advanced technologies; and other products.
In addition to our product offerings, we provide a broad range of service offerings, including technical support services and advanced services. Our customer base spans virtually all types of public and private agencies and businesses, comprising
enterprise businesses, service providers, commercial customers, and consumers.      Our products are used individually or as integrated
offerings to connect personal and business computing devices to networks or computer networks with each other whether they are within a building, across a campus, or around the world. Our breadth of product and service offerings across multiple
technology segments enables us to offer a wide range of products and services to meet customer-specific requirements. We also provide products and services that allow customers to transition their various networks to a single multiservice data,
voice, and video network, enabling economies of scale.         
   3   

Table of Contents  

   As network architectures have become more robust to accommodate the demands of increasing numbers of
users requiring an increasing array of network applications, new network-related product markets have arisen alongside our core routing and switching markets. We refer to these new markets that are similar, related, or adjacent to those in which we
are active as market adjacencies.      In the past several years we have addressed market adjacencies related to our core routing and switching
products through the development of various network-related offerings in our advanced technologies product category. Each of our advanced technologies product offerings, as with product evolutions in our core routing and switching categories, builds
upon our existing competencies and, we believe, allows us to expand the overall market for our products and services. In our pursuit of market adjacencies related to our routing and switching products, we have focused our efforts on the following
advanced technology product categories: application networking services, home networking, security, storage area networking, unified communications, video systems, and wireless technology. We have also continued to focus on developing a new wave of
technologies, which we refer to as emerging technologies, which includes product areas such as Cisco TelePresence systems, physical security, digital media, and the Cisco Unified Computing System. We are in the process of identifying additional
advanced technologies for focus and investment in the future. As has been the case from time to time in the past, one or more of our currently identified advanced technologies may be curtailed or eliminated due to market developments or other
factors.      We refer to the evolutionary process by which adjacencies arise as market transitions. One example of a market in which a
significant market transition appears to be underway is the enterprise data center market. We believe the market is at an inflection point, as awareness grows that intelligent networks are becoming the platform for productivity improvement and
global competitiveness. We further believe that disruption in the enterprise data center market will accelerate in the next 12 months, due to changing technology trends such as the increasing adoption of virtualization and the rise in scalable
processing. Virtualization is the process of aggregating the current siloed data center resources into unified, shared resource pools that can be dynamically delivered to applications on demand thus providing the ability to move content
and applications between devices and the network.     This market transition is being brought about through the convergence of networking,
computing, storage, and software technologies. We are seeking to capitalize on this market transition through, among other things, our Cisco Unified Computing System and Cisco Nexus product families, which are designed to integrate the previously
siloed technologies in the enterprise data center with a unified architecture.      The competitive landscape in our markets is changing, and
we expect there will be a new class of very large, well-financed and aggressive competitors, each bringing its own new class of products to address this new enterprise data center market. However, with respect to this market, we believe the network
will be the intersection of innovation through an open ecosystem and standards. We expect to see acquisitions, industry consolidation, and new alliances among companies as they seek to serve the enterprise data center market. As we enter this
next market phase, we expect that we will strengthen certain strategic alliances, compete more with certain strategic alliances and partners, and perhaps also encounter new competitors, in our attempt to deliver the best solutions for our customers.
     Other market adjacencies on which we are focusing attention include those related to the increased role of video, collaboration, and
networked Web 2.0 technologies across our customer markets. The key market transitions relative to the convergence of video, collaboration, and networked Web 2.0 technologies, which we believe will drive productivity and growth in network loads,
appear to be evolving even faster than we had anticipated earlier this year. Cisco TelePresence systems are one example of our product offerings that have incorporated video, collaboration, and networked Web 2.0 technologies, as customers evolve
their communications and business models.      We believe that the architectural approach that has served us well in addressing the market
adjacencies in the communications and information technology industry will be adaptable to other markets. Examples of market adjacencies where we aim to apply this approach are the consumer, electrical services infrastructure, and video market
segments. For the consumer market, through collaboration with technology partners, retailers, service providers, and content publishers, we are striving to create compelling consumer experiences and make the network the platform for a variety of
services in the home, as broadband development moves from a device-centric phase to a network-centric model. In the electrical services infrastructure market, we are developing an architecture for managing energy in a highly secure fashion on
electrical grids at various steps from energy generation to consumption in homes and buildings. With regard to the video market segment, we are focused on simplifying and expanding the creation, distribution, and use of end-to-end video solutions
for businesses and consumers.         
   4   

Table of Contents  

   In order to manage our pursuit of diverse market adjacencies, we believe we need the subject area and
functional skill expertise of not just one person but many within our company. Accordingly, we have developed what we feel is an innovative organizational structure of boards and councils, bringing together Cisco managers from across many functional
areas within our company to collaboratively define, plan, execute and monitor our progress in these many market adjacencies. While we believe that this collaborative management approach will allow us to take advantage of these often rapidly evolving
market transitions and resulting opportunities, this is a new management approach for us and therefore there can be no assurance that this organizational structure will help to produce revenue and market share successes in these market adjacencies.
     For a discussion of the risks associated with our strategy, see  Item 1A. Risk Factors,  including the risk factor entitled
 We depend upon the development of new products and enhancements to existing products, and if we fail to predict and respond to emerging technological trends and customers  changing needs, our operating results and market share may
suffer.  For information regarding sales of our major products and services, see Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders. Note 15 is incorporated into this report by reference.      Our current offerings fall into several categories:        Routing        Routing technology is fundamental to the Internet, and this technology interconnects public and private IP
networks for mobile, data, voice, and video applications. Our routing products are designed to enhance the intelligence, security, reliability, scalability, and level of performance in the transmission of information and media-rich applications. We
offer a broad range of routers, from core network infrastructure for service providers and enterprises to access routers for branch offices and for telecommuters and consumers at home. Key products within our routing category are the Cisco 1800
Series, Cisco 2800 Series, and Cisco 3800 Series Integrated Services Routers as well as the Cisco 7200 Series, Cisco 7600 Series, and Cisco 12000 Series Routers, and the Cisco CRS-1 Carrier Routing System.      During fiscal 2009, we introduced the Cisco ASR 9000 Series Aggregation Services Routers, which are designed to help service providers deliver
bandwidth-intensive video and data services to business and residential customers. The ASR 9000 Series builds on the ASR 1000 Series, our first aggregation services router series, which we delivered in fiscal 2008. In fiscal 2009, we continued to
gain traction in the market with the innovative Cisco CRS-1 Carrier Routing System. Developed for service provider core networks, the CRS-1 is designed to provide the flexibility, reliability, and performance that carriers need to transport the
growing video and application traffic on the Internet.        Switching        Switching is another integral networking technology used in campuses, branch offices, and data centers. Switches are used within buildings in local-area
networks (LANs), across cities in metropolitan-area networks (MANs), and across great distances in wide-area networks (WANs). Our switching products offer many forms of connectivity to end users, workstations, IP phones, access points and servers,
and also function as aggregators on LANs, MANs, and WANs. Our switching systems employ several widely used technologies including Ethernet, Power over Ethernet, Fibre Channel over Ethernet, Packet over Synchronous Optical Network, and Multiprotocol
Label Switching. Many of our switches are designed to support an integrated set of advanced services, allowing organizations to be more efficient by using one switch for multiple networking functions rather than multiple switches to accomplish the
same functions. Cisco offers a comprehensive family of Ethernet switching solutions from fixed-configuration switches for small and medium-sized businesses to modular switches for enterprises and service providers. Our fixed-configuration switches
are designed to provide a foundation for converged data, voice, and video services. They range from small, standalone switches to stackable models that function as a single, scalable switching unit. Modular switches offer flexibility for
enterprises, which due to large-scale network demands often need to deploy numerous, concurrent intelligent networking services without degrading overall performance. Key products within our switching category are the Cisco Catalyst 2960 Series,
3560 Series, 3750 Series, 4500 Series, and 6500 Series.      During fiscal 2009, we delivered our first hypervisor-based software switch, the
Cisco Nexus 1000V Series Switch, which is designed to extend networks into virtual machines. We also delivered the Nexus 2000 Series Fabric Extender which operates with a Nexus 5000 Series Switch, and is designed to eliminate control points and
provide additional flexibility following the fiscal 2008 launch of the Nexus 5000 and 7000 Series data center switches. We also introduced Cisco EnergyWise, a software upgrade to Cisco Catalyst LAN switches that extends the network s ability to
monitor and control power.        Advanced Technologies         Application Networking Services       Cisco Application Networking Services is a broad portfolio of application networking solutions that enable high performance and highly secure delivery of applications within data centers, and across WANs to remote and branch office users.
Our solutions are designed to help facilitate the deployment and delivery of business applications across an entire organization by using technology to accelerate, maximize availability of, and secure both application traffic and computing
resources. A key product within our  
       
   5   

Table of Contents  

application networking services category is Cisco Wide Area Application Services (WAAS), a comprehensive WAN optimization solution.       Home Networking       We believe the
consumer market is undergoing a market transition from what we call the connected home to the media-enabled home, where all consumer devices, services, and content are designed to enable people to live a connected life that is more personal, more
social, and more visual than previously possible with devices in the home. Our home networking products connect different devices in the household, through wired or wireless connections, allowing people to share Internet access, printers, storage,
video, music, movies, and games throughout the home. Our products include voice and data modems, routers and gateways, Internet video cameras, home entertainment storage, wireless home audio, home network management software, and other products that
are designed to enable customers to experience their digital content in all areas of their lives. These products are sold through select retailers, value-added resellers, online retailers, and service providers worldwide.      In fiscal 2009, under the Linksys by Cisco brand, we introduced home routers and access points supporting the new 802.11n Wi-Fi standard for advanced
home wireless networking; wireless home audio kits, which allow people to enjoy music throughout their homes; and Media Hub devices, which allow people to store, manage, and share video, music, and photos throughout their homes and also to access
such digital content from outside their homes with an Internet connection.       Security       Cisco security solutions deliver network and content security systems that are designed to enable highly secure collaboration. Our products in this
category span firewall, intrusion prevention, remote access and virtual private networks (VPNs), unified client, web, and email security. We focus on a proactive, layered approach to counter both existing and emerging security threats. We provide
security solutions that are designed to be integrated, timely, comprehensive, and effective, helping to ensure holistic security for organizations worldwide. A key product line within our security product category is the Cisco ASA 5500 Series
Adaptive Security Appliances.      In fiscal 2009, we introduced email and web security products including the Cisco IronPort Email Security
Appliance and Cisco IronPort Web Security Appliance for enterprise and midmarket companies and the Cisco Spam and Virus Blocker for small businesses.       Storage Area Networking       We provide storage area networking (SAN) products for data center
environments that deliver multilayer, scalable, and highly secure connectivity between servers and storage systems, including products such as storage arrays and tape drives. These products incorporate intelligent network features, such as advanced
network security, traffic management, virtualization, and tools that are designed to help make storing, retrieving, and protecting critical data across widely distributed environments more efficient. The Cisco MDS 9000 Series is the key product line
within our storage area networking product category.      In fiscal 2009, we introduced support in our MDS 9000 line of storage switches for
the emerging Fibre Channel over Ethernet standard. We also transitioned our storage area networking operating system to Cisco NX-OS, which offers companies greater scalability, flexibility, and reduced total cost of ownership while providing a
unified software base for the future unification of Ethernet, storage, and high-performance computing networks.       Unified Communications
      Cisco Unified Communications products integrate voice, video, data, and mobile applications on fixed and mobile networks, delivering a
media-rich collaboration experience to the workspace. Specific products include IP phones, client software, servers, and network appliances supporting call control, contact centers, messaging, conferencing, voice mobility, and collaboration
including presence and preference information. These products are available as software and web-based collaborative offerings, as standalone devices, and as integrated components in Cisco routers and switches. These applications use the network as
the platform to enhance competitive advantage by enabling users to accelerate decision time and reduce transaction time. The security and scalability of the network enables users in any workspace to connect with one another through a computer,
handset, smart phone, or other similar communications equipment. Cisco Unified Communications are part of a comprehensive solution that includes network infrastructure, security, wireless, management applications, lifecycle services, flexible
deployment, outsourced management options, and third-party applications. Cisco WebEx products provide web-based collaborative offerings that allow users to share presentations, applications, documents, and desktops, with full-motion video and
integrated audio, in a rich multimedia environment online through the use of a standard web browser.      In fiscal 2009, we introduced the
Cisco IP Phone 6900 Series, a new line of IP phones, and the Cisco Unified Workspace Licensing program, a flexible approach designed to increase customer utilitization of Cisco Unified Communications products and applications. We also focused on
integration between Cisco and third-party products and applications.         
   6   

Table of Contents  

    Video Systems       Our video systems offerings consist primarily of digital set-top boxes and digital media technology products. Digital set-top boxes provide video entertainment services to consumers. They enable subscribers to access
a variety of interactive digital television services developed either by Cisco or third parties. Our equipment includes Standard-Definition (SD), IP television (IPTV) service-enabled, Data over Cable System Interface Specification (DOCSIS), DOCSIS
Gateway (DSG), High-Definition (HD), digital video recorder (DVR), HD-DVR, multiple-room DVR, Media Center DVR, and digital-only set-top boxes. Digital media technology products span a wide range of signal processing and headend capabilities
including reception, encoding or transcoding, transrating, multiplexing, ad insertion, switching, and modulation. Deployment of these capabilities can help service providers and broadcast customers to more efficiently deliver entertainment,
information, and communications services over their existing access networks.       Wireless Technology       The Cisco Unified Wireless Network is designed to unify high-performance 802.11n wireless access across campus, branch, remote, and outdoor environments.
This wireless system strives to maximize flexibility and reliability with its access point, controller, antenna, and integrated management products. Streamlined management and mobile device troubleshooting are features of the platform designed to
reduce operational cost. This platform delivers, through an open application programming interface (API), business-relevant mobility data, voice, video, and context-aware applications to partners and end-user customers. A key product line within our
wireless technology category is the Cisco Aironet product family.        Other Products        Our other products comprise primarily optical networking products, cable access, and service provider voice-over-IP (VoIP) services. We provide optical
networking products for both the enterprise and service provider markets. We market and sell analog and digital optoelectronics which may reside in a network operator s headend, in other facilities such as distribution hubs, and in optical
nodes. Our other products also include such emerging technologies as Cisco TelePresence systems, TelePresence Exchange Services, physical security and video surveillance, digital media systems, and building systems that help companies manage energy
efficiency.      During fiscal 2009, we announced the next step in our Data Center 3.0 vision: the Cisco Unified Computing System, which is the
next-generation data center platform designed to improve IT responsiveness to rapidly changing business demands. The Cisco Unified Computing System unites network, computing, and virtualization resources into a seamless system, which helps companies
reduce IT costs and deploy new IT services more quickly.        Service        In addition to our product offerings, we provide a broad range of service offerings, including technical support services and advanced services. Technical
support services help ensure that our products operate efficiently, remain available, and benefit from the most up-to-date system software. These services help customers protect their network investments and minimize downtime for systems running
mission-critical applications. Advanced services are services that are part of a comprehensive program that is designed to provide responsive, preventive, and consultative support of our technologies for specific networking needs. The advanced
services program supports networking devices, applications, solutions and complete infrastructures. Our service and support strategy seeks to capitalize on increased globalization, and we believe this strategy, along with our architectural approach,
has the potential to further differentiate us from competitors.         Customers and Markets       Many factors influence the IT, collaboration, and networking requirements of our customers. These include the size of the organization, number and types
of technology systems, geographic location, and the business applications deployed throughout the network. Our customer base is not limited to any specific industry, geography, or market segment. In each of the past three fiscal years, no single
customer has accounted for 10 percent or more of our net sales. Our customers primarily operate in the following markets: enterprise, service provider, commercial, and consumer.        Enterprise        Enterprise
businesses are large regional, national, or global organizations with multiple locations or branch offices and typically employ 1,000 or more employees. Many enterprise businesses have unique IT, collaboration, and networking needs within a
multi-vendor environment. Our enterprise customers also include public sector entities and governments. We take advantage of the network as the platform to integrate business processes with technology architectures to assist customer growth. We
offer service and support packages, financing, and managed network services through our service provider partners. We sell these products through a network of third-party application and technology vendors and channel partners.         
   7   

Table of Contents  

     Service Providers        Service providers offer data, voice, video, and mobile/wireless services to businesses, governments, utilities, and consumers worldwide. They include
regional, national, and international wireline carriers, as well as Internet, cable, and wireless providers. We also group media, broadcast, and web portal providers within our service provider market, as the lines in the telecommunications industry
continue to blur between traditional network-based services and content-based and application-based services. Service providers use a variety of our routing and switching, optical, security, video, connected home, mobility, and network management
products and systems in their own networks. In addition, many service providers use Cisco data center, virtualization, and collaboration technologies to offer managed or Internet-based services to their business customers. These technologies include
Cisco Unified Communications and call center products and applications, Cisco WebEx collaboration tools, and Cisco TelePresence systems, as well as other video and security products and systems that can be incorporated into network-attached data
centers. Compared with other customers, service providers are more likely to require network design, deployment, and support services because of the scale and complexity of their networks.        Commercial        Generally, we
define commercial businesses as companies with fewer than 1,000 employees. The larger, or midmarket, customers within the commercial market are served by a combination of our direct salesforce and our channel partners. These customers typically
require the latest advanced technologies that our enterprise customers demand, but with less complexity. Small businesses, or companies with fewer than 100 employees, require information technologies and communication products that are easy to
configure, install, and maintain. These smaller companies within the commercial market are primarily served by our channel partners.        Consumer        Consumer customers are individuals who use the network at home, or while away from home, for personal use
to enjoy a broad range of entertainment, communications, and information experiences. Cisco is able to deliver these solutions to consumers through an extensive vendor network of retailers, partners, service and content providers, and direct online
retailers. The Flip Video family of camcorders represents a new addition to our consumer product line, having been added to our product portfolio through the acquisition of Pure Digital Technologies, Inc. during fiscal 2009. The Flip Video family of
camcorders is designed to make video simple, accessible, and fun by allowing people to easily capture and edit videos and then share them instantly with friends, family, and on popular video-sharing websites.         Sales Overview       As of the end
of fiscal 2009, our worldwide sales and marketing department consisted of approximately 23,250 employees, including managers, sales representatives, and technical support personnel. We have field sales offices in approximately 90 countries and we
sell our products and services both directly and through a variety of channels with support from our salesforce. A substantial portion of our products and services is sold through our channel partners and the remainder is sold through direct sales.
Our channel partners include systems integrators, service providers, other resellers, distributors, and retail partners.      Systems
integrators and service providers typically sell directly to end users and often provide system installation, technical support, professional services, and other support services in addition to network equipment sales. Systems integrators also
typically integrate our products into an overall solution. Some service providers are also systems integrators.      Distributors hold
inventory and typically sell to systems integrators, service providers, and other resellers. In addition, home networking products are generally sold through distributors and retail partners. We refer to sales through distributors and retail
partners as our two-tier system of sales to the end customer. Revenue from distributors and retail partners is recognized based on a sell-through method using information provided by them. These distributors and retail partners are generally given
business terms that allow them to return a portion of inventory, receive credits for changes in selling prices, and participate in various cooperative marketing programs.      For information regarding risks related to our channels, see  Item 1A. Risk Factors,  including the risk factors entitled  Disruption of or changes in our distribution model could harm our sales and
margins  and  Our inventory management relating to our sales to our two-tier distribution channel is complex, and excess inventory may harm our gross margins.       For information regarding risks relating to our international operations, see  Item 1A. Risk Factors,  including the risk factors entitled
 Our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions and the uncertain geopolitical environment   Entrance into new or developing markets exposes us to additional competition and will likely
increase demands on our service and support operations   Due to the global nature of our operations, political or economic changes or other factors in a specific country or region could harm our operating results and financial
condition   We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could negatively impact our financial results and cash flows  and  Man-made problems such as computer viruses or terrorism may disrupt our operations
and harm our operating results , among others.         
   8   

Table of Contents  

   Our service offerings complement our products through a range of consulting, technical, project, quality,
and maintenance services, including 24-hour online and telephone support through technical assistance centers.      We provide financing
arrangements, such as leases, financed service contracts, and loans, for certain qualified customers to build, maintain, and upgrade their networks. We believe customer financing is a competitive factor in obtaining business, particularly in serving
customers involved in significant infrastructure projects. Leases include sales-type, direct financing, and operating leases. We also provide certain qualified customers with the option of financing long-term service contracts, which primarily
relate to technical support services and typically range from one to three years. Our loan financing arrangements may include not only financing for the acquisition of our products and services, but also may provide additional funds for other costs
associated with network installation and integration of our products and services. For additional information regarding these financing arrangements, see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders. Note
6 is incorporated into this report by reference.         Backlog       Our backlog at July 25, 2009, the last day of our 2009 fiscal year, was approximately $3.9 billion, compared with backlog of approximately $4.8
billion at July 26, 2008, the last day of our 2008 fiscal year. The backlog includes orders confirmed for products scheduled to be shipped within 90 days to customers with approved credit status. Because of the generally short cycle between
order and shipment, and occasional customer changes in delivery schedules or cancellation of orders (which are made without significant penalty), we do not believe that our backlog, as of any particular date, is necessarily indicative of actual net
sales for any future period.         Acquisitions, Investments, and Alliances       The markets in which we compete require a wide variety of technologies, products, and capabilities. The combination of technological complexity and rapid
change within our markets makes it difficult for a single company to develop all the technological solutions that it desires to offer within its family of products and services. We work to broaden the range of products and services we deliver to
customers in target markets through acquisitions, investments, and alliances. We employ the following strategies to address the need for new or enhanced networking and communications products and services:       

Developing new technologies and products internally          

Entering into joint-development efforts with other companies          

Reselling other companies  products          

Acquiring all or parts of other companies           Acquisitions        We have acquired many companies and we expect to make future acquisitions. Mergers and acquisitions of
high-technology companies are inherently risky, especially if the acquired company has yet to ship a product. No assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful or will not materially adversely affect our financial
condition or operating results. Prior acquisitions have resulted in a wide range of outcomes, from successful introduction of new products and technologies to an inability to do so. The risks associated with acquisitions are more fully discussed in
 Item 1A. Risk Factors,  including the risk factor entitled  We have made and expect to continue to make acquisitions that could disrupt our operations and harm our operating results.         Investments in Privately Held Companies        We make investments in privately held companies that develop technology or provide services that are complementary to our products or that provide strategic value. The risks associated with these investments are more
fully discussed in  Item 1A. Risk Factors,  including the risk factor entitled  We are exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our portfolio investments and in interest rates; impairment of our investments could harm our
earnings.         Strategic Alliances        We pursue strategic alliances with other companies in areas where collaboration can produce industry advancement and acceleration of new markets. The objectives and goals of a strategic alliance can include one or
more of the following: technology exchange, product development, joint sales and marketing, or new-market creation. Currently, we have strategic alliances with Accenture Ltd; AT T Inc.; Cap Gemini S.A.; EMC Corporation; Fujitsu Limited; Intel
Corporation; International Business  
       
   9   

Table of Contents  

Machines Corporation; Italtel SpA; Johnson Controls Inc.; Microsoft Corporation; Nokia; Nokia Siemens Networks; Oracle Corporation; SAP AG; Sprint Nextel
Corporation; Tata Consultancy Services Ltd.; VMware, Inc.; Wipro Limited; and others. Companies with which we have strategic alliances in some areas may be competitors in other areas. The risks associated with our strategic alliances are more fully
discussed in  Item 1A. Risk Factors,  including the risk factor entitled  If we do not successfully manage our strategic alliances, we may experience increased competition or delays in product development.          Competition       We compete in
the networking and communications equipment markets, providing products and services for transporting data, voice, and video traffic across intranets, extranets, and the Internet. These markets are characterized by rapid change, converging
technologies, and a migration to networking and communications solutions that offer relative advantages. These market factors represent both an opportunity and a competitive threat to us. We compete with numerous vendors in each product category.
The overall number of our competitors providing niche product solutions may increase. Also, the identity and composition of competitors may change as we increase our activity in our advanced technology markets and market adjacencies. As we continue
to expand globally, we may see new competition in different geographic regions. In particular, we have experienced price-focused competition from competitors in Asia, especially from China, and we anticipate this will continue.      Our competitors include: Alcatel-Lucent; ARRIS Group, Inc.; Aruba Networks, Inc.; Avaya Inc.; Belden Inc.; Brocade Communications Systems, Inc.; Check
Point Software Technologies Ltd.; Citrix Systems, Inc.; D-Link Corporation; LM Ericsson Telephone Company; Extreme Networks, Inc.; F5 Networks, Inc.; Force10 Networks, Inc.; Fortinet, Inc.; Hewlett-Packard Company; Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd.;
International Business Machines Corporation; Juniper Networks, Inc.; LogMeIn, Inc.; Meru Networks, Inc.; Microsoft Corporation; Motorola, Inc.; NETGEAR, Inc.; Nortel Networks Corporation; Riverbed Technology, Inc.; and Symantec Corporation; among
others.      Some of these companies compete across many of our product lines, while others are primarily focused in a specific product area.
Barriers to entry are relatively low, and new ventures to create products that do or could compete with our products are regularly formed. In addition, some of our competitors may have greater resources, including technical and engineering
resources, than we do. As we expand into new markets, we will face competition not only from our existing competitors but also from other competitors, including existing companies with strong technological, marketing, and sales positions in those
markets. We also sometimes face competition from resellers and distributors of our products. Companies with whom we have strategic alliances in some areas may be competitors in other areas. For example, the enterprise data center is undergoing a
fundamental transformation arising from the convergence of technologies, including computing, networking, storage and software, that previously were siloed. Due to several factors, including the availability of highly scalable and general purpose
microprocessors, application-specific integrated circuits offering advanced services, standards based protocols, cloud computing and virtualization, the application of these converging technologies is spanning multiple, previously independent,
technology segments. Also, some of our current and potential competitors for enterprise data center business have made acquisitions, or announced new strategic alliances, designed to position them to provide end-to-end technology solutions for the
enterprise data center. As a result of all of these developments, we face greater competition in the development and sale of enterprise data center technologies, including competition from entities that are among our long-term strategic alliance
partners. Companies that are strategic alliance partners in some areas of our business may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, thereby reducing their business with us.      The principal competitive factors in the markets in which we presently compete and may compete in the future include:       

The ability to provide a broad range of networking and communications products and services          

Product performance          

Price          

The ability to introduce new products, including products with price-performance advantages          

The ability to reduce production costs          

The ability to provide value-added features such as security, reliability, and investment protection          

Conformance to standards          

Market presence          

The ability to provide financing            
   10   

Table of Contents  

Disruptive technology shifts and new business models         We also face competition from customers to which we license or supply technology and suppliers from which we transfer technology. The inherent nature of networking requires interoperability. As such, we must cooperate
and at the same time compete with many companies. Any inability to effectively manage these complicated relationships with customers, suppliers, and strategic alliance partners could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results,
and financial condition, and accordingly affect our chances of success.         Research and Development       We regularly seek to introduce new products and features to address the requirements of our markets. We allocate our research and development budget among
routers, switches, advanced technologies, and other product technologies for this purpose. Our research and development expenditures were $5.2 billion, $5.3 billion, and $4.6 billion in fiscal 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. These expenditures
are applied generally to all product areas, with specific areas of focus being identified from time to time. Recent areas of focus include, but are not limited to, Cisco TelePresence systems, physical security, digital media, and the Cisco Unified
Computing System. Our expenditures for research and development costs, as well as in-process research and development of $63 million, $3 million, and $81 million in fiscal 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively, were expensed as incurred.      The industry in which we compete is subject to rapid technological developments, evolving standards, changes in customer requirements, and new product
introductions and enhancements. As a result, our success depends in part upon our ability, on a cost-effective and timely basis, to continue to enhance our existing products and to develop and introduce new products that improve performance and
reduce total cost of ownership. To achieve these objectives, our management and engineering personnel work with customers to identify and respond to customer needs, as well as with other innovators of internetworking products, including
universities, laboratories, and corporations. We also expect to continue to make acquisitions and investments, where appropriate, to provide us with access to new technologies. We intend to continue developing products that meet key industry
standards and to support important protocol standards as they emerge. Nonetheless, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully develop products to address new customer requirements and technological changes, or that those products
will achieve market acceptance.         Manufacturing       We primarily employ an outsourced manufacturing strategy that relies on contract manufacturers for manufacturing services. We presently use a variety of
independent third-party companies to provide services related to printed-circuit board assembly, in-circuit test, product repair, and product assembly. Proprietary software on electronically programmable memory chips is used to configure products
that meet customer requirements and to maintain quality control and security. The manufacturing process enables us to configure the hardware and software in unique combinations to meet a wide variety of individual customer requirements. The
manufacturing process uses automated testing equipment and burn-in procedures, as well as comprehensive inspection, testing, and statistical process controls, which are designed to help ensure the quality and reliability of our products. The
manufacturing processes and procedures are generally certified to International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 9001 or ISO 9003 standards.      Our arrangements with contract manufacturers generally provide for quality, cost, and delivery requirements, as well as manufacturing process terms, such as continuity of supply; inventory management; flexibility regarding capacity, quality
and cost management; oversight of manufacturing; and conditions for use of our intellectual property. We have not entered into any significant long-term contracts with any manufacturing service provider. We generally have the option to renew
arrangements on an as-needed basis, primarily annually. These arrangements generally do not commit us to purchase any particular amount or any quantities beyond certain amounts covered by orders or forecasts that we submit covering discrete periods
of time.      Although we primarily employ an outsourced manufacturing strategy, we continue to operate manufacturing facilities, including a
principal facility in Juarez, Mexico, for the manufacture of set-top boxes. The manufacturing operations in Juarez range from automated assembly lines for volume production to complete assembly of a particular product by one individual or small
group of individuals.         
   11   

Table of Contents  

      Patents, Intellectual Property, and Licensing       We seek to establish and maintain our proprietary rights in our technology and products through the use of patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade
secret laws. We have a program to file applications for and obtain patents, copyrights, and trademarks in the United States and in selected foreign countries where we believe filing for such protection is appropriate. We also seek to maintain our
trade secrets and confidential information by nondisclosure policies and through the use of appropriate confidentiality agreements. We have obtained a substantial number of patents and trademarks in the United States and in other countries. There
can be no assurance, however, that the rights obtained can be successfully enforced against infringing products in every jurisdiction. Although we believe the protection afforded by our patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets has value,
the rapidly changing technology in the networking industry and uncertainties in the legal process make our future success dependent primarily on the innovative skills, technological expertise, and management abilities of our employees rather than on
the protection afforded by patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret laws.      Many of our products are designed to include software or
other intellectual property licensed from third parties. While it may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of our products, we believe, based upon past experience and standard industry practice, that such
licenses generally could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. Nonetheless, there can be no assurance that the necessary licenses would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Our inability to obtain certain licenses or other rights or
to obtain such licenses or rights on favorable terms, or the need to engage in litigation regarding these matters, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Moreover, inclusion in our products
of software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties on a nonexclusive basis can limit our ability to protect our proprietary rights in our products.      The industry in which we compete is characterized by rapidly changing technology, a large number of patents, and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. There
can be no assurance that our patents and other proprietary rights will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented; that others will not assert intellectual property rights to technologies that are relevant to us; or, that our rights will give
us a competitive advantage. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The risks associated with patents and intellectual property are more fully
discussed in  Item 1A. Risk Factors,  including the risk factors entitled  Our proprietary rights may prove difficult to enforce,   We may be found to infringe on intellectual property rights of others,  and  We
rely on the availability of third-party licenses.          Employees       As of July 25, 2009, we employed approximately 65,550 employees, including approximately 16,600 in manufacturing and service, approximately 19,300 in
engineering, approximately 23,250 in sales and marketing, and approximately 6,400 in general and administration. Approximately 28,500 employees are in locations outside the United States. We consider the relationships with our employees to be
positive. Competition for technical personnel in the industry in which we compete is intense. We believe that our future success depends in part on our continued ability to hire, assimilate, and retain qualified personnel. To date, we believe that
we have been successful in recruiting qualified employees, but there is no assurance that we will continue to be successful in the future.         
   12   

Table of Contents  

      Executive Officers of the Registrant       The following table shows the name, age and position as of August 31, 2009 of each of our executive officers:       

Name    
      
   Age   
      
     Position     
 
    Susan L. Bostrom   
      
  48  
      
    Executive Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer, Global Policy and Government Affairs         Ms. Bostrom joined Cisco in October 1997 as Vice President of Cisco s Applications and Services
Marketing group. In August 1998, she was appointed Vice President of the Internet Business Solutions Group, and she was promoted to Senior Vice President in February 2000. In October 2002, she also assumed responsibility for Worldwide Government
Affairs. Since January 2006, she has served as Chief Marketing Officer, and in August 2007 she was named Executive Vice President. Before joining Cisco, Ms. Bostrom had served as Senior Vice President of Global Marketing and Strategic Planning at
FTP Software. Ms. Bostrom also currently serves on the board of directors of Varian Medical Systems, Inc.    

Frank A. Calderoni   
      
  52  
      
    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer         Mr. Calderoni joined Cisco in May 2004 as Vice President, Worldwide Sales Finance. In June 2007, he was promoted to Senior Vice President, Customer Solutions Finance. He
was appointed to his current position effective in February 2008. From March 2002 until he joined Cisco, Mr. Calderoni served as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of QLogic Corporation, a supplier of storage networking solutions. Prior
to that, he was Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration and Chief Financial Officer of SanDisk Corporation from February 2000 to February 2002.    

John T. Chambers   
      
  60  
      
    Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, and Director         Mr. Chambers has served as Chief Executive Officer since January 1995, as Chairman of the Board of Directors since November 2006 and as a member of the Board of Directors
since November 1993. Mr. Chambers also served as President from January 31, 1995 to November 2006. He joined Cisco as Senior Vice President in January 1991 and was promoted to Executive Vice President in June 1994. Mr. Chambers was promoted to
President and Chief Executive Officer as of January 31, 1995. Before joining Cisco, he was employed by Wang Laboratories, Inc. for eight years, where, in his last role, he was the Senior Vice President of U.S. Operations.    

Mark Chandler   
      
  53  
      
    Senior Vice President, Legal Services, General Counsel and Secretary         Mr. Chandler joined Cisco in July 1996, upon Cisco s acquisition of StrataCom, Inc., where he
served as General Counsel. He served as Cisco s Managing Attorney for Europe, the Middle East, and Africa from December 1996 until June 1999; as Director, Worldwide Legal Operations from June 1999 until February 2001; and was promoted to Vice
President, Worldwide Legal Services in February 2001. In October 2001, he was promoted to Vice President, Legal Services and General Counsel and in May 2003, he was also appointed Secretary. In February 2006, he was promoted to Senior Vice
President. Before joining StrataCom, he had served as Vice President, Corporate Development and General Counsel of Maxtor Corporation.    

Wim Elfrink   
      
  57  
      
    Executive Vice President, Cisco Services and Chief Globalisation Officer         Mr. Elfrink joined Cisco in 1997 as Vice President of Customer Advocacy in Europe. In November 2000
he was promoted to Senior Vice President, Customer Advocacy and took over global responsibility for the function, relocating to San Jose California. Mr. Elfrink was appointed Chief Globalisation Officer in December 2006 and moved to
Bangalore India to establish Cisco s Globalisation Centre East. In August 2007 he was named Executive Vice President.    
       
   13   

Table of Contents  

Name    
      
   Age   
      
     Position     

Robert W. Lloyd   
      
  53  
      
    Executive Vice President, Worldwide Operations         Mr. Lloyd joined Cisco in November 1994 as General Manager of Cisco Canada. In October 1998, he was promoted to Vice President, EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa); in
February 2001, he was promoted to Senior Vice President, EMEA; and in July 2005, Mr. Lloyd was appointed Senior Vice President, US, Canada and Japan. In April 2009, he was promoted to his current position.    

Randy Pond   
      
  55  
      
    Executive Vice President, Operations, Processes and Systems         Mr. Pond joined Cisco in September 1993. In 1994, Mr. Pond assumed leadership of Cisco s Supply/Demand group. In 1994, he was appointed Director of Manufacturing
Operations. He was promoted to Vice President of Manufacturing in 1995. In January 2000, Mr. Pond was promoted to Senior Vice President of West Coast and Asia operations. He was promoted to Senior Vice President, Worldwide Manufacturing Operations
and Logistics in June 2001. In August 2003, he was promoted to Senior Vice President, Operations, Processes and Systems, and he was named Executive Vice President in August 2007. Before joining Cisco, Mr. Pond held the position of Vice President
Finance, Chief Financial Officer, and Vice President of Operations at Crescendo Communications.    
       
   14   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 1A.   
   Risk Factors         Set forth below and elsewhere in this
report and in other documents we file with the SEC are descriptions of the risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report.
      OUR OPERATING RESULTS MAY FLUCTUATE IN FUTURE PERIODS, WHICH MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR STOCK PRICE       Our operating results have been in the past, and will continue to be, subject to quarterly and annual fluctuations as a result of numerous factors, some of which may
contribute to more pronounced fluctuations in an uncertain global economic environment. These factors include:       

Fluctuations in demand for our products and services, especially with respect to telecommunications service providers and Internet businesses, in part due to
changes in the global economic environment          

Changes in sales and implementation cycles for our products and reduced visibility into our customers  spending plans and associated revenue

Our ability to maintain appropriate inventory levels and purchase commitments          

Price and product competition in the communications and networking industries, which can change rapidly due to technological innovation and different business
models from various geographic regions          

The overall movement toward industry consolidation among both our competitors and our customers          

The introduction and market acceptance of new technologies and products and our success in new and evolving markets, including emerging and advanced technologies,
as well as the adoption of new standards          

Variations in sales channels, product costs, or mix of products sold          

The timing, size, and mix of orders from customers          

Manufacturing and customer lead times          

Fluctuations in our gross margins, and the factors that contribute to such fluctuations, as described below          

Our ability to achieve targeted cost reductions, such as the resource realignment and expense reduction that is described in the  Management s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  section in our 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders, which section is incorporated into this report by reference          

The ability of our customers, channel partners, contract manufacturers and suppliers to obtain financing or to fund capital expenditures, especially during a period
of global credit market disruption or in the event of customer, channel partner, contract manufacturer or supplier financial problems          

Share-based compensation expense          

Actual events, circumstances, outcomes, and amounts differing from judgments, assumptions, and estimates used in determining the values of certain assets (including
the amounts of related valuation allowances), liabilities, and other items reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements          

How well we execute on our strategy and operating plans          

Benefits anticipated from our investments in engineering, sales and manufacturing activities          

Changes in tax laws or regulations or accounting rules, such as increased use of fair value measures and the potential requirement that U.S. registrants prepare
financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)         As a consequence, operating
results for a particular future period are difficult to predict, and, therefore, prior results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. Any of the foregoing factors, or any other factors discussed elsewhere herein,
could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition that could  
       
   15   

Table of Contents  

adversely affect our stock price.       OUR OPERATING RESULTS MAY
BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY UNFAVORABLE ECONOMIC AND MARKET CONDITIONS AND THE UNCERTAIN GEOPOLITICAL ENVIRONMENT       Challenging economic
conditions worldwide have from time to time contributed, and may continue to contribute, to slowdowns in the communications and networking industries at large, as well as to specific segments and markets in which we operate, resulting in:

Reduced demand for our products as a result of continued constraints on IT-related capital spending by our customers, particularly service providers, and other
customer markets as well          

Increased price competition for our products, not only from our competitors but also as a consequence of customers disposing of unutilized products

Risk of excess and obsolete inventories          

Risk of excess facilities and manufacturing capacity          

Higher overhead costs as a percentage of revenue and higher interest expense         The turmoil in the global credit markets, the instability in the geopolitical environment in many parts of the world and other disruptions, such as
changes in energy costs, may continue to put pressure on global economic conditions. Our operating results in one or more segments may also be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions particularly germane to that segment or to
particular customer markets within that segment. The world has been experiencing a global macroeconomic downturn, and if global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in the United States or other key markets, remain uncertain,
persist, or deteriorate further, we may experience material impacts on our business, operating results, and financial condition.       DURING THE GLOBAL
ECONOMIC DOWNTURN AND WHILE THE RELATED MARKET UNCERTAINTY PERSISTS, WE HAVE BEEN INVESTING IN MARKET ADJACENCIES AND ALSO IN THE UNITED STATES AND SELECT EMERGING COUNTRIES, AND IF THE RETURN ON THESE INVESTMENTS IS LOWER OR DEVELOPS MORE SLOWLY
THAN WE EXPECT, OUR OPERATING RESULTS MAY BE HARMED       We continue to realign resources to focus on certain market adjacencies, such as
enterprise data center virtualization, video/visual networking, collaboration architectures, and globalization, primarily in targeted geographic locations. Moreover, since we believe the United States will be among the first major countries to
recover from the global economic downturn, we continue to make a significant portion of these investments in the United States so that we can be positioned to benefit from this future recovery while other countries or markets may not be recovering.
Additionally, we believe countries such as China and India are positioned to minimize the effect of the global challenges on their own economies, creating opportunities for us even while other countries or markets may not be recovering. However, the
return on our investments in such market adjacencies and in such geographic markets may be lower, or may develop more slowly, than we expect. If we do not achieve the benefits anticipated from these investments (including if our selection of areas
for investment does not play out as we expect), or if the achievement of these benefits is delayed, our operating results may be adversely affected.       OUR REVENUE FOR A PARTICULAR PERIOD IS DIFFICULT TO PREDICT, AND A SHORTFALL IN REVENUE MAY HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS       As a
result of a variety of factors discussed in this report, our revenue for a particular quarter is difficult to predict, especially in light of the global economic downturn and related market uncertainty. Our net sales declined in fiscal 2009 and may
decline further or may grow at a slower rate than in past periods. Our ability to meet financial expectations could also be adversely affected if the nonlinear sales pattern seen in some of our past quarters recurs in future periods. We have
experienced periods of time during which shipments have exceeded net bookings or manufacturing issues have delayed shipments, leading to nonlinearity in shipping patterns. In addition to making it difficult to predict revenue for a particular
period, nonlinearity in shipping can increase costs, because irregular shipment patterns result in periods of underutilized capacity and periods in which overtime expenses may be incurred, as well as in potential additional inventory
management-related costs. In addition, to the extent that manufacturing issues and any related component shortages result in delayed shipments in the future, and particularly in periods in which we and our contract manufacturers are operating at
higher levels of capacity, it is possible that revenue for a quarter could be adversely affected if such matters occur and are not remediated within the same quarter.      The timing of large orders can also have a significant effect on our business and operating results from quarter to quarter, primarily in our Emerging Markets theater and other emerging countries. From time to time,
we receive large orders that have a significant effect on our operating results in the period in which the order is recognized as revenue. The timing of such orders is difficult to predict, and the timing of revenue recognition from such orders may
affect period to period changes in net sales. As a result, our operating results could vary materially from quarter to quarter based on the receipt of such orders and their ultimate recognition as revenue.         
   16   

Table of Contents  

   In addition, to improve customer satisfaction, we continue to attempt to improve our manufacturing
lead-time performance, which may result in corresponding reductions in order backlog. A decline in backlog levels could result in more variability and less predictability in our quarter-to-quarter net sales and operating results. Long manufacturing
lead times have caused our customers in the past to place the same order multiple times within our various sales channels and to cancel the duplicative orders upon receipt of the product, or to place orders with other vendors with shorter
manufacturing lead times. Such multiple ordering (along with other factors) may cause difficulty in predicting our sales and, as a result, could impair our ability to manage parts inventory effectively.      We plan our operating expense levels based primarily on forecasted revenue levels. These expenses and the impact of long-term commitments are relatively
fixed in the short term. A shortfall in revenue could lead to operating results being below expectations because we may not be able to quickly reduce these fixed expenses in response to short-term business changes.      Any of the above factors could have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial results.       WE EXPECT GROSS MARGIN TO VARY OVER TIME, AND OUR LEVEL OF PRODUCT GROSS MARGIN MAY NOT BE SUSTAINABLE       Our level of product gross margins may not be sustainable and may continue to be adversely affected by numerous factors, including:       

Changes in customer, geographic, or product mix, including mix of configurations within each product group          

Introduction of new products, including products with price-performance advantages          

Our ability to reduce production costs          

Entry into new markets, including markets with different pricing and cost structures, through acquisitions or internal development          

Sales discounts          

Increases in material or labor costs          

Excess inventory and inventory holding charges          

Obsolescence charges          

Changes in shipment volume          

The timing of revenue recognition and revenue deferrals          

Increased cost, loss of cost savings or dilution of savings due to changes in component pricing or charges incurred due to inventory holding periods if parts
ordering does not correctly anticipate product demand or if the financial health of either contract manufacturers or suppliers deteriorates          

Lower than expected benefits from value engineering          

Increased price competition, including competitors from Asia, especially from China          

Changes in distribution channels          

Increased warranty costs          

How well we execute on our strategy and operating plans         Changes in service gross margin may result from various factors such as changes in the mix between technical support services and advanced services, as well as the timing of technical support service contract
initiations and renewals and the addition of personnel and other resources to support higher levels of service business in future periods.       SALES TO THE
SERVICE PROVIDER MARKET ARE ESPECIALLY VOLATILE, AND WEAKNESS IN SALES ORDERS FROM THIS INDUSTRY MAY HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION       Sales to the service provider market have been characterized by large and sporadic purchases, especially relating to our router sales and sales of certain of our advanced technologies, in addition to longer sales
cycles. In the past, we have experienced significant weakness in sales to service providers over certain extended periods of time as market conditions have fluctuated. Sales activity in this industry depends upon the stage of completion of expanding
network infrastructures; the availability of funding; and the extent to which service providers are affected by regulatory, economic, and business conditions in the country of operations. Weakness in  
       
   17   

Table of Contents  

orders from this industry, including as a result of any slowdown in capital expenditures by service providers (which may be more prevalent in the global
economic downturn), could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. For example, during fiscal 2009, we experienced a slowdown in service provider capital expenditures globally, which may continue in
future quarters. Orders from this industry could decline for many reasons other than the competitiveness of our products and services within their respective markets. For example, in the past, many of our service provider customers have been
materially and adversely affected by slowdowns in the general economy, by overcapacity, by changes in the service provider market, by regulatory developments, and by constraints on capital availability, resulting in business failures and substantial
reductions in spending and expansion plans. These conditions have materially harmed our business and operating results in the past, and some of these or other conditions in the service provider market could affect our business and operating results
in any future period. Finally, service provider customers typically have longer implementation cycles; require a broader range of services, including design services; demand that vendors take on a larger share of risks; often require acceptance
provisions, which can lead to a delay in revenue recognition; and expect financing from vendors. All these factors can add further risk to business conducted with service providers.       DISRUPTION OF OR CHANGES IN OUR DISTRIBUTION MODEL COULD HARM OUR SALES AND MARGINS       If we fail to
manage distribution of our products and services properly, or if our distributors  financial condition or operations weaken, our revenue and gross margins could be adversely affected.      A substantial portion of our products and services is sold through our channel partners, and the remainder is sold through direct sales. Our channel
partners include systems integrators, service providers, other resellers, distributors, and retail partners. Systems integrators and service providers typically sell directly to end users and often provide system installation, technical support,
professional services, and other support services in addition to network equipment sales. Systems integrators also typically integrate our products into an overall solution, and a number of service providers are also systems integrators.
Distributors stock inventory and typically sell to systems integrators, service providers, and other resellers. In addition, home networking products are generally sold through distributors and retail partners. We refer to sales through distributors
and retail partners as our two-tier system of sales to the end customer. Revenue from distributors and retail partners is recognized based on a sell-through method using information provided by them. These distributors and retail partners are
generally given business terms that allow them to return a portion of inventory, receive credits for changes in selling prices, and participate in various cooperative marketing programs. If sales through indirect channels increase, this may lead to
greater difficulty in forecasting the mix of our products and, to a degree, the timing of orders from our customers.      Historically, we have
seen fluctuations in our gross margins based on changes in the balance of our distribution channels. Although variability to date has not been significant, there can be no assurance that changes in the balance of our distribution model in future
periods would not have an adverse effect on our gross margins and profitability.      Some factors could result in disruption of or changes in
our distribution model, which could harm our sales and margins, including the following:       

We compete with some of our channel partners, including through our direct sales, which may lead these channel partners to use other suppliers that do not directly
sell their own products or otherwise compete with them          

Some of our channel partners may demand that we absorb a greater share of the risks that their customers may ask them to bear          

Some of our channel partners may have insufficient financial resources and may not be able to withstand changes and challenges in business conditions

Revenue from indirect sales could suffer if our distributors  financial condition or operations weaken         In addition, we depend on our channel partners globally to comply with applicable regulatory requirements. To the extent that they fail to do so, that
could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition.       THE MARKETS IN WHICH WE COMPETE ARE INTENSELY
COMPETITIVE, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR ACHIEVEMENT OF REVENUE GROWTH       The markets in which we compete are characterized by rapid
change, converging technologies, and a migration to networking and communications solutions that offer relative advantages. These market factors represent a competitive threat to us. We compete with numerous vendors in each product category. The
overall number of our competitors providing niche product solutions may increase. Also, the identity and composition of competitors may change as we increase our activity in our advanced technology markets and market adjacencies. As we continue to
expand globally, we may see new competition in different geographic regions. In particular, we have experienced price-focused competition from competitors in Asia, especially from China, and we anticipate this will continue. For information
regarding our competitors, see the section entitled  Competition  contained in Item 1 of this report.         
   18   

Table of Contents  

   Some of our competitors compete across many of our product lines, while others are primarily focused in a
specific product area. Barriers to entry are relatively low, and new ventures to create products that do or could compete with our products are regularly formed. In addition, some of our competitors may have greater resources, including technical
and engineering resources, than we do. As we expand into new markets, we will face competition not only from our existing competitors but also from other competitors, including existing companies with strong technological, marketing, and sales
positions in those markets. We also sometimes face competition from resellers and distributors of our products. Companies with whom we have strategic alliances in some areas may be competitors in other areas.      For example, the enterprise data center is undergoing a fundamental transformation arising from the convergence of technologies, including computing,
networking, storage, and software, that previously were siloed. Due to several factors, including the availability of highly scalable and general purpose microprocessors, application-specific integrated circuits offering advanced services, standards
based protocols, cloud computing and virtualization, the application of these converging technologies is spanning multiple, previously independent, technology segments. Also, some of our current and potential competitors for enterprise data center
business have made acquisitions, or announced new strategic alliances, designed to position them to provide end-to-end technology solutions for the enterprise data center. As a result of all of these developments, we face greater competition in the
development and sale of enterprise data center technologies, including competition from entities that are among our long-term strategic alliance partners. Companies that are strategic alliance partners in some areas of our business may acquire or
form alliances with our competitors, thereby reducing their business with us.      The principal competitive factors in the markets in which we
presently compete and may compete in the future include:       

The ability to provide a broad range of networking and communications products and services          

Product performance          

Price          

The ability to introduce new products, including products with price-performance advantages          

The ability to reduce production costs          

The ability to provide value-added features such as security, reliability, and investment protection          

Conformance to standards          

Market presence          

The ability to provide financing          

Disruptive technology shifts and new business models         We also face competition from customers to which we license or supply technology and suppliers from which we transfer technology. The inherent nature of networking requires interoperability. As such, we must cooperate
and at the same time compete with many companies. Any inability to effectively manage these complicated relationships with customers, suppliers, and strategic alliance partners could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results,
and financial condition and accordingly affect our chances of success.       OUR INVENTORY MANAGEMENT RELATING TO OUR SALES TO OUR TWO-TIER DISTRIBUTION
CHANNEL IS COMPLEX, AND EXCESS INVENTORY MAY HARM OUR GROSS MARGINS       We must manage our inventory relating to sales to our distributors
and retail partners effectively, because inventory held by them could affect our results of operations. Our distributors and retail partners may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders if their inventory is too high, or
delay orders in anticipation of new products. They also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors that are available to them and in response to seasonal fluctuations in end-user demand.
Revenue to our distributors and retail partners is recognized based on a sell-through method using information provided by them, and they are generally given business terms that allow them to return a portion of inventory, receive credits for
changes in selling price, and participate in various cooperative marketing programs. Inventory management remains an area of focus as we balance the need to maintain strategic inventory levels to ensure competitive lead times against the risk of
inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements. If we ultimately determine that we have excess inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write down inventory, which in turn could result in lower gross
margins.         
   19   

Table of Contents  

    SUPPLY CHAIN ISSUES, INCLUDING FINANCIAL PROBLEMS OF CONTRACT MANUFACTURERS OR COMPONENT SUPPLIERS, OR A SHORTAGE OF
ADEQUATE COMPONENT SUPPLY OR MANUFACTURING CAPACITY THAT INCREASED OUR COSTS OR CAUSED A DELAY IN OUR ABILITY TO FULFILL ORDERS, COULD HAVE AN ADVERSE IMPACT ON OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATING RESULTS, AND OUR FAILURE TO ESTIMATE CUSTOMER DEMAND PROPERLY
MAY RESULT IN EXCESS OR OBSOLETE COMPONENT SUPPLY, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR GROSS MARGINS       The fact that we do not own or
operate the bulk of our manufacturing facilities and that we are reliant on our extended supply chain could have an adverse impact on the supply of our products and on our business and operating results:       

Any financial problems of either contract manufacturers or component suppliers could either limit supply or increase costs          

Reservation of manufacturing capacity at our contract manufacturers by other companies, inside or outside of our industry, could either limit supply or increase
costs         A reduction or interruption in supply; a significant increase in the price of one or more components; a failure to
adequately authorize procurement of inventory by our contract manufacturers; a failure to appropriately cancel, reschedule, or adjust our requirements based on our business needs; or a decrease in demand for our products could materially adversely
affect our business, operating results, and financial condition and could materially damage customer relationships. Furthermore, as a result of binding price or purchase commitments with suppliers, we may be obligated to purchase components at
prices that are higher than those available in the current market. In the event that we become committed to purchase components at prices in excess of the current market price when the components are actually used, our gross margins could decrease.
     Our growth and ability to meet customer demands depend in part on our ability to obtain timely deliveries of parts from our suppliers and
contract manufacturers. We have experienced component shortages in the past, including shortages caused by manufacturing process issues, that have affected our operations. We may in the future experience a shortage of certain component parts as a
result of our own manufacturing issues, manufacturing issues at our suppliers or contract manufacturers, capacity problems experienced by our suppliers or contract manufacturers, or strong demand in the industry for those parts. A return to growth
in the economy is likely to create greater pressures on us and our suppliers to accurately project overall component demand and component demands within specific product categories and to establish optimal component levels. If shortages or delays
persist, the price of these components may increase, or the components may not be available at all, and we may also encounter shortages if we do not accurately anticipate our needs. We may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices
or of acceptable quality to build new products in a timely manner in the quantities or configurations needed. Accordingly, our revenue and gross margins could suffer until other sources can be developed. Our operating results would also be adversely
affected if, anticipating greater demand than actually develops, we commit to the purchase of more components than we need, which is more likely to occur in a period of demand uncertainties such as we are currently experiencing. There can be no
assurance that we will not encounter these problems in the future. Although in many cases we use standard parts and components for our products, certain components are presently available only from a single source or limited sources, and the global
economic downturn and related market uncertainty could negatively impact one or more of these sources. We may not be able to diversify sources in a timely manner, which could harm our ability to deliver products to customers and seriously impact
present and future sales.      We believe that we may be faced with the following challenges in the future:       

New markets in which we participate may grow quickly, which may make it difficult to quickly obtain significant component capacity          

As we acquire companies and new technologies, we may be dependent, at least initially, on unfamiliar supply chains or relatively small supply partners

We face competition for certain components that are supply-constrained, from existing competitors, and companies in other markets         Manufacturing capacity and component supply constraints could be significant issues for us. We purchase components from a variety of suppliers and use
several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products. During the normal course of business, in order to improve manufacturing lead-time performance and to help ensure adequate component supply, we enter into agreements
with contract manufacturers and suppliers that either allow them to procure inventory based upon criteria as defined by us or that establish the parameters defining our requirements. In certain instances, these agreements allow us the option to
cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to firm orders being placed. If we fail to anticipate customer demand properly, an oversupply of parts could result in excess or obsolete components that could
adversely affect our gross margins. For additional information regarding our purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers, see Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in our 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders,
which Note is incorporated into this report by reference.         
   20   

Table of Contents  

   Our key manufacturing facility for Scientific-Atlanta s products is located in Juarez, Mexico, and
we may be materially and adversely affected by any prolonged disruption in the operation of this facility.       WE DEPEND UPON THE DEVELOPMENT OF NEW
PRODUCTS AND ENHANCEMENTS TO EXISTING PRODUCTS, AND IF WE FAIL TO PREDICT AND RESPOND TO EMERGING TECHNOLOGICAL TRENDS AND CUSTOMERS  CHANGING NEEDS, OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND MARKET SHARE MAY SUFFER       The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, new product introductions, and evolving
methods of building and operating networks. Our operating results depend on our ability to develop and introduce new products into existing and emerging markets and to reduce the production costs of existing products. We believe the industry is
evolving to enable personal and business process collaboration enabled by networked Web 2.0, the technologies that enable user collaboration, as part of the second major phase of the Internet. As such, many of our strategic initiatives and
investments are aimed at meeting the requirements that a network capable of multiple party, collaborative interaction would demand, and the investments we have made and our architectural approach are designed to enable networked Web 2.0 and the
increased use of the network as the platform for all forms of communications and IT. Also, in March 2009 we launched our Unified Computing System (UCS), our next-generation enterprise data center platform architected to unite computing, network,
storage access, and virtualization resources in a single system, which is designed to address the fundamental transformation occurring in the enterprise data center. UCS is one of several market adjacencies on which we are focusing resources. The
process of developing new technology is complex and uncertain, and if we fail to accurately predict customers  changing needs and emerging technological trends our business could be harmed. We must commit significant resources, including the
investments we have been making in market adjacencies and in the United States and select emerging countries mentioned above, to developing new products before knowing whether our investments will result in products the market will accept. In
particular, if our model of the evolution of networking to collaborative systems does not emerge as we believe it will, or if the industry does not evolve as we believe it will, or if our strategy for addressing this evolution is not successful,
many of our strategic initiatives and investments may be of no or limited value. Furthermore, we may not execute successfully on that vision because of errors in product planning or timing, technical hurdles that we fail to overcome in a timely
fashion, or a lack of appropriate resources. This could result in competitors providing those solutions before we do and loss of market share, net sales, and earnings. The success of new products depends on several factors, including proper new
product definition, component costs, timely completion and introduction of these products, differentiation of new products from those of our competitors, and market acceptance of these products. There can be no assurance that we will successfully
identify new product opportunities, develop and bring new products to market in a timely manner, or achieve market acceptance of our products or that products and technologies developed by others will not render our products or technologies obsolete
or noncompetitive. The products and technologies that we identify as  emerging technologies,  such as Cisco TelePresence systems, or  advanced technologies  may not prove to have the market success we anticipate, and we may not
successfully identify and invest in other emerging or advanced technologies.       OVER THE LONG TERM WE INTEND TO INCREASE OUR INVESTMENT IN ENGINEERING,
SALES, SERVICE AND MANUFACTURING ACTIVITIES, AND THESE INVESTMENTS MAY ACHIEVE DELAYED, OR LOWER THAN EXPECTED BENEFITS WHICH COULD HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS       While recently we have focused on managing our costs and expenses, over the long term, we intend to continue to add personnel and other resources to our engineering, sales, service, and manufacturing functions as we
focus on developing emerging technologies, the next wave of advanced technologies, growing the commercial market segment, capitalizing on our emerging market opportunities, enhancing our evolving support model and increasing our market share gains.
We are likely to recognize the costs associated with these investments earlier than some of the anticipated benefits, and the return on these investments may be lower, or may develop more slowly, than we expect. If we do not achieve the benefits
anticipated from these investments, or if the achievement of these benefits is delayed, our operating results may be adversely affected.       OUR BUSINESS
SUBSTANTIALLY DEPENDS UPON THE CONTINUED GROWTH OF THE INTERNET AND INTERNET-BASED SYSTEMS       A substantial portion of our business and
revenue depends on growth and evolution of the Internet, including the continued development of networked Web 2.0 as part of the second major phase of the Internet, and on the deployment of our products by customers who depend on such continued
growth and evolution. To the extent that an economic slowdown and reduction in capital spending adversely affect spending on Internet infrastructure, as we are currently seeing, we could experience material harm to our business, operating results,
and financial condition.      Because of the rapid introduction of new products and changing customer requirements related to matters such as
cost-effectiveness and security, we believe that there could be performance problems with Internet communications in the future, which could receive a high degree of publicity and visibility. Because we are a large supplier of networking products,
our business, operating results, and financial condition may be materially adversely affected, regardless of whether or not these problems are due to the performance of our own products. Such an event could also result in a material adverse effect
on the market price of our common stock independent of direct effects on our business.         
   21   

Table of Contents  

    CHANGES IN INDUSTRY STRUCTURE AND MARKET CONDITIONS COULD LEAD TO CHARGES RELATED TO DISCONTINUANCES OF CERTAIN OF OUR
PRODUCTS OR BUSINESSES AND ASSET IMPAIRMENTS       In response to changes in industry and market conditions, we may be required to
strategically realign our resources and consider restructuring, disposing of, or otherwise exiting businesses. Any decision to limit investment in or dispose of or otherwise exit businesses may result in the recording of special charges, such as
inventory and technology-related write-offs, workforce reduction costs, charges relating to consolidation of excess facilities, or claims from third parties who were resellers or users of discontinued products. Our estimates with respect to the
useful life or ultimate recoverability of our carrying basis of assets, including purchased intangible assets, could change as a result of such assessments and decisions. Further, our estimates relating to the liabilities for excess facilities are
affected by changes in real estate market conditions. Additionally, we are required to perform goodwill impairment tests on an annual basis and between annual tests in certain circumstances, and future goodwill impairment tests may result in a
charge to earnings.       WE HAVE MADE AND EXPECT TO CONTINUE TO MAKE ACQUISITIONS THAT COULD DISRUPT OUR OPERATIONS AND HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS
      Our growth depends upon market growth, our ability to enhance our existing products, and our ability to introduce new products on a
timely basis. We intend to continue to address the need to develop new products and enhance existing products through acquisitions of other companies, product lines, technologies, and personnel. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the
following:       

Difficulties in integrating the operations, systems, technologies, products, and personnel of the acquired companies, particularly companies with large and
widespread operations and/or complex products, such as Scientific-Atlanta and WebEx          

Diversion of management s attention from normal daily operations of the business and the challenges of managing larger and more widespread operations resulting
from acquisitions          

Potential difficulties in completing projects associated with in-process research and development          

Difficulties in entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions

Initial dependence on unfamiliar supply chains or relatively small supply partners          

Insufficient revenue to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions          

The potential loss of key employees, customers, distributors, vendors and other business partners of the companies we acquire following and continuing after
announcement of acquisition plans         Acquisitions may also cause us to:       

Issue common stock that would dilute our current shareholders  percentage ownership          

Use a substantial portion of our cash resources, as we did in connection with our fiscal 2007 acquisition of WebEx, or incur debt, as we did in fiscal 2006 when we
issued and sold $6.5 billion in senior unsecured notes to fund our acquisition of Scientific-Atlanta          

Significantly increase our interest expense, leverage and debt service requirements if we incur additional debt to pay for an acquisition

Assume liabilities          

Record goodwill and nonamortizable intangible assets that are subject to impairment testing on a regular basis and potential periodic impairment charges

Incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets          

Incur tax expenses related to the effect of acquisitions on our intercompany research and development (R D) cost sharing arrangement and legal
structure          

Incur large and immediate write-offs and restructuring and other related expenses          

Become subject to intellectual property or other litigation            
   22   

Table of Contents  

   Mergers and acquisitions of high-technology companies are inherently risky and subject to many factors
outside of our control, and no assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful and will not materially adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition. Failure to manage and successfully
integrate acquisitions could materially harm our business and operating results. Prior acquisitions have resulted in a wide range of outcomes, from successful introduction of new products and technologies to a failure to do so. Even when an acquired
company has already developed and marketed products, there can be no assurance that product enhancements will be made in a timely fashion or that pre-acquisition due diligence will have identified all possible issues that might arise with respect to
such products.      From time to time, we have made acquisitions that resulted in charges in an individual quarter. These charges may occur in
any particular quarter, resulting in variability in our quarterly earnings. In addition, our effective tax rate for future periods is uncertain and could be impacted by mergers and acquisitions. Risks related to new product development also apply to
acquisitions. Please see the risk factors above, including the risk factor entitled  We depend upon the development of new products and enhancements to existing products, and if we fail to predict and respond to emerging technological trends
and customers  changing needs, our operating results and market share may suffer  for additional information.       ENTRANCE INTO NEW OR DEVELOPING
MARKETS EXPOSES US TO ADDITIONAL COMPETITION AND WILL LIKELY INCREASE DEMANDS ON OUR SERVICE AND SUPPORT OPERATIONS       As we focus on new
market opportunities for example, storage; wireless; security; transporting data, voice, and video traffic across the same network; and other advanced technologies, emerging technologies and market adjacencies we will increasingly compete
with large telecommunications equipment suppliers as well as startup companies. Several of our competitors may have greater resources, including technical and engineering resources, than we do. Additionally, as customers in these markets complete
infrastructure deployments, they may require greater levels of service, support, and financing than we have provided in the past, especially in the Emerging Markets theater. Demand for these types of service, support, or financing contracts may
increase in the future. There can be no assurance that we can provide products, service, support, and financing to effectively compete for these market opportunities.      Further, provision of greater levels of services, support and financing by us may result in a delay in the timing of revenue recognition. In addition, entry into other markets, including our entry into the consumer
market, has subjected and will subject us to additional risks, particularly to those markets, including the effects of general market conditions and reduced consumer confidence.       INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION MAY LEAD TO INCREASED COMPETITION AND MAY HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS       There
has been a trend toward industry consolidation in our markets for several years. We expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry and as companies are acquired or are unable
to continue operations. For example, some of our current and potential competitors for enterprise data center business have made acquisitions, or announced new strategic alliances, designed to position them with the ability to provide end-to-end
technology solutions for the enterprise data center. Companies that are strategic alliance partners in some areas of our business may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, thereby reducing their business with us. We believe that industry
consolidation may result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete as sole-source vendors for customers. This could lead to more variability in our operating results and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating
results, and financial condition. Furthermore, particularly in the service provider market, rapid consolidation will lead to fewer customers, with the effect that loss of a major customer could have a material impact on results not anticipated in a
customer marketplace composed of more numerous participants.       PRODUCT QUALITY PROBLEMS COULD LEAD TO REDUCED REVENUE, GROSS MARGINS, AND NET INCOME  
     We produce highly complex products that incorporate leading-edge technology, including both hardware and software. Software typically
contains bugs that can unexpectedly interfere with expected operations. There can be no assurance that our preshipment testing programs will be adequate to detect all defects, either ones in individual products or ones that could affect numerous
shipments, which might interfere with customer satisfaction, reduce sales opportunities, or affect gross margins. In the past, we have had to replace certain components and provide remediation in response to the discovery of defects or bugs in
products that we had shipped. Although the cost of such remediation has not been material in the past, there can be no assurance that such a remediation, depending on the product involved, would not have a material impact. An inability to cure a
product defect could result in the failure of a product line, temporary or permanent withdrawal from a product or market, damage to our reputation, inventory costs, or product reengineering expenses, any of which could have a material impact on our
revenue, margins, and net income.       DUE TO THE GLOBAL NATURE OF OUR OPERATIONS, POLITICAL OR ECONOMIC CHANGES OR OTHER FACTORS IN A SPECIFIC COUNTRY OR
REGION COULD HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION       We conduct significant sales and customer support operations in
countries outside of the United States; maintain a manufacturing facility for a substantial portion of our video systems products in Juarez, Mexico; and also depend on non-U.S. operations of our contract manufacturers, component suppliers and
distribution partners. Although sales in our Emerging Markets theater have  
       
   23   

Table of Contents  

decreased during the global economic downturn, in recent prior periods our Emerging Markets theater has been a relatively fast growing theater, and we have
announced plans to expand our commitments and expectations in this theater. As such, our growth depends in part on our increasing sales into this theater. We also intend to expand our level of business activity in two large emerging countries, India
and China, and our growth in the Asia Pacific theater will also depend in part upon our increasing sales in these countries. Our future results could be materially adversely affected by a variety of factors relating to our operations outside the
United States, any or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, including, among others, the following:       

The worldwide impact of the global economic downturn and related market uncertainty          

Foreign currency exchange rates          

Political or social unrest          

Economic instability or weakness or natural disasters in a specific country or region; environmental and trade protection measures and other legal and regulatory
requirements, some of which may affect our ability to import our products to export our products from, or sell our products in various countries          

Political considerations that affect service provider and government spending patterns          

Health or similar issues, such as a pandemic or epidemic (including the H1N1 virus outbreak)          

Difficulties in staffing and managing international operations          

Adverse tax consequences, including imposition of withholding or other taxes on payments by subsidiaries          WE ARE EXPOSED TO THE CREDIT RISK OF SOME OF OUR CUSTOMERS AND TO CREDIT EXPOSURES IN WEAKENED MARKETS, WHICH COULD RESULT IN MATERIAL LOSSES       Most of our sales are on an open credit basis, with typical payment terms of 30 days in the United States and, because of local customs or conditions,
longer in some markets outside the United States. We monitor individual customer payment capability in granting such open credit arrangements, seek to limit such open credit to amounts we believe the customers can pay, and maintain reserves we
believe are adequate to cover exposure for doubtful accounts. Beyond our open credit arrangements, we have also experienced demands for customer financing and facilitation of leasing arrangements. We expect demand for customer financing to continue,
and recently we have been experiencing an increase in this demand as the credit markets have been impacted by the global economic downturn and related market uncertainty. We believe customer financing is a competitive factor in obtaining business,
particularly in serving customers involved in significant infrastructure projects. Our loan financing arrangements may include not only financing the acquisition of our products and services but also providing additional funds for other costs
associated with network installation and integration of our products and services.      Our exposure to the credit risks relating to our
financing activities described above may increase if our customers are adversely affected by the global economic downturn, or if there is a continuation or worsening of the downturn. Although we have programs in place that are designed to monitor
and mitigate the associated risk, including monitoring of particular risks in certain geographic areas, there can be no assurance that such programs will be effective in reducing our credit risks.      In the past, there have been significant bankruptcies among customers both on open credit and with loan or lease financing arrangements, particularly
among Internet businesses and service providers, causing us to incur economic or financial losses. There can be no assurance that additional losses will not be incurred. Although these losses have not been material to date, future losses, if
incurred, could harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. A portion of our sales is derived through our distributors and retail partners. These distributors and retail partners are
generally given business terms that allow them to return a portion of inventory, receive credits for changes in selling prices, and participate in various cooperative marketing programs. We maintain estimated accruals and allowances for such
business terms. However, distributors tend to have more limited financial resources than other resellers and end-user customers and therefore represent potential sources of increased credit risk, because they may be more likely to lack the reserve
resources to meet payment obligations. Additionally, to the degree that turmoil in the credit markets makes it more difficult for some customers to obtain financing, those customers  ability to pay could be adversely impacted, which in turn
could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition.       WE ARE EXPOSED TO FLUCTUATIONS IN CURRENCY EXCHANGE
RATES THAT COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS AND CASH FLOWS       Because a significant portion of our business is conducted
outside the United States, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve, and they could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash
flows. Historically, our primary exposures have related to nondollar-denominated sales in Japan, Canada, and Australia and certain nondollar-denominated operating expenses and service cost of sales in Europe,  
       
   24   

Table of Contents  

Latin America, and Asia, where we sell primarily in U.S. dollars. Additionally, we have exposures to emerging market currencies, which can have extreme
currency volatility. An increase in the value of the dollar could increase the real cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside the United States where we sell in dollars, and a weakened dollar could increase the cost of local
operating expenses and procurement of raw materials to the extent that we must purchase components in foreign currencies.      Currently, we
enter into foreign exchange forward contracts and options to reduce the short-term impact of foreign currency fluctuations on certain foreign currency receivables, investments, and payables. In addition, we periodically hedge anticipated foreign
currency cash flows. Our attempts to hedge against these risks may not be successful, resulting in an adverse impact on our net income.       OUR PROPRIETARY
RIGHTS MAY PROVE DIFFICULT TO ENFORCE       We generally rely on patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secret laws to establish and
maintain proprietary rights in our technology and products. Although we have been issued numerous patents and other patent applications are currently pending, there can be no assurance that any of these patents or other proprietary rights will not
be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented or that our rights will, in fact, provide competitive advantages to us. Furthermore, many key aspects of networking technology are governed by industrywide standards, which are usable by all market
entrants. In addition, there can be no assurance that patents will be issued from pending applications or that claims allowed on any patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may
not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. The outcome of any actions taken in these foreign countries may be different than if such actions were determined under the laws of the United States.
Although we are not dependent on any individual patents or group of patents for particular segments of the business for which we compete, if we are unable to protect our proprietary rights to the totality of the features (including aspects of
products protected other than by patent rights) in a market, we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to others who need not incur the substantial expense, time, and effort required to create innovative products that have enabled us to be
successful.       WE MAY BE FOUND TO INFRINGE ON INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS OF OTHERS       Third parties, including customers, have in the past and may in the future assert claims or initiate litigation related to exclusive patent, copyright,
trademark, and other intellectual property rights to technologies and related standards that are relevant to us. These assertions have increased over time as a result of our growth and the general increase in the pace of patent claims assertions,
particularly in the United States. Because of the existence of a large number of patents in the networking field, the secrecy of some pending patents, and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, it is not economically practical or even possible
to determine in advance whether a product or any of its components infringes or will infringe on the patent rights of others. The asserted claims and/or initiated litigation can include claims against us or our manufacturers, suppliers, or
customers, alleging infringement of their proprietary rights with respect to our existing or future products or components of those products. Regardless of the merit of these claims, they can be time-consuming, result in costly litigation and
diversion of technical and management personnel, or require us to develop a non-infringing technology or enter into license agreements. Where claims are made by customers, resistance even to unmeritorious claims could damage customer relationships.
There can be no assurance that licenses will be available on acceptable terms and conditions, if at all, or that our indemnification by our suppliers will be adequate to cover our costs if a claim were brought directly against us or our customers.
Furthermore, because of the potential for high court awards that are not necessarily predictable, it is not unusual to find even arguably unmeritorious claims settled for significant amounts. If any infringement or other intellectual property claim
made against us by any third party is successful, if we are required to indemnify a customer with respect to a claim against the customer, or if we fail to develop non-infringing technology or license the proprietary rights on commercially
reasonable terms and conditions, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.      Our
exposure to risks associated with the use of intellectual property may be increased as a result of acquisitions, as we have a lower level of visibility into the development process with respect to such technology or the care taken to safeguard
against infringement risks. Further, in the past, third parties have made infringement and similar claims after we have acquired technology that had not been asserted prior to our acquisition.       WE RELY ON THE AVAILABILITY OF THIRD-PARTY LICENSES       Many of our products are designed to include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. It may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of these products. There can be no
assurance that the necessary licenses would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. The inability to obtain certain licenses or other rights or to obtain such licenses or rights on favorable terms, or the need to engage in litigation regarding
these matters, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Moreover, the inclusion in our products of software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties on a nonexclusive basis
could limit our ability to protect our proprietary rights in our products.       OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND FUTURE PROSPECTS COULD BE MATERIALLY HARMED BY
UNCERTAINTIES OF REGULATION OF THE INTERNET       Currently, few laws or regulations apply directly to access or commerce on the Internet. We
could be materially adversely affected by regulation of the Internet and Internet commerce in any country where we operate. Such regulations could include matters such as  
       
   25   

Table of Contents  

voice over the Internet or using IP, encryption technology, sales taxes on Internet product sales, and access charges for Internet service providers. The
adoption of regulation of the Internet and Internet commerce could decrease demand for our products and, at the same time, increase the cost of selling our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and
financial condition.       CHANGES IN TELECOMMUNICATIONS REGULATION AND TARIFFS COULD HARM OUR PROSPECTS AND FUTURE SALES       Changes in telecommunications requirements, or regulatory requirements in other industries in which we operate, in the United States or other countries
could affect the sales of our products. In particular, we believe that there may be future changes in U.S. telecommunications regulations that could slow the expansion of the service providers  network infrastructures and materially adversely
affect our business, operating results, and financial condition.      Future changes in tariffs by regulatory agencies or application of tariff
requirements to currently untariffed services could affect the sales of our products for certain classes of customers. Additionally, in the United States, our products must comply with various requirements and regulations of the Federal
Communications Commission and other regulatory authorities. In countries outside of the United States, our products must meet various requirements of local telecommunications and other industry authorities. Changes in tariffs or failure by us to
obtain timely approval of products could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition.       FAILURE TO RETAIN
AND RECRUIT KEY PERSONNEL WOULD HARM OUR ABILITY TO MEET KEY OBJECTIVES       Our success has always depended in large part on our ability to
attract and retain highly skilled technical, managerial, sales, and marketing personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense, especially in the Silicon Valley area of Northern California. Stock incentive plans are designed to reward employees
for their long-term contributions and provide incentives for them to remain with us. Volatility or lack of positive performance in our stock price or equity incentive awards, or changes to our overall compensation program, including our stock
incentive program, resulting from the management of share dilution and share-based compensation expense or otherwise, may also adversely affect our ability to retain key employees. As a result of one or more of these factors, we may increase our
hiring in geographic areas outside the United States, which could subject us to additional geopolitical and exchange rate risk. The loss of services of any of our key personnel; the inability to retain and attract qualified personnel in the future;
or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly engineering and sales personnel, could make it difficult to meet key objectives, such as timely and effective product introductions. In addition, companies in our industry whose employees accept
positions with competitors frequently claim that competitors have engaged in improper hiring practices. We have received these claims in the past and may receive additional claims to this effect in the future.       ADVERSE RESOLUTION OF LITIGATION OR GOVERNMENTAL INVESTIGATIONS MAY HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS OR FINANCIAL CONDITION       We are a party to lawsuits in the normal course of our business. Litigation can be expensive, lengthy, and disruptive to normal business operations.
Moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. In addition, Brazilian authorities are investigating our Brazilian subsidiary and certain of its current and former employees, as well as a Brazilian importer of our
products, and its affiliates and employees, relating to the allegation of evading import taxes and other alleged improper transactions involving the subsidiary and the importer. We are conducting a thorough review of the matter. During fiscal 2009,
Brazilian authorities asserted claims against us for calendar years 2003 and 2004, and we believe claims may also be asserted for calendar year 2005 through calendar year 2007. We believe the asserted claims are without merit and intend to defend
the claims vigorously. In addition, we are investigating the allegations regarding improper transactions. We have proactively communicated with United States authorities to provide information and report on our findings, and the United States
authorities are currently investigating such allegations. An unfavorable resolution of lawsuits or governmental investigations could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, or financial condition. For additional
information regarding certain of the matters in which we are involved, see Item 3,  Legal Proceedings,  contained in Part I of this report.       CHANGES IN OUR PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES OR ADVERSE OUTCOMES RESULTING FROM EXAMINATION OF OUR INCOME TAX RETURNS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS       Our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries that have lower tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries that
have higher tax rates; by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; by expiration of or lapses in the R D tax credit laws; by transfer pricing adjustments including the effect of acquisitions on our intercompany
R D cost sharing arrangement and legal structure; by tax effects of nondeductible compensation; by tax costs related to intercompany realignments; by changes in accounting principles; or by changes in tax laws and regulations including possible
U.S. changes to the taxation of earnings of our foreign subsidiaries, and the deductibility of expenses attributable to foreign income, or the foreign tax credit rules. For example, during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, a U.S. Federal Court of
Appeals ruling impacted a tax position of Cisco. As a result of that ruling, we recorded a one-time tax charge of $174 million, and there was a reduction of additional paid-in capital of approximately $550 million. Significant judgment is required
to  
       
   26   

Table of Contents  

determine the recognition and measurement attribute prescribed in Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting
for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109  ( FIN 48 ). FIN 48 applies to all income tax positions, including the potential recovery of previously paid taxes, which if settled unfavorably
could adversely impact our provision for income taxes or additional paid-in capital. Further, as a result of certain of our ongoing employment and capital investment actions and commitments, our income in certain countries is subject to reduced tax
rates and in some cases is wholly exempt from tax. Our failure to meet these commitments could adversely impact our provision for income taxes. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the Internal
Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these
continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.       OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS ARE ESPECIALLY
SUBJECT TO THE RISKS OF EARTHQUAKES, FLOODS, AND OTHER NATURAL CATASTROPHIC EVENTS       Our corporate headquarters, including certain of our
research and development operations are located in the Silicon Valley area of Northern California, a region known for seismic activity. Additionally, a certain number of our facilities are located near rivers that have experienced flooding in the
past. A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, a hurricane, or a flood, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition.       MAN-MADE PROBLEMS SUCH AS COMPUTER VIRUSES OR TERRORISM MAY DISRUPT OUR OPERATIONS AND HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS       Despite our implementation of network security measures our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. Any such event could
have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Efforts to limit the ability of malicious third parties to disrupt the operations of the Internet or undermine our own security efforts may meet with
resistance. In addition, the continued threat of terrorism and heightened security and military action in response to this threat, or any future acts of terrorism, may cause further disruptions to the economies of the United States and other
countries and create further uncertainties or otherwise materially harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. Likewise, events such as widespread blackouts could have similar negative impacts. To the extent that such disruptions
or uncertainties result in delays or cancellations of customer orders or the manufacture or shipment of our products, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.       WE ARE EXPOSED TO FLUCTUATIONS IN THE MARKET VALUES OF OUR PORTFOLIO INVESTMENTS AND IN INTEREST RATES; IMPAIRMENT OF OUR INVESTMENTS COULD HARM OUR EARNINGS  
     We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. These securities are generally classified as
available-for-sale and, consequently, are recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax. Our portfolio includes fixed income
securities and equity investments in publicly traded companies, the values of which are subject to market price volatility to the extent unhedged. If such investments suffer market price declines, as we experienced with some of our investments
during the first quarter of fiscal 2009, we may recognize in earnings the decline in the fair value of our investments below their cost basis when the decline is judged to be other than temporary. For information regarding the sensitivity of and
risks associated with the market value of portfolio investments and interest rates, refer to the section titled  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  included in our 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders, which section
is incorporated by reference into this report. Our investments in private companies are subject to risk of loss of investment capital. These investments are inherently risky because the markets for the technologies or products they have under
development are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. We could lose our entire investment in these companies.       IF WE DO NOT
SUCCESSFULLY MANAGE OUR STRATEGIC ALLIANCES, WE MAY EXPERIENCE INCREASED COMPETITION OR DELAYS IN PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT       We have several
strategic alliances with large and complex organizations and other companies with which we work to offer complementary products and services. These arrangements are generally limited to specific projects, the goal of which is generally to facilitate
product compatibility and adoption of industry standards. If successful, these relationships may be mutually beneficial and result in industry growth. However, these alliances carry an element of risk because, in most cases, we must compete in some
business areas with a company with which we have a strategic alliance and, at the same time, cooperate with that company in other business areas. Also, if these companies fail to perform or if these relationships fail to materialize as expected, we
could suffer delays in product development or other operational difficulties.         
   27   

Table of Contents  

    OUR STOCK PRICE MAY BE VOLATILE       Historically, our common stock has experienced substantial price volatility, particularly as a result of variations between our actual financial results and the published expectations of analysts and as a result of
announcements by our competitors and us. Furthermore, speculation in the press or investment community about our strategic position, financial condition, results of operations, business, security of our products, or significant transactions can
cause changes in our stock price. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many technology companies, in particular, and that have often been unrelated to the
operating performance of these companies. These factors, as well as general economic and political conditions and the announcement of proposed and completed acquisitions or other significant transactions, or any difficulties associated with such
transactions, by us or our current or potential competitors, may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock in the future. Additionally, volatility, lack of positive performance in our stock price or changes to our overall
compensation program including our stock incentive program may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, virtually all of whom are compensated, in part, based on the performance of our stock price.       THERE CAN BE NO ASSURANCE THAT OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION WILL NOT BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY OUR INCURRENCE OF SENIOR UNSECURED DEBT    
  In February 2006, we issued senior unsecured notes in an aggregate principal amount of $6.5 billion, of which $500 million matured in February 2009,
$3.0 billion will mature in February 2011, and the balance will mature in February 2016. In addition, in February 2009 we issued an aggregate of $4.0 billion of senior unsecured notes that mature at specific dates in 2019 and 2039. A portion of the
proceeds of the notes issued in February 2009 was used to repay in full the notes that matured that month. The outstanding notes bear fixed-rate interest payable semi-annually. The fair value of the long-term debt is subject to market interest rate
volatility. The instruments governing the notes contain certain covenants applicable to us and our subsidiaries that may adversely affect our ability to incur certain liens or engage in certain types of sale and leaseback transactions. In addition,
we will be required to have available in the United States sufficient cash to repay these notes on maturity. There can be no assurance that our incurrence of this debt will be a better means of providing liquidity to us than would our use of our
existing cash resources, including cash currently held offshore. Further, we cannot be assured that our maintenance of this indebtedness will not adversely affect our operating results or financial condition. In addition, changes by any rating
agency to our credit rating can negatively impact the value and liquidity of both our debt and equity securities.         
   28   

Table of Contents  

      ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments       Not applicable.         ITEM 2.
Properties       Our headquarters are located at an owned site in San Jose, California. In addition to this site, we own certain sites in the
United States, which include facilities in the surrounding areas of San Jose, California; Boxborough, Massachusetts; Richardson, Texas; Lawrenceville, Georgia; and Research Triangle Park, North Carolina. We also own land for expansion in some of
these locations. In addition, we lease office space in several U.S. locations.      Outside the United States our operations are conducted
primarily in leased sites, such as our Globalisation Centre East campus in Bangalore, India. Other significant sites are located in Australia, Belgium, China, France, Germany, India, Israel, Italy, Japan, and the United Kingdom.      We own and lease certain Scientific-Atlanta manufacturing facilities with a principal manufacturing facility, which we own, located in Juarez, Mexico. We
believe that our existing facilities, including both owned and leased, are in good condition and suitable for the conduct of our business.      For additional information regarding obligations under operating leases, see Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders. Note 11 is incorporated by reference herein. For additional information
regarding properties by operating segment, see Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders. Note 15 is incorporated by reference herein.        ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings       Brazilian authorities are investigating our
Brazilian subsidiary and certain of its current and former employees, as well as a Brazilian importer of our products, and its affiliates and employees, relating to the allegation of evading import taxes and other alleged improper transactions
involving the subsidiary and the importer. We are conducting a thorough review of the matter. During fiscal 2009, Brazilian authorities asserted claims against us for calendar years 2003 and 2004, and we believe claims may also be asserted for
calendar year 2005 through calendar year 2007. We believe the asserted claims are without merit and intend to defend the claims vigorously. We are unable to determine the likelihood of an unfavorable outcome on any potential further claims against
us. While we believe there is no legal basis for our alleged liability, due to the complexities and uncertainty surrounding the judicial process in Brazil, and the nature of the claims asserting joint liability with the importer, we are unable to
reasonably estimate a range of loss, if any. In addition, we are investigating the allegations regarding improper transactions. We have proactively communicated with United States authorities to provide information and report on our findings, and
the United States authorities are currently investigating such allegations.      In addition, we are subject to legal proceedings, claims, and
litigation arising in the ordinary course of business, including intellectual property litigation. While the outcome of these matters is currently not determinable, we do not expect that the ultimate costs to resolve these matters will have a
material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. For additional information regarding intellectual property litigation, see  Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors We may be found to
infringe on intellectual property rights of others  herein.         ITEM 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
Holders       None.         
   29   

Table of Contents  

      PART II          ITEM 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities       (a) On May 20, 2009, we issued an aggregate of 27,085,225 shares of our common stock to security holders of Pure Digital Technologies, Inc. in
connection with our acquisition of that company. The offer and sale of the securities were effected without registration in reliance on the exemption afforded by Section 3(a)(10) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The issuance was
approved, after a hearing upon the fairness of the terms and conditions of the transaction, by the California Department of Corporations under authority to grant such approval as expressly authorized by the laws of the State of California.
     The market price and related Cisco shareholder information required by this item are incorporated by reference to the section entitled
 Stock Market Information  on page 77 of our 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders.      (b) Not Applicable.      (c) Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities (in millions, except per-share amounts):       

(1)   
        Includes approximately 344,000 shares
repurchased to satisfy tax withholding obligations that arose on the vesting of shares of restricted stock and restricted stock units and an insignificant number of unvested shares of common stock repurchased from employees upon cessation of
employment.      

(2)   
        On September 13, 2001, we announced
that our Board of Directors had authorized a stock repurchase program. As of July 25, 2009, our Board of Directors had authorized the repurchase of up to $62 billion of common stock under this program. During fiscal 2009, we repurchased and
retired 202 million shares of our common stock at an average price of $17.89 per share for an aggregate purchase price of $3.6 billion. As of July 25, 2009, we had repurchased and retired 2.8 billion shares of our common stock at an
average price of $20.41 per share for an aggregate purchase price of $57.2 billion since inception of the stock repurchase program, and the remaining authorized amount for stock repurchases under this program was $4.8 billion with no termination
date.            ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data       The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to page 7 of our 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders.         ITEM 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations       The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to pages 8 to 35 of our 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders.         ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk       The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to pages 36 to 38 of our 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders.         ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data       The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to pages 39 to 76 and the section entitled  Supplementary Financial Data (Unaudited)  on page 77 of our 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders.
        ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosures          
   30   

Table of Contents  

   None.        
 ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures        Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures       Based on our management s evaluation (with the participation of our principal executive officer and principal financial officer), as of the end of
the period covered by this report, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, (the  Exchange Act )) are effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods
specified in Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms and is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding
required disclosure.       Internal Control Over Financial Reporting       Management s report on our internal control over financial reporting and the report of our independent registered public accounting firm on our internal control over financial reporting are incorporated by
reference to the portion of page 5 under the caption  Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  and to page 6, respectively, of our 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders.      There was no change in our internal control over financial reporting during our fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.         ITEM 9B. Other Information  
     None.         
   31   

Table of Contents  

      PART III        

ITEM 10.   
   Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance         The information required by this item relating to our directors and nominees, regarding compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Act of 1934, and regarding our Audit Committee is included under the captions  Proposal
No. 1: Election of Directors General  and   Business Experience of Nominees,   Ownership of Securities Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance,  and  Proposal No. 1: Election of
Directors Board Committees and Meetings  in our Proxy Statement related to the 2009 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference.      Pursuant to General Instruction G(3) of Form 10-K, the information required by this item relating to our executive officers is included under the caption  Executive Officers of the Registrant  in Part I of
this report.      We have adopted a code of ethics that applies to our principal executive officer and all members of our finance department,
including the principal financial officer and principal accounting officer. This code of ethics, which consists of the  Special Ethics Obligations for Employees with Financial Reporting Responsibilities  section of our Code of Business
Conduct that applies to employees generally, is posted on our website. The Internet address for our website is  www.cisco.com , and the code of ethics may be found from our main webpage by clicking first on  About Cisco  and then on
 Corporate Governance  under  Investor Relations,  next on  Code of Business Conduct  under  Corporate Governance,  and finally on  Special Ethics Obligations for Employees with Financial Reporting
Responsibilities.       We intend to satisfy any disclosure requirement under Item 5.05 of Form 8-K regarding an amendment to, or
waiver from, a provision of this code of ethics by posting such information on our website, on the webpage found by clicking through to  Code of Business Conduct  as specified above.       

ITEM 11.   
   Executive Compensation         The information appearing
under the headings  Proposal No. 1: Election of Directors Director Compensation  and  Executive Compensation and Related Information  in our Proxy Statement related to the 2009 Annual Meeting of Shareholders is
incorporated herein by reference.       

ITEM 12.   
   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters         The information required by this item relating to security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management is included under the caption
 Ownership of Securities,  and the information required by this item relating to securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans is included under the caption  Proposal No. 2: Approval of the Amendment and
Restatement of the 2005 Stock Incentive Plan Equity Compensation Plan Information,  in each case in our Proxy Statement related to the 2009 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, and is incorporated herein by reference.       

ITEM 13.   
   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence         The information required by this item relating to review, approval or ratification of transactions with related persons is included under the caption  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions,  and the
information required by this item relating to director independence is included under the caption  Proposal No. 1: Election of Directors Independent Directors,  in each case in our Proxy Statement related to the 2009 Annual
Meeting of Shareholders, and is incorporated herein by reference.       

ITEM 14.   
   Principal Accountant Fees and Services         The
information required by this item is included under the captions  Proposal No. 4: Ratification of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Principal Accountant Fees and Services  and  Policy on Audit Committee
Pre-Approval of Audit and Permissible Non-Audit Services of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  in our Proxy Statement related to the 2009 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, and is incorporated herein by reference.         
   32   

Table of Contents  

      PART IV        

ITEM 15.   
   Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules          

(a)    1.  
  Financial Statements        The Index to
Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule on page 34 is incorporated herein by reference as the list of financial statements required as part of this report.       

2.  
  Financial Statement Schedule        The Index
to Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule on page 34 is incorporated herein by reference as the list of financial statement schedules required as part of this report.       
    The exhibit list in the Index
to Exhibits is incorporated herein by reference as the list of exhibits required as part of this report.         
   33   

Table of Contents  

    INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE        Item 15(a)        

Page    

Form 10-K   
      
   2009 Annual     Report to     Shareholders    
 
    Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting   

5   
 
    Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

6   
 
    Consolidated Balance Sheets at July 25, 2009 and July 26, 2008   

39   
 
    Consolidated Statements of Operations for each of the three years in the period ended July 25, 2009   

40   
 
    Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of the three years in the period ended July 25, 2009   

41   
 
    Consolidated Statements of Shareholders  Equity for each of the three years in the period ended July 25, 2009   

42   
 
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

43-76   
 
    Supplementary Financial Data (Unaudited) and Stock Market Information Fiscal 2009 and 2008 by Quarter   

77   
 
    Financial Statement Schedule:   

Schedule II Valuation and Qualifying Accounts   
      
  35  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Financial Statement Schedule   
      
  36  

34   

Table of Contents  

    SCHEDULE II        VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS        (in millions)        
       
   35   

Table of Contents  

    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM        ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE       To the Board of
Directors and Shareholders of Cisco Systems, Inc.:      Our audits of the consolidated financial statements and of the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting referred to in our report dated September 10, 2009 appearing in the 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders of Cisco Systems, Inc. (which report and consolidated financial statements are incorporated by reference in
this Annual Report on Form 10-K) also included an audit of the financial statement schedule listed in Item 15(a)(2) of this Form 10-K. In our opinion, this financial statement schedule presents fairly, in all material respects, the information
set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements.      /s/ P RICEWATERHOUSE C OOPERS  LLP      San Jose, California      September 10, 2009         
   36   

Table of Contents  

      SIGNATURES       Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Report on Form 10-K
to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.       

September 10, 2009  

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.   

/s/    J OHN  T.
C HAMBERS            

John T. Chambers       Chairman and Chief Executive Officer     
     POWER OF ATTORNEY       KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints John T. Chambers and Frank A. Calderoni,
jointly and severally, his attorney-in-fact, each with the full power of substitution, for such person, in any and all capacities, to sign any and all amendments to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and to file the same, with all exhibits thereto and
other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto said attorney-in-fact and agent full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done in
connection therewith, as fully to all intents and purposes as he might do or could do in person hereby ratifying and confirming all that each of said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or his substitute, may do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Report on Form 10-K has been signed below by the following
persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.       

Signature    
      
     Title    
     
     Date     

/ S /    J OHN  T.
C HAMBERS               John T. Chambers    
      
    Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Director (Principal Executive Officer)   
     
  September 10, 2009   

/ S /    F RANK  A.
C ALDERONI               Frank A. Calderoni    
      
    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer)   
     
  September 10, 2009   

/ S /    P RAT  S.
B HATT               Prat S. Bhatt    
      
    Vice President, Corporate Controller and Principal Accounting Officer   
     
  September 10, 2009   

/ S /    C AROL  A.
B ARTZ               Carol A. Bartz    
      
    Lead Independent Director   
     
  September 10, 2009   

/ S /    M. M ICHELE 
B URNS               M. Michele Burns    
      
    Director   
     
  September 10, 2009   

Michael D. Capellas    
      
    Director   

37   

Table of Contents  

38   

Table of Contents  

    INDEX TO EXHIBITS        

Table of Contents  

Schedules and exhibits have been omitted pursuant to Item 601(b)(2) of Regulation S-K. Cisco Systems, Inc. hereby undertakes to furnish supplementally copies of any of the
omitted schedules and exhibits upon request by the Securities and Exchange Commission.     

*  
  Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.     

<EX-10.1>
 2
 dex101.htm
 CISCO SYSTEMS, INC. 2005 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN

Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan 

Exhibit 10.1        CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.        2005 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN        EFFECTIVE AS OF NOVEMBER 15, 2005        AS AMENDED AND RESTATED        EFFECTIVE AS OF NOVEMBER 15, 2007    

TABLE OF CONTENTS        

Page    
 
  SECTION 1.  

INTRODUCTION  
      
  1   

SECTION 2.  

DEFINITIONS  
      
  1   

(a)  
     
     Affiliate    
      
  1   

(b)  
     
     Award    
      
  1   

(c)  
     
     Board    
      
  1   

(d)  
     
     Cashless Exercise    
      
  1   

(e)  
     
     Cause    
      
  2   

(f)  
     
     Change In Control    
      
  2   

(g)  
     
     Code    
      
  2   

(h)  
     
     Committee    
      
  2   

(i)  
     
     Common Stock    
      
  2   

(j)  
     
     Company    
      
  2   

(k)  
     
     Consultant    
      
  2   

(l)  
     
     Corporate Transaction    
      
  3   

(m)  
     
     Covered Employees    
      
  3   

(n)  
     
     Director    
      
  3   

(o)  
     
     Disability    
      
  3   

(p)  
     
     Employee    
      
  3   

(q)  
     
     Exchange Act    
      
  3   

(r)  
     
     Exercise Price    
      
  3   

(s)  
     
     Fair Market Value    
      
  3   

(t)  
     
     Fiscal Year    
      
  4   

(u)  
     
     Grant    
      
  4   

(v)  
     
     Incentive Stock Option  or  ISO    
      
  4   

(w)  
     
     Key Employee    
      
  4   

(x)  
     
     Non-Employee Director    
      
  4   

(y)  
     
     Nonstatutory Stock Option  or  NSO    
      
  4   

(z)  
     
     Option    
      
  4   

(aa)  
     
     Optionee    
      
  4   

(bb)  
     
     Parent    
      
  4   
       
   i   

TABLE OF CONTENTS        

Page    

(cc)  
     
     Participant    
      
  4   

(dd)  
     
     Performance Goal    
      
  5   

(ee)  
     
     Performance Period    
      
  5   

(ff)  
     
     Plan    
      
  5   

(gg)  
     
     Previous Plan Award    
      
  5   

(hh)  
     
     Re-Price    
      
  5   

(ii)  
     
     SAR Agreement    
      
  5   

(jj)  
     
     SEC    
      
  5   

(kk)  
     
     Section 16 Persons    
      
  5   

(ll)  
     
     Securities Act    
      
  5   

(mm)  
     
     Service    
      
  5   

(nn)  
     
     Share    
      
  6   

(oo)  
     
     Stock Appreciation Right  or  SAR    
      
  6   

(pp)  
     
     Stock Grant    
      
  6   

(qq)  
     
     Stock Grant Agreement    
      
  6   

(rr)  
     
     Stock Option Agreement    
      
  6   

(ss)  
     
     Stock Unit    
      
  6   

(tt)  
     
     Stock Unit Agreement    
      
  6   

(uu)  
     
     Subsidiary    
      
  6   

(vv)  
     
     10-Percent Shareholder    
      
  6   

SECTION 3.  

ADMINISTRATION  
      
  7   

(a)  
     
    Committee Composition   
      
  7   

(b)  
     
    Authority of the Committee   
      
  7   

(c)  
     
    Indemnification   
      
  8   

SECTION 4.  

GENERAL  
      
  8   

(a)  
     
    General Eligibility   
      
  8   

(b)  
     
    Incentive Stock Options   
      
  8   

(c)  
     
    Restrictions on Shares   
      
  8   

(d)  
     
    Beneficiaries   
      
  8   

(e)  
     
    Performance Conditions   
      
  9   

(f)  
     
    No Rights as a Shareholder   
      
  9   
       
   ii   

TABLE OF CONTENTS        

Page    

(g)  
     
    Termination of Service   
      
  9   

(h)  
     
    Director Fees   
      
  9   

SECTION 5.  

SHARES SUBJECT TO PLAN AND SHARE LIMITS  
      
  10   

(a)  
     
    Basic Limitations   
      
  10   

(b)  
     
    Additional Shares   
      
  10   

(c)  
     
    Dividend Equivalents   
      
  10   

(d)  
     
    Share Limits   
      
  10   

SECTION 6.  

TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF OPTIONS  
      
  11   

(a)  
     
    Stock Option Agreement   
      
  11   

(b)  
     
    Number of Shares   
      
  11   

(c)  
     
    Exercise Price   
      
  11   

(d)  
     
    Exercisability and Term   
      
  11   

(e)  
     
    Modifications or Assumption of Options   
      
  11   

(f)  
     
    Assignment or Transfer of Options   
      
  12   

SECTION 7.  

PAYMENT FOR OPTION SHARES  
      
  12   

SECTION 8.  

TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS  
      
  13   

(a)  
     
    SAR Agreement   
      
  13   

(b)  
     
    Number of Shares   
      
  13   

(c)  
     
    Exercise Price   
      
  13   

(d)  
     
    Exercisability and Term   
      
  13   

(e)  
     
    Exercise of SARs   
      
  13   

(f)  
     
    Modification or Assumption of SARs   
      
  14   

(g)  
     
    Assignment or Transfer of SARs   
      
  14   

SECTION 9.  

TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR STOCK GRANTS.  
      
  14   

(a)  
     
    Amount and Form of Awards   
      
  14   

(b)  
     
    Stock Grant Agreement   
      
  14   

(c)  
     
    Payment for Stock Grants   
      
  15   

(d)  
     
    Vesting Conditions   
      
  15   

(e)  
     
    Assignment or Transfer of Stock Grants   
      
  15   

(f)  
     
    Voting and Dividend Rights   
      
  15   
       
   iii   

TABLE OF CONTENTS        

Page    

(g)  
     
    Modification or Assumption of Stock Grants   
      
  15   

SECTION 10.  

TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF STOCK UNITS  
      
  15   

(a)  
     
    Stock Unit Agreement   
      
  15   

(b)  
     
    Number of Shares   
      
  16   

(c)  
     
    Payment for Stock Units   
      
  16   

(d)  
     
    Vesting Conditions   
      
  16   

(e)  
     
    Voting and Dividend Rights   
      
  16   

(f)  
     
    Form and Time of Settlement of Stock Units   
      
  16   

(g)  
     
    Creditors  Rights   
      
  17   

(h)  
     
    Modification or Assumption of Stock Units   
      
  17   

(i)  
     
    Assignment or Transfer of Stock Units   
      
  17   

SECTION 11.  

PROTECTION AGAINST DILUTION  
      
  17   

(a)  
     
    Adjustments   
      
  17   

(b)  
     
    Participant Rights   
      
  17   

(c)  
     
    Fractional Shares   
      
  18   

SECTION 12.  

EFFECT OF A CORPORATE TRANSACTION  
      
  18   

(a)  
     
    Corporate Transaction   
      
  18   

(b)  
     
    Acceleration   
      
  18   

(c)  
     
    Dissolution   
      
  18   

SECTION 13.  

LIMITATIONS ON RIGHTS  
      
  19   

(a)  
     
    No Entitlements   
      
  19   

(b)  
     
    Shareholders  Rights   
      
  19   

(c)  
     
    Regulatory Requirements   
      
  19   

SECTION 14.  

WITHHOLDING TAXES  
      
  19   

(a)  
     
    General   
      
  19   

(b)  
     
    Share Withholding   
      
  20   

SECTION 15.  

DURATION AND AMENDMENTS  
      
  20   

(a)  
     
    Term of the Plan   
      
  20   

(b)  
     
    Right to Amend or Terminate the Plan   
      
  20   

SECTION 16.  

EXECUTION  
      
  20   
       
   iv   

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.        2005 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN        AS AMENDED AND RESTATED       (Effective as of November 15, 2007)       SECTION
1.    INTRODUCTION.       The Company s Board of Directors adopted the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and
restated on September 13, 2007; provided that, the Plan shall become effective upon its approval by Company shareholders. If the Company s shareholders do not approve this Plan, no Awards will be made under this Plan.      The purpose of the Plan is to promote the long-term success of the Company and the creation of shareholder value by offering Key Employees an opportunity to share in
such long-term success by acquiring a proprietary interest in the Company.      The Plan seeks to achieve this purpose by providing for discretionary long-term
incentive Awards in the form of Options (which may constitute Incentive Stock Options or Nonstatutory Stock Options), Stock Appreciation Rights, Stock Grants, and Stock Units.      The Plan shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of California (except its choice-of-law provisions).      Capitalized terms shall have the meaning provided in Section 2 unless otherwise provided in this Plan or any related Stock Option Agreement, SAR Agreement, Stock Grant Agreement or Stock Unit Agreement.
      SECTION 2.    DEFINITIONS.       (a)
 Affiliate  means any entity other than a Subsidiary, if the Company and/or one or more Subsidiaries own not less than 50% of such entity.      (b)
 Award  means any award of an Option, SAR, Stock Grant or Stock Unit under the Plan.      (c)  Board  means the Board of Directors of the
Company, as constituted from time to time.      (d)  Cashless Exercise  means, to the extent that a Stock Option Agreement so provides and as
permitted by applicable law, a program approved by the Committee in which payment may be made all or in part by delivery (on a form prescribed by the Committee) of an irrevocable direction to a securities broker to sell Shares and to deliver all or
part of the sale proceeds to the Company in payment of the aggregate Exercise Price and, if applicable, the amount necessary to satisfy the Company s withholding obligations at the minimum statutory withholding rates, including, but not limited
to, U.S. federal and state income taxes, payroll taxes, and foreign taxes, if applicable.         
   1   

(e)  Cause  means, except as may otherwise be provided in a Participant s employment agreement or Award
agreement, a conviction of a Participant for a felony crime or the failure of a Participant to contest prosecution for a felony crime, or a Participant s misconduct, fraud or dishonesty (as such terms are defined by the Committee in its sole
discretion), or any unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential information or trade secrets, in each case as determined by the Committee, and the Committee s determination shall be conclusive and binding.      (f)  Change In Control  except as may otherwise be provided in a Participant s employment agreement or Award agreement, means the occurrence of any of the
following:      (i) A change in the composition of the Board over a period of thirty-six consecutive months or less such that a majority of the
Board members ceases, by reason of one or more contested elections for Board membership, to be comprised of individuals who either (A) have been Board members continuously since the beginning of such period or (B) have been elected or
nominated for election as Board members during such period by at least a majority of the Board members described in clause (A) who were still in office at the time the Board approved such election or nomination; or      (ii) The acquisition, directly or indirectly, by any person or related group of persons (other than the Company or a person that directly or indirectly
controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, the Company) of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) of securities of the Company representing more than 35% of the total combined voting power of
the Company s then outstanding securities pursuant to a tender or exchange offer made directly to the Company s shareholders which the Board does not recommend such shareholders accept.      (g)  Code  means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the regulations and interpretations promulgated thereunder.      (h)  Committee  means a committee described in Section 3.      (i)  Common Stock  means the Company s common stock.      (j)  Company  means Cisco Systems, Inc., a California corporation.
     (k)  Consultant  means an individual who performs bona fide services to the Company, a Parent, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate, other than as an
Employee or Director or Non-Employee Director.         
   2   

(l)  Corporate Transaction  except as may otherwise be provided in a Participant s employment agreement or
Award agreement, means the occurrence of any of the following shareholder approved transactions:      (i) The consummation of a merger or
consolidation of the Company with or into another entity or any other corporate reorganization, if more than 50% of the combined voting power of the continuing or surviving entity s securities outstanding immediately after such merger,
consolidation or other reorganization is owned by persons who were not shareholders of the Company immediately prior to such merger, consolidation or other reorganization; or      (ii) The sale, transfer or other disposition of all or substantially all of the Company s assets.      A transaction shall not constitute a Corporate Transaction if its sole purpose is to change the state of the Company s incorporation or to create a holding company
that will be owned in substantially the same proportions by the persons who held the Company s securities immediately before such transactions.      (m)
 Covered Employees  means those persons who are subject to the limitations of Code Section 162(m).      (n)  Director  means a member
of the Board who is also an Employee.      (o)  Disability  means that the Key Employee is classified as disabled under a long-term disability policy
of the Company or, if no such policy applies, the Key Employee is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or which has lasted
or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months.      (p)  Employee  means an individual who is a common-law employee
of the Company, a Parent, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate.      (q)  Exchange Act  means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.      (r)  Exercise Price  means, in the case of an Option, the amount for which a Share may be purchased upon exercise of such Option, as specified in the
applicable Stock Option Agreement.  Exercise Price,  in the case of a SAR, means an amount, as specified in the applicable SAR Agreement, which is subtracted from the Fair Market Value in determining the amount payable upon exercise of
such SAR.      (s)  Fair Market Value  means the market price of a Share as determined in good faith by the Committee. The Fair Market Value shall be
determined by the following:         
   3   

(i) If the Shares were traded over-the-counter or listed with NASDAQ on the date in question, then the
Fair Market Value shall be equal to the last transaction price quoted by the NASDAQ system for the date in question or (ii) if the Common Stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange or the American Stock Exchange on the date in question, the
Fair Market Value is the closing selling price for the Common Stock as such price is officially quoted in the composite tape of transactions on the exchange determined by the Committee to be the primary market for the Common Stock for the date in
question; provided, however, that if there is no such reported price for the Common Stock for the date in question under (i) or (ii), then such price on the last preceding date for which such price exists shall be determinative of Fair Market
Value.      If neither (i) or (ii) are applicable, then the Fair Market Value shall be determined by the Committee in good faith on such basis as it
deems appropriate.      Whenever possible, the determination of Fair Market Value by the Committee shall be based on the prices reported in the Western Edition
of  The Wall Street Journal . Such determination shall be conclusive and binding on all persons.      (t)  Fiscal Year  means the Company s
fiscal year.      (u)  Grant  means any grant of an Award under the Plan.      (v)  Incentive Stock Option  or  ISO  means an incentive stock option described in Code Section 422.      (w)  Key Employee  means an Employee, Director, Non-Employee Director or Consultant who has been selected by the Committee to receive an Award under the Plan.      (x)  Non-Employee Director  means a member of the Board who is not an Employee.      (y)  Nonstatutory Stock
Option  or  NSO  means a stock option that is not an ISO.      (z)  Option  means an ISO or NSO granted under the Plan entitling the
Optionee to purchase Shares.      (aa)  Optionee  means an individual, estate or other entity that holds an Option.      (bb)  Parent  means any corporation (other than the Company) in an unbroken chain of corporations ending with the Company, if each of the corporations other
than the Company owns stock possessing 50% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of the other corporations in such chain. A corporation that attains the status of a Parent on a date after the adoption of the Plan
shall be considered a Parent commencing as of such date.      (cc)  Participant  means an individual or estate or other entity that holds an Award.
        
   4   

(dd)  Performance Goal  means an objective formula or standard determined by the Committee with respect to each
Performance Period utilizing one or more of the following factors and any objectively verifiable adjustment(s) thereto permitted and preestablished by the Committee in accordance with Code Section 162(m): (i) operating income;
(ii) earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization; (iii) earnings; (iv) cash flow; (v) market share; (vi) sales; (vii) revenue; (viii) profits before interest and taxes; (ix) expenses;
(x) cost of goods sold; (xi) profit/loss or profit margin; (xii) working capital; (xiii) return on capital, equity or assets; (xiv) earnings per share; (xv) economic value added; (xvi) stock price;
(xvii) price/earnings ratio; (xviii) debt or debt-to-equity; (xix) accounts receivable; (xx) writeoffs; (xxi) cash; (xxii) assets; (xxiii) liquidity; (xxiv) operations; (xxv) intellectual property
(e.g., patents); (xxvi) product development; (xxvii) regulatory activity; (xxviii) manufacturing, production or inventory; (xxix) mergers and acquisitions or divestitures; (xxx) financings; and/or (xxxi) customer
satisfaction, each with respect to the Company and/or one or more of its affiliates or operating units. Awards issued to persons who are not Covered Employees may take into account other factors (including subjective factors).      (ee)  Performance Period  means any period not exceeding 36 months as determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion. The Committee may establish
different Performance Periods for different Participants, and the Committee may establish concurrent or overlapping Performance Periods.      (ff)
 Plan  means this Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan as amended and restated, and as it may be further amended from time to time.      (gg)  Previous Plan Award  means any award of an Option, SAR, Stock Grant or Stock Unit under the Cisco Systems, Inc. 1996 Stock Incentive Plan, the Cisco Systems, Inc. SA Acquisition Long-Term Incentive Plan or the Cisco Systems,
Inc. WebEx Acquisition Long-Term Incentive Plan.      (hh)  Re-Price  means that the Company has lowered or reduced the Exercise Price of outstanding
Options and/or outstanding SARs for any Participant(s), whether through amendment, cancellation, or replacement grants, or any other means.      (ii)  SAR
Agreement  means the agreement described in Section 8 evidencing each Award of a Stock Appreciation Right.      (jj)  SEC  means the
Securities and Exchange Commission.      (kk)  Section 16 Persons  means those officers, directors or other persons who are subject to
Section 16 of the Exchange Act.      (ll)  Securities Act  means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.      (mm)  Service  means service as an Employee, Director, Non-Employee Director or Consultant. A Participant s Service does not terminate when continued
service crediting  
       
   5   

is required by applicable law. However, for purposes of determining whether an Option is entitled to continuing ISO status, a common-law employee s
Service will be treated as terminating ninety (90) days after such Employee went on leave, unless such Employee s right to return to active work is guaranteed by law or by a contract. Service terminates in any event when the approved leave
ends, unless such Employee immediately returns to active work. The Committee determines which leaves count toward Service, and when Service terminates for all purposes under the Plan. Further, unless otherwise determined by the Committee, a
Participant s Service shall not be deemed to have terminated merely because of a change in the capacity in which the Participant provides service to the Company, a Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate, or a transfer between entities (the Company or
any Parent, Subsidiary, or Affiliate); provided that there is no interruption or other termination of Service.      (nn)  Share  means one share of
Common Stock.      (oo)  Stock Appreciation Right  or  SAR  means a stock appreciation right awarded under the Plan.      (pp)  Stock Grant  means Shares awarded under the Plan.      (qq)
 Stock Grant Agreement  means the agreement described in Section 9 evidencing each Award of a Stock Grant.      (rr)  Stock Option
Agreement  means the agreement described in Section 6 evidencing each Award of an Option.      (ss)  Stock Unit  means a bookkeeping entry
representing the equivalent of one Share, as awarded under the Plan.      (tt)  Stock Unit Agreement  means the agreement described in
Section 10 evidencing each Award of a Stock Unit.      (uu)  Subsidiary  means any corporation (other than the Company) in an unbroken chain of
corporations beginning with the Company, if each of the corporations other than the last corporation in the unbroken chain owns stock possessing 50% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of the other corporations
in such chain. A corporation that attains the status of a Subsidiary on a date after the adoption of the Plan shall be considered a Subsidiary commencing as of such date.      (vv)  10-Percent Shareholder  means an individual who owns more than 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of outstanding stock of the Company, its Parent or any of its Subsidiaries. In
determining stock ownership, the attribution rules of Section 424(d) of the Code shall be applied.         
   6   

SECTION 3.    ADMINISTRATION.       (a) Committee Composition. The Board or a Committee appointed by the Board shall administer the Plan. Unless the Board provides otherwise, the Company s Compensation   Management Development Committee
shall be the Committee. Members of the Committee shall serve for such period of time as the Board may determine and shall be subject to removal by the Board at any time. The Board may also at any time terminate the functions of the Committee and
reassume all powers and authority previously delegated to the Committee.      The Committee shall have membership composition which enables (i) Awards to
Section 16 Persons to qualify as exempt from liability under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act and (ii) Awards to Covered Employees to qualify as performance-based compensation as provided under Code Section 162(m).   
  The Board may also appoint one or more separate committees of the Board, each composed of two or more directors of the Company who need not qualify under Rule 16b-3
or Code Section 162(m), that may administer the Plan with respect to Key Employees who are not Section 16 Persons or Covered Employees, respectively, may grant Awards under the Plan to such Key Employees and may determine all terms of such
Awards.      Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board shall constitute the Committee and shall administer the Plan with respect to Non-Employee Directors,
shall grant Awards under the Plan to such Non-Employee Directors, and shall determine all terms of such Awards.      (b) Authority of the Committee. Subject to
the provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall have full authority and sole discretion to take any actions it deems necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan. Such actions shall include:      (i) selecting Key Employees who are to receive Awards under the Plan;      (ii) determining the type, number, vesting requirements and other features and conditions of such Awards and amending such Awards;      (iii) correcting any defect, supplying any omission, or reconciling any inconsistency in the Plan or any Award agreement;      (iv) accelerating the vesting, or extending the post-termination exercise term, of Awards at any time and under such terms and conditions as it deems appropriate;      (v) interpreting the Plan;      (vi) making all
other decisions relating to the operation of the Plan; and      (vii) adopting such plans or subplans as may be deemed necessary or appropriate
to provide for the participation by Key Employees of the Company and its Subsidiaries and Affiliates who reside outside the U.S., which plans and/or subplans shall be attached hereto as Appendices.         
   7   

The Committee may adopt such rules or guidelines as it deems appropriate to implement the Plan. The Committee s
determinations under the Plan shall be final and binding on all persons.      (c) Indemnification. To the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, each
member of the Committee, or of the Board, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Company against and from (i) any loss, cost, liability, or expense that may be imposed upon or reasonably incurred by him or her in connection with or
resulting from any claim, action, suit, or proceeding to which he or she may be a party or in which he or she may be involved by reason of any action taken or failure to act under the Plan or any Stock Option Agreement, SAR Agreement, Stock Grant
Agreement or Stock Unit Agreement, and (ii) from any and all amounts paid by him or her in settlement thereof, with the Company s approval, or paid by him or her in satisfaction of any judgment in any such claim, action, suit, or
proceeding against him or her, provided he or she shall give the Company an opportunity, at its own expense, to handle and defend the same before he or she undertakes to handle and defend it on his or her own behalf. The foregoing right of
indemnification shall not be exclusive of any other rights of indemnification to which such persons may be entitled under the Company s Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws, by contract, as a matter of law, or otherwise, or under any power that
the Company may have to indemnify them or hold them harmless.       SECTION 4.    GENERAL.       (a) General Eligibility. Only Employees, Directors, Non-Employee Directors and Consultants shall be eligible for designation as Key Employees by the Committee, in its
sole discretion.      (b) Incentive Stock Options. Only Key Employees who are common-law employees of the Company, a Parent or a Subsidiary shall be eligible
for the grant of ISOs. In addition, a Key Employee who is a 10-Percent Shareholder shall not be eligible for the grant of an ISO unless the requirements set forth in Section 422(c)(5) of the Code are satisfied.      (c) Restrictions on Shares. Any Shares issued pursuant to an Award shall be subject to such rights of repurchase, rights of first refusal and other transfer restrictions
as the Committee may determine, in its sole discretion. Such restrictions shall apply in addition to any restrictions that may apply to holders of Shares generally and shall also comply to the extent necessary with applicable law. In no event shall
the Company be required to issue fractional Shares under this Plan.      (d) Beneficiaries. Unless stated otherwise in an Award agreement, a Participant may
designate one or more beneficiaries with respect to an Award by timely filing the prescribed form with the Company. A beneficiary designation may be changed by filing the prescribed form with the Company at any time before the Participant s
death. If no beneficiary was designated or if no designated beneficiary survives the Participant, then after a Participant s death any vested Award(s) shall be transferred or distributed to the Participant s estate.         
   8   

(e) Performance Conditions. The Committee may, in its discretion, include performance conditions in an Award or grant an
Award upon the satisfaction of performance conditions. If performance conditions are included in Awards to Covered Employees, then such Awards may be subject to the achievement of Performance Goals established by the Committee. Such Performance
Goals shall be established and administered pursuant to the requirements of Code Section 162(m). Before any Shares underlying an Award or any Award payments subject to Performance Goals are released to a Covered Employee with respect to a
Performance Period, the Committee shall certify in writing that the Performance Goals for such Performance Period have been satisfied. Awards with performance conditions that are granted to Key Employees who are not Covered Employees need not comply
with the requirements of Code Section 162(m).      (f) No Rights as a Shareholder. A Participant, or a transferee of a Participant, shall have no rights
as a shareholder with respect to any Common Stock covered by an Award until such person has satisfied all of the terms and conditions to receive such Common Stock, has satisfied any applicable withholding or tax obligations relating to the Award and
the Shares have been issued (as evidenced by an appropriate entry on the books of the Company or a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company).      (g)
Termination of Service. Unless the applicable Award agreement or, with respect to Participants who reside in the U.S., the applicable employment agreement provides otherwise, the following rules shall govern the vesting, exercisability and term of
outstanding Awards held by a Participant in the event of termination of such Participant s Service (in all cases subject to the expiration term of the Option or SAR as applicable): (i) upon termination of Service for any reason, all
unvested portions of any outstanding Awards shall be immediately forfeited without consideration and the vested portions of any outstanding Stock Units shall be settled upon termination; (ii) if the Service of a Participant is terminated for
Cause, then all unexercised Options and SARs, unvested portions of Stock Units and unvested portions of Stock Grants shall terminate and be forfeited immediately without consideration; (iii) if the Service of a Participant is terminated for any
reason other than for Cause, death, or Disability, then the vested portion of his or her then-outstanding Options and/or SARs may be exercised by such Participant or his or her personal representative within three months after the date of such
termination; or (iv) if the Service of a Participant is terminated due to death or Disability, the vested portion of his or her then-outstanding Options and/or SARs may be exercised within eighteen months after the date of termination of
Service.      (h) Director Fees. Each Non-Employee Director may elect to receive a Stock Grant or Stock Unit under the Plan in lieu of payment of a portion of
his or her regular annual retainer based on the Fair Market Value of the Shares on the date any regular annual retainer would otherwise be paid. For purposes of the Plan, a Non-Employee Director s regular annual retainer shall not include any
additional retainer paid in connection with service on any committee of the Board or paid for any other reason. Such an election may be for any dollar or percentage amount equal to at least 25% of the Non-Employee  
       
   9   

Director s regular annual retainer (up to a limit of 100% of the Non-Employee Director s regular annual retainer). The election must be made prior
to the beginning of the annual board of directors cycle which shall be any twelve month continuous period designated by the Board. Any amount of the regular annual retainer not elected to be received as a Stock Grant or Stock Unit shall be payable
in cash in accordance with the Company s standard payment procedures. Shares granted under this Section 4(h) shall otherwise be subject to the terms of the Plan applicable to Non-Employee Directors or to Participants generally (other than
provisions specifically applying only to Employees).       SECTION 5.    SHARES SUBJECT TO PLAN AND SHARE LIMITS.       (a) Basic Limitations. The stock issuable under the Plan shall be authorized but unissued Shares. The aggregate number of Shares reserved for Awards under the Plan shall
not exceed 559,000,000 Shares, subject to adjustment pursuant to Section 11. Shares issued as Stock Grants or pursuant to Stock Units will count against the Shares available for issuance under the Plan as 2.5 Shares for every 1 Share issued in
connection with the Award.      (b) Additional Shares. If Awards are forfeited or are terminated for any other reason before being exercised or settled, then
the Shares underlying such Awards shall again become available for Awards under the Plan. If a Previous Plan Award is forfeited or is terminated for any other reason before being exercised or settled, then the Shares underlying such Previous Plan
Award shall again become available for Awards under this Plan. SARs shall be counted in full against the number of Shares available for issuance under the Plan, regardless of the number of Shares issued upon settlement of the SARs.      (c) Dividend Equivalents. Any dividend equivalents distributed under the Plan shall not be applied against the number of Shares available for Awards.      (d) Share Limits.      (i)  Limits on Options . Subject to
adjustment pursuant to Section 11, no Key Employee shall receive Options to purchase Shares during any Fiscal Year covering in excess of 5,000,000 Shares and the aggregate maximum number of Shares that may be issued in connection with ISOs
shall be 559,000,000 Shares.      (ii)  Limits on SARs . Subject to adjustment pursuant to Section 11, no Key Employee shall receive
Awards of SARs during any Fiscal Year covering in excess of 5,000,000 Shares and the aggregate maximum number of Shares that may be issued in connection with SARs shall be 559,000,000 Shares.      (iii)  Limits on Stock Grants and Stock Units . Subject to adjustment pursuant to Section 11, no Key Employee shall receive Stock Grants or
Stock Units during any Fiscal Year covering, in the aggregate, in excess of 5,000,000 Shares.         
   10   

(iv)  Limits on Awards to Non-Employee Directors . Subject to adjustment pursuant to
Section 11, no Non-Employee Director shall receive Awards during any Fiscal Year covering, in the aggregate, in excess of 50,000 Shares; provided that any Shares received pursuant to an election under Section 4(h) shall not count against
such limit.       SECTION 6.    TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF OPTIONS.       (a) Stock Option Agreement. Each Grant of an Option under the Plan shall be evidenced and governed exclusively by a Stock Option Agreement between the Optionee and the Company. Such Option shall be subject to all
applicable terms and conditions of the Plan and may be subject to any other terms and conditions that are not inconsistent with the Plan and that the Committee deems appropriate for inclusion in a Stock Option Agreement (including without limitation
any performance conditions). The provisions of the various Stock Option Agreements entered into under the Plan need not be identical. The Stock Option Agreement shall also specify whether the Option is an ISO or an NSO.      (b) Number of Shares. Each Stock Option Agreement shall specify the number of Shares that are subject to the Option and shall be subject to adjustment of such number in
accordance with Section 11.      (c) Exercise Price. An Option s Exercise Price shall be established by the Committee and set forth in a Stock Option
Agreement. The Exercise Price of an Option shall not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value (110% for ISO grants to 10-Percent Shareholders) on the date of Grant.      (d) Exercisability and Term. Each Stock Option Agreement shall specify the date when all or any installment of the Option is to become exercisable. The Stock Option Agreement shall also specify the term of the Option;
provided that the term of an Option shall in no event exceed nine years from the date of Grant. Unless the applicable Stock Option Agreement provides otherwise, each Option shall vest and become exercisable with respect to 20% of the Shares subject
to the Option upon completion of one year of Service measured from the vesting commencement date, the balance of the Shares subject to the Option shall vest and become exercisable in forty-eight equal installments upon completion of each month of
Service thereafter, and the term of the Option shall be nine years from the date of Grant. A Stock Option Agreement may provide for accelerated vesting in the event of the Participant s death, Disability, or other events. Notwithstanding any
other provision of the Plan, no Option can be exercised after the expiration date provided in the applicable Stock Option Agreement and no Option may provide that, upon exercise of the Option, a new Option will automatically be granted.   
  (e) Modifications or Assumption of Options. Within the limitations of the Plan, the Committee may modify, extend or assume outstanding options or may accept the
cancellation of outstanding options (whether granted by the Company or by another issuer) in return for the grant of new Options for the same or a different number of  
       
   11   

Shares, at the same or a different Exercise Price, and with the same or different vesting provisions. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence or anything to
the contrary herein, the Committee may not Re-Price outstanding Options unless there is approval by the Company shareholders and no modification of an Option shall, without the consent of the Optionee, impair his or her rights or obligations under
such Option.      (f) Assignment or Transfer of Options. Except as otherwise provided in the applicable Stock Option Agreement and then only to the extent
permitted by applicable law, no Option shall be transferable by the Optionee other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. Except as otherwise provided in the applicable Stock Option Agreement, an Option may be exercised during the
lifetime of the Optionee only by the Optionee or by the guardian or legal representative of the Optionee. No Option or interest therein may be assigned, pledged or hypothecated by the Optionee during his or her lifetime, whether by operation of law
or otherwise, or be made subject to execution, attachment or similar process.       SECTION 7.    PAYMENT FOR OPTION SHARES.
      The entire Exercise Price of Shares issued upon exercise of Options shall be payable in cash at the time when such Shares are purchased, except as
follows and if so provided for in an applicable Stock Option Agreement:      (i) Surrender of Stock. Payment for all or any part of the Exercise
Price or Options may be made with Shares which have already been owned by the Optionee; provided that the Committee may, in its sole discretion, require that Shares tendered for payment be previously held by the Optionee for a minimum duration. Such
Shares shall be valued at their Fair Market Value.      (ii) Cashless Exercise. Payment for all or any part of the Exercise Price may be made
through Cashless Exercise at the Committee s sole discretion.      (iii) Other Forms of Payment. Payment for all or any part of the
Exercise Price may be made in any other form that is consistent with applicable laws, regulations and rules and approved by the Committee.      In the case of
an ISO granted under the Plan, payment shall be made only pursuant to the express provisions of the applicable Stock Option Agreement. The Stock Option Agreement may specify that payment may be made in any form(s) described in this Section 7.
In the case of an NSO granted under the Plan, the Committee may, in its discretion at any time, accept payment in any form(s) described in this Section 7.         
   12   

SECTION 8.    TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS.       (a) SAR Agreement. Each Grant of a SAR under the Plan shall be evidenced and governed exclusively by a SAR Agreement between the Participant and the Company. Such SAR
shall be subject to all applicable terms and conditions of the Plan and may be subject to any other terms and conditions that are not inconsistent with the Plan and that the Committee deems appropriate for inclusion in a SAR Agreement (including
without limitation any performance conditions). A SAR Agreement may provide for a maximum limit on the amount of any payout notwithstanding the Fair Market Value on the date of exercise of the SAR. The provisions of the various SAR Agreements
entered into under the Plan need not be identical. SARs may be granted in consideration of a reduction in the Participant s compensation.      (b) Number
of Shares. Each SAR Agreement shall specify the number of Shares to which the SAR pertains and shall be subject to adjustment of such number in accordance with Section 11.      (c) Exercise Price. Each SAR Agreement shall specify the Exercise Price which shall be established by the Committee. The Exercise Price of a SAR shall not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value on the date of
Grant.      (d) Exercisability and Term. Each SAR Agreement shall specify the date when all or any installment of the SAR is to become exercisable. The SAR
Agreement shall also specify the term of the SAR which shall not exceed nine years from the date of Grant. Unless the applicable SAR Agreement provides otherwise, each SAR shall vest and become exercisable with respect to 20% of the Shares subject
to the SAR upon completion of one year of Service measured from the vesting commencement date, the balance of the Shares subject to the SAR shall vest and become exercisable in forty-eight equal installments upon completion of each month of Service
thereafter, and the term of the SAR shall be nine years from the date of Grant. A SAR Agreement may provide for accelerated vesting in the event of the Participant s death, Disability, or other events. SARs may be awarded in combination with
Options or Stock Grants, and such an Award shall provide that the SARs will not be exercisable unless the related Options or Stock Grants are forfeited. A SAR may be included in an ISO only at the time of Grant but may be included in an NSO at the
time of Grant or at any subsequent time, but not later than six months before the expiration of such NSO. No SAR may provide that, upon exercise of the SAR, a new SAR will automatically be granted.      (e) Exercise of SARs. If, on the date when a SAR expires, the Exercise Price under such SAR is less than the Fair Market Value on such date but any portion of such SAR
has not been exercised or surrendered, then such SAR shall automatically be deemed to be exercised as of such date with respect to such portion. Upon exercise of a SAR, the Participant (or any person having the right to exercise the SAR) shall
receive from the Company (i) Shares, (ii) cash or (iii) any combination of Shares and cash, as the Committee shall determine at the time of Grant of the SAR, in its sole discretion. The amount of cash and/or the Fair Market Value of
Shares received upon exercise of SARs  
       
   13   

shall, in the aggregate, be equal to the amount by which the Fair Market Value (on the date of exercise) of the Shares subject to the SARs exceeds the
Exercise Price of those Shares.      (f) Modification or Assumption of SARs. Within the limitations of the Plan, the Committee may modify, extend or assume
outstanding stock appreciation rights or may accept the cancellation of outstanding stock appreciation rights (including stock appreciation rights granted by another issuer) in return for the grant of new SARs for the same or a different number of
Shares, at the same or a different Exercise Price, and with the same or different vesting provisions. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence or anything to the contrary herein, unless there is approval by the Company shareholders, the Committee may
not Re-Price outstanding SARs and no modification of a SAR shall, without the consent of the Participant, impair his or her rights or obligations under such SAR.      (g) Assignment or Transfer of SARs. Except as otherwise provided in the applicable SAR Agreement and then only to the extent permitted by applicable law, no SAR shall be transferable by the Participant other than by will or by the laws of
descent and distribution. Except as otherwise provided in the applicable SAR Agreement, a SAR may be exercised during the lifetime of the Participant only by the Participant or by the guardian or legal representative of the Participant. No SAR or
interest therein may be assigned, pledged or hypothecated by the Participant during his or her lifetime, whether by operation of law or otherwise, or be made subject to execution, attachment or similar process.       SECTION 9.    TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR STOCK GRANTS.       (a) Amount and Form of Awards. Awards under this Section 9 may be granted in the form of a Stock Grant. Each Stock Grant Agreement shall specify the number of Shares to which the Stock Grant pertains and shall be subject to adjustment
of such number in accordance with Section 11. A Stock Grant may also be awarded in combination with NSOs, and such an Award may provide that the Stock Grant will be forfeited in the event that the related NSOs are exercised.      (b) Stock Grant Agreement. Each Stock Grant awarded under the Plan shall be evidenced and governed exclusively by a Stock Grant Agreement between the Participant and the
Company. Each Stock Grant shall be subject to all applicable terms and conditions of the Plan and may be subject to any other terms and conditions that are not inconsistent with the Plan and that the Committee deems appropriate for inclusion in the
applicable Stock Grant Agreement (including without limitation any performance conditions). The provisions of the various Stock Grant Agreements entered into under the Plan need not be identical.         
   14   

(c) Payment for Stock Grants. Stock Grants may be issued with or without cash consideration or any other form of legally
permissible consideration approved by the Committee.      (d) Vesting Conditions. Each Stock Grant may or may not be subject to vesting. Any such vesting
provision may provide that Shares shall vest based on Service over time or shall vest, in full or in installments, upon satisfaction of performance conditions specified in the Stock Grant Agreement which may include Performance Goals pursuant to
Section 4(e). Unless the applicable Stock Grant Agreement provides otherwise, each Stock Grant shall vest with respect to 20% of the Shares subject to the Stock Grant upon completion of each year of Service on each of the first through fifth
annual anniversaries of the vesting commencement date. A Stock Grant Agreement may provide for accelerated vesting in the event of the Participant s death, Disability, or other events.      (e) Assignment or Transfer of Stock Grants. Except as provided in the applicable Stock Grant Agreement, and then only to the extent permitted by applicable law, a Stock
Grant awarded under the Plan shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily, involuntarily or by operation of law. Any act in violation of this
Section 9(e) shall be void. However, this Section 9(e) shall not preclude a Participant from designating a beneficiary who will receive any vested outstanding Stock Grant Awards in the event of the Participant s death, nor shall it
preclude a transfer of vested Stock Grant Awards by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.      (f) Voting and Dividend Rights. The holder of a Stock
Grant awarded under the Plan shall have the same voting, dividend and other rights as the Company s other shareholders. A Stock Grant Agreement, however, may require that the holder of such Stock Grant invest any cash dividends received in
additional Shares subject to the Stock Grant. Such additional Shares subject to the Stock Grant shall be subject to the same conditions and restrictions as the Stock Grant with respect to which the dividends were paid. Such additional Shares subject
to the Stock Grant shall not reduce the number of Shares available for issuance under Section 5.      (g) Modification or Assumption of Stock Grants.
Within the limitations of the Plan, the Committee may modify or assume outstanding stock grants or may accept the cancellation of outstanding stock grants (including stock granted by another issuer) in return for the grant of new Stock Grants for
the same or a different number of Shares and with the same or different vesting provisions. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence or anything to the contrary herein, no modification of a Stock Grant shall, without the consent of the Participant,
impair his or her rights or obligations under such Stock Grant.       SECTION 10.    TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF STOCK UNITS.    
  (a) Stock Unit Agreement. Each grant of Stock Units under the Plan shall be evidenced and governed exclusively by a Stock Unit Agreement between the Participant and
the  
       
   15   

Company. Such Stock Units shall be subject to all applicable terms and conditions of the Plan and may be subject to any other terms and conditions that are
not inconsistent with the Plan and that the Committee deems appropriate for inclusion in the applicable Stock Unit Agreement (including without limitation any performance conditions). The provisions of the various Stock Unit Agreements entered into
under the Plan need not be identical. Stock Units may be granted in consideration of a reduction in the Participant s other compensation.      (b) Number
of Shares. Each Stock Unit Agreement shall specify the number of Shares to which the Stock Unit Grant pertains and shall be subject to adjustment of such number in accordance with Section 11.      (c) Payment for Stock Units. Stock Units shall be issued without consideration.      (d) Vesting Conditions. Each Award of Stock Units may or may not be subject to vesting. Any such vesting provision may provide that Shares shall vest based on Service over time or shall vest, in full or in installments, upon satisfaction of
performance conditions specified in the Stock Unit Agreement which may include Performance Goals pursuant to Section 4(e). Unless the applicable Stock Unit Agreement provides otherwise, each Stock Unit shall vest with respect to 20% of the
Shares subject to the Stock Unit upon completion of each year of Service on each of the first through fifth annual anniversaries of the vesting commencement date. A Stock Unit Agreement may provide for accelerated vesting in the event of the
Participant s death, Disability, or other events.      (e) Voting and Dividend Rights. The holders of Stock Units shall have no voting rights. Prior to
settlement or forfeiture, any Stock Unit awarded under the Plan may, at the Committee s discretion, carry with it a right to dividend equivalents. Such right entitles the holder to be credited with an amount equal to all cash dividends paid on
one Share while the Stock Unit is outstanding. Dividend equivalents may be converted into additional Stock Units. Settlement of dividend equivalents may be made in the form of cash, in the form of Shares, or in a combination of both. Prior to
distribution, any dividend equivalents which are not paid shall be subject to the same conditions and restrictions as the Stock Units to which they attach.      (f) Form and Time of Settlement of Stock Units. Settlement of vested Stock Units may be made in the form of (a) cash, (b) Shares or (c) any combination of both, as determined by the Committee at the time of the grant of the
Stock Units, in its sole discretion. Methods of converting Stock Units into cash may include (without limitation) a method based on the average Fair Market Value of Shares over a series of trading days. Vested Stock Units may be settled in a lump
sum or in installments. The distribution may occur or commence when the vesting conditions applicable to the Stock Units have been satisfied or have lapsed, or it may be deferred, in accordance with applicable law, to any later date. The amount of a
deferred distribution may be increased by an interest factor or by dividend equivalents. Until an Award of Stock Units is settled, the number of such Stock Units shall be subject to adjustment pursuant to Section 11.         
   16   

(g) Creditors  Rights. A holder of Stock Units shall have no rights other than those of a general creditor of the
Company. Stock Units represent an unfunded and unsecured obligation of the Company, subject to the terms and conditions of the applicable Stock Unit Agreement.      (h) Modification or Assumption of Stock Units. Within the limitations of the Plan, the Committee may modify or assume outstanding stock units or may accept the cancellation of outstanding stock units (including stock units granted by
another issuer) in return for the grant of new Stock Units for the same or a different number of Shares and with the same or different vesting provisions. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence or anything to the contrary herein, no modification of
a Stock Unit shall, without the consent of the Participant, impair his or her rights or obligations under such Stock Unit.      (i) Assignment or Transfer of
Stock Units. Except as provided in the applicable Stock Unit Agreement, and then only to the extent permitted by applicable law, Stock Units shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any
creditor s process, whether voluntarily, involuntarily or by operation of law. Any act in violation of this Section 10(i) shall be void. However, this Section 10(i) shall not preclude a Participant from designating a beneficiary who
will receive any outstanding vested Stock Units in the event of the Participant s death, nor shall it preclude a transfer of vested Stock Units by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.       SECTION 11.    PROTECTION AGAINST DILUTION.       (a)
Adjustments. In the event of a subdivision of the outstanding Shares, a declaration of a dividend payable in Shares, a declaration of a dividend payable in a form other than Shares in an amount that has a material effect on the price of Shares, a
combination or consolidation of the outstanding Shares (by reclassification or otherwise) into a lesser number of Shares, a recapitalization, a spin-off or a similar occurrence, the Committee shall make appropriate adjustments to the following:
     (i) the number of Shares and the kind of shares or securities available for future Awards under Section       (ii) the limits on Awards specified in Section       (iii) the number of Shares and the kind of shares or securities covered by each outstanding Award; or      (iv)
the Exercise Price under each outstanding SAR or Option.      (b) Participant Rights. Except as provided in this Section 11, a Participant shall have no
rights by reason of any issue by the Company of stock of any class or securities convertible into stock of any class, any subdivision or consolidation of shares of stock of  
       
   17   

any class, the payment of any stock dividend or any other increase or decrease in the number of shares of stock of any class. If by reason of an adjustment
pursuant to this Section 11 a Participant s Award covers additional or different shares of stock or securities, then such additional or different shares and the Award in respect thereof shall be subject to all of the terms, conditions and
restrictions which were applicable to the Award and the Shares subject to the Award prior to such adjustment.      (c) Fractional Shares. Any adjustment of
Shares pursuant to this Section 11 shall be rounded down to the nearest whole number of Shares. Under no circumstances shall the Company be required to authorize or issue fractional shares and no consideration shall be provided as a result of
any fractional shares not being issued or authorized.       SECTION 12.    EFFECT OF A CORPORATE TRANSACTION.       (a) Corporate Transaction. In the event that the Company is a party to a Corporate Transaction, outstanding Awards shall be subject to the applicable agreement of merger,
reorganization, or sale of assets. Such agreement may provide, without limitation, for the assumption or substitution of outstanding Options, SARs, or Stock Units by the surviving corporation or its parent, for the assumption of outstanding Stock
Grant Agreements by the surviving corporation or its parent, for the replacement of outstanding Options, SARs, and Stock Units with a cash incentive program of the surviving corporation which preserves the spread existing on the unvested portions of
such outstanding Awards at the time of the transaction and provides for subsequent payout in accordance with the same vesting provisions applicable to those Awards, for accelerated vesting of outstanding Awards, or for the cancellation of
outstanding Options, SARs, and Stock Units, with or without consideration, in all cases without the consent of the Participant.      (b) Acceleration. The
Committee may determine, at the time of grant of an Award or thereafter, that such Award shall become fully vested as to all Shares subject to such Award in the event that a Corporate Transaction or a Change in Control occurs. Unless otherwise
provided in the applicable Award agreement, in the event that a Corporate Transaction occurs and any outstanding Options, SARs or Stock Units are not assumed, substituted, or replaced with a cash incentive program pursuant to Section 12(a) or
any outstanding Stock Grant Agreements are not assumed pursuant to Section 12(a), then such Awards shall fully vest and be fully exercisable immediately prior to such Corporate Transaction. Immediately following the consummation of a Corporate
Transaction, all outstanding Options, SARs and Stock Units shall terminate and cease to be outstanding, except to the extent that they are assumed by the surviving corporation or its parent.      (c) Dissolution. To the extent not previously exercised or settled, Options, SARs and Stock Units shall terminate immediately prior to the dissolution or liquidation of
the Company.         
   18   

SECTION 13.    LIMITATIONS ON RIGHTS.       (a) No Entitlements. A Participant s rights, if any, in respect of or in connection with any Award is derived solely from the discretionary decision of the Company
to permit the individual to participate in the Plan and to benefit from a discretionary Award. By accepting an Award under the Plan, a Participant expressly acknowledges that there is no obligation on the part of the Company to continue the Plan
and/or grant any additional Awards. Any Award granted hereunder is not intended to be compensation of a continuing or recurring nature, or part of a Participant s normal or expected compensation, and in no way represents any portion of a
Participant s salary, compensation, or other remuneration for purposes of pension benefits, severance, redundancy, resignation or any other purpose.      Neither the Plan nor any Award granted under the Plan shall be deemed to give any individual a right to remain an employee, consultant or director of the Company, a Parent, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate. The Company and its Parents and
Subsidiaries and Affiliates reserve the right to terminate the Service of any person at any time, and for any reason, subject to applicable laws, the Company s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws and a written employment agreement (if any),
and such terminated person shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived any claim to damages or specific performance for breach of contract or dismissal, compensation for loss of office, tort or otherwise with respect to the Plan or any outstanding
Award that is forfeited and/or is terminated by its terms or to any future Award.      (b) Shareholders  Rights. A Participant shall have no dividend
rights, voting rights or other rights as a shareholder with respect to any Shares covered by his or her Award prior to the issuance of such Shares (as evidenced by an appropriate entry on the books of the Company or a duly authorized transfer agent
of the Company). No adjustment shall be made for cash dividends or other rights for which the record date is prior to the date when such Shares are issued, except as expressly provided in Section 11.      (c) Regulatory Requirements. Any other provision of the Plan notwithstanding, the obligation of the Company to issue Shares or other securities under the Plan shall be
subject to all applicable laws, rules and regulations and such approval by any regulatory body as may be required. The Company reserves the right to restrict, in whole or in part, the delivery of Shares or other securities pursuant to any Award
prior to the satisfaction of all legal requirements relating to the issuance of such Shares or other securities, to their registration, qualification or listing or to an exemption from registration, qualification or listing.       SECTION 14.    WITHHOLDING TAXES.       (a) General. A
Participant shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Company for the satisfaction of any withholding tax obligations that arise in connection with his or her Award. The Company shall not be required to issue any Shares or make any cash payment
under the Plan until such obligations are satisfied.         
   19   

(b) Share Withholding. If a public market for the Company s Shares exists, the Committee may permit a Participant to
satisfy all or part of his or her withholding or income tax obligations by having the Company withhold all or a portion of any Shares that otherwise would be issued to him or her or by surrendering or attesting to all or a portion of any Shares that
he or she previously acquired. Such Shares shall be valued based on the value of the actual trade or, if there is none, the Fair Market Value as of the previous day. Any payment of taxes by assigning Shares to the Company may be subject to
restrictions, including, but not limited to, any restrictions required by rules of the SEC. The Committee may, in its discretion, also permit a Participant to satisfy withholding or income tax obligations related to an Award through Cashless
Exercise or through a sale of Shares underlying the Award.       SECTION 15.    DURATION AND AMENDMENTS.       (a) Term of the Plan. The Plan shall become effective upon its approval by Company shareholders. The Plan shall terminate at the Company s 2012 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders and may be terminated on any earlier date pursuant to this Section 15.      (b) Right to Amend or Terminate the Plan. The Board may amend or
terminate the Plan at any time and for any reason. The termination of the Plan, or any amendment thereof, shall not impair the rights or obligations of any Participant under any Award previously granted under the Plan without the Participant s
consent. No Awards shall be granted under the Plan after the Plan s termination. An amendment of the Plan shall be subject to the approval of the Company s shareholders only to the extent such approval is otherwise required by applicable
laws, regulations or rules.       SECTION 16.    EXECUTION.       To record the adoption of the Plan by the Board, the Company has caused its duly authorized officer to execute this Plan on behalf of the Company.        

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.    

By:  

Mark Chandler   

Title:  
     
  Senior Vice President, Legal Services,   

General Counsel and Secretary   

20   

(For Grants Prior to September 2008)        CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.         NOTICE OF GRANT OF STOCK OPTION        Notice is hereby given of the following option grant (the  Option ) made to purchase shares of Cisco Systems, Inc. (the  Company ) common stock:
     Optionee:

Grant Date:

Type of Option:  
     
             Incentive Stock Option  

Nonstatutory Stock Option  

Grant Number:

Number of Option Shares:

shares      Exercise Price: $               per share      Vesting Commencement Date:

Expiration Date:

Exercise Schedule        The
Option shall vest and become exercisable with respect to (i) twenty percent (20%) of the Option Shares upon Optionee s completion of one (1) year of Service measured from the Vesting Commencement Date and (ii) the balance of
the Option Shares in a series of forty-eight (48) successive equal monthly installments upon Optionee s completion of each additional month of Service over the forty-eight (48)-month period measured from the first annual anniversary of the
Vesting Commencement Date. In no event shall the Option vest and become exercisable for any additional Option Shares after Optionee s cessation of Service.      Should Optionee request a reduction to his or her work commitment to less than thirty (30) hours per week, then the Committee shall have the right, to extend the period over which the Option shall thereafter vest and become exercisable
for the Option Shares during the remainder of the Option term. The decision whether or not to approve Optionee s request for any reduced work commitment shall be at the sole discretion of the Company. In no event shall any extension of the
Exercise Schedule for the Option Shares result in the extension of the Expiration Date of the Option.      Optionee understands and agrees that the Option is
offered subject to and in accordance with the terms of the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). Optionee further agrees to be bound by the terms of the Plan and the terms of the Option as set forth in the Stock
Option Agreement attached hereto.        No Employment or Service Contract  . Nothing in this Notice or in the attached Stock Option Agreement or in
the Plan shall confer upon Optionee any right to continue in Service for any period of specific duration or interfere with or otherwise restrict in any way the rights of the Company (or any Parent or Subsidiary employing or retaining Optionee) or of
Optionee, which rights are hereby expressly reserved by each, to terminate Optionee s Service at any time for any reason, with or without cause.        Definitions  . All capitalized terms in this Notice shall have the meaning assigned to them in this Notice, the attached Stock Option Agreement or the Plan.   

STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT          Recitals        A. The Board has adopted the Plan for the purpose of retaining the services of selected Employees,
non-employee members of the Board or of the board of directors of any Parent or Subsidiary and Consultants and other independent advisors who provide services to the Company (or any Parent or Subsidiary).      B. Optionee is to render valuable services to the Company (or a Parent or Subsidiary), and this Agreement is executed pursuant to, and is intended to carry out the
purposes of, the Plan in connection with the Company s grant of an option to Optionee.      C. All capitalized terms in this Agreement shall have the
meaning assigned to them in this Agreement, the attached Notice of Grant of Stock Option (the   Notice ), or the Plan.       NOW, THEREFORE , it
is hereby agreed as follows:       1.    Grant of Option  . The Company hereby grants to Optionee, as of the Grant Date, an option to purchase up
to the number of Option Shares specified in the Notice. The Option Shares shall be purchasable from time to time during the Option term specified in Paragraph 2 at the Exercise Price specified in the Notice.       2.    Option Term  . This Option shall have a maximum term of nine (9) years measured from the Grant Date and shall accordingly expire at the close
of business on the Expiration Date, unless sooner terminated in accordance with Paragraph 4, 5 or 6.       3.    Non-Transferability  . This
Option shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by operation of law. Notwithstanding the foregoing, should the Optionee die
while holding this Option, then this Option shall be transferred in accordance with Optionee s will or the laws of descent and distribution.       4.    Dates of Exercise  . This Option shall vest and become exercisable for the Option Shares in one or more installments as specified in the Notice. As the Option becomes exercisable for such installments, those
installments shall accumulate and the Option shall remain exercisable for the accumulated installments until the Expiration Date or sooner termination of the Option term under Paragraph 5 or 6. As an administrative matter, the exercisable portion of
this Option may only be exercised until the close of the Nasdaq Global Select Market on the Expiration Date or the earlier termination date under Paragraph 5 or 6 or, if such date is not a trading day on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, the last
trading day before such date. Any later attempt to exercise this Option will not be honored. For example, if Optionee ceases to remain in Service as provided in Paragraph 5(i) and the date three (3) months from the date of cessation is Monday,
July 4 (a holiday on which the Nasdaq Global Select Market is closed), Optionee must exercise the exercisable portion of this Option by 4 pm Eastern Daylight Time on Friday, July 1.   

5.    Cessation of Service  . The Option term specified in Paragraph 2 shall terminate (and this Option
shall cease to be outstanding) prior to the Expiration Date should any of the following provisions become applicable:      (i) Should Optionee
cease to remain in Service for any reason (other than death, Disability or Cause) while this Option is outstanding, then Optionee shall have a period of three (3) months (commencing with the date of such cessation of Service) during which to
exercise this Option, but in no event shall this Option be exercisable at any time after the Expiration Date.      (ii) If Optionee dies while
this Option is outstanding, then the personal representative of Optionee s estate or the person or persons to whom the Option is transferred pursuant to Optionee s will or in accordance with the laws of descent and distribution shall have
the right to exercise this Option. Such right shall lapse, and this Option shall cease to be outstanding, upon the earlier of (A) the expiration of the eighteen (18)- month period measured from the date of Optionee s death or (B) the
Expiration Date.      (iii) Should Optionee cease Service by reason of Disability while this Option is outstanding, then Optionee shall have a
period of eighteen (18) months (commencing with the date of such cessation of Service) during which to exercise this Option, but in no event shall this Option be exercisable at any time after the Expiration Date.      (iv) Optionee s date of cessation of Service shall mean the date upon which Optionee ceases active performance of services for the Company following
the provision of such notification of termination or resignation from Service and shall be determined solely by this Agreement and without reference to any other agreement, written or oral, including Optionee s contract of employment, and shall
not otherwise include any period of notice of termination of employment, whether expressed or implied.      (v) During the limited period of
post-Service exercisability, this Option may not be exercised in the aggregate for more than the number of vested Option Shares for which the Option is exercisable at the time of Optionee s cessation of Service. Upon the expiration of such
limited exercise period or (if earlier) upon the Expiration Date, this Option shall terminate and cease to be outstanding for any vested Option Shares for which the Option has not been exercised. However, this Option shall, immediately upon
Optionee s cessation of Service for any reason, terminate and cease to be outstanding with respect to any Option Shares in which Optionee is not otherwise at that time vested or for which this Option is not otherwise at that time exercisable.
     (vi) Should Optionee s Service be terminated for Cause or should Optionee otherwise engage in activities constituting Cause while
this Option is outstanding, then this Option shall terminate immediately and cease to remain outstanding. In the event Optionee s Service with the Company is suspended pending an investigation of whether Optionee s Service will be
terminated for Cause, all Optionee s rights under the Option, including the right to exercise the Option, shall be suspended during the investigation period.         
   2   

6.      Special Acceleration of Option        (a) This Option, to the extent outstanding at the time of a Corporate Transaction but not otherwise fully vested and exercisable, shall automatically
accelerate so that this Option shall, immediately prior to the effective date of the Corporate Transaction, become vested and exercisable for all of the Option Shares at the time subject to this Option and may be exercised for any or all of those
Option Shares as fully-vested Shares. No such acceleration of this Option, however, shall occur if and to the extent: (i) this Option is, in connection with the Corporate Transaction, either assumed by the successor corporation (or parent
thereof) or replaced with a comparable option to purchase shares of the capital stock of the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or (ii) this Option is replaced with a cash incentive program of the successor corporation which preserves
the spread existing on the unvested Option Shares at the time of the Corporate Transaction (the excess of the Fair Market Value of those Option Shares over the aggregate Exercise Price payable for such Shares) and provides for subsequent pay-out in
accordance with the same Exercise Schedule set forth in the Notice. The determination of option comparability under clause (i) shall be made by the Committee, and such determination shall be final, binding and conclusive.      (b) Immediately following the effective date of the Corporate Transaction, this Option shall terminate and cease to be outstanding, except to the extent
assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) in connection with the Corporate Transaction.      (c) If this Option is assumed in
connection with a Corporate Transaction, then the Committee shall appropriately adjust the number of shares and the kind of shares or securities covered by the Option and the Exercise Price immediately after such Corporate Transaction, provided the
aggregate Exercise Price shall remain the same.      (d) This Option, to the extent outstanding at the time of a Change in Control but not
otherwise fully vested and exercisable, shall automatically accelerate so that this Option shall, immediately prior to the effective date of the Change in Control, become vested and exercisable for all of the Option Shares at the time subject to
this Option and may be exercised for any or all of those Option Shares as fully-vested Shares. This Option shall remain so exercisable until the Expiration Date or sooner termination of the Option term.      (e) This Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Company to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital or business
structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate or sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets.         
   3   

7.    Adjustment in Option Shares  . In the event of a subdivision of the outstanding Shares, a
declaration of a dividend payable in Shares, a declaration of a dividend payable in a form other than Shares in an amount that has a material effect on the price of Shares, a combination or consolidation of the outstanding Shares (by
reclassification or otherwise) into a lesser number of Shares, a recapitalization, a spin-off or a similar occurrence, appropriate adjustments shall be made to (i) the total number and/or kind of shares or securities subject to this Option and
(ii) the Exercise Price in order to reflect such change and thereby preclude a dilution or enlargement of benefits hereunder.       8. 
  Shareholder Rights  . The holder of this Option shall not have any shareholder rights with respect to the Option Shares until such person shall have exercised the Option, paid the Exercise Price and become a holder of record of the
purchased Shares.       9.    Manner of Exercising Option  .      (a) In order to exercise this Option with respect to all or any part of the Option Shares for which this Option is at the time exercisable, Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising the Option) must take the
following actions:      (i) Pay the aggregate Exercise Price for the purchased Shares in one or more of the following forms:      (A) cash or check which, in the Company s sole discretion, shall be made payable to a Company-designated brokerage firm or the Company;   
  (B) as permitted by applicable law, through a special sale and remittance procedure pursuant to which Optionee (or any other person or persons
exercising the Option) shall concurrently provide irrevocable written instructions (I) to a Company-designated brokerage firm (or in the case of an executive officer or Board member of the Company, an Optionee-designated brokerage firm) to
effect the immediate sale of the purchased Shares and remit to the Company, out of the sale proceeds available on the settlement date, sufficient funds to cover the aggregate Exercise Price payable for the purchased Shares plus, if applicable, the
amount necessary to satisfy the Company s withholding obligations at the minimum statutory withholding rates and (II) to the Company to deliver the certificates for the purchased Shares directly to such brokerage firm in order to complete the
sale transaction; and      (C) a promissory note payable to the Company, but only to the extent authorized by the Committee in accordance with
Paragraph 13.      (ii) Furnish to the Company appropriate documentation that the person or persons exercising the Option (if other than
Optionee) have the right to exercise this Option.      (iii) Make appropriate arrangements with the Company (or Parent or Subsidiary employing
or retaining Optionee) for the satisfaction of all tax withholding requirements applicable to the Option exercise.         
   4   

(b) As soon as practical after the exercise date, the Company shall issue to or on behalf of Optionee (or
any other person or persons exercising this Option) the purchased Option Shares (as evidenced by an appropriate entry on the books of the Company or a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company), subject to the appropriate legends and/or stop
transfer instructions.      (c) In no event may this Option be exercised for any fractional Shares.      (d) Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan, this Agreement or any other agreement to the contrary, if at the time this Option is exercised,
Optionee is indebted to the Company (or any Parent or Subsidiary) for any reason, the following actions shall be taken, as deemed appropriate by the Committee:      (i) any Shares to be issued upon such exercise shall automatically be pledged against Optionee s outstanding indebtedness; and      (ii) if this Option is exercised in accordance with subparagraph 9(a)(i)(B) above, the after tax proceeds of the sale of Optionee s Shares shall automatically be applied to the outstanding balance of
Optionee s indebtedness.       10.    Compliance with Laws and Regulations  .      (a) The exercise of this Option and the issuance of the Option Shares upon such exercise shall be subject to compliance by the Company and Optionee with
all applicable laws, regulations and rules relating thereto, including all applicable regulations of any stock exchange (or the Nasdaq Global Select Market, if applicable) on which the Shares may be listed for trading at the time of such exercise
and issuance.      (b) The inability of the Company to obtain approval from any regulatory body having authority deemed by the Company to be
necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any Shares pursuant to this Option shall relieve the Company of any liability with respect to the non-issuance or sale of the Shares as to which such approval shall not have been obtained. The Company,
however, shall use its best efforts to obtain all such approvals.       11.    Successors and Assigns  . Except to the extent otherwise provided
in Paragraphs 3 and 6, the provisions of this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and be binding upon, the Company and its successors and assigns and Optionee, Optionee s assigns and the legal representatives, heirs and legatees of
Optionee s estate.       12.    Notices  . Any notice required or permitted under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and shall
be deemed sufficient when delivered personally or sent by confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the U.S. mail, as certified or registered mail, with postage prepaid, and addressed to the Company at
the Company s principal corporate offices or to the Optionee at the address maintained for the Optionee in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently modified by written notice to the other party.         
   5   

13.    Financing  . The Committee may, in its absolute discretion and without any obligation to do so,
permit Optionee to pay the Exercise Price for the purchased Option Shares by delivering a full-recourse promissory note payable to the Company. The terms of any such promissory note (including the interest rate, the requirements for collateral and
the terms of repayment) shall be established by the Committee in its sole discretion.       14.    Construction  . The Notice, this Agreement,
and the Option evidenced hereby (a) are made and granted pursuant to the Plan and are in all respects limited by and subject to the terms of the Plan, and (b) constitute the entire agreement between Optionee and the Company on the subject
matter hereof and supercede all proposals, written or oral, and all other communications between the parties related to the subject matter. All decisions of the Committee with respect to any question or issue arising under the Notice, this Agreement
or the Plan shall be conclusive and binding on all persons having an interest in this Option.       15.    Governing Law  . The interpretation,
performance and enforcement of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California without resort to the conflict of laws principles thereof.       16.    Excess Shares  . If the Option Shares covered by this Agreement exceed, as of the Grant Date, the number of Shares which may without shareholder approval be issued under the Plan, then this Option shall be void with
respect to those excess shares, unless shareholder approval of an amendment sufficiently increasing the number of Shares issuable under the Plan is obtained in accordance with the provisions of the Plan and all applicable laws, regulations and
rules.       17.    Additional Terms Applicable to an Incentive Stock Options  . In the event this Option is designated an Incentive Stock
Option in the Notice, the following terms and conditions shall also apply to the Option:      (a) This Option shall cease to qualify for
favorable tax treatment as an Incentive Stock Option if (and to the extent) this Option is exercised for one or more Option Shares: (A) more than three (3) months after the date Optionee ceases to be an Employee for any reason other than
death or Disability or (B) more than twelve (12) months after the date Optionee ceases to be an Employee by reason of Disability.      (b) Even if this Option is designated as an Incentive Stock Option, if the Shares subject to this Option (and all other Incentive Stock Options granted to Optionee by the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary, including under other plans of
the Company) that first become exercisable in any calendar year have an aggregate Fair Market Value (determined for each Share as of the date of grant of the option covering such Share) in excess of $100,000, the Shares in excess of $100,000 shall
be treated as subject to a Nonstatutory Stock Option in accordance all applicable laws, regulations and rules.         
   6   

18.    Leave of Absence .  Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, the following provisions shall
apply upon the Optionee s commencement of an authorized leave of absence:      (a) The Exercise Schedule in effect under the Notice shall
be frozen as of the first day of the authorized leave, and this Option shall not become exercisable for any additional installments of the Option Shares during the period Optionee remains on such leave.      (b) If the Option is designated as an Incentive Stock Option in the Notice and if the leave of absence continues for more than ninety (90) days,
then this Option shall automatically convert to a Nonstatutory Stock Option at the end of the three (3)-month period measured from the ninety-first (91st) day of such leave, unless the Optionee s right to return to active work is
guaranteed by law or by a contract.      (c) In no event shall this Option become exercisable for any additional Option Shares or otherwise
remain outstanding if Optionee does not resume Service prior to the Expiration Date of the Option term.       19.    Further Instruments  . The
parties agree to execute such further instruments and to take such further action as may be reasonably necessary to carry out the purposes and intent of this Agreement.       20.    Authorization to Release Necessary Personal Information  .      (a) Optionee hereby
authorizes and directs Optionee s employer to collect, use and transfer in electronic or other form, any personal information (the  Data ) regarding Optionee s employment, the nature and amount of Optionee s compensation and
the fact and conditions of Optionee s participation in the Plan (including, but not limited to, Optionee s name, home address, telephone number, date of birth, social security number (or any other social or national identification number),
salary, nationality, job title, number of Shares held and the details of all options or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, cancelled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding) for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing
Optionee s participation in the Plan. Optionee understands that the Data may be transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, including
any requisite transfer to a broker or other third party assisting with the exercise of Options under the Plan or with whom Shares acquired upon exercise of this Option or cash from the sale of such shares may be deposited. Optionee acknowledges that
recipients of the Data may be located in different countries, and those countries may have data privacy laws and protections different from those in the country of Optionee s residence. Furthermore, Optionee acknowledges and understands that
the transfer of the Data to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties is necessary for Optionee s participation in the Plan.      (b) Optionee may at any time withdraw the consents herein, by  
       
   7   

contacting Optionee s local human resources representative in writing. Optionee further acknowledges that withdrawal of consent may affect
Optionee s ability to exercise or realize benefits from the Option, and Optionee s ability to participate in the Plan.       21.    No
Entitlement or Claims for Compensation  .      (a) Optionee s rights, if any, in respect of or in connection with this Option or any
other Award is derived solely from the discretionary decision of the Company to permit Optionee to participate in the Plan and to benefit from a discretionary Award. By accepting this Option, Optionee expressly acknowledges that there is no
obligation on the part of the Company to continue the Plan and/or grant any additional Awards to Optionee. This Option is not intended to be compensation of a continuing or recurring nature, or part of Optionee s normal or expected
compensation, and in no way represents any portion of a Optionee s salary, compensation, or other remuneration for purposes of pension benefits, severance, redundancy, resignation or any other purpose.      (b) Neither the Plan nor this Option or any other Award granted under the Plan shall be deemed to give Optionee a right to remain an Employee, Consultant
or director of the Company, a Parent or a Subsidiary or an Affiliate. The Company and its Parents and Subsidiaries and Affiliates reserve the right to terminate the Service of Optionee at any time, with or without cause, and for any reason, subject
to applicable laws, the Company s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws and a written employment agreement (if any), and Optionee shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived any claim to damages or specific performance for breach of contract or
dismissal, compensation for loss of office, tort or otherwise with respect to the Plan, this Option or any outstanding Award that is forfeited and/or is terminated by its terms or to any future Award.      (c) Optionee agrees that the Company may require Options granted hereunder be exercised with, and the Option Shares held by, a broker designated by the
Company. In addition, Optionee agrees that his or her rights hereunder shall be subject to set-off by the Company for any valid debts the Optionee owes to the Company.       
  
   8   

(For Grants Beginning September 2008)        CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.         NOTICE OF GRANT OF STOCK OPTION        Notice is hereby given of the following option grant (the  Option ) made to purchase shares of Cisco Systems, Inc. (the  Company ) common stock:
     Optionee:

Grant
Date:

Type of Option: U.S.
Nonstatutory Stock Option      Grant Number:

Number of Option Shares:

shares      Exercise Price:
$               per share      Vesting Commencement Date:

Expiration Date:

Exercise Schedule  .   The Option shall vest and become
exercisable with respect to (i)                        percent (      %) of the option shares, as set forth
above (the  Option Shares ) upon Optionee s completion of                        of Service measured from the vesting
commencement date as set forth above ( Vesting Commencement Date ) and (ii) the balance of the Option Shares in
                       installments upon Optionee s completion of each additional
                       of Service over the
                       period measured from the 
                      anniversary of the Vesting Commencement Date. In no event shall the Option vest and become exercisable for any additional
Option Shares after Optionee s cessation of Service.      Should Optionee request a reduction to his or her work commitment to less than thirty
(30) hours per week, then the Company shall have the right to extend the period over which the Option shall thereafter vest and become exercisable for the Option Shares during the remainder of the Option term to the extent permitted under local
law. In no event shall any extension of the exercise schedule, as set forth above ( Exercise Schedule ) for the Option Shares result in the extension of the expiration date, as set forth above, ( Expiration Date ) of the Option.
     Optionee understands and agrees that the Option is offered subject to and in accordance with the terms of the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive
Plan (the  Plan ). Optionee further agrees to be bound by the terms of the Plan and the terms of the Option as set forth in the Stock Option Agreement (the  Agreement ) attached hereto.        No Employment or Service Contract  . Nothing in this Notice or in the attached Agreement or in the Plan shall confer upon Optionee any right to continue in
Service for any period of specific duration or interfere with or otherwise restrict in any way the rights of the Company (or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate employing or retaining Optionee) or of Optionee, which rights are hereby expressly
reserved by each, to terminate Optionee s Service at any time for any reason, with or without cause to the extent permissible under local law.        Definitions  .   All capitalized terms in this Notice shall have the meaning assigned to them in this Notice, the attached Agreement or the Plan.   

STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT          Recitals        A. The Board has adopted the Plan for the purpose of retaining the services of selected Employees,
non-employee members of the Board and Consultants.      B. Optionee is to render valuable services to the Company (or a Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate), and
this Agreement is executed pursuant to, and is intended to carry out the purposes of, the Plan in connection with the Company s grant of an option to Optionee.      C. All capitalized terms in this Agreement shall have the meaning assigned to them in this Agreement, the attached Notice of Grant of Stock Option (the  Notice ), or the Plan.       NOW, THEREFORE , it is hereby agreed as follows:       1. 
  Grant of Option  . The Company hereby grants to Optionee, as of the grant date, as set forth in the Notice, (the  Grant Date ) an option to purchase up to the number of Option Shares specified in the Notice. The Option Shares
shall be purchasable from time to time during the Option term specified in Paragraph 2 at the Exercise Price specified in the Notice.       2.
   Option Term  . This Option shall have a maximum term of seven (7) years measured from the Grant Date and shall accordingly expire at the close of business on the Expiration Date, unless sooner terminated in accordance with
Paragraph 4, 5 or 6.       3.    Non-Transferability  . This Option shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned,
transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by operation of law. Notwithstanding the foregoing, should the Optionee die while holding this Option, then this Option shall be transferred in
accordance with Optionee s will or the laws of descent and distribution.       4.    Dates of Exercise  . This Option shall vest and become
exercisable for the Option Shares in one or more installments as specified in the Notice. As the Option becomes exercisable for such installments, those installments shall accumulate and the Option shall remain exercisable for the accumulated
installments until the Expiration Date or sooner termination of the Option term under Paragraph 5 or 6. As an administrative matter, the exercisable portion of this Option may only be exercised until the close of the Nasdaq Global Select Market on
the Expiration Date or the earlier termination date under Paragraph 5 or 6 or, if such date is not a trading day on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, the last trading day before such date. Any later attempt to exercise this Option will not be
honored. For example, if Optionee ceases to remain in Service as provided in Paragraph 5(i) and the date three (3) months from the date of cessation is Monday, July 4 (a holiday on which the Nasdaq Global Select Market is closed), Optionee
must exercise the exercisable portion of this Option by 4:00 p.m. Eastern Daylight Time on Friday, July 1.   

5.    Cessation of Service  . The Option term specified in Paragraph 2 shall terminate (and this Option
shall cease to be outstanding) prior to the Expiration Date should any of the following provisions become applicable:      (i) Should Optionee
cease to remain in Service for any reason (other than death, Disability or Cause and whether or not in breach of local labor laws) while this Option is outstanding, then Optionee shall have a period of three (3) months (commencing with the date
of such cessation of Service) during which to exercise this Option, but in no event shall this Option be exercisable at any time after the Expiration Date.      (ii) If Optionee dies while this Option is outstanding, then the Optionee s designated beneficiary or, if no beneficiary was designated or properly designated or, if no designated beneficiary survives the
Optionee, the Optionee s estate (to the extent reasonably determinable) or other individual or entity entitled to receive the Option under applicable local law shall have the right to exercise this Option. Such right shall lapse, and this
Option shall cease to be outstanding, upon the earlier of (A) the expiration of the eighteen (18) month period measured from the date of Optionee s death or (B) the Expiration Date. Optionee may only make a beneficiary
designation with respect to this Option if the Company has approved a process or procedure for such beneficiary designation for the local jurisdiction within which Optionee performs services for the Company or a Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate. If
no such beneficiary designation process or procedure has been approved by the Company, then, in the event of Optionee s death, this Option may only be exercised by the Optionee s estate (to the extent reasonably determinable) or other
individual or entity entitled to receive the Option under applicable local law.      (iii) Should Optionee cease Service by reason of
Disability while this Option is outstanding, then Optionee shall have a period of eighteen (18) months (commencing with the date of such cessation of Service) during which to exercise this Option, but in no event shall this Option be
exercisable at any time after the Expiration Date.      (iv) During the limited period of post-Service exercisability, this Option may not be
exercised in the aggregate for more than the number of vested Option Shares for which the Option is exercisable at the date the Optionee ceases to actively provide Service (not extended by any notice period mandated under local law). Upon the
expiration of such limited exercise period or (if earlier) upon the Expiration Date, this Option shall terminate and cease to be outstanding for any vested Option Shares for which the Option has not been exercised. However, this Option shall,
immediately as of the date the Optionee ceases to actively provide Service for any reason, terminate and cease to be outstanding with respect to any Option Shares in which Optionee is not otherwise at that time vested or for which this Option is not
otherwise at that time exercisable.      (v) Should Optionee s Service be terminated for Cause or should Optionee otherwise engage in
activities constituting Cause while this Option is  
       
   2   

outstanding, then this Option shall terminate immediately and cease to remain outstanding. In the event Optionee s Service is suspended pending an
investigation of whether Optionee s Service will be terminated for Cause, all Optionee s rights under the Option, including the right to exercise the Option, shall be suspended during the investigation period.      (vi) For purposes of this Paragraph 5, in the event of Optionee s cessation of Service, Optionee s right to receive additional options or to
vest in the Option will end as of the date the Optionee is no longer actively providing Service and will not be extended by any notice period mandated under local law ( e.g ., active Service would not include any period of  garden
leave  or similar period pursuant to local law); the Company shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when an Optionee is no longer actively providing Service for purposes of this Option.       6.    Special Acceleration of Option   .       (a) This Option, to the extent outstanding at the time of a Corporate Transaction but not otherwise fully vested and exercisable, shall automatically accelerate so that this Option shall, immediately prior to the effective date of the
Corporate Transaction, become vested and exercisable for all of the Option Shares at the time subject to this Option and may be exercised for any or all of those Option Shares as fully-vested Shares. No such acceleration of this Option, however,
shall occur if and to the extent: (i) this Option is, in connection with the Corporate Transaction, either assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or replaced with a comparable option to purchase shares of the capital stock of
the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or (ii) this Option is replaced with a cash incentive program of the successor corporation which preserves the spread existing on the unvested Option Shares at the time of the Corporate Transaction
(the excess of the Fair Market Value of those Option Shares over the aggregate Exercise Price payable for such Shares) and provides for subsequent pay-out in accordance with the same Exercise Schedule set forth in the Notice. The determination of
option comparability under clause (i) shall be made by the Committee, and such determination shall be final, binding and conclusive.      (b) Immediately following the effective date of the Corporate Transaction, this Option shall terminate and cease to be outstanding, except to the extent assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) in connection with the
Corporate Transaction.      (c) If this Option is assumed in connection with a Corporate Transaction, then the Committee shall appropriately
adjust the number of shares and the kind of shares or securities covered by the Option and the Exercise Price immediately after such Corporate Transaction, provided the aggregate Exercise Price shall remain the same.      (d) This Option, to the extent outstanding at the time of a Change in Control but not otherwise fully vested and exercisable, shall automatically
accelerate so that this Option shall, immediately prior to the effective date of the Change in Control,  
       
   3   

become vested and exercisable for all of the Option Shares at the time subject to this Option and may be
exercised for any or all of those Option Shares as fully-vested Shares. This Option shall remain so exercisable until the Expiration Date or sooner termination of the Option term.      (e) This Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Company to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital or business
structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate or sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets.       7.    Adjustment in
Option Shares  . In the event of a subdivision of the outstanding Shares, a declaration of a dividend payable in Shares, a declaration of a dividend payable in a form other than Shares in an amount that has a material effect on the price of
Shares, a combination or consolidation of the outstanding Shares (by reclassification or otherwise) into a lesser number of Shares, a recapitalization, a spin-off or a similar occurrence, appropriate adjustments shall be made to (i) the total
number and/or kind of shares or securities subject to this Option and (ii) the Exercise Price in order to reflect such change and thereby preclude a dilution or enlargement of benefits hereunder.       8.    Shareholder Rights  . The holder of this Option shall not have any shareholder rights with respect to the Option Shares until such person shall
have exercised the Option, paid the Exercise Price and become a holder of record of the purchased Shares.       9.    Manner of Exercising
Option  .      (a) In order to exercise this Option with respect to all or any part of the Option Shares for which this Option is at the
time exercisable, Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising the Option) must take the following actions:      (i) Pay the aggregate
Exercise Price for the purchased Shares in one or more of the following forms:      (A) cash or check which, in the Company s sole
discretion, shall be made payable to a Company-designated brokerage firm or the Company; and      (B) as permitted by applicable law, through
a special sale and remittance procedure pursuant to which Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising the Option) shall concurrently provide irrevocable written instructions (I) to a Company-designated brokerage firm (or in the case of
an executive officer or Board member of the Company, an Optionee-designated brokerage firm) to effect the immediate sale of the purchased Shares and remit to the Company, out of the sale proceeds available on the settlement date, sufficient funds to
cover the aggregate Exercise Price payable for the purchased Shares plus, if applicable, the amount necessary to satisfy the Company s (or a Parent s, Subsidiary s or Affiliate s) withholding obligations  
       
   4   

(including income tax, social taxes or insurance contributions, payroll tax, payment on account or other
tax items related to Optionee s participation in the Plan and legally applicable to Optionee ( Tax-Related Items )) and (II) to the Company to deliver the purchased Shares directly to such brokerage firm in order to complete the sale
transaction.      (ii) Furnish to the Company appropriate documentation that the person or persons exercising the Option (if other than
Optionee) have the right to exercise this Option.      (iii) Make appropriate arrangements with the Company (or a Parent, Subsidiary or
Affiliate employing or retaining Optionee) for the satisfaction of all withholding or other obligations related to Tax-Related Items applicable to the Option grant, vesting, exercise or the sale of Shares, as applicable.      (b) As soon as practical after the exercise date, the Company shall issue to or on behalf of Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising this
Option) the purchased Option Shares, (as evidenced by an appropriate entry on the books of the Company or a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company), subject to the appropriate legends and/or stop transfer instructions.      (c) In no event may this Option be exercised for any fractional Shares.      (d) Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan, this Agreement or any other agreement to the contrary, if at the time this Option is exercised, Optionee is indebted to the Company (or any Parent, Subsidiary or
Affiliate) for any reason, the following actions shall be taken, as deemed appropriate by the Committee:      (i) any Shares to be issued upon
such exercise shall automatically be pledged against Optionee s outstanding indebtedness; and      (ii) if this Option is exercised in
accordance with subparagraph 9(a)(i)(B) above, the after tax proceeds of the sale of Optionee s Shares shall automatically be applied to the outstanding balance of Optionee s indebtedness.       10.    Responsibility for Taxes  .      (a)
Optionee authorizes the Company and/or the Optionee s employer (the  Employer ) or their respective agents, at their discretion, to satisfy any obligations related to Tax-Related Items by one or a combination of the following:
(1) withholding all applicable Tax-Related Items from Optionee s wages or other cash compensation paid to Optionee by the Company and/or the Employer; (2) withholding from proceeds of the sale of Shares acquired upon exercise of the
Option either through a voluntary sale (specifically including where this Option is exercised in accordance with subparagraph 9(a)(i)(B) above) or through a mandatory sale arranged by the Company (on Optionee s behalf pursuant to this
authorization); or (3) withholding of Shares that would otherwise be issued upon exercise of the Option. To avoid financial accounting charges under applicable accounting guidance, the Company may withhold or account for Tax-Related  
       
   5   

Items by considering applicable minimum statutory withholding rates or may take any other action required to avoid financial accounting charges under
applicable accounting guidance. Finally, Optionee must pay to the Company or the Employer any amount of Tax-Related Items that the Company or the Employer may be required to withhold or account for as a result of Optionee s participation in the
Plan or Optionee s purchase of Shares that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described. The Company may refuse to honor the exercise and refuse to issue or deliver the Shares or the proceeds of the sale of the Shares if Optionee fails
to comply with Optionee s obligations in connection with the Tax-Related Items as described in this Paragraph.      (b) Regardless of any
action the Company or the Employer takes with respect to any or all Tax-Related Items, Optionee acknowledges that the ultimate liability for all Tax-Related Items is and remains Optionee s responsibility and may exceed the amount actually
withheld by the Company or the Employer. Optionee further acknowledges that the Company and/or the Employer (1) make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax-Related Items in connection with any aspect of the
Option, including the grant, vesting or exercise of the Option, the subsequent sale of Shares acquired pursuant to such exercise and the receipt of any dividends; and (2) do not commit to and are under no obligation to structure the terms of
the grant or any aspect of the Option to reduce or eliminate Optionee s liability for Tax-Related Items or achieve any particular tax result. Further, if Optionee becomes subject to taxation in more than one jurisdiction between the Grant Date
and the date of any relevant taxable event, Optionee acknowledges that the Company and/or the Employer (or former employer, as applicable) may be required to withhold or account for Tax-Related Items in more than one jurisdiction.       11.    Compliance with Laws and Regulations  .      (a) The exercise of this Option and the issuance of the Option Shares upon such exercise shall be subject to compliance by the Company and Optionee with all applicable laws, regulations and rules relating thereto, including all applicable
regulations of any stock exchange (or the Nasdaq Global Select Market, if applicable) on which the Shares may be listed for trading at the time of such exercise and issuance and all applicable foreign laws.      (b) The inability of the Company to obtain approval from any regulatory body having authority deemed by the Company to be necessary to the lawful
issuance and sale of any Shares pursuant to this Option shall relieve the Company of any liability with respect to the non-issuance or sale of the Shares as to which such approval shall not have been obtained.       12.    Successors and Assigns  . Except to the extent otherwise provided in Paragraphs 3, 5 and 6, the provisions of this Agreement shall inure to the
benefit of, and be binding upon, the Company and its successors and assigns and Optionee, Optionee s assigns and the legal representatives, heirs and legatees of Optionee s estate.         
   6   

13.    Notices  . Any notice required or permitted under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing
and shall be deemed sufficient when delivered personally or sent by confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the mail, as certified or registered mail, with postage prepaid, and addressed to the
Company at the Company s principal corporate offices or to the Optionee at the address maintained for the Optionee in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently modified by written notice to the other party.       14.    Construction  . The Notice, this Agreement, and the Option evidenced hereby (a) are made and granted pursuant to the Plan and are in all
respects limited by and subject to the terms of the Plan, and (b) constitute the entire agreement between Optionee and the Company on the subject matter hereof and supercede all proposals, written or oral, and all other communications between
the parties related to the subject matter. All decisions of the Committee with respect to any question or issue arising under the Notice, this Agreement or the Plan shall be conclusive and binding on all persons having an interest in this Option.
The provisions of this Agreement are severable and if any one or more provisions are determined to be illegal or otherwise unenforceable, in whole or in part, the remaining provisions shall nevertheless be binding and enforceable.       15.    Governing Law and Forum  . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California without regard
to the conflict of laws principles thereof. For purposes of litigating any dispute that may arise directly or indirectly from this Agreement, the parties hereby submit and consent to litigation in the exclusive jurisdiction of the State of
California and agree that any such litigation shall be conducted only in the courts of California or the federal courts for the United States for the Northern District of California and no other courts.       16.    Excess Shares  . If the Option Shares covered by this Agreement exceed, as of the Grant Date, the number of Shares which may without shareholder
approval be issued under the Plan, then this Option shall be void with respect to those excess shares, unless shareholder approval of an amendment sufficiently increasing the number of Shares issuable under the Plan is obtained in accordance with
the provisions of the Plan and all applicable laws, regulations and rules.       17.    Leave of Absence  . Unless otherwise determined by the
Committee, to the extent permitted by local law, the following provisions shall apply upon the Optionee s commencement of an authorized leave of absence:      (a) The Exercise Schedule in effect under the Notice shall be frozen as of the first day of the authorized leave, and this Option shall not become exercisable for any additional installments of the Option Shares
during the period Optionee remains on such leave.      (b) In no event shall this Option become exercisable for any additional Option Shares or
otherwise remain outstanding if Optionee does not resume Service prior to the Expiration Date of the Option term.         
   7   

18.    Further Instruments  . The parties agree to execute such further instruments and to take such
further action as may be reasonably necessary to carry out the purposes and intent of this Agreement.       19.    Authorization to Release and
Transfer Necessary Personal Information  .        (a) Optionee hereby explicitly and unambiguously consents to the collection, use and
transfer, in electronic or other form, of Optionee s personal information as described in this Agreement by and among, as applicable, the Employer, and the Company and its Parent, Subsidiaries and Affiliates for the exclusive purpose of
implementing, administering and managing Optionee s participation in the Plan.          (b) Optionee understands that the
Company and the Employer may hold certain personal information about Optionee, including, but not limited to, Optionee s name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number (or any other social or national
identification number), salary, nationality, job title, residency status, any Shares or directorships held in the Company, details of all options or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding (the
 Data ) for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Optionee s participation in the Plan. Optionee understands that Data may be transferred to the Company or any of its Parent, Subsidiaries or Affiliates, or to any
third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, that these recipients may be located in Optionee s country or elsewhere, including outside the European Economic Area, and that the recipient s
country (e.g., the United States) may have different data privacy laws and protections than Optionee s country. Optionee understands that Optionee may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by
contacting Optionee s local human resources representative. Optionee authorizes the recipients to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the sole purposes of implementing, administering and
managing Optionee s participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data to a broker or other third party assisting with the administration of the Option under the Plan or with whom Shares acquired pursuant to these Options
or cash from the sale of such Shares may be deposited. Furthermore, you acknowledge and understand that the transfer of the Data to the Company or any of its Parent, Subsidiaries or Affiliates, or to any third parties is necessary for your
participation in the Plan.          (c) Optionee understands that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement,
administer and manage Optionee s participation in the Plan. Optionee understands that Optionee may, at any time, view the Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of the Data, require any necessary amendments to the
Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein by contacting Optionee s local human resources representative in writing. Optionee further acknowledges that withdrawal of consent may affect Optionee s ability to vest in or realize benefits
from the Options, and Optionee s ability to participate in the Plan. For    
       
   8   

more information on the consequences of Optionee s refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, Optionee understands that Optionee may contact
Optionee s local human resources representative.         20.    No Entitlement or Claims for Compensation  .      (a) Optionee s rights, if any, in respect of or in connection with this Option or any other Award are derived solely from the discretionary decision
of the Company to permit Optionee to participate in the Plan and to benefit from a discretionary Award. The Plan may be amended, suspended or terminated by the Company at any time, unless otherwise provided in the Plan and this Agreement. By
accepting this Option, Optionee expressly acknowledges that there is no obligation on the part of the Company to continue the Plan and/or grant any additional Awards to Optionee or benefits in lieu of Options or any other Awards even if Options have
been granted repeatedly in the past. All decisions with respect to future Option grants, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Committee.      (b) This Option and the Shares subject to the Option are not intended to replace any pension rights or compensation and are not to be considered compensation of a continuing or recurring nature, or part of Optionee s normal or expected
compensation, and in no way represent any portion of Optionee s salary, compensation or other remuneration for any purpose, including but not limited to, calculating any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy, dismissal, end of service
payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits or similar payments, and in no event should be considered as compensation for, or relating in any way to, past services for the Company, the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or
Affiliate. The value of the Option and the Shares subject to the Option are an extraordinary item that do not constitute compensation of any kind for services of any kind rendered to the Company, the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate
and which are outside the scope of Optionee s written employment agreement (if any).      (c) Optionee acknowledges that he or she is
voluntarily participating in the Plan.      (d) Neither the Plan nor this Option or any other Award granted under the Plan shall be deemed to
give Optionee a right to remain an Employee, Consultant or director of the Company, a Parent, Subsidiary or an Affiliate. The Employer reserves the right to terminate the Service of Optionee at any time, with or without cause, and for any reason,
subject to applicable laws, the Company s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws and a written employment agreement (if any).      (e) The
grant of the Option and Optionee s participation in the Plan will not be interpreted to form an employment contract or relationship with the Company, the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate.      (f) The future value of the underlying Shares is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty. If the underlying Shares do not increase in value, the
Option         
   9   

will have no value. If Optionee exercises the Option and obtains Shares, the value of the Shares acquired
upon exercise may increase or decrease in value, even below the Exercise Price. Optionee also understands that neither the Company, nor the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate is responsible for any foreign exchange fluctuation between
the Employer s local currency and the United States Dollar that may affect the value of this Option.      (g) In consideration of the
grant of the Option, no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages shall arise from forfeiture of the Option resulting from termination of Optionee s Service by the Company or the Employer (for any reason whatsoever and whether or not in
breach of local labor laws) and Optionee irrevocably releases the Company and the Employer from any such claim that may arise; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to have arisen, Optionee
shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived Optionee s entitlement to pursue such claim.      (h) Optionee agrees that the Company may
require Options granted hereunder be exercised with, and the Option Shares held by, a broker designated by the Company.      (i) Optionee
agrees that his or her rights hereunder (if any) shall be subject to set-off by the Company for any valid debts the Optionee owes to the Company.      (j) The Option and the benefits under the Plan, if any, will not automatically transfer to another company in the case of a merger, take-over or transfer of liability.       21.    No Advice Regarding Grant  . The Company and the Employer have not provided any tax, legal or financial advice, nor has the Company or the Employer made any recommendations regarding
Optionee s participation in the Plan, or Optionee s acquisition or sale of the underlying Shares. Optionee is hereby advised to consult with Optionee s own personal tax, legal and financial advisors regarding Optionee s
participation in the Plan before taking any action related to the Plan.       22.    Electronic Delivery  . The Company may, in its sole
discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to Optionee s current or future participation in the Plan by electronic means or to request Optionee s consent to participate in the Plan by electronic means. Optionee hereby consents to
receive such documents by electronic delivery and agrees to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or a third party designated by the Company.       23.    Language  . If this Agreement or any other document related to the Plan is translated into a language other then English and the meaning of the
translated version is different from the English version, the English version will take precedence.       24.    Appendix  . Notwithstanding any
provisions in this Agreement, the Option shall be subject to any special terms and conditions set forth in any Appendix to this  
       
   10   

Agreement for Optionee s country of residence. Moreover, if Optionee relocates to one of the countries included in the Appendix, the special terms and
conditions for such country will apply to Optionee, to the extent the Company determines that the application of such terms and conditions is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local law or facilitate the administration of the Plan. The
Appendix constitutes part of this Agreement.       25.    Imposition of Other Requirements  . The Company reserves the right to impose other
requirements on Optionee s participation in the Plan, on the Option and on any Shares acquired under the Plan, to the extent the Company determines it is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local law or facilitate the administration
of the Plan. Optionee agrees to sign any additional agreements or undertakings that may be necessary to accomplish the foregoing. Furthermore, Optionee acknowledges that the laws of the country in which Optionee is working at the time of grant,
vesting and exercise of the Option or the sale of Shares received pursuant to this Agreement (including any rules or regulations governing securities, foreign exchange, tax, labor, or other matters) may subject Optionee to additional procedural or
regulatory requirements that Optionee is and will be solely responsible for and must fulfill.         
   11   

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.         STOCK GRANT AGREEMENT        This Stock Grant Agreement (the  Agreement ) is made and entered into as of
the Grant Date (as defined below) by and between Cisco Systems, Inc., a California corporation (the  Company ), and you pursuant to the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). The material terms of this Stock
Grant Award are as follows:       

Employee ID:  

Grant Date:  

Grant Number:  

Restricted Shares:  

First Vest Date:  
      
                        , 20       (the first annual
anniversary of the vesting commencement date)   
    To the extent any capitalized terms used in this Agreement are not defined, they shall have the meaning ascribed
to them in the Plan. In the event of a conflict between the terms and provisions of the Plan and the terms and provisions of this Agreement, the Plan terms and provisions shall prevail.      In consideration of the mutual agreements herein contained and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties agree as follows:       1.    Restricted Shares  . Pursuant to the Plan, the Company hereby transfers to you, and you hereby accept from the Company, a Stock Grant Award consisting of the Restricted Shares, on the terms and conditions set forth
herein and in the Plan.       2.    Vesting of Restricted Shares  . So long as your Service continues, the Restricted Shares shall vest in
accordance with the following schedule:                        percent (      %) of the total number of Restricted
Shares issued pursuant to this Agreement shall vest on the First Vest Date and on each annual anniversary thereafter, unless otherwise provided by the Plan or Section 3 below. In the event of the termination of your Service for any reason, all
unvested Restricted Shares shall be immediately forfeited without consideration. For purposes of facilitating the enforcement of the provisions of this Section 2, the Company may issue stop-transfer instructions on the Restricted Shares to the
Company s transfer agent, or otherwise hold the Restricted Shares in escrow, until the Restricted Shares have vested and you have satisfied all applicable obligations with respect to the Restricted Shares, including any applicable tax
withholding obligations set forth in Section 5 below. Any new, substituted or additional securities or other property which is issued or distributed with respect to the unvested Restricted Shares shall be subject to the same terms and conditions as
are applicable to the unvested Restricted Shares under this Agreement and the Plan.       3.    Special Acceleration   .       (a) To the extent the Restricted Shares are outstanding at the time of a Corporate Transaction, but not otherwise fully vested, such Restricted Shares
shall automatically accelerate immediately prior to the effective date of the Corporate Transaction and shall become vested in full at that time. No such acceleration, however, shall occur if   

and to the extent: (i) this Stock Grant Agreement is, in connection with the Corporate Transaction,
assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof), or (ii) the Restricted Shares are replaced with a cash incentive program of the successor corporation which preserves the Fair Market Value of the Restricted Shares at the time of the
Corporate Transaction and provides for subsequent pay-out in accordance with the vesting schedule set forth in Section 2 above.      (b)
Immediately following the effective date of the Corporate Transaction, this Stock Grant Agreement shall terminate and cease to be outstanding, except to the extent assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) in connection with the
Corporate Transaction.      (c) If this Stock Grant Agreement is assumed in connection with a Corporate Transaction, then the Committee shall
appropriately adjust the number of shares and the kind of shares or securities covered by this Stock Grant Agreement immediately after such Corporate Transaction.      (d) To the extent the Restricted Shares are outstanding at the time of a Change in Control but not otherwise fully vested, such Restricted Shares shall automatically accelerate immediately prior to the effective date
of the Change in Control and shall become vested in full at that time.      (e) This Stock Grant Agreement shall not in any way affect the
right of the Company to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate, sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets.       4.    Restriction on Election to Recognize Income in the Year of Grant  . Under Section 83 of the Code, the Fair Market Value of the Restricted Shares on
the date the Restricted Shares vest will be taxable as ordinary income at that time. You understand, acknowledge and agree that, as a condition to the grant of this Award, you may not elect to be taxed at the time the Restricted Shares are acquired
by filing an election under Section 83(b) of the Code with the Internal Revenue Service.       5.    Withholding Taxes  . You agree to make
arrangements satisfactory to the Company for the satisfaction of any applicable withholding tax obligations that arise in connection with the Restricted Shares which, at the sole discretion of the Company, may include (i) having the Company withhold
Shares from the Restricted Shares held in escrow, or (ii) any other arrangement approved by the Company, in any case, equal in value to the amount necessary to satisfy any such withholding tax obligation. Such Shares shall be valued based on the
Fair Market Value as of the day prior to the date that the amount of tax to be withheld is to be determined under applicable law. The Company shall not be required to release the Restricted Shares from the stop-transfer instructions or escrow unless
and until such obligations are satisfied.       6.    Tax Advice  . You represent, warrant and acknowledge that the Company has made no
warranties or representations to you with respect to the income tax consequences of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and you are in no manner relying on the Company or the Company s representatives for an assessment of such tax
consequences.         
   2   

YOU UNDERSTAND THAT THE TAX LAWS AND REGULATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGE. YOU SHOULD CONSULT YOUR OWN TAX ADVISOR REGARDING
ANY STOCK GRANT AWARD. NOTHING STATED HEREIN IS INTENDED OR WRITTEN TO BE USED, AND CANNOT BE USED, FOR THE PURPOSE OF AVOIDING TAXPAYER PENALTIES.       7.    Non-Transferability of Restricted Shares  . Restricted Shares which have not vested pursuant to Section 2 above shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any
creditor s process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by the operation of law. However, this Section 7 shall not preclude you from designating a beneficiary who will receive any vested Restricted Shares in the event of the your death, nor
shall it preclude a transfer of vested Restricted Shares by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.       8.    Restriction on
Transfer  . Regardless of whether the transfer or issuance of the Restricted Shares has been registered under the Securities Act or has been registered or qualified under the securities laws of any state, the Company may impose additional
restrictions upon the sale, pledge, or other transfer of the Restricted Shares (including the placement of appropriate legends on stock certificates and the issuance of stop-transfer instructions to the Company s transfer agent) if, in the
judgment of the Company and the Company s counsel, such restrictions are necessary in order to achieve compliance with the provisions of the Securities Act, the securities laws of any state, or any other law.       9.    Stock Certificate Restrictive Legends   .  Stock certificates evidencing the Restricted Shares may bear such restrictive legends as the
Company and the Company s counsel deem necessary under applicable law or pursuant to this Agreement.       10.    Representations, Warranties,
Covenants, and Acknowledgments  . You hereby agree that in the event the Company and the Company s counsel deem it necessary or advisable in the exercise of their discretion, the transfer or issuance of the Restricted Shares may be
conditioned upon you making certain representations, warranties, and acknowledgments relating to compliance with applicable securities laws.       11. 
  Voting and Other Rights  . Subject to the terms of this Agreement, you shall have all the rights and privileges of a shareholder of the Company while the Restricted Shares are subject to stop-transfer instructions, or otherwise held in
escrow, including the right to vote and to receive dividends (if any).       12.    Authorization to Release Necessary Personal Information  .
     (a) You hereby authorize and direct your employer to collect, use and transfer in electronic or other form, any personal information (the
 Data ) regarding your employment, the nature and amount of your compensation and the facts and conditions of your participation in the Plan (including, but not limited to, your name, home address, telephone number, date of birth, social
security number (or any other social or national identification number), salary, nationality, job title, number of Shares held and the details of all Awards or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, cancelled, exercised, vested, unvested or
outstanding) for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. You understand that the Data may be transferred to the Company or  
       
   3   

any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, including any requisite transfer
to a broker or other third party assisting with the administration of this Stock Grant Award under the Plan or with whom Shares acquired pursuant to this Stock Grant Award or cash from the sale of such shares may be deposited. You acknowledge that
recipients of the Data may be located in different countries, and those countries may have data privacy laws and protections different from those in the country of your residence. Furthermore, you acknowledge and understand that the transfer of the
Data to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties is necessary for your participation in the Plan.      (b) You may at
any time withdraw the consents herein by contacting your local human resources representative in writing. You further acknowledge that withdrawal of consent may affect your ability to exercise or realize benefits from this Stock Grant Award, and
your ability to participate in the Plan.       13.    No Entitlement or Claims for Compensation  .      (a) Your rights, if any, in respect of or in connection with this Stock Grant Award or any other Award is derived solely from the discretionary decision
of the Company to permit you to participate in the Plan and to benefit from a discretionary Award. By accepting this Stock Grant Award, you expressly acknowledge that there is no obligation on the part of the Company to continue the Plan and/or
grant any additional Awards to you. This Stock Grant Award is not intended to be compensation of a continuing or recurring nature, or part of your normal or expected compensation, and in no way represents any portion of a your salary, compensation,
or other remuneration for purposes of pension benefits, severance, redundancy, resignation or any other purpose.      (b) Neither the Plan nor
this Stock Grant Award or any other Award granted under the Plan shall be deemed to give you a right to remain an Employee, Consultant or director of the Company, a Parent, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate. The Company and its Parents and Subsidiaries
and Affiliates reserve the right to terminate your Service at any time, with or without cause, and for any reason, subject to applicable laws, the Company s Articles   of Incorporation   and Bylaws and a written employment agreement
(if any), and you shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived any claim to damages or specific performance for breach of contract or dismissal, compensation for loss of office, tort or otherwise with respect to the Plan, this Stock Grant Award or any
outstanding Award that is forfeited and/or is terminated by its terms or to any future Award.      (c) You agree that the Company may require
that Restricted Shares be held by a broker designated by the Company. In addition, you agree that your rights hereunder shall be subject to set-off by the Company for any valid debts you owe the Company.       14.    Governing Law  . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California without regard to the
conflict of laws principles thereof.       15.    Notices  . Any notice required or permitted under the terms of this Agreement shall be in
writing and shall be deemed sufficient when delivered personally or sent by  
       
   4   

confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the U.S. mail, as certified or registered mail, with postage prepaid,
and addressed to the Company at the Company s principal corporate offices or to you at the address maintained for you in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently modified by written notice to the other party.   
   16.    Binding Effect  . Subject to the limitations set forth in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of,
the executors, administrators, heirs, legal representatives, successors, and assigns of the parties hereto.       17.    Severability  . If any
provision of this Agreement is held to be unenforceable for any reason, it shall be adjusted rather than voided, if possible, in order to achieve the intent of the parties to the extent possible. In any event, all other provisions of this Agreement
shall be deemed valid and enforceable to the full extent possible.         
   5   

(For Grants Eligible for Deferral)        CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.         STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT        This Stock Unit Agreement (the  Agreement ) is made and entered into as of the Grant Date (as defined below) by and between Cisco Systems,
Inc., a California corporation (the  Company ), and you pursuant to the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). The material terms of this Stock Unit Award are as follows:       

Employee ID:  

Grant Date:  

Grant Number:  

Restricted Stock Units:  

Vesting Commencement Date:    

To the extent any capitalized terms used in this Agreement are not defined, they shall have the
meaning ascribed to them in the Plan. In the event of a conflict between the terms and provisions of the Plan and the terms and provisions of this Agreement, the Plan terms and provisions shall prevail.      In consideration of the mutual agreements herein contained and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties agree as follows:      1.   Restricted Stock Units  . Pursuant to the Plan, the Company hereby grants to you, and you hereby accept from the Company, Restricted Stock
Units, each of which is a bookkeeping entry representing the equivalent in value of one (1) Share, on the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Plan.      2.   Vesting of Restricted Stock Units  . So long as your Service continues, the Restricted Stock Units shall vest in accordance with the following schedule:
           percent (          %) of the total number of Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to this Agreement shall vest on [the
           anniversary of] the Vesting Commencement Date and on each            anniversary thereafter, unless otherwise provided by the Plan or Section 4
below. If you take a leave of absence, the Company may, at its discretion, suspend vesting during the period of leave to the extent permitted under applicable local law. Prior to the time that the Restricted Stock Units are settled, you shall have
no rights other than those of a general creditor of the Company. The Restricted Stock Units represent an unfunded and unsecured obligation of the Company.      3.   Termination of Service  . In the event of the termination of your Service for any reason (whether or not in breach of local labor laws), all unvested Restricted Stock Units shall be immediately
forfeited without consideration. For purposes of the preceding sentence, your right to vest in the Restricted Stock Units will terminate effective as of the date that you are no longer  
       
   47   

actively providing Service and will not be extended by any notice period mandated under local law ( e.g. , active Service would not include a period of
 garden leave  or similar period pursuant to local law); the Company shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when you are no longer actively providing Service for purposes of the Restricted Stock Units.      4.   Special Acceleration  .      (a)
To the extent the Restricted Stock Units are outstanding at the time of a Corporate Transaction, such Restricted Stock Units shall automatically accelerate immediately prior to the effective date of the Corporate Transaction and shall become vested
in full at that time. No such acceleration, however, shall occur if and to the extent: (i) these Restricted Stock Units are, in connection with the Corporate Transaction, either assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or
replaced with comparable restricted stock units of the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or (ii) these Restricted Stock Units are replaced with a cash incentive program of the successor corporation which complies with Code
Section 409A and preserves the fair market value of the Restricted Stock Units at the time of the Corporate Transaction and provides for subsequent pay-out in accordance with the settlement provisions set forth in Section 5 below. The
determination of the comparability of restricted stock units under clause (i) shall be made by the Committee, and such determination shall be final, binding and conclusive.      (b) Immediately following the effective date of the Corporate Transaction, this Agreement shall terminate and cease to be outstanding, except to the
extent assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) in connection with the Corporate Transaction.      (c) If this Agreement is
assumed in connection with a Corporate Transaction, then the Committee shall appropriately adjust the number of units and the kind of shares or securities to be issued pursuant to this Agreement immediately after such Corporate Transaction.
     (d) To the extent the Restricted Stock Units are outstanding at the time of a Change in Control, such Restricted Stock Units shall
automatically accelerate immediately prior to the effective date of the Change in Control and shall become vested in full at that time.      (e) This Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Company to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate, sell or transfer all or any part
of its business or assets.      5.   Settlement of Restricted Stock Units  . To the extent you have not elected to defer settlement
of the Restricted Stock Units, the Restricted Stock Units shall be automatically settled in Shares upon vesting of such Restricted Stock Units, provided that the Company shall have no obligation to issue Shares pursuant to this Agreement unless and
until you have satisfied any applicable tax and/or other obligations pursuant to Section 6 below and such issuance otherwise complies with all applicable law. To the extent you have elected to defer settlement of the Restricted Stock Units, the
vested portion of the Restricted Stock Units shall be settled in Shares upon the earlier of: (a) your separation from service within the meaning of Code Section 409A ( Separation from Service ) and (b) the fixed payment date
elected by you, if any, at the time of such deferral (which shall be the first business day of a year no earlier than five years  
       
   48   

after the year of the Grant Date in accordance with procedures approved by the Committee), provided that the Company shall have no obligation to issue Shares
pursuant to this Agreement unless such issuance complies with all applicable law. Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the extent your Restricted Stock Units are settled upon your Separation from Service, such settlement shall be delayed until the
Company s first business day following the six-month anniversary of your Separation from Service.      6.   Taxes  .   
  (a) Regardless of any action the Company or your employer (the  Employer ) takes with respect to any and all income tax, social taxes or
insurance contributions, payroll tax, payment on account or other tax-related items related to your participation in the Plan and legally applicable to you ( Tax-Related Items ), you acknowledge that the ultimate liability for all
Tax-Related Items with respect to the Restricted Stock Units is and remains your responsibility and may exceed the amount actually withheld by the Company or the Employer. You further acknowledge that the Company and/or the Employer (i) make no
representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax-Related Items in connection with any aspect of the Restricted Stock Units, including the grant, vesting or settlement of the Restricted Stock Units, or the subsequent sale of any
Shares acquired at vesting or the receipt of any dividends with respect to such Shares; and (ii) do not commit to and are under no obligation to structure the terms or any aspect of the Restricted Stock Units to reduce or eliminate your
liability for Tax-Related Items or achieve any particular tax result. Further, if you become subject to taxation in more than one jurisdiction between the Grant Date and the date of any relevant taxable event, you acknowledge that the Company and/or
the Employer (or former employer, as applicable) may be required to withhold or account for Tax-Related Items in more than one jurisdiction.      (b) Prior to any relevant tax, withholding or required deduction event, as applicable, you agree to make arrangements satisfactory to the Company for the satisfaction of any applicable tax, withholding, required deduction and payment on
account obligations of the Company and/or the Employer that arise in connection with the Restricted Stock Units. In this regard, you authorize the Company and/or the Employer, or their respective agents, at their discretion, to satisfy any
obligations related to Tax-Related Items by one or a combination of the following: (1) withholding from your wages or other cash compensation payable to you by the Company or the Employer; (2) withholding from proceeds of the sale of
Shares acquired upon settlement of the Restricted Stock Units either through a voluntary sale or through a mandatory sale arranged by the Company (on your behalf pursuant to this authorization); (3) withholding of Shares that would otherwise be
issued upon settlement of the Restricted Stock Units; or (4) requiring you to satisfy the liability for Tax-Related Items by means of any other arrangement approved by the Company. If the obligation for Tax-Related Items is satisfied by
withholding of Shares, for tax purposes, you are deemed to have been issued the full number of Shares subject to the vested Restricted Stock Units, notwithstanding that a number of the Shares are held back solely for the purpose of paying the
Tax-Related Items due as a result of any aspect of your participation in the Plan. To avoid financial accounting charges under applicable accounting guidance, the Company may withhold or account for Tax-Related Items by considering applicable
minimum statutory rates or may take any other action required to avoid financial accounting charges under applicable accounting guidance.         
   49   

(c) Finally, you will pay to the Company or the Employer any amount of Tax-Related Items that the Company
or the Employer may be required to withhold or account for as a result of your participation in the Plan or your acquisition of Shares that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described. The Company shall not be required to issue or deliver
Shares pursuant to this Agreement unless and until such obligations are satisfied.      7.   Tax and Legal Advice  . You represent,
warrant and acknowledge that neither the Company nor your Employer have made any warranties or representations to you with respect to any Tax-Related Items, legal or financial consequences of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and you
are in no manner relying on the Company, your Employer s or the Company s or the Employer s representatives for an assessment of such consequences. YOU UNDERSTAND THAT THE LAWS GOVERNING THIS AWARD ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGE. YOU SHOULD
CONSULT YOUR OWN PROFESSIONAL TAX, LEGAL AND FINANCIAL ADVISOR REGARDING ANY RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS. YOU UNDERSTAND THAT THE COMPANY AND YOUR EMPLOYER ARE NOT PROVIDING ANY TAX, LEGAL, OR FINANCIAL ADVICE, NOR IS THE COMPANY OR YOUR EMPLOYER MAKING
ANY RECOMMENDATION REGARDING YOUR ACCEPTANCE OF THIS AWARD. NOTHING STATED HEREIN IS INTENDED OR WRITTEN TO BE USED, AND CANNOT BE USED, FOR THE PURPOSE OF AVOIDING TAXPAYER OR OTHER PENALTIES.      8.   Non-Transferability of Restricted Stock Units  . Restricted Stock Units shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned,
transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by operation of law.      9.
  Restriction on Transfer  . Regardless of whether the transfer or issuance of the Shares to be issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units has been registered under the Securities Act or has been registered or qualified under the
securities laws of any state, the Company may impose additional restrictions upon the sale, pledge, or other transfer of the Shares (including the placement of appropriate legends on stock certificates and the issuance of stop-transfer instructions
to the Company s transfer agent) if, in the judgment of the Company and the Company s counsel, such restrictions are necessary in order to achieve compliance with the provisions of the Securities Act, the securities laws of any state, or
any other law including all applicable foreign laws.      10.   Restrictive Legends and Stop-Transfer Instructions  . Stock
certificates evidencing the Shares issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units may bear such restrictive legends and/or appropriate stop-transfer instructions may be issued to the Company s transfer agent as the Company and the Company s
counsel deem necessary under applicable law or pursuant to this Agreement.      11.   Representations, Warranties, Covenants, and
Acknowledgments  . You hereby agree that in the event the Company and the Company s counsel deem it necessary or advisable in the exercise of their discretion, the transfer or issuance of the Shares issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock
Units may be conditioned upon you making certain representations, warranties, and acknowledgments relating to compliance with applicable laws.         
   50   

12.   Voting and Other Rights  . Subject to the terms of this Agreement, you shall not have any
voting rights or any other rights and privileges of a stockholder of the Company unless and until the Restricted Stock Units are settled. In addition, you shall not have any rights to dividend equivalent payments with respect to Restricted Stock
Units.      13.   Authorization to Release and Transfer Necessary Personal Information  .      (a)   You hereby explicitly and unambiguously consent to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of your personal information
as described in this Agreement by and among, as applicable, the Employer, and the Company and its Parent, Subsidiaries and Affiliates for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan.  
     (b)   You understand that the Company and the Employer may hold certain personal information about you, including, but not limited to,
your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number (or any other social or national identification number), salary, nationality, job title, residency status, any Shares or directorships held in the Company, details
of all Restricted Stock Units or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding (the  Data ) for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. You
understand that Data may be transferred to the Company or any of its Parent, Subsidiaries or Affiliates, or to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, that these recipients may be located in your
country or elsewhere, including outside the European Economic Area, and that the recipient s country (e.g., the United States) may have different data privacy laws and protections than your country. You understand that you may request a list
with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting your local human resources representative. You authorize the recipients to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the
sole purposes of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data to a broker or other third party assisting with the administration of these Restricted Stock Units under the Plan
or with whom Shares acquired pursuant to these Restricted Stock Units or cash from the sale of such Shares may be deposited. Furthermore, you acknowledge and understand that the transfer of the Data to the Company or any of its Parent, Subsidiaries
or Affiliates, or to any third parties is necessary for your participation in the Plan.        (c)   You understand that Data will be
held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage your participation in the Plan. You understand that you may, at any time, view the Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of the Data, require any
necessary amendments to the Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein by contacting your local human resources representative in writing. You further acknowledge that withdrawal of consent may affect your ability to vest in or realize benefits
from these Restricted Stock Units, and your ability to participate in the Plan. For more information on the consequences of your refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, you understand that you may contact your local human resources
representative.        14.   No Entitlement or Claims for Compensation  .         
   51   

(a) Your rights, if any, in respect of or in connection with these Restricted Stock Units or any other
Award are derived solely from the discretionary decision of the Company to permit you to participate in the Plan and to benefit from a discretionary Award. The Plan may be amended, suspended or terminated by the Company at any time, unless otherwise
provided in the Plan and this Agreement. By accepting these Restricted Stock Units, you expressly acknowledge that there is no obligation on the part of the Company to continue the Plan and/or grant any additional Restricted Stock Units to you or
benefits in lieu of Restricted Stock Units, even if Restricted Stock Units have been granted repeatedly in the past. All decisions with respect to future grants of Restricted Stock Units, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Committee.
     (b) The Restricted Stock Units and the Shares subject to the Restricted Stock Units are not intended to replace any pension rights or
compensation and are not to be considered compensation of a continuing or recurring nature, or part of your normal or expected compensation, and in no way represent any portion of your salary, compensation or other remuneration for any purpose,
including but not limited to, calculating any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy, dismissal, end of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits or similar payments, and in no event should be considered
as compensation for, or relating in any way to, past services for the Company, the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate. The value of the Restricted Stock Units is an extraordinary item that does not constitute compensation of any kind
for services of any kind rendered to the Company, the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate and which is outside the scope of your written employment agreement (if any).      (c) You acknowledge that you are voluntarily participating in the Plan.      (d) Neither the Plan nor these Restricted Stock Units or any other Award granted under the Plan shall be deemed to give you a right to remain an Employee, Consultant or director of the Company, a Parent, Subsidiary or
an Affiliate. The Employer reserves the right to terminate your Service at any time, with or without cause, and for any reason, subject to applicable laws, the Company s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws, and a written employment agreement
(if any).      (e) The grant of the Restricted Stock Units and your participation in the Plan will not be interpreted to form an employment
contract or relationship with the Company, the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate.      (f) The future value of the underlying
Shares is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty and if you vest in the Restricted Stock Units and are issued Shares, the value of those Shares may increase or decrease. You also understand that neither the Company, nor the Employer or any
Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate is responsible for any foreign exchange fluctuation between your Employer s local currency and the United States Dollar that may affect the value of this Award.      (g) In consideration of the grant of the Restricted Stock Units, no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages shall arise from forfeiture of the
Restricted Stock Units  
       
   52   

resulting from termination of your Service by the Company or the Employer (for any reason whatsoever and whether or not in breach of local labor laws) and
you irrevocably release the Company and the Employer from any such claim that may arise; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to have arisen, you shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived
your entitlement to pursue such claim.      (h) You agree that the Company may require Shares received pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units
to be held by a broker designated by the Company.      (i) You agree that your rights hereunder (if any) shall be subject to set-off by the
Company for any valid debts you owe the Company.      (j) The Restricted Stock Units and the benefits under the Plan, if any, will not
automatically transfer to another company in the case of a merger, take-over or transfer of liability.      15.   Governing Law and
Forum  . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California without regard to the conflict of laws principles thereof. For purposes of litigating any dispute that may arise directly or
indirectly from this Agreement, the parties hereby submit and consent to litigation in the exclusive jurisdiction of the State of California and agree that any such litigation shall be conducted only in the courts of California or the federal courts
for the United States for the Northern District of California and no other courts.      16.   Notices  . Any notice required or
permitted under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed sufficient when delivered personally or sent by confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the mail, as certified or
registered mail, with postage prepaid, and addressed to the Company at the Company s principal corporate offices or to you at the address maintained for you in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently modified by written
notice to the other party.      17.   Binding Effect  . Subject to the limitations set forth in this Agreement, this Agreement shall
be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the executors, administrators, heirs, legal representatives, successors, and assigns of the parties hereto.      18.   Severability  . If any provision of this Agreement is held to be unenforceable for any reason, it shall be adjusted rather than voided, if possible, in order to achieve the intent of the parties to the
extent possible. In any event, all other provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed valid and enforceable to the full extent possible.      19.   Electronic Delivery  . The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to your current or future participation in the Plan by electronic means or to request your consent to participate in the
Plan by electronic means. You hereby consent to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agree to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or a third party designated by the
Company.         
   53   

20.   Language  . If this Agreement or any other document related to the Plan is translated
into a language other than English and the meaning of the translated version is different from the English version, the English version will take precedence.      21.   Appendix  . Notwithstanding any provisions in this Agreement, the Restricted Stock Units shall be subject to any special terms and conditions set forth in any Appendix to this Agreement for your
country of residence. Moreover, if you relocate to one of the countries included in the Appendix, the special terms and conditions for such country will apply to you, to the extent the Company determines that the application of such terms and
conditions is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local law or facilitate the administration of the Plan. The Appendix constitutes part of this Agreement.      22.   Imposition of Other Requirements  .   The Company reserves the right to impose other requirements on your participation in the Plan, on the Restricted Stock Units and on any Shares acquired under
the Plan, to the extent the Company determines it is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local law or facilitate the administration of the Plan. You agree to sign any additional agreements or undertakings that may be necessary to
accomplish the foregoing. Furthermore, you acknowledge that the laws of the country in which you are working at the time of grant, vesting and settlement of the Restricted Stock Units or the sale of Shares received pursuant to this Agreement
(including any rules or regulations governing securities, foreign exchange, tax, labor, or other matters) may subject you to additional procedural or regulatory requirements that you are and will be solely responsible for and must fulfill.
     23.   Acceptance of Agreement  . You must expressly accept the terms and conditions of your Restricted Stock Units as set forth
in this Agreement by electronically accepting this Agreement within 300 days after the Company sends this Agreement to you. If you do not accept your Restricted Stock Units in the manner instructed by the Company, your Restricted Stock Units will be
subject to cancellation.      *    *    *    *      You acknowledge that by clicking on the   I agree   button below, you agree to be bound by the terms of this Agreement.       PLEASE PRINT AND KEEP A COPY FOR YOUR RECORDS          
   54   

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.         STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT        This Stock Unit Agreement (the  Agreement ) is made and entered into as of
the Grant Date (as defined below) by and between Cisco Systems, Inc., a California corporation (the  Company ), and you pursuant to the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). The material terms of this Stock
Unit Award are as follows:       

Employee ID:                                     

Grant Date:                                      

Grant Number:                                     

Restricted Stock
Units:                                         

Vesting Commencement Date:                                  

To the extent any capitalized terms used in this Agreement are not defined, they shall have the meaning ascribed
to them in the Plan. In the event of a conflict between the terms and provisions of the Plan and the terms and provisions of this Agreement, the Plan terms and provisions shall prevail.      In consideration of the mutual agreements herein contained and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties agree as follows:       1.    Restricted Stock Units  . Pursuant to the Plan, the Company hereby grants to you, and you hereby accept from the Company, Restricted Stock Units, each of which is a bookkeeping entry representing the equivalent in
value of one (1) Share, on the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Plan.       2.    Vesting of Restricted Stock Units  . So
long as your Service continues, the Restricted Stock Units shall vest in accordance with the following schedule:                        percent
(      %) of the total number of Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to this Agreement shall vest on [the
                       anniversary of] the Vesting Commencement Date and on each
                       anniversary thereafter, unless otherwise provided by the Plan or Section 4 below. If you take a leave of absence,
the Company may, at its discretion, suspend vesting during the period of leave to the extent permitted under applicable local law. Prior to the time that the Restricted Stock Units are settled upon vesting, you shall have no rights other than those
of a general creditor of the Company. The Restricted Stock Units represent an unfunded and unsecured obligation of the Company.       3. 
  Termination of Service  . In the event of the termination of your Service for any reason (whether or not in breach of local labor laws), all unvested Restricted Stock Units shall be immediately forfeited without consideration. For
purposes of the preceding sentence, your right to vest in the Restricted Stock Units will terminate effective as of the date that you are no longer  

actively providing Service and will not be extended by any notice period mandated under local law ( e.g. , active Service would not include a period of
 garden leave  or similar period pursuant to local law); the Company shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when you are no longer actively providing Service for purposes of the Restricted Stock Units.       4.    Special Acceleration  .      (a) To the
extent the Restricted Stock Units are outstanding at the time of a Corporate Transaction, such Restricted Stock Units shall automatically accelerate immediately prior to the effective date of the Corporate Transaction and shall become vested in full
at that time. No such acceleration, however, shall occur if and to the extent: (i) these Restricted Stock Units are, in connection with the Corporate Transaction, either assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or replaced with
comparable restricted stock units of the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or (ii) these Restricted Stock Units are replaced with a cash incentive program of the successor corporation which preserves the fair market value of the
Restricted Stock Units at the time of the Corporate Transaction and provides for subsequent pay-out in accordance with the vesting schedule set forth in Section 2 above. The determination of the comparability of restricted stock units under
clause (i) shall be made by the Committee, and such determination shall be final, binding and conclusive.      (b) Immediately following
the effective date of the Corporate Transaction, this Agreement shall terminate and cease to be outstanding, except to the extent assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) in connection with the Corporate Transaction.      (c) If this Agreement is assumed in connection with a Corporate Transaction, then the Committee shall appropriately adjust the number of units and the
kind of shares or securities to be issued pursuant to this Agreement immediately after such Corporate Transaction.      (d) To the extent the
Restricted Stock Units are outstanding at the time of a Change in Control, such Restricted Stock Units shall automatically accelerate immediately prior to the effective date of the Change in Control and shall become vested in full at that time.
     (e) This Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Company to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital
or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate, sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets.       5. 
  Settlement of Restricted Stock Units  . Restricted Stock Units shall be automatically settled in Shares upon vesting of such Restricted Stock Units, provided that the Company shall have no obligation to issue Shares pursuant to this
Agreement unless and until you have satisfied any applicable tax and/or other obligations pursuant to Section 6 below and such issuance otherwise complies with all applicable law.       6.    Taxes  .      (a) Regardless of any action the Company or your employer (the
 Employer ) takes with respect to any and all income tax, social taxes or insurance contributions, payroll tax, payment on account or other tax-related items related to your participation in the Plan and legally  
       
   2   

applicable to you ( Tax-Related Items ), you acknowledge that the ultimate liability for all Tax-Related Items with respect to the Restricted Stock
Units is and remains your responsibility and may exceed the amount actually withheld by the Company or the Employer. You further acknowledge that the Company and/or the Employer (i) make no representations or undertakings regarding the
treatment of any Tax-Related Items in connection with any aspect of the Restricted Stock Units, including the grant, vesting or settlement of the Restricted Stock Units, or the subsequent sale of any Shares acquired at vesting or the receipt of any
dividends with respect to such Shares; and (ii) do not commit to and are under no obligation to structure the terms or any aspect of the Restricted Stock Units to reduce or eliminate your liability for Tax-Related Items or achieve any
particular tax result. Further, if you become subject to taxation in more than one jurisdiction between the Grant Date and the date of any relevant taxable event, you acknowledge that the Company and/or the Employer (or former employer, as
applicable) may be required to withhold or account for Tax-Related Items in more than one jurisdiction.      (b) Prior to any relevant tax,
withholding or required deduction event, as applicable, you agree to make arrangements satisfactory to the Company for the satisfaction of any applicable tax, withholding, required deduction and payment on account obligations of the Company and/or
the Employer that arise in connection with the Restricted Stock Units. In this regard, you authorize the Company and/or the Employer, or their respective agents, at their discretion, to satisfy any obligations related to Tax-Related Items by one or
a combination of the following: (1) withholding from your wages or other cash compensation payable to you by the Company or the Employer; (2) withholding from proceeds of the sale of Shares acquired upon settlement of the Restricted Stock
Units either through a voluntary sale or through a mandatory sale arranged by the Company (on your behalf pursuant to this authorization); (3) withholding of Shares that would otherwise be issued upon settlement of the Restricted Stock Units;
or (4) requiring you to satisfy the liability for Tax-Related Items by means of any other arrangement approved by the Company. If the obligation for Tax-Related Items is satisfied by withholding of Shares, for tax purposes, you are deemed to
have been issued the full number of Shares subject to the vested Restricted Stock Units, notwithstanding that a number of the Shares are held back solely for the purpose of paying the Tax-Related Items due as a result of any aspect of your
participation in the Plan. To avoid financial accounting charges under applicable accounting guidance, the Company may withhold or account for Tax-Related Items by considering applicable minimum statutory rates or may take any other action required
to avoid financial accounting charges under applicable accounting guidance.      (c) Finally, you will pay to the Company or the Employer any
amount of Tax-Related Items that the Company or the Employer may be required to withhold or account for as a result of your participation in the Plan or your acquisition of Shares that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described. The
Company shall not be required to issue or deliver Shares pursuant to this Agreement unless and until such obligations are satisfied.       7.    Tax
and Legal Advice  . You represent, warrant and acknowledge that neither the Company nor your Employer have made any warranties or representations to you with respect to any Tax-Related Items, legal or financial consequences of the transactions
contemplated by this Agreement, and you are in no manner relying on the Company, your Employer s or the Company s or the Employer s representatives for an assessment of such consequences. YOU UNDERSTAND THAT THE LAWS GOVERNING THIS
AWARD ARE SUBJECT TO  
       
   3   

CHANGE. YOU SHOULD CONSULT YOUR OWN PROFESSIONAL TAX, LEGAL AND FINANCIAL ADVISOR REGARDING ANY RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS. YOU UNDERSTAND THAT THE COMPANY AND
YOUR EMPLOYER ARE NOT PROVIDING ANY TAX, LEGAL, OR FINANCIAL ADVICE, NOR IS THE COMPANY OR YOUR EMPLOYER MAKING ANY RECOMMENDATION REGARDING YOUR ACCEPTANCE OF THIS AWARD. NOTHING STATED HEREIN IS INTENDED OR WRITTEN TO BE USED, AND CANNOT BE USED,
FOR THE PURPOSE OF AVOIDING TAXPAYER OR OTHER PENALTIES.       8.    Non-Transferability of Restricted Stock Units  . Restricted Stock Units
shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by operation of law.       9.    Restriction on Transfer  . Regardless of whether the transfer or issuance of the Shares to be issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units has
been registered under the Securities Act or has been registered or qualified under the securities laws of any state, the Company may impose additional restrictions upon the sale, pledge, or other transfer of the Shares (including the placement of
appropriate legends on stock certificates and the issuance of stop-transfer instructions to the Company s transfer agent) if, in the judgment of the Company and the Company s counsel, such restrictions are necessary in order to achieve
compliance with the provisions of the Securities Act, the securities laws of any state, or any other law including all applicable foreign laws.       10. 
  Restrictive Legends and Stop-Transfer Instructions  . Stock certificates evidencing the Shares issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units may bear such restrictive legends and/or appropriate stop-transfer instructions may be issued to
the Company s transfer agent as the Company and the Company s counsel deem necessary under applicable law or pursuant to this Agreement.       11.    Representations, Warranties, Covenants, and Acknowledgments  . You hereby agree that in the event the Company and the Company s counsel deem it necessary or advisable in the exercise of their discretion, the
transfer or issuance of the Shares issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units may be conditioned upon you making certain representations, warranties, and acknowledgments relating to compliance with applicable laws.       12.    Voting and Other Rights  . Subject to the terms of this Agreement, you shall not have any voting rights or any other rights and privileges of a
stockholder of the Company unless and until the Restricted Stock Units are settled upon vesting. In addition, you shall not have any rights to dividend equivalent payments with respect to unvested Restricted Stock Units.       13.    Authorization to Release and Transfer Necessary Personal Information  .        (a)     You hereby explicitly and unambiguously consent to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of your personal
information as described in this Agreement by and among, as applicable, the Employer, and the Company and its Parent, Subsidiaries and Affiliates for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the
Plan.           
   4   

(b)     You understand that the Company and the Employer may hold certain personal
information about you, including, but not limited to, your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number (or any other social or national identification number), salary, nationality, job title, residency status, any
Shares or directorships held in the Company, details of all Restricted Stock Units or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding (the  Data ) for the purpose of implementing, administering
and managing your participation in the Plan. You understand that Data may be transferred to the Company or any of its Parent, Subsidiaries or Affiliates, or to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the
Plan, that these recipients may be located in your country or elsewhere, including outside the European Economic Area, and that the recipient s country (e.g., the United States) may have different data privacy laws and protections than your
country. You understand that you may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting your local human resources representative. You authorize the recipients to receive, possess, use, retain and
transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the sole purposes of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data to a broker or other third party assisting with the
administration of these Restricted Stock Units under the Plan or with whom Shares acquired pursuant to these Restricted Stock Units or cash from the sale of such Shares may be deposited. Furthermore, you acknowledge and understand that the transfer
of the Data to the Company or any of its Parent, Subsidiaries or Affiliates, or to any third parties is necessary for your participation in the Plan.          (c)     You understand that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage your participation in the Plan. You understand that you may, at any time, view the Data,
request additional information about the storage and processing of the Data, require any necessary amendments to the Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein by contacting your local human resources representative in writing. You further
acknowledge that withdrawal of consent may affect your ability to vest in or realize benefits from these Restricted Stock Units, and your ability to participate in the Plan. For more information on the consequences of your refusal to consent or
withdrawal of consent, you understand that you may contact your local human resources representative.        14.   No Entitlement or Claims for
Compensation  .      (a) Your rights, if any, in respect of or in connection with these Restricted Stock Units or any other Award are
derived solely from the discretionary decision of the Company to permit you to participate in the Plan and to benefit from a discretionary Award. The Plan may be amended, suspended or terminated by the Company at any time, unless otherwise provided
in the Plan and this Agreement. By accepting these Restricted Stock Units, you expressly acknowledge that there is no obligation on the part of the Company to continue the Plan and/or grant any additional Restricted Stock Units to you or benefits in
lieu of Restricted Stock Units, even if Restricted Stock Units have been granted repeatedly in the past. All decisions with respect to future grants of Restricted Stock Units, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Committee.         
   5   

(b) The Restricted Stock Units and the Shares subject to the Restricted Stock Units are not intended to
replace any pension rights or compensation and are not to be considered compensation of a continuing or recurring nature, or part of your normal or expected compensation, and in no way represent any portion of your salary, compensation or other
remuneration for any purpose, including but not limited to, calculating any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy, dismissal, end of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits or similar payments, and in
no event should be considered as compensation for, or relating in any way to, past services for the Company, the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate. The value of the Restricted Stock Units is an extraordinary item that does not
constitute compensation of any kind for services of any kind rendered to the Company, the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate and which is outside the scope of your written employment agreement (if any).      (c) You acknowledge that you are voluntarily participating in the Plan.      (d) Neither the Plan nor these Restricted Stock Units or any other Award granted under the Plan shall be deemed to give you a right to remain an Employee, Consultant or director of the Company, a Parent, Subsidiary or
an Affiliate. The Employer reserves the right to terminate your Service at any time, with or without cause, and for any reason, subject to applicable laws, the Company s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws, and a written employment agreement
(if any).      (e) The grant of the Restricted Stock Units and your participation in the Plan will not be interpreted to form an employment
contract or relationship with the Company, the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate.      (f) The future value of the underlying
Shares is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty and if you vest in the Restricted Stock Units and are issued Shares, the value of those Shares may increase or decrease. You also understand that neither the Company, nor the Employer or any
Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate is responsible for any foreign exchange fluctuation between your Employer s local currency and the United States Dollar that may affect the value of this Award.      (g) In consideration of the grant of the Restricted Stock Units, no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages shall arise from forfeiture of the
Restricted Stock Units resulting from termination of your Service by the Company or the Employer (for any reason whatsoever and whether or not in breach of local labor laws) and you irrevocably release the Company and the Employer from any such
claim that may arise; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to have arisen, you shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived your entitlement to pursue such claim.      (h) You agree that the Company may require Shares received pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units to be held by a broker designated by the Company.
     (i) You agree that your rights hereunder (if any) shall be subject to set-off by the Company for any valid debts you owe the Company.
        
   6   

(j) The Restricted Stock Units and the benefits under the Plan, if any, will not automatically transfer
to another company in the case of a merger, take-over or transfer of liability.       15.    Governing Law and Forum  . This Agreement shall be
governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California without regard to the conflict of laws principles thereof. For purposes of litigating any dispute that may arise directly or indirectly from this Agreement, the parties
hereby submit and consent to litigation in the exclusive jurisdiction of the State of California and agree that any such litigation shall be conducted only in the courts of California or the federal courts for the United States for the Northern
District of California and no other courts.       16.    Notices  . Any notice required or permitted under the terms of this Agreement shall be
in writing and shall be deemed sufficient when delivered personally or sent by confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the mail, as certified or registered mail, with postage prepaid, and addressed
to the Company at the Company s principal corporate offices or to you at the address maintained for you in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently modified by written notice to the other party.       17.    Binding Effect  . Subject to the limitations set forth in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the
executors, administrators, heirs, legal representatives, successors, and assigns of the parties hereto.       18.    Severability  . If any
provision of this Agreement is held to be unenforceable for any reason, it shall be adjusted rather than voided, if possible, in order to achieve the intent of the parties to the extent possible. In any event, all other provisions of this Agreement
shall be deemed valid and enforceable to the full extent possible.       19.    Electronic Delivery  . The Company may, in its sole discretion,
decide to deliver any documents related to your current or future participation in the Plan by electronic means or to request your consent to participate in the Plan by electronic means. You hereby consent to receive such documents by electronic
delivery and agree to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or a third party designated by the Company.       20.    Language  . If this Agreement or any other document related to the Plan is translated into a language other than English and the meaning of the translated version is different from the English
version, the English version will take precedence.       21.    Appendix  . Notwithstanding any provisions in this Agreement, the Restricted
Stock Units shall be subject to any special terms and conditions set forth in any Appendix to this Agreement for your country of residence. Moreover, if you relocate to one of the countries included in the Appendix, the special terms and conditions
for such country will apply to you, to the extent the Company determines that the application of such terms and conditions is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local law or facilitate the administration of the Plan. The Appendix
constitutes part of this Agreement.         
   7   

22.    Imposition of Other Requirements  .   The Company reserves the right to impose other
requirements on your participation in the Plan, on the Restricted Stock Units and on any Shares acquired under the Plan, to the extent the Company determines it is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local law or facilitate the
administration of the Plan. You agree to sign any additional agreements or undertakings that may be necessary to accomplish the foregoing. Furthermore, you acknowledge that the laws of the country in which you are working at the time of grant,
vesting and settlement of the Restricted Stock Units or the sale of Shares received pursuant to this Agreement (including any rules or regulations governing securities, foreign exchange, tax, labor, or other matters) may subject you to additional
procedural or regulatory requirements that you are and will be solely responsible for and must fulfill.       23.    Acceptance of Agreement  .
You must expressly accept the terms and conditions of your Restricted Stock Units as set forth in this Agreement by electronically accepting this Agreement within 300 days after the Company sends this Agreement to you. If you do not accept your
Restricted Stock Units in the manner instructed by the Company, your Restricted Stock Units will be subject to cancellation.      *        *        *        *      You acknowledge that by clicking on the   I agree   button below, you agree to be bound by the terms of this Agreement.       PLEASE PRINT AND KEEP A COPY FOR YOUR RECORDS          
   8   

(For Grants Prior to September 2008)        CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.         STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT        This Stock Unit Agreement (the  Agreement ) is made and entered into as of the Grant Date (as defined below) by and between Cisco Systems, Inc., a California
corporation (the  Company ), and you pursuant to the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). The material terms of this Stock Unit Award are as follows:      Employee ID:

Grant Date:

Grant Number:

Restricted Stock Units:

First Vest Date:
                                          
                                (the first annual anniversary of the vesting commencement date)
     To the extent any capitalized terms used in this Agreement are not defined, they shall have the meaning ascribed to them in the Plan. In the event of a
conflict between the terms and provisions of the Plan and the terms and provisions of this Agreement, the Plan terms and provisions shall prevail.      In
consideration of the mutual agreements herein contained and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties agree as follows:       1.    Restricted
Stock Units  . Pursuant to the Plan, the Company hereby grants to you, and you hereby accept from the Company, Restricted Stock Units, each of which is a bookkeeping entry representing the equivalent in value of one (1) Share, on the
terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Plan.       2.    Vesting of Restricted Stock Units  . So long as your Service continues, the
Restricted Stock Units shall vest in accordance with the following schedule: twenty percent (20%) of the total number of Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to this Agreement shall vest on the First Vest Date and on each annual anniversary
thereafter, unless otherwise provided by the Plan or Section 4 below.       3.    Termination of Service  . In the event of the termination
of your Service for any reason, all unvested Restricted Stock Units shall be immediately forfeited without consideration.       4.    Special
Acceleration  .      (a) To the extent the Restricted Stock Units are outstanding at the time of a Corporate Transaction, such Restricted
Stock Units shall automatically accelerate immediately prior to the effective date of the Corporate Transaction and shall become vested in full at that time. No such acceleration, however, shall occur if and to the extent: (i) these Restricted
Stock Units are, in connection with the Corporate Transaction, either assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or replaced with comparable restricted stock units of the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or (ii) these
Restricted Stock Units are replaced with a cash incentive program of the successor corporation which preserves the fair market value of the Restricted Stock Units at the time of the Corporate Transaction and provides for subsequent pay-out in
accordance with the vesting schedule set forth in Section 2 above. The determination of the comparability of restricted stock units under clause (i) shall be made by the Committee, and such determination shall be final, binding and
conclusive   

(b) Immediately following the effective date of the Corporate Transaction, this Agreement shall terminate
and cease to be outstanding, except to the extent assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) in connection with the Corporate Transaction.      (c) If this Agreement is assumed in connection with a Corporate Transaction, then the Committee shall appropriately adjust the number of units and the kind of shares or securities to be issued pursuant to this
Agreement immediately after such Corporate Transaction.      (d) To the extent the Restricted Stock Units are outstanding at the time of a
Change in Control, such Restricted Stock Units shall automatically accelerate immediately prior to the effective date of the Change in Control and shall become vested in full at that time.      (e) This Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Company to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital or business
structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate, sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets.       5.    Settlement of
Restricted Stock Units  . Restricted Stock Units shall be automatically settled in Shares upon vesting of such Restricted Stock Units, provided that the Company shall have no obligation to issue Shares pursuant to this Agreement unless and
until you have satisfied any applicable tax withholding obligations pursuant to Section 6 below and such issuance otherwise complies with all applicable law.       6.    Withholding Taxes  . You agree to make arrangements satisfactory to the Company for the satisfaction of any applicable withholding tax obligations that arise in connection with the Restricted Stock Units which, at the
sole discretion of the Company, may include (i) having the Company withhold Shares from the settlement of the Restricted Stock Units, or (ii) any other arrangement approved by the Company, in any case, equal in value to the amount
necessary to satisfy any such withholding tax obligations. The Company shall not be required to issue Shares pursuant to this Agreement unless and until such obligations are satisfied.       7.    Tax Advice  . You represent, warrant and acknowledge that the Company has made no warranties or representations to you with respect to the income tax consequences of the transactions contemplated
by this Agreement, and you are in no manner relying on the Company or the Company s representatives for an assessment of such tax consequences. YOU UNDERSTAND THAT THE TAX LAWS AND REGULATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGE. YOU SHOULD CONSULT YOUR OWN
TAX ADVISOR REGARDING ANY RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS. NOTHING STATED HEREIN IS INTENDED OR WRITTEN TO BE USED, AND CANNOT BE USED, FOR THE PURPOSE OF AVOIDING TAXPAYER PENALTIES.       8.    Non-Transferability of Restricted Stock Units  . Restricted Stock Units shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s
process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by operation of law.       9.    Restriction on Transfer  . Regardless of whether the transfer
or issuance of the Shares to be issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units has been registered under the Securities Act or has been registered or qualified under the securities laws of any state, the Company may impose additional restrictions
upon the sale, pledge, or other transfer of the Shares  
       
   2   

(including the placement of appropriate legends on stock certificates and the issuance of stop-transfer instructions to the Company s transfer agent)
if, in the judgment of the Company and the Company s counsel, such restrictions are necessary in order to achieve compliance with the provisions of the Securities Act, the securities laws of any state, or any other law.       10.    Stock Certificate Restrictive Legends .  Stock certificates evidencing the Shares issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units may bear such
restrictive legends as the Company and the Company s counsel deem necessary under applicable law or pursuant to this Agreement.       11. 
  Representations, Warranties, Covenants, and Acknowledgments  . You hereby agree that in the event the Company and the Company s counsel deem it necessary or advisable in the exercise of their discretion, the transfer or issuance of
the Shares issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units may be conditioned upon you making certain representations, warranties, and acknowledgments relating to compliance with applicable securities laws.       12.    Voting and Other Rights  . Subject to the terms of this Agreement, you shall not have any voting rights or any other rights and privileges of a
stockholder of the Company unless and until the Restricted Stock Units are settled upon vesting.       13.    Authorization to Release Necessary
Personal Information  .      (a) You hereby authorize and direct your employer to collect, use and transfer in electronic or other form,
any personal information (the  Data ) regarding your employment, the nature and amount of your compensation and the facts and conditions of your participation in the Plan (including, but not limited to, your name, home address, telephone
number, date of birth, social security number (or any other social or national identification number), salary, nationality, job title, number of Shares held and the details of all Awards or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, cancelled,
exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding) for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. You understand that the Data may be transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third
parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, including any requisite transfer to a broker or other third party assisting with the administration of these Restricted Stock Units under the Plan or with whom
Shares acquired pursuant to these Restricted Stock Units or cash from the sale of such shares may be deposited. You acknowledge that recipients of the Data may be located in different countries, and those countries may have data privacy laws and
protections different from those in the country of your residence. Furthermore, you acknowledge and understand that the transfer of the Data to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties is necessary for your participation in
the Plan.      (b) Prior to the time that the Restricted Stock Units are settled upon vesting, you shall have no rights other than those of a
general creditor of the Company. The Restricted Stock Units represent an unfunded and unsecured obligation of the Company.      (c) You may at
any time withdraw the consents herein by contacting your local human resources representative in writing. You further acknowledge that withdrawal of consent may affect your ability to exercise or realize benefits from these Restricted Stock Units,
and your ability to participate in the Plan.       14.    No Entitlement or Claims for Compensation  .      (a) Your rights, if any, in respect of or in connection with these Restricted Stock Units or any other Award are derived solely from the discretionary
decision of the  
       
   3   

Company to permit you to participate in the Plan and to benefit from a discretionary Award. By accepting these Restricted Stock Units, you expressly
acknowledge that there is no obligation on the part of the Company to continue the Plan and/or grant any additional Awards to you. These Restricted Stock Units are not intended to be compensation of a continuing or recurring nature, or part of your
normal or expected compensation, and in no way represents any portion of a your salary, compensation, or other remuneration for purposes of pension benefits, severance, redundancy, resignation or any other purpose.      (b) Neither the Plan nor these Restricted Stock Units or any other Award granted under the Plan shall be deemed to give you a right to remain an
Employee, Consultant or director of the Company, a Parent, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate. The Company and its Parents and Subsidiaries and Affiliates reserve the right to terminate your Service at any time, with or without cause, and for any reason,
subject to applicable laws, the Company s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws and a written employment agreement (if any), and you shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived any claim to damages or specific performance for breach of contract
or dismissal, compensation for loss of office, tort or otherwise with respect to the Plan, these Restricted Stock Units or any outstanding Award that is forfeited and/or is terminated by its terms or to any future Award.      (c) You agree that your rights hereunder shall be subject to set-off by the Company for any valid debts you owe the Company.       15.    Governing Law  . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California without regard to the
conflict of laws principles thereof.       16.    Notices  . Any notice required or permitted under the terms of this Agreement shall be in
writing and shall be deemed sufficient when delivered personally or sent by confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the U.S. mail, as certified or registered mail, with postage prepaid, and addressed
to the Company at the Company s principal corporate offices or to you at the address maintained for you in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently modified by written notice to the other party.       17.    Binding Effect  . Subject to the limitations set forth in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the
executors, administrators, heirs, legal representatives, successors, and assigns of the parties hereto.       18.    Severability  . If any
provision of this Agreement is held to be unenforceable for any reason, it shall be adjusted rather than voided, if possible, in order to achieve the intent of the parties to the extent possible. In any event, all other provisions of this Agreement
shall be deemed valid and enforceable to the full extent possible.         
   4   

PERFORMANCE RSU LETTER      [Date]      [Name]      [Address]
     [Address]      Dear
                          :      [introductory text]      Your leadership team has recommended that you receive a performance-based restricted stock unit (PRSU) right with a target of
[                      ]. RSUs will be granted after the end of FY[      ] based upon the satisfaction of an
FY[      ] performance condition.      The right to receive a grant of a restricted stock unit depends on Cisco s satisfaction of
certain operating income growth targets for FY[      ]. Assuming those targets are met or exceeded, the restricted stock units that you are granted will vest
[                      ] percent on the date of grant and
[                      ] percent on each of the next [              ]
anniversaries of the date of grant thereafter, subject to your continued employment with Cisco or an affiliate on the applicable vesting date. On each vesting date, the vested units will be settled in Cisco common stock. In addition, in the unlikely
event that a corporate transaction or change in control (each as defined in Cisco s 2005 Stock Incentive Plan) is consummated during FY[      ], the performance-based restricted stock unit right will be deemed fully
earned at target (100%) immediately prior to the effective date of the corporate transaction or the change in control, as the case may be, and will be settled in fully vested Cisco common stock at that time.      Lastly, please note that, if you are employed outside the United States, the Compensation and Management Development Committee can grant the PRSU Right to you, in its
sole discretion, only if and as long as it is permitted and feasible to grant restricted stock units under the laws of the country in which you are employed. If local laws make the grant of restricted stock units illegal or impractical, Cisco will
let you know as soon as possible. You are under no obligation to accept the PRSU Right or any restricted stock units that may subsequently be granted to you.       

[concluding text]    

Sincerely,    

PERFORMANCE RSU LETTER   FISCAL 2008      [Date]      [Name]      [Address]
     [Address]      Dear
                               :      [introductory text]      As an indicator of our confidence in you as a leader, recognizing your current high level of
performance as well as your future contributions, I want to tell you about the restricted stock unit component of our FY08 ongoing stock program. This component represents the right to receive a future grant of  restricted stock units  (after
the end of FY08) if an FY08 performance condition is satisfied. This right is referred to in this letter as the   performance-based   restricted stock unit right   (PRSU Right) .       I want to be the first to congratulate you on your leadership team recommending you for a  performance-based     restricted stock unit right  having a
target of  XX restricted stock units , which will be granted after the end of FY08 based upon the satisfaction of an FY08 performance condition, contingent on shareholder approval as described below. Since you may be eligible to receive a grant
of restricted stock units for the first time, I would like to review briefly the details of this program.      The right to receive a grant of a restricted
stock unit depends on Cisco s satisfaction of certain operating income growth targets for FY08. Assuming those targets are met or exceeded, the  restricted stock units  that you are granted will vest twenty percent on the date of grant and
twenty percent on each of the next four anniversaries of the date of grant thereafter, subject to your continued employment with Cisco or an affiliate on the applicable vesting date. Unlike stock options, there is no monthly vesting for restricted
stock units. On each vesting date, the vested units will be settled in Cisco common stock. In addition, in the unlikely event that a corporate transaction or change in control (each as defined in Cisco s 2005 Stock Incentive Plan) is
consummated during FY08, the performance-based restricted stock unit right will be deemed fully earned at target (100%) immediately prior to the effective date of the corporate transaction or the change in control, as the case may be, and will be
settled in fully vested Cisco common stock at that time.      The PRSU Right and the right to receive restricted stock units depends on our shareholders
approving the amendment and extension of Cisco s 2005 Stock Incentive Plan at the 2007 annual meeting. In the unlikely event that our shareholders do not approve the amendment and extension of the 2005 Stock Incentive Plan, you will not be
eligible to receive any restricted stock units. However, at such time as the shareholders do approve a plan, the Compensation and Management Development Committee may make an equitable substitute stock award to you.      Lastly, please note that, if you are employed outside the United States, the Compensation and Management Development Committee can grant the PRSU Right to you, in its
sole discretion, only if and as long as it is permitted and feasible to grant restricted stock units under the laws of the country in which you are employed. If local laws make the grant of restricted stock units illegal or impractical, Cisco will
let you know as soon as possible. You are under no obligation to accept the PRSU Right or any restricted stock units that may subsequently be granted to you.      [concluding text]       

Sincerely,   

John Chambers   
 
  Chairman   CEO, Cisco Systems   

DEFERRAL ELECTION UNDER THE        CISCO SYSTEMS, INC. 2005 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN        ANNUAL EQUITY AWARD
      I, 
                                     , being an employee of Cisco
Systems, Inc. (the  Company ) hereby elect to defer the settlement of           % (insert 25%, 50%, 75% or 100%) of my annual restricted stock unit award anticipated to be granted under the 2005
Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ) on                       , 20           (subject to my
continued employment with the Company) to be settled pursuant to the elections below (check and complete  either  (a) or (b) below):      (a)            I elect to defer the settlement of the above-mentioned portion of my annual restricted stock unit grant such that any vested portion of the deferred piece of my restricted stock
unit grant will be settled in shares of the Company s common stock upon my Separation from Service (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code ( Section 409A       (b)            I elect to defer the settlement of the above-mentioned portion of my annual restricted stock
unit grant such that any vested portion of the deferred piece of my restricted stock unit grant will be settled in shares of the Company s common stock upon the earlier of (i) my Separation from Service; or (ii) the first business day
of 20__ (insert a year  no earlier than  5 years after the year of grant and  no later than  15 years after the year of grant).      I understand
that this election will be effective only if received by
                                       ([Email] or [Fax number]
(fax)) on or before [December 31, [PRECEDING YEAR]].      I understand that to the extent I do not elect to defer the settlement of my restricted stock unit
grant, such portion of the restricted stock unit grant will be automatically settled in shares of the Company s common stock upon the vesting of the restricted stock unit grant (subject to acceleration in certain cases), as more fully set forth
in the Stock Unit Agreement.      I understand that any vested portion of the deferred piece of my restricted stock unit grant will not be settled in shares of
the Company s common stock upon its vesting date as provided in my grant agreement, but instead will be settled in shares of the Company s common stock as selected by me above. If my Separation from Service occurs before my restricted
stock unit grant vests, the grant will be forfeited.      I understand that any employment taxes due upon the vesting of my restricted stock unit grant
(including the deferred portion of my grant) shall be deducted at the time of vesting from shares not deferred. If I elect to defer the settlement of 100% of my annual restricted stock unit award, any employment taxes due upon the vesting of my
restricted stock unit grant shall be deducted at the time of vesting from the deferred shares.      I understand that my receipt of shares of the
Company s common stock pursuant to any stock unit grant will be taxed as ordinary income to me based on the value of the shares on the date the stock unit grant is settled and I receive shares of the Company s common stock.      I understand that the settlement of the deferred portion of my annual restricted stock unit grant upon my Separation from Service will be delayed for 6 months.

Signature of Employee  

Date   
     * Because individual circumstances vary, Cisco Systems, Inc. can not provide tax advice and you should consult
with your own tax advisor regarding the income tax consequences of your potential elections.    

(Beginning Fiscal 2009)        NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR INITIAL RSU GRANT        CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.         STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT        This Stock Unit Agreement
(the  Agreement ) is made and entered into as of the Grant Date (as defined below) by and between Cisco Systems, Inc., a California corporation (the  Company ), and you pursuant to the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive
Plan (the  Plan ). The material terms of this Stock Unit Award are as follows:      Grantee:

Grant Date:

Grant Number:

Restricted Stock Units:

First Vest Date:  

(the date of completion of the first year of service as a member of the Board measured from the initial election or appointment date)   
    To the extent any capitalized terms used in this Agreement are not defined, they shall have the meaning ascribed
to them in the Plan. In the event of a conflict between the terms and provisions of the Plan and the terms and provisions of this Agreement, the Plan terms and provisions shall prevail.      In consideration of the mutual agreements herein contained and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties agree as follows:       1.    Restricted Stock Units  . Pursuant to the Plan, the Company hereby grants to you, and you hereby accept from the Company, Restricted Stock Units, each of which is a bookkeeping entry representing the equivalent in
value of one (1) Share, on the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Plan.       2.    Vesting of Restricted Stock Units  . So
long as your service on the Board continues, the Restricted Stock Units shall vest in accordance with the following schedule: fifty percent (50%) of the total number of Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to this Agreement shall vest on the
First Vest Date and upon your completion of each year of service as a member of the Board thereafter, unless otherwise provided by the Plan or Section 4 below.       3.    Termination of Service  . Except as provided in Section 4 below, in the event of the termination of your Board service for any reason, all unvested Restricted Stock Units shall be
immediately forfeited without consideration.       4.    Special Acceleration  .      (a) To the extent the Restricted Stock Units are outstanding at the time of a Corporate Transaction or a Change in Control, such Restricted Stock Units
shall automatically accelerate immediately prior to the effective date of the Corporate Transaction or the Change in Control, as the case may be, and shall become vested in full at that time.   

(b) If your service on the Board ceases as a result of your death or Disability, to the extent the
Restricted Stock Units are outstanding, such Restricted Stock Units shall automatically accelerate and shall become vested in full at that time.      (c) This Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Company to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate, sell or transfer all or any part
of its business or assets.       5.    Settlement of Restricted Stock Units  . To the extent you have not elected to defer settlement of the
Restricted Stock Units, the Restricted Stock Units shall be automatically settled in Shares upon vesting of such Restricted Stock Units, provided that the Company shall have no obligation to issue Shares pursuant to this Agreement unless such
issuance complies with all applicable law. To the extent you have elected to defer settlement of the Restricted Stock Units, the vested portion of the Restricted Stock Units shall be settled in Shares upon your separation from service within the
meaning of Code Section 409A ( Separation from Service ), provided that the Company shall have no obligation to issue Shares pursuant to this Agreement unless such issuance complies with all applicable law.       6.    Tax Advice  . You represent, warrant and acknowledge that the Company has made no warranties or representations to you with respect to the income
tax consequences of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and you are in no manner relying on the Company or the Company s representatives for an assessment of such tax consequences. YOU UNDERSTAND THAT THE TAX LAWS AND REGULATIONS
ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGE. YOU SHOULD CONSULT YOUR OWN TAX ADVISOR REGARDING ANY RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS. NOTHING STATED HEREIN IS INTENDED OR WRITTEN TO BE USED, AND CANNOT BE USED, FOR THE PURPOSE OF AVOIDING TAXPAYER PENALTIES.       7.    Non-Transferability of Restricted Stock Units  . Restricted Stock Units shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned,
transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by operation of law.       8.    Restriction on
Transfer  . Regardless of whether the transfer or issuance of the Shares to be issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units has been registered under the Securities Act or has been registered or qualified under the securities laws of any
state, the Company may impose additional restrictions upon the sale, pledge, or other transfer of the Shares (including the placement of appropriate legends on stock certificates and the issuance of stop-transfer instructions to the Company s
transfer agent) if, in the judgment of the Company and the Company s counsel, such restrictions are necessary in order to achieve compliance with the provisions of the Securities Act, the securities laws of any state, or any other law.
        
   2   

9.    Stock Certificate Restrictive Legends .  Stock certificates evidencing the Shares issued pursuant
to the Restricted Stock Units may bear such restrictive legends as the Company and the Company s counsel deem necessary under applicable law or pursuant to this Agreement.       10.    Representations, Warranties, Covenants, and Acknowledgments  . You hereby agree that in the event the Company and the Company s counsel deem it necessary or advisable in the exercise of
their discretion, the transfer or issuance of the Shares issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units may be conditioned upon you making certain representations, warranties, and acknowledgments relating to compliance with applicable securities
laws.       11.    Voting and Other Rights  . Subject to the terms of this Agreement, you shall not have any voting rights or any other rights
and privileges of a shareholder of the Company unless and until the Restricted Stock Units are settled upon vesting.       12.    Authorization to
Release Necessary Personal Information  .      (a) You hereby authorize and direct the Company to collect, use and transfer in electronic
or other form, any personal information (the  Data ) regarding your service, the nature and amount of your compensation and the facts and conditions of your participation in the Plan (including, but not limited to, your name, home address,
telephone number, date of birth, social security number (or any other social or national identification number), compensation, nationality, job title, number of Shares held and the details of all Awards or any other entitlement to Shares awarded,
cancelled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding) for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. You understand that the Data may be transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any
third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, including any requisite transfer to a broker or other third party assisting with the administration of these Restricted Stock Units under the Plan or with whom
Shares acquired pursuant to these Restricted Stock Units or cash from the sale of such shares may be deposited. You acknowledge that recipients of the Data may be located in different countries, and those countries may have data privacy laws and
protections different from those in the country of your residence. Furthermore, you acknowledge and understand that the transfer of the Data to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties is necessary for your participation in
the Plan.      (b) Prior to the time that the Restricted Stock Units are settled upon vesting, you shall have no rights other than those of a
general creditor of the Company. The Restricted Stock Units represent an unfunded and unsecured obligation of the Company.      (c) You may at
any time withdraw the consents herein by contacting the Company s local human resources representative in writing. You further acknowledge that withdrawal of consent may affect your ability to exercise or realize benefits from these Restricted
Stock Units, and your ability to participate in the Plan.         
   3   

13.    No Entitlement or Claims for Compensation  .      (a) Your rights, if any, in respect of or in connection with these Restricted Stock Units or any other Award are derived solely from the discretionary
decision of the Company to permit you to participate in the Plan and to benefit from a discretionary Award. By accepting these Restricted Stock Units, you expressly acknowledge that there is no obligation on the part of the Company to continue the
Plan and/or grant any additional Awards to you. These Restricted Stock Units are not intended to be compensation of a continuing or recurring nature, or part of your normal or expected compensation, and in no way represents any portion of a your
compensation or other remuneration for purposes of pension benefits, severance, redundancy, resignation or any other purpose.      (b) Neither
the Plan nor these Restricted Stock Units or any other Award granted under the Plan shall be deemed to give you a right to continue to serve on the Board of the Company for any period of specific duration or interfere with or otherwise restrict in
any way the rights of the Company or the Company s shareholders, which rights are hereby expressly reserved by each, to terminate your service on the Board at any time, for any reason, with or without cause, in accordance with the provisions of
applicable law, the Company s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws. You shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived any claim to damages or specific performance for breach of contract or dismissal, compensation for loss of office, tort or
otherwise with respect to the Plan, these Restricted Stock Units or any outstanding Award that is forfeited and/or is terminated by its terms or to any future Award.      (c) You agree that your rights hereunder shall be subject to set-off by the Company for any valid debts you owe the Company.       14.    Governing Law  . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California without regard to the conflict of laws principles thereof.       15.    Notices  . Any notice required or permitted under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed sufficient when delivered
personally or sent by confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the U.S. mail, as certified or registered mail, with postage prepaid, and addressed to the Company at the Company s principal
corporate offices or to you at the address maintained for you in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently modified by written notice to the other party.       16.    Binding Effect  . Subject to the limitations set forth in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the executors, administrators, heirs, legal
representatives, successors, and assigns of the parties hereto.       17.    Severability  . If any provision of this Agreement is held to be
unenforceable for any reason, it shall be adjusted rather than voided, if possible, in order to achieve the intent of the parties to the extent possible. In any event, all other provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed valid and enforceable to
the full extent possible.         
   4   

(Beginning Fiscal 2009)        NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR ANNUAL RSU GRANT        CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.         STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT        This Stock Unit Agreement
(the  Agreement ) is made and entered into as of the Grant Date (as defined below) by and between Cisco Systems, Inc., a California corporation (the  Company ), and you pursuant to the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive
Plan (the  Plan ). The material terms of this Stock Unit Award are as follows:      Grantee:

Grant Date:

Grant Number:

Restricted Stock Units:

Vest Date: The completion of one (1) year of Board service measured from the Grant Date.      To the extent any capitalized terms used in this Agreement are not defined, they shall have the meaning ascribed to them in the Plan. In the event of a conflict between
the terms and provisions of the Plan and the terms and provisions of this Agreement, the Plan terms and provisions shall prevail.      In consideration of the
mutual agreements herein contained and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties agree as follows:       1.    Restricted Stock Units  .
Pursuant to the Plan, the Company hereby grants to you, and you hereby accept from the Company, Restricted Stock Units, each of which is a bookkeeping entry representing the equivalent in value of one (1) Share, on the terms and conditions set
forth herein and in the Plan.       2.    Vesting of Restricted Stock Units  . So long as your service on the Board continues, the Restricted
Stock Units shall vest in accordance with the following schedule: one-hundred percent (100%) of the total number of Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to this Agreement shall vest on the Vest Date, unless otherwise provided by the Plan or
Section 4 below.       3.    Termination of Service  . Except as provided in Section 4 below, in the event of the termination of your
Board service for any reason, all unvested Restricted Stock Units shall be immediately forfeited without consideration.       4.    Special
Acceleration  .      (a) To the extent the Restricted Stock Units are outstanding at the time of a Corporate Transaction or a Change in
Control, such Restricted Stock Units shall automatically accelerate immediately prior to the effective date of the Corporate Transaction or the Change in Control, as the case may be, and shall become vested in full at that time.   

(b) If your service on the Board ceases as a result of your death or Disability, to the extent the
Restricted Stock Units are outstanding, such Restricted Stock Units shall automatically accelerate and shall become vested in full at that time.      (c) This Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Company to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate, sell or transfer all or any part
of its business or assets.       5.    Settlement of Restricted Stock Units  . To the extent you have not elected to defer settlement of the
Restricted Stock Units, the Restricted Stock Units shall be automatically settled in Shares upon vesting of such Restricted Stock Units, provided that the Company shall have no obligation to issue Shares pursuant to this Agreement unless such
issuance complies with all applicable law. To the extent you have elected to defer settlement of the Restricted Stock Units, the vested portion of the Restricted Stock Units shall be settled in Shares upon your separation from service within the
meaning of Code Section 409A ( Separation from Service ), provided that the Company shall have no obligation to issue Shares pursuant to this Agreement unless such issuance complies with all applicable law.       6.    Tax Advice  . You represent, warrant and acknowledge that the Company has made no warranties or representations to you with respect to the income
tax consequences of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and you are in no manner relying on the Company or the Company s representatives for an assessment of such tax consequences. YOU UNDERSTAND THAT THE TAX LAWS AND REGULATIONS
ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGE. YOU SHOULD CONSULT YOUR OWN TAX ADVISOR REGARDING ANY RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS. NOTHING STATED HEREIN IS INTENDED OR WRITTEN TO BE USED, AND CANNOT BE USED, FOR THE PURPOSE OF AVOIDING TAXPAYER PENALTIES.       7.    Non-Transferability of Restricted Stock Units  . Restricted Stock Units shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned,
transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by operation of law.       8.    Restriction on
Transfer  . Regardless of whether the transfer or issuance of the Shares to be issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units has been registered under the Securities Act or has been registered or qualified under the securities laws of any
state, the Company may impose additional restrictions upon the sale, pledge, or other transfer of the Shares (including the placement of appropriate legends on stock certificates and the issuance of stop-transfer instructions to the Company s
transfer agent) if, in the judgment of the Company and the Company s counsel, such restrictions are necessary in order to achieve compliance with the provisions of the Securities Act, the securities laws of any state, or any other law.
        
   2   

9.    Stock Certificate Restrictive Legends .  Stock certificates evidencing the Shares issued pursuant
to the Restricted Stock Units may bear such restrictive legends as the Company and the Company s counsel deem necessary under applicable law or pursuant to this Agreement.       10.    Representations, Warranties, Covenants, and Acknowledgments  . You hereby agree that in the event the Company and the Company s counsel deem it necessary or advisable in the exercise of
their discretion, the transfer or issuance of the Shares issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units may be conditioned upon you making certain representations, warranties, and acknowledgments relating to compliance with applicable securities
laws.       11.    Voting and Other Rights  . Subject to the terms of this Agreement, you shall not have any voting rights or any other rights
and privileges of a shareholder of the Company unless and until the Restricted Stock Units are settled upon vesting.       12.    Authorization to
Release Necessary Personal Information  .      (a) You hereby authorize and direct the Company to collect, use and transfer in electronic
or other form, any personal information (the  Data ) regarding your service, the nature and amount of your compensation and the facts and conditions of your participation in the Plan (including, but not limited to, your name, home address,
telephone number, date of birth, social security number (or any other social or national identification number), compensation, nationality, job title, number of Shares held and the details of all Awards or any other entitlement to Shares awarded,
cancelled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding) for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. You understand that the Data may be transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any
third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, including any requisite transfer to a broker or other third party assisting with the administration of these Restricted Stock Units under the Plan or with whom
Shares acquired pursuant to these Restricted Stock Units or cash from the sale of such shares may be deposited. You acknowledge that recipients of the Data may be located in different countries, and those countries may have data privacy laws and
protections different from those in the country of your residence. Furthermore, you acknowledge and understand that the transfer of the Data to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties is necessary for your participation in
the Plan.      (b) Prior to the time that the Restricted Stock Units are settled upon vesting, you shall have no rights other than those of a
general creditor of the Company. The Restricted Stock Units represent an unfunded and unsecured obligation of the Company.      (c) You may at
any time withdraw the consents herein by contacting the Company s local human resources representative in writing. You further acknowledge that withdrawal of consent may affect your ability to exercise or realize benefits from these Restricted
Stock Units, and your ability to participate in the Plan.         
   3   

13.    No Entitlement or Claims for Compensation  .      (a) Your rights, if any, in respect of or in connection with these Restricted Stock Units or any other Award are derived solely from the discretionary
decision of the Company to permit you to participate in the Plan and to benefit from a discretionary Award. By accepting these Restricted Stock Units, you expressly acknowledge that there is no obligation on the part of the Company to continue the
Plan and/or grant any additional Awards to you. These Restricted Stock Units are not intended to be compensation of a continuing or recurring nature, or part of your normal or expected compensation, and in no way represents any portion of a your
compensation or other remuneration for purposes of pension benefits, severance, redundancy, resignation or any other purpose.      (b) Neither
the Plan nor these Restricted Stock Units or any other Award granted under the Plan shall be deemed to give you a right to continue to serve on the Board of the Company for any period of specific duration or interfere with or otherwise restrict in
any way the rights of the Company or the Company s shareholders, which rights are hereby expressly reserved by each, to terminate your service on the Board at any time, for any reason, with or without cause, in accordance with the provisions of
applicable law, the Company s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws. You shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived any claim to damages or specific performance for breach of contract or dismissal, compensation for loss of office, tort or
otherwise with respect to the Plan, these Restricted Stock Units or any outstanding Award that is forfeited and/or is terminated by its terms or to any future Award.      (c) You agree that your rights hereunder shall be subject to set-off by the Company for any valid debts you owe the Company.       14.    Governing Law  . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California without regard to the conflict of laws principles thereof.       15.    Notices  . Any notice required or permitted under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed sufficient when delivered
personally or sent by confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the U.S. mail, as certified or registered mail, with postage prepaid, and addressed to the Company at the Company s principal
corporate offices or to you at the address maintained for you in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently modified by written notice to the other party.       16.    Binding Effect  . Subject to the limitations set forth in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the executors, administrators, heirs, legal
representatives, successors, and assigns of the parties hereto.       17.    Severability  . If any provision of this Agreement is held to be
unenforceable for any reason, it shall be adjusted rather than voided, if possible, in order to achieve the intent of the parties to the extent possible. In any event, all other provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed valid and enforceable to
the full extent possible.         
   4   

(Prior to Fiscal 2009)        NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR INITIAL GRANT        CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.         NOTICE OF GRANT OF STOCK OPTION        Notice is
hereby given of the following option grant (the  Option ) made to purchase shares of Cisco Systems, Inc. (the  Company ) common stock:      Optionee:

Grant Date:

Type of Option: Nonstatutory Stock Option      Grant Number:

Number of Option Shares:

shares      Exercise Price: $               per share      Expiration Date:

Date Exercisable: Immediately Exercisable        Vesting Schedule        The Option Shares shall initially be unvested and subject to repurchase by the Company at the Exercise Price paid
per share. Optionee shall acquire a vested interest in, and the Company s repurchase right shall accordingly lapse, with respect to, the Option Shares in a series of four (4) successive equal annual installments upon Optionee s
completion of each year of service as a member of the Board over the four (4) year period measured from the Grant Date. In no event shall any additional Option Shares vest after Optionee s cessation of Board service.        REPURCHASE RIGHT . OPTIONEE HEREBY AGREES THAT ALL UNVESTED OPTION SHARES ACQUIRED UPON THE EXERCISE OF THE OPTION SHALL NOT BE TRANSFERABLE AND SHALL BE
SUBJECT TO REPURCHASE BY THE COMPANY, AT THE EXERCISE PRICE PAID PER SHARE, UPON OPTIONEE S TERMINATION OF SERVICE AS A MEMBER OF THE BOARD PRIOR TO VESTING IN THOSE SHARES. THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF SUCH REPURCHASE RIGHT SHALL BE SPECIFIED
IN A STOCK PURCHASE AGREEMENT, IN FORM AND SUBSTANCE SATISFACTORY TO THE COMPANY, EXECUTED BY OPTIONEE AT THE TIME OF THE OPTION EXERCISE.       Optionee
understands and agrees that the Option is offered subject to and in accordance with the terms of the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). Optionee further agrees to be bound by the terms of the Plan and the terms of
the Option as set forth in the Stock Option Agreement attached hereto.        No Service Contract  . Nothing in this Notice or in the attached Stock
Option Agreement or in the Plan shall confer upon Optionee any right to continue to serve on the Board for any period of specific duration or interfere with or otherwise restrict in any way the rights of the Company or the Company s
shareholders, which rights are hereby expressly reserved by each, to terminate Optionee s service on the Board at any time, for any reason, with or without cause, and in accordance with the provisions of applicable law.   

Definitions .  All capitalized terms in this Notice shall have the meaning assigned to them in this Notice,
the attached Stock Option Agreement or the Plan.       DATED: 
                          ,                   

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.    

By:   

Title:   

OPTIONEE     

2   

STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT          Recitals        A. The Board has adopted the Plan for the purpose of retaining the services of selected Employees,
non-employee members of the Board or of the board of directors of any Parent or Subsidiary and Consultants and other independent advisors who provide services to the Company (or any Parent or Subsidiary).      B. Optionee is to render valuable services to the Company (or a Parent or Subsidiary), and this Agreement is executed pursuant to, and is intended to carry out the
purposes of, the Plan in connection with the Company s grant of an option to Optionee.      C. All capitalized terms in this Agreement shall have the
meaning assigned to them in this Agreement, the attached Notice of Grant of Stock Option (the   Notice ), or the Plan.       NOW, THEREFORE , it
is hereby agreed as follows:       1.    Grant of Option  . The Company hereby grants to Optionee, as of the Grant Date, a Nonstatutory Stock
Option to purchase up to the number of Option Shares specified in the Notice. The Option Shares shall be purchasable from time to time during the Option term specified in Paragraph 2 at the Exercise Price specified in the Notice.       2.    Option Term  . This Option shall have a maximum term of nine (9) years measured from the Grant Date and shall accordingly expire at the close
of business on the Expiration Date, unless sooner terminated in accordance with Paragraph 4, 5, 6 or 7.       3. 
  Non-Transferability   .  This Option shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by operation of law.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, should the Optionee die while holding this Option, then this Option shall be transferred in accordance with Optionee s will or the laws of descent and distribution.       4.    Exercisability/Vesting  .      (a) This
Option shall be immediately exercisable for any or all of the Option Shares, whether or not the Option Shares are vested in accordance with the Vesting Schedule set forth in the Notice, and shall remain so exercisable until the Expiration Date or
the sooner termination of the Option term under this Paragraph 4 or Paragraph 5, 6 or 7.      (b) Optionee shall, in accordance with the
Vesting Schedule set forth in the Notice, vest in the Option Shares in a series of installments over his or her period of Board service. Vesting in the Option Shares may be accelerated pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph 5, 6 or 7. In no event,
however, shall any additional Option Shares vest following Optionee s cessation of service as a Board member.      (c) As an
administrative matter, the exercisable portion of this Option may only be exercised until the close of the Nasdaq Global Select Market on the Expiration Date or   

the earlier termination date under Paragraph 5, 6 or 7 or, if such date is not a trading day on the
Nasdaq Global Select Market, the last trading day before such date. Any later attempt to exercise this Option will not be honored. For example, if Optionee ceases to remain in service as provided in Paragraph 5(a) and the date twelve
(12) months from the date of cessation is Monday, July 4 (a holiday on which the Nasdaq Global Select Market is closed), Optionee must exercise the exercisable portion of this Option by 4 pm Eastern Daylight Time on Friday, July 1.
      5.    Cessation of Board Service .  Should Optionee s service as a Board member cease while this Option remains outstanding, then the
Option term specified in Paragraph 2 shall terminate (and this Option shall cease to be outstanding) prior to the Expiration Date in accordance with the following provisions:      (a) Should Optionee cease to serve as a Board member for any reason (other than death or Disability) while this Option is outstanding, then the period for
exercising this Option shall be reduced to a twelve (12)-month period commencing with the date of such cessation of Board service, but in no event shall this Option be exercisable at any time after the Expiration Date. During such limited period of
exercisability, this Option may not be exercised in the aggregate for more than the number of Option Shares (if any) in which Optionee is vested on the date of his or her cessation of Board service. Upon the  earlier  of (i) the expiration
of such twelve (12)-month period or (ii) the specified Expiration Date, the Option shall terminate and cease to be exercisable with respect to any vested Option Shares for which the Option has not been exercised.      (b) Should Optionee die during the twelve (12)-month period following his or her cessation of Board service and hold this Option at the time of his or
her death, then the personal representative of Optionee s estate or the person or persons to whom the Option is transferred pursuant to Optionee s will or in accordance with the laws of descent and distribution shall have the right to
exercise this Option for any or all of the Option Shares in which Optionee is vested at the time of Optionee s cessation of Board service (less any Option Shares purchased by Optionee after such cessation of Board service but prior to death).
Such right of exercise shall terminate, and this Option shall accordingly cease to be exercisable for such vested Option Shares, upon the  earlier  of (i) the expiration of the twelve (12)-month period measured from the date of
Optionee s cessation of Board service or (ii) the specified Expiration Date.      (c) Should Optionee cease service as a Board member
by reason of death or Disability, then all Option Shares at the time subject to this Option but not otherwise vested shall immediately vest in full so that Optionee (or the personal representative of Optionee s estate or the person or persons
to whom the Option is transferred upon Optionee s death) shall have the right to exercise this Option for any or all of the Option Shares as fully-vested shares of Common Stock at any time prior to the  earlier  of (i) the expiration
of the twelve (12)-month period measured from the date of Optionee s cessation of Board service or (ii) the specified Expiration Date.      (d) Upon Optionee s cessation of Board service for any reason other than death or Disability, this Option shall immediately terminate and cease to be         
   2   

outstanding with respect to any and all Option Shares in which Optionee is not otherwise at that time
vested in accordance with the normal Vesting Schedule set forth in the Notice or the special vesting acceleration provisions of Paragraph 6 or 7 below.       6.    Corporate Transaction .       (a) In the event of a Corporate Transaction, all Option Shares at the time subject
to this Option but not otherwise vested shall automatically vest so that this Option shall, immediately prior to the specified effective date for the Corporate Transaction, become fully exercisable for all of the Option Shares at the time subject to
this Option and may be exercised for all or any portion of such shares as fully-vested shares of Common Stock. Immediately following the consummation of the Corporate Transaction, this Option shall terminate and cease to be outstanding, except to
the extent assumed by the successor corporation or its parent company.      (b) If this Option is assumed in connection with a Corporate
Transaction, then this Option shall be appropriately adjusted, immediately after such Corporate Transaction, to apply to the number and class of securities which would have been issuable to Optionee in consummation of such Corporate Transaction had
the Option been exercised immediately prior to such Corporate Transaction, and appropriate adjustments shall also be made to the Exercise Price,  provided  the aggregate Exercise Price shall remain the same.       7.    Change In Control/Hostile Take-Over .       (a) All Option Shares subject to this Option at the time of a Change In Control but not otherwise vested shall automatically vest so that this Option shall, immediately prior to the effective date of such Change In Control, become fully
exercisable for all of the Option Shares at the time subject to this Option and may be exercised for all or any portion of such shares as fully-vested shares of Common Stock. This Option shall remain exercisable for such fully-vested Option Shares
until the  earliest  to occur of (i) the specified Expiration Date, (ii) the sooner termination of this Option in accordance with Paragraph 4, 5 or 6 or (iii) the surrender of this Option under Paragraph 7(b).      (b) Optionee shall have an unconditional right (exercisable during the thirty (30)-day period immediately following the consummation of a  Hostile
Take-Over  (as defined below)) to surrender this Option to the Company in exchange for a cash distribution from the Company in an amount equal to the excess of (i) the  Take-Over Price  (as defined below) of the Option Shares at
the time subject to the surrendered Option (whether or not those Option Shares are otherwise at the time vested) over (ii) the aggregate Exercise Price payable for such shares. This Paragraph 7(b) limited stock appreciation right shall in all
events terminate upon the expiration or sooner termination of the Option term and may not be assigned or transferred by Optionee. For purposes of this Option,  Hostile Take-Over  shall mean the acquisition, directly or indirectly, by any
person or related group of persons (other than the Company or a person that directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, the Company) of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the Exchange
Act) of securities possessing more than thirty five percent (35%) of the total combined voting power of the Company s outstanding securities pursuant to a tender or exchange offer made directly to the         
   3   

Company s shareholders which the Board does not recommend such shareholders to accept. Further, for
purposes of this Option,  Take-Over Price  shall mean the greater of (i) the Fair Market Value on the date the Option is surrendered to the Company in connection with a Hostile Take-Over, or (ii) the highest reported price per
share of Common Stock paid by the tender offeror in effecting the Hostile Take-Over.      (c) To exercise the Paragraph 7(b) limited stock
appreciation right, Optionee must, during the applicable thirty (30)-day exercise period, provide the Company with written notice of the option surrender in which there is specified the number of Option Shares as to which the Option is being
surrendered. Such notice must be accompanied by the return of Optionee s copy of this Agreement, together with any written amendments to such Agreement. The cash distribution shall be paid to Optionee within five (5) business days
following such delivery date. Upon receipt of such cash distribution, this Option shall be cancelled with respect to the shares subject to the surrendered Option (or the surrendered portion), and Optionee shall cease to have any further right to
acquire those Option Shares under this Agreement. The Option shall, however, remain outstanding for the balance of the Option Shares (if any) in accordance with the terms and provisions of this Agreement, and the Company shall accordingly issue a
new stock option agreement (substantially in the same form as this Agreement) for those remaining Option Shares.       8.    Adjustment in Option
Shares  . In the event of a subdivision of the outstanding Shares, a declaration of a dividend payable in Shares, a declaration of a dividend payable in a form other than Shares in an amount that has a material effect on the price of Shares, a
combination or consolidation of the outstanding Shares (by reclassification or otherwise) into a lesser number of Shares, a recapitalization, a spin-off or a similar occurrence, appropriate adjustments shall be made to (i) the total number
and/or kind of shares or securities subject to this Option and (ii) the Exercise Price in order to reflect such change and thereby preclude a dilution or enlargement of benefits hereunder.       9.    Shareholder Rights  . The holder of this Option shall not have any shareholder rights with respect to the Option Shares until such person shall
have exercised the Option, paid the Exercise Price and become a holder of record of the purchased Shares.       10.    Manner of Exercising
Option  .      (a) In order to exercise this Option with respect to all or any part of the Option Shares for which this Option is at the
time exercisable, Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising the Option) must take the following actions:      (i) Pay the aggregate
Exercise Price for the purchased Shares in one or more of the following forms:      (A) cash or check which, in the Company s sole
discretion, shall be made payable to a Company-designated brokerage firm or the Company; and      (B) as permitted by applicable law, through
a special sale and remittance procedure pursuant to which Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising the Option) shall concurrently provide irrevocable written instructions (I) to a Company-designated         
   4   

brokerage firm (or in the case of an executive officer or Board member of the Company, an
Optionee-designated brokerage firm) to effect the immediate sale of the purchased Shares and remit to the Company, out of the sale proceeds available on the settlement date, sufficient funds to cover the aggregate Exercise Price payable for the
purchased Shares plus, if applicable, the amount necessary to satisfy the Company s withholding obligations at the minimum statutory withholding rates and (II) to the Company to deliver the certificates for the purchased Shares directly to such
brokerage firm in order to complete the sale transaction.      (ii) Furnish to the Company appropriate documentation that the person or persons
exercising the Option (if other than Optionee) have the right to exercise this Option.      (iii) Make appropriate arrangements with the
Company (or Parent or Subsidiary employing or retaining Optionee) for the satisfaction of all tax withholding requirements applicable to the Option exercise.      (iv) To the extent that the option is exercised for one or more unvested Option Shares, Optionee (or other person exercising the option) shall deliver to the Secretary of the Company a purchase agreement for those
unvested Option Shares.      (b) As soon as practical after the exercise date, the Company shall issue to or on behalf of Optionee (or any
other person or persons exercising this Option) the purchased Option Shares (as evidenced by an appropriate entry on the books of the Company or a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company), subject to the appropriate legends and/or stop
transfer instructions.      (c) In no event may this Option be exercised for any fractional Shares.       11.    No Impairment of Rights  . This Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Company to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise make
changes in its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate or sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets. In addition, nothing in this Agreement shall in any way be construed or interpreted so as to
affect adversely or otherwise impair the right of the Company or the shareholders to remove Optionee from the Board at any time in accordance with the provisions of applicable law.       12.    Compliance with Laws and Regulations  .      (a) The exercise of this Option and the
issuance of the Option Shares upon such exercise shall be subject to compliance by the Company and Optionee with all applicable laws, regulations and rules relating thereto, including all applicable regulations of any stock exchange (or the Nasdaq
Global Select Market, if applicable) on which the Shares may be listed for trading at the time of such exercise and issuance.      (b) The
inability of the Company to obtain approval from any regulatory body having authority deemed by the Company to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any Shares pursuant to this Option shall relieve the Company of any liability with respect
to the non-issuance or sale of the Shares as to which such approval shall not have been obtained. The Company, however, shall use its best efforts to obtain all such approvals.         
   5   

13.    Successors and Assigns  . Except to the extent otherwise provided in Paragraphs 3, 5, 6 and 7, the
provisions of this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and be binding upon, the Company and its successors and assigns and Optionee, Optionee s assigns and the legal representatives, heirs and legatees of Optionee s estate.
      14.    Notices  . Any notice required or permitted under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed sufficient
when delivered personally or sent by confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the U.S. mail, as certified or registered mail, with postage prepaid, and addressed to the Company at the Company s
principal corporate offices or to the Optionee at the address maintained for the Optionee in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently modified by written notice to the other party.       15.    Construction  . The Notice, this Agreement, and the Option evidenced hereby (a) are made and granted pursuant to the Plan and are in all
respects limited by and subject to the terms of the Plan, and (b) constitute the entire agreement between Optionee and the Company on the subject matter hereof and supercede all proposals, written or oral, and all other communications between
the parties related to the subject matter. All decisions of the Committee with respect to any question or issue arising under the Notice, this Agreement or the Plan shall be conclusive and binding on all persons having an interest in this Option.
      16.    Governing Law  . The interpretation, performance and enforcement of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of
California without resort to the conflict of laws principles thereof.       17.    Excess Shares  . If the Option Shares covered by this
Agreement exceed, as of the Grant Date, the number of Shares which may without shareholder approval be issued under the Plan, then this Option shall be void with respect to those excess shares, unless shareholder approval of an amendment
sufficiently increasing the number of Shares issuable under the Plan is obtained in accordance with the provisions of the Plan and all applicable laws, regulations and rules.       18.    Further Instruments  . The parties agree to execute such further instruments and to take such further action as may be reasonably necessary to carry out the purposes and intent of this
Agreement.         
   6   

(Prior to Fiscal 2009)        NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR ANNUAL GRANT        CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.         NOTICE OF GRANT OF STOCK OPTION        Notice is
hereby given of the following option grant (the  Option ) made to purchase shares of Cisco Systems, Inc. (the  Company ) common stock:      Optionee:

Grant Date:

Type of Option: Nonstatutory Stock Option       

Grant  
  Number:

Number of Option Shares:

shares      Exercise Price: $               per share      Expiration Date:

Date Exercisable: Immediately Exercisable        Vesting Schedule        The Option Shares shall initially be unvested and subject to repurchase by the Company at the Exercise Price paid
per share. Optionee shall acquire a vested interest in, and the Company s repurchase right shall accordingly lapse, with respect to, the Option Shares in a series of two (2) successive equal annual installments upon Optionee s
completion of each year of service as a member of the Board over the two (2) year period measured from the Grant Date. In no event shall any additional Option Shares vest after Optionee s cessation of Board service.        REPURCHASE RIGHT . OPTIONEE HEREBY AGREES THAT ALL UNVESTED OPTION SHARES ACQUIRED UPON THE EXERCISE OF THE OPTION SHALL NOT BE TRANSFERABLE AND SHALL BE
SUBJECT TO REPURCHASE BY THE COMPANY, AT THE EXERCISE PRICE PAID PER SHARE, UPON OPTIONEE S TERMINATION OF SERVICE AS A MEMBER OF THE BOARD PRIOR TO VESTING IN THOSE SHARES. THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF SUCH REPURCHASE RIGHT SHALL BE SPECIFIED
IN A STOCK PURCHASE AGREEMENT, IN FORM AND SUBSTANCE SATISFACTORY TO THE COMPANY, EXECUTED BY OPTIONEE AT THE TIME OF THE OPTION EXERCISE.       Optionee
understands and agrees that the Option is offered subject to and in accordance with the terms of the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). Optionee further agrees to be bound by the terms of the Plan and the terms of
the Option as set forth in the Stock Option Agreement attached hereto.        No Service Contract  . Nothing in this Notice or in the attached Stock
Option Agreement or in the Plan shall confer upon Optionee any right to continue to serve on the Board for any period of specific duration or interfere with or otherwise restrict in any way the rights of the Company or the Company s
shareholders, which rights are hereby expressly reserved by each, to terminate Optionee s service on the Board at any time, for any reason, with or without cause, and in accordance with the provisions of applicable law.   

Definitions .  All capitalized terms in this Notice shall have the meaning assigned to them in this Notice,
the attached Stock Option Agreement or the Plan.       DATED: 
                          ,                   

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.    

By:  

Title:  

OPTIONEE     

2   

STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT          Recitals        A. The Board has adopted the Plan for the purpose of retaining the services of selected Employees,
non-employee members of the Board or of the board of directors of any Parent or Subsidiary and Consultants and other independent advisors who provide services to the Company (or any Parent or Subsidiary).      B. Optionee is to render valuable services to the Company (or a Parent or Subsidiary), and this Agreement is executed pursuant to, and is intended to carry out the
purposes of, the Plan in connection with the Company s grant of an option to Optionee.      C. All capitalized terms in this Agreement shall have the
meaning assigned to them in this Agreement, the attached Notice of Grant of Stock Option (the   Notice ), or the Plan.       NOW, THEREFORE , it
is hereby agreed as follows:       1.    Grant of Option  . The Company hereby grants to Optionee, as of the Grant Date, a Nonstatutory Stock
Option to purchase up to the number of Option Shares specified in the Notice. The Option Shares shall be purchasable from time to time during the Option term specified in Paragraph 2 at the Exercise Price specified in the Notice.       2.    Option Term  . This Option shall have a maximum term of nine (9) years measured from the Grant Date and shall accordingly expire at the close
of business on the Expiration Date, unless sooner terminated in accordance with Paragraph 4, 5, 6 or 7.       3.    Non-Transferability  . This
Option shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by operation of law. Notwithstanding the foregoing, should the Optionee die
while holding this Option, then this Option shall be transferred in accordance with Optionee s will or the laws of descent and distribution.       4.    Exercisability/Vesting  .      (a) This Option shall be immediately exercisable for any or all of the Option
Shares, whether or not the Option Shares are vested in accordance with the Vesting Schedule set forth in the Notice, and shall remain so exercisable until the Expiration Date or the sooner termination of the Option term under this Paragraph 4 or
Paragraph 5, 6 or 7.      (b) Optionee shall, in accordance with the Vesting Schedule set forth in the Notice, vest in the Option Shares in a
series of installments over his or her period of Board service. Vesting in the Option Shares may be accelerated pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph 5, 6 or 7. In no event, however, shall any additional Option Shares vest following
Optionee s cessation of service as a Board member.      (c) As an administrative matter, the exercisable portion of this Option may only
be exercised until the close of the Nasdaq Global Select Market on the Expiration Date or   

the earlier termination date under Paragraph 5, 6 or 7 or, if such date is not a trading day on the
Nasdaq Global Select Market, the last trading day before such date. Any later attempt to exercise this Option will not be honored. For example, if Optionee ceases to remain in service as provided in Paragraph 5(a) and the date twelve
(12) months from the date of cessation is Monday, July 4 (a holiday on which the Nasdaq Global Select Market is closed), Optionee must exercise the exercisable portion of this Option by 4 pm Eastern Daylight Time on Friday, July 1.
      5.    Cessation of Board Service  . Should Optionee s service as a Board member cease while this Option remains outstanding, then the
Option term specified in Paragraph 2 shall terminate (and this Option shall cease to be outstanding) prior to the Expiration Date in accordance with the following provisions:      (a) Should Optionee cease to serve as a Board member for any reason (other than death or Disability) while this Option is outstanding, then the period for
exercising this Option shall be reduced to a twelve (12)-month period commencing with the date of such cessation of Board service, but in no event shall this Option be exercisable at any time after the Expiration Date. During such limited period of
exercisability, this Option may not be exercised in the aggregate for more than the number of Option Shares (if any) in which Optionee is vested on the date of his or her cessation of Board service. Upon the  earlier  of (i) the expiration
of such twelve (12)-month period or (ii) the specified Expiration Date, the Option shall terminate and cease to be exercisable with respect to any vested Option Shares for which the Option has not been exercised.      (b) Should Optionee die during the twelve (12)-month period following his or her cessation of Board service and hold this Option at the time of his or
her death, then the personal representative of Optionee s estate or the person or persons to whom the Option is transferred pursuant to Optionee s will or in accordance with the laws of descent and distribution shall have the right to
exercise this Option for any or all of the Option Shares in which Optionee is vested at the time of Optionee s cessation of Board service (less any Option Shares purchased by Optionee after such cessation of Board service but prior to death).
Such right of exercise shall terminate, and this Option shall accordingly cease to be exercisable for such vested Option Shares, upon the  earlier  of (i) the expiration of the twelve (12)-month period measured from the date of
Optionee s cessation of Board service or (ii) the specified Expiration Date.      (c) Should Optionee cease service as a Board member
by reason of death or Disability, then all Option Shares at the time subject to this Option but not otherwise vested shall immediately vest in full so that Optionee (or the personal representative of Optionee s estate or the person or persons
to whom the Option is transferred upon Optionee s death) shall have the right to exercise this Option for any or all of the Option Shares as fully-vested shares of Common Stock at any time prior to the  earlier  of (i) the expiration
of the twelve (12)-month period measured from the date of Optionee s cessation of Board service or (ii) the specified Expiration Date.      (d) Upon Optionee s cessation of Board service for any reason other than death or Disability, this Option shall immediately terminate and cease to be         
   2   

outstanding with respect to any and all Option Shares in which Optionee is not otherwise at that time
vested in accordance with the normal Vesting Schedule set forth in the Notice or the special vesting acceleration provisions of Paragraph 6 or 7 below.       6.    Corporate Transaction  .      (a) In the event of a Corporate Transaction, all Option Shares at the time subject
to this Option but not otherwise vested shall automatically vest so that this Option shall, immediately prior to the specified effective date for the Corporate Transaction, become fully exercisable for all of the Option Shares at the time subject to
this Option and may be exercised for all or any portion of such shares as fully-vested shares of Common Stock. Immediately following the consummation of the Corporate Transaction, this Option shall terminate and cease to be outstanding, except to
the extent assumed by the successor corporation or its parent company.      (b) If this Option is assumed in connection with a Corporate
Transaction, then this Option shall be appropriately adjusted, immediately after such Corporate Transaction, to apply to the number and class of securities which would have been issuable to Optionee in consummation of such Corporate Transaction had
the Option been exercised immediately prior to such Corporate Transaction, and appropriate adjustments shall also be made to the Exercise Price,  provided  the aggregate Exercise Price shall remain the same.       7.    Change In Control/Hostile Take-Over  .      (a) All Option Shares subject to this Option at the time of a Change In Control but not otherwise vested shall automatically vest so that this Option shall, immediately prior to the effective date of such Change In Control, become fully
exercisable for all of the Option Shares at the time subject to this Option and may be exercised for all or any portion of such shares as fully-vested shares of Common Stock. This Option shall remain exercisable for such fully-vested Option Shares
until the  earliest  to occur of (i) the specified Expiration Date, (ii) the sooner termination of this Option in accordance with Paragraph 4, 5 or 6 or (iii) the surrender of this Option under Paragraph 7(b).      (b) Optionee shall have an unconditional right (exercisable during the thirty (30)-day period immediately following the consummation of a  Hostile
Take-Over  (as defined below)) to surrender this Option to the Company in exchange for a cash distribution from the Company in an amount equal to the excess of (i) the  Take-Over Price  (as defined below) of the Option Shares at
the time subject to the surrendered Option (whether or not those Option Shares are otherwise at the time vested) over (ii) the aggregate Exercise Price payable for such shares. This Paragraph 7(b) limited stock appreciation right shall in all
events terminate upon the expiration or sooner termination of the Option term and may not be assigned or transferred by Optionee. For purposes of this Option,  Hostile Take-Over  shall mean the acquisition, directly or indirectly, by any
person or related group of persons (other than the Company or a person that directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, the Company) of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the Exchange
Act) of securities possessing more than thirty five percent (35%) of the total combined voting power of the Company s outstanding securities pursuant to a tender or exchange offer made directly to the         
   3   

Company s shareholders which the Board does not recommend such shareholders to accept. Further, for
purposes of this Option,  Take-Over Price  shall mean the greater of (i) the Fair Market Value on the date the Option is surrendered to the Company in connection with a Hostile Take-Over, or (ii) the highest reported price per
share of Common Stock paid by the tender offeror in effecting the Hostile Take-Over.      (c) To exercise the Paragraph 7(b) limited stock
appreciation right, Optionee must, during the applicable thirty (30)-day exercise period, provide the Company with written notice of the option surrender in which there is specified the number of Option Shares as to which the Option is being
surrendered. Such notice must be accompanied by the return of Optionee s copy of this Agreement, together with any written amendments to such Agreement. The cash distribution shall be paid to Optionee within five (5) business days
following such delivery date. Upon receipt of such cash distribution, this Option shall be cancelled with respect to the shares subject to the surrendered Option (or the surrendered portion), and Optionee shall cease to have any further right to
acquire those Option Shares under this Agreement. The Option shall, however, remain outstanding for the balance of the Option Shares (if any) in accordance with the terms and provisions of this Agreement, and the Company shall accordingly issue a
new stock option agreement (substantially in the same form as this Agreement) for those remaining Option Shares.       8.    Adjustment in Option
Shares  . In the event of a subdivision of the outstanding Shares, a declaration of a dividend payable in Shares, a declaration of a dividend payable in a form other than Shares in an amount that has a material effect on the price of Shares, a
combination or consolidation of the outstanding Shares (by reclassification or otherwise) into a lesser number of Shares, a recapitalization, a spin-off or a similar occurrence, appropriate adjustments shall be made to (i) the total number
and/or kind of shares or securities subject to this Option and (ii) the Exercise Price in order to reflect such change and thereby preclude a dilution or enlargement of benefits hereunder.       9.    Shareholder Rights  . The holder of this Option shall not have any shareholder rights with respect to the Option Shares until such person shall
have exercised the Option, paid the Exercise Price and become a holder of record of the purchased Shares.       10.    Manner of Exercising
Option  .      (a) In order to exercise this Option with respect to all or any part of the Option Shares for which this Option is at the
time exercisable, Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising the Option) must take the following actions:      (i) Pay the aggregate
Exercise Price for the purchased Shares in one or more of the following forms:      (A) cash or check which, in the Company s sole
discretion, shall be made payable to a Company-designated brokerage firm or the Company; and      (B) as permitted by applicable law, through
a special sale and remittance procedure pursuant to which Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising the Option) shall concurrently provide irrevocable written instructions (I) to a Company-designated         
   4   

brokerage firm (or in the case of an executive officer or Board member of the Company, an
Optionee-designated brokerage firm) to effect the immediate sale of the purchased Shares and remit to the Company, out of the sale proceeds available on the settlement date, sufficient funds to cover the aggregate Exercise Price payable for the
purchased Shares plus, if applicable, the amount necessary to satisfy the Company s withholding obligations at the minimum statutory withholding rates and (II) to the Company to deliver the certificates for the purchased Shares directly to such
brokerage firm in order to complete the sale transaction.      (ii) Furnish to the Company appropriate documentation that the person or persons
exercising the Option (if other than Optionee) have the right to exercise this Option.      (iii) Make appropriate arrangements with the
Company (or Parent or Subsidiary employing or retaining Optionee) for the satisfaction of all tax withholding requirements applicable to the Option exercise.      (iv) To the extent that the option is exercised for one or more unvested Option Shares, Optionee (or other person exercising the option) shall deliver to the Secretary of the Company a purchase agreement for those
unvested Option Shares.      (b) As soon as practical after the exercise date, the Company shall issue to or on behalf of Optionee (or any
other person or persons exercising this Option) the purchased Option Shares (as evidenced by an appropriate entry on the books of the Company or a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company), subject to the appropriate legends and/or stop
transfer instructions.      (c) In no event may this Option be exercised for any fractional Shares.       11.    No Impairment of Rights  . This Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Company to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise make
changes in its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate or sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets. In addition, nothing in this Agreement shall in any way be construed or interpreted so as to
affect adversely or otherwise impair the right of the Company or the shareholders to remove Optionee from the Board at any time in accordance with the provisions of applicable law.       12.    Compliance with Laws and Regulations  .      (a) The exercise of this Option and the
issuance of the Option Shares upon such exercise shall be subject to compliance by the Company and Optionee with all applicable laws, regulations and rules relating thereto, including all applicable regulations of any stock exchange (or the Nasdaq
Global Select Market, if applicable) on which the Shares may be listed for trading at the time of such exercise and issuance.      (b) The
inability of the Company to obtain approval from any regulatory body having authority deemed by the Company to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any Shares pursuant to this Option shall relieve the Company of any liability with respect
to the non-issuance or sale of the Shares as to which such approval shall not have been obtained. The Company, however, shall use its best efforts to obtain all such approvals.         
   5   

13.    Successors and Assigns  . Except to the extent otherwise provided in Paragraphs 3, 5, 6 and 7, the
provisions of this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and be binding upon, the Company and its successors and assigns and Optionee, Optionee s assigns and the legal representatives, heirs and legatees of Optionee s estate.
      14.    Notices  . Any notice required or permitted under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed sufficient
when delivered personally or sent by confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the U.S. mail, as certified or registered mail, with postage prepaid, and addressed to the Company at the Company s
principal corporate offices or to the Optionee at the address maintained for the Optionee in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently modified by written notice to the other party.       15.    Construction  . The Notice, this Agreement, and the Option evidenced hereby (a) are made and granted pursuant to the Plan and are in all
respects limited by and subject to the terms of the Plan, and (b) constitute the entire agreement between Optionee and the Company on the subject matter hereof and supercede all proposals, written or oral, and all other communications between
the parties related to the subject matter. All decisions of the Committee with respect to any question or issue arising under the Notice, this Agreement or the Plan shall be conclusive and binding on all persons having an interest in this Option.
      16.    Governing Law  . The interpretation, performance and enforcement of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of
California without resort to the conflict of laws principles thereof.       17.    Excess Shares  . If the Option Shares covered by this
Agreement exceed, as of the Grant Date, the number of Shares which may without shareholder approval be issued under the Plan, then this Option shall be void with respect to those excess shares, unless shareholder approval of an amendment
sufficiently increasing the number of Shares issuable under the Plan is obtained in accordance with the provisions of the Plan and all applicable laws, regulations and rules.       18.    Further Instruments  . The parties agree to execute such further instruments and to take such further action as may be reasonably necessary to carry out the purposes and intent of this
Agreement.         
   6   

NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR STOCK GRANT        CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.         STOCK GRANT AGREEMENT        This Stock Grant Agreement (the  Agreement ) is made and entered into as of the Grant Date (as defined below) by and between Cisco Systems, Inc., a California
corporation (the  Company ), and you pursuant to the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). The material terms of this Stock Grant Award are as follows:       

Grantee:  

Grant Date:  

Grant Number:  

Restricted Shares:    

Vest Date:  
     
  The completion of one (1) year of Board service measured from the Grant Date.   
    To the extent any capitalized terms used in this Agreement are not defined, they shall have the meaning ascribed
to them in the Plan. In the event of a conflict between the terms and provisions of the Plan and the terms and provisions of this Agreement, the Plan terms and provisions shall prevail.      In consideration of the mutual agreements herein contained and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties agree as follows:       1.    Restricted Shares  . Pursuant to the Plan, the Company hereby transfers to you, and you hereby accept from the Company, a Stock Grant Award consisting of the Restricted Shares, on the terms and conditions set forth
herein and in the Plan.       2.    Vesting of Restricted Shares  . So long as your service on the Board continues, the Restricted Shares shall
vest in accordance with the following schedule: one-hundred percent (100%) of the total number of Restricted Shares issued pursuant to this Agreement shall vest on the Vest Date, unless otherwise provided by the Plan or Section 3 below.
Except as provided in Section 3 below, in the event of the termination of your Board service for any reason, all unvested Restricted Shares shall be immediately forfeited without consideration. For purposes of facilitating the enforcement of
the provisions of this Section 2, the Company may issue stop-transfer instructions on the Restricted Shares to the Company s transfer agent, or otherwise hold the Restricted Shares in escrow, until the Restricted Shares have vested and you
have satisfied all applicable obligations with respect to the Restricted Shares, including any applicable tax withholding obligations set forth in Section 5 below. Any new, substituted or additional securities or other property which is issued
or distributed with respect to the unvested Restricted Shares shall be subject to the same terms and conditions as are applicable to the unvested Restricted Shares under this Agreement and the Plan.   

3.      Special Acceleration .       (a) To the extent the Restricted Shares are outstanding at the time of a Corporate Transaction or a Change in Control, but not otherwise fully vested,
such Restricted Shares shall automatically accelerate immediately prior to the effective date of the Corporate Transaction or the Change in Control, as the case may be, and shall become vested in full at that time.      (b) If your service on the Board ceases as a result of your death or Disability then, to the extent the Restricted Shares are outstanding, but not
otherwise fully vested, such Restricted Shares shall automatically accelerate and shall become vested in full at that time.      (c) This Stock
Grant Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Company to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate, sell or transfer all or any part of its
business or assets.       4.    Restriction on Election to Recognize Income in the Year of Grant  . Under Section 83 of the Code, the Fair
Market Value of the Restricted Shares on the date the Restricted Shares vest will be taxable as ordinary income at that time. You understand, acknowledge and agree that, as a condition to the grant of this Award, you may not elect to be taxed at the
time the Restricted Shares are acquired by filing an election under Section 83(b) of the Code with the Internal Revenue Service.       5. 
  Withholding Taxes  . You agree to make arrangements satisfactory to the Company for the satisfaction of any applicable withholding tax obligations that arise in connection with the Restricted Shares which, at the sole discretion of the
Company, may include (i) having the Company withhold Shares from the Restricted Shares held in escrow, or (ii) any other arrangement approved by the Company, in any case, equal in value to the amount necessary to satisfy any such
withholding tax obligation. Such Shares shall be valued based on the Fair Market Value as of the day prior to the date that the amount of tax to be withheld is to be determined under applicable law. The Company shall not be required to release the
Restricted Shares from the stop-transfer instructions or escrow unless and until such obligations are satisfied.       6.    Tax Advice  . You
represent, warrant and acknowledge that the Company has made no warranties or representations to you with respect to the income tax consequences of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and you are in no manner relying on the Company or
the Company s representatives for an assessment of such tax consequences. YOU UNDERSTAND THAT THE TAX LAWS AND REGULATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGE. YOU SHOULD CONSULT YOUR OWN TAX ADVISOR REGARDING ANY STOCK GRANT AWARD. NOTHING STATED HEREIN IS
INTENDED OR WRITTEN TO BE USED, AND CANNOT BE USED, FOR THE PURPOSE OF AVOIDING TAXPAYER PENALTIES.       7.    Non-Transferability of Restricted
Shares  . Restricted Shares which have not vested pursuant to Section 2 above shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily or
involuntarily or by the operation of law. However, this Section 7 shall not         
   2   

preclude you from designating a beneficiary who will receive any vested Restricted Shares in the event of the your death,
nor shall it preclude a transfer of vested Restricted Shares by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.       8.    Restriction on
Transfer  . Regardless of whether the transfer or issuance of the Restricted Shares has been registered under the Securities Act or has been registered or qualified under the securities laws of any state, the Company may impose additional
restrictions upon the sale, pledge, or other transfer of the Restricted Shares (including the placement of appropriate legends on stock certificates and the issuance of stop-transfer instructions to the Company s transfer agent) if, in the
judgment of the Company and the Company s counsel, such restrictions are necessary in order to achieve compliance with the provisions of the Securities Act, the securities laws of any state, or any other law.       9.    Stock Certificate Restrictive Legends  . Stock certificates evidencing the Restricted Shares may bear such restrictive legends as the Company and
the Company s counsel deem necessary under applicable law or pursuant to this Agreement.       10.    Representations, Warranties, Covenants, and
Acknowledgments  . You hereby agree that in the event the Company and the Company s counsel deem it necessary or advisable in the exercise of their discretion, the transfer or issuance of the Restricted Shares may be conditioned upon you
making certain representations, warranties, and acknowledgments relating to compliance with applicable securities laws.       11.    Voting and Other
Rights  . Subject to the terms of this Agreement, you shall have all the rights and privileges of a shareholder of the Company while the Restricted Shares are subject to stop-transfer instructions, or otherwise held in escrow, including the
right to vote and to receive dividends (if any).       12.    Authorization to Release Necessary Personal Information  .      (a) You hereby authorize and direct the Company to collect, use and transfer in electronic or other form, any personal information (the  Data )
regarding your service, the nature and amount of your compensation and the facts and conditions of your participation in the Plan (including, but not limited to, your name, home address, telephone number, date of birth, social security number (or
any other social or national identification number), compensation, nationality, job title, number of Shares held and the details of all Awards or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, cancelled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding) for the
purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. You understand that the Data may be transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration
and management of the Plan, including any requisite transfer to a broker or other third party assisting with the administration of this Stock Grant Award under the Plan or with whom Shares acquired pursuant to this Stock Grant Award or cash from the
sale of such shares may be deposited. You acknowledge that recipients of the Data may be located in different countries, and those countries may have data privacy laws and protections different from those in the country of your residence.
Furthermore, you acknowledge and understand that the transfer of the Data to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties is necessary for your participation in the Plan.         
   3   

(b) You may at any time withdraw the consents herein by contacting your local human resources
representative in writing. You further acknowledge that withdrawal of consent may affect your ability to exercise or realize benefits from this Stock Grant Award, and your ability to participate in the Plan.       13.    No Entitlement or Claims for Compensation  .      (a) Your rights, if any, in respect of or in connection with this Stock Grant Award or any other Award is derived solely from the discretionary decision of the Company to permit you to participate in the Plan and to benefit from a
discretionary Award. By accepting this Stock Grant Award, you expressly acknowledge that there is no obligation on the part of the Company to continue the Plan and/or grant any additional Awards to you. This Stock Grant Award is not intended to be
compensation of a continuing or recurring nature, or part of your normal or expected compensation, and in no way represents any portion of a your salary, compensation, or other remuneration for purposes of pension benefits, severance, redundancy,
resignation or any other purpose.      (b) Neither the Plan nor this Stock Grant Award or any other Award granted under the Plan shall be
deemed to give you a right to remain an Employee, Consultant or director of the Company, a Parent, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate. The Company and its Parents and Subsidiaries and Affiliates reserve the right to terminate your Service at any time,
with or without cause, and for any reason, subject to applicable laws, the Company s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws and a written employment agreement (if any), and you shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived any claim to damages or
specific performance for breach of contract or dismissal, compensation for loss of office, tort or otherwise with respect to the Plan, this Stock Grant Award or any outstanding Award that is forfeited and/or is terminated by its terms or to any
future Award.      (c) You agree that the Company may require that Restricted Shares be held by a broker designated by the Company. In
addition, you agree that your rights hereunder shall be subject to set-off by the Company for any valid debts you owe the Company.       14. 
  Governing Law  . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California without regard to the conflict of laws principles thereof.       15.    Notices  . Any notice required or permitted under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed sufficient when delivered
personally or sent by confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the U.S. mail, as certified or registered mail, with postage prepaid, and addressed to the Company at the Company s principal
corporate offices or to you at the address maintained for you in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently modified by written notice to the other party.       16.    Binding Effect  . Subject to the limitations set forth in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the executors, administrators, heirs, legal
representatives, successors, and assigns of the parties hereto.       17.    Severability  . If any provision of this Agreement is held to be
unenforceable for any reason, it shall be adjusted rather than voided, if possible, in order to achieve the intent of the parties to the extent possible. In any event, all other provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed valid and enforceable to
the full extent possible.         
   4   

DATED:
                          ,                   

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.    

By:  

Title:  

GRANTEE     

5   

NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR STOCK UNIT        IN LIEU OF ANNUAL RETAINER        CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.         STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT        This Stock Unit Agreement
(the  Agreement ) is made and entered into as of the Grant Date (as defined below) by and between Cisco Systems, Inc., a California corporation (the  Company ), and you pursuant to the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive
Plan (the  Plan ). The material terms of this Stock Unit Award are as follows:       

Grantee:  

Grant Date:  

Grant Number:  

Restricted Stock Units:  

To the extent any capitalized terms used in this Agreement are not defined, they shall have the meaning ascribed
to them in the Plan. In the event of a conflict between the terms and provisions of the Plan and the terms and provisions of this Agreement, the Plan terms and provisions shall prevail.      In consideration of the mutual agreements herein contained and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties agree as follows:       1.    Restricted Stock Units  . Pursuant to the Plan, the Company hereby grants to you, and you hereby accept from the Company, Restricted Stock Units, each of which is a bookkeeping entry representing the equivalent in
value of one (1) Share, on the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Plan.       2.    Vesting of Restricted Stock Units  .
One-hundred percent (100%) of the total number of Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to this Agreement shall vest on the Grant Date.       3. 
  Settlement of Restricted Stock Units  . Restricted Stock Units shall be automatically settled in Shares upon your separation from service within the meaning of Code Section 409A ( Separation from Service ), provided that the
Company shall have no obligation to issue Shares pursuant to this Agreement unless and until you have satisfied any applicable tax withholding obligations and such issuance otherwise complies with all applicable law.       4.    Tax Advice  . You represent, warrant and acknowledge that the Company has made no warranties or representations to you with respect to the income
tax consequences of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and you are in no manner relying on the Company or the Company s representatives for an assessment of such tax consequences. YOU UNDERSTAND THAT THE TAX LAWS AND REGULATIONS
ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGE. YOU SHOULD CONSULT YOUR OWN TAX ADVISOR REGARDING ANY RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS. NOTHING STATED HEREIN IS INTENDED OR WRITTEN TO BE USED, AND CANNOT BE USED, FOR THE PURPOSE OF AVOIDING TAXPAYER PENALTIES.   

5.    Non-Transferability of Restricted Stock Units  . Restricted Stock Units shall not be anticipated,
assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by operation of law. However, this Section 5 shall not preclude you from designating a beneficiary who will
receive vested Shares pursuant to this award in the event of your death, nor shall it preclude a transfer of vested Shares pursuant to this award by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.       6.    Restriction on Transfer  . Regardless of whether the transfer or issuance of the Shares to be issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units has
been registered under the Securities Act or has been registered or qualified under the securities laws of any state, the Company may impose additional restrictions upon the sale, pledge, or other transfer of the Shares (including the placement of
appropriate legends on stock certificates and the issuance of stop-transfer instructions to the Company s transfer agent) if, in the judgment of the Company and the Company s counsel, such restrictions are necessary in order to achieve
compliance with the provisions of the Securities Act, the securities laws of any state, or any other law.       7.    Stock Certificate Restrictive
Legends   .  Stock certificates evidencing the Shares issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units may bear such restrictive legends as the Company and the Company s counsel deem necessary under applicable law or pursuant to this
Agreement.       8.    Representations, Warranties, Covenants, and Acknowledgments  . You hereby agree that in the event the Company and the
Company s counsel deem it necessary or advisable in the exercise of their discretion, the transfer or issuance of the Shares issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units may be conditioned upon you making certain representations, warranties,
and acknowledgments relating to compliance with applicable securities laws.       9.    Voting and Other Rights  . Subject to the terms of this
Agreement, you shall not have any voting rights or any other rights and privileges of a shareholder of the Company unless and until the Restricted Stock Units are settled in Shares upon your Separation from Service.       10.    Authorization to Release Necessary Personal Information  .      (a) You hereby authorize and direct the Company to collect, use and transfer in electronic or other form, any personal information (the  Data ) regarding your service, the nature and amount of your
compensation and the facts and conditions of your participation in the Plan (including, but not limited to, your name, home address, telephone number, date of birth, social security number (or any other social or national identification number),
compensation, nationality, job title, number of Shares held and the details of all Awards or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, cancelled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding) for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing
your participation in the Plan. You understand that the Data may be transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, including any requisite
transfer to a broker or other third party assisting with the administration of these Restricted Stock Units under the Plan or with whom Shares acquired pursuant to these Restricted Stock Units or cash from the sale of such shares may be deposited.
You acknowledge that recipients of the Data may be located in different countries, and those countries may have data privacy laws and protections different from those in the country of your residence. Furthermore, you acknowledge and understand that
the transfer of the Data to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties is necessary for your participation in the Plan.         
   2   

(b) Prior to the time that the Restricted Stock Units are settled in Shares upon your Separation from
Service, you shall have no rights other than those of a general creditor of the Company. The Restricted Stock Units represent an unfunded and unsecured obligation of the Company.      (c) You may at any time withdraw the consents herein by contacting the Company s local human resources representative in writing. You further
acknowledge that withdrawal of consent may affect your ability to exercise or realize benefits from these Restricted Stock Units, and your ability to participate in the Plan.       11.    Governing Law  . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California without regard to the conflict of laws principles thereof.   
   12.    N otices . Any notice required or permitted under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed sufficient when delivered
personally or sent by confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the U.S. mail, as certified or registered mail, with postage prepaid, and addressed to the Company at the Company s principal corporate
offices or to you at the address maintained for you in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently modified by written notice to the other party.       13.    Binding Effect  . Subject to the limitations set forth in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the executors, administrators, heirs, legal
representatives, successors, and assigns of the parties hereto.       14.    Severability  . If any provision of this Agreement is held to be
unenforceable for any reason, it shall be adjusted rather than voided, if possible, in order to achieve the intent of the parties to the extent possible. In any event, all other provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed valid and enforceable to
the full extent possible.       

DATED:  

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.   

By:  

Title:  

GRANTEE   

3   

NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR ELECTION UNDER THE        CISCO SYSTEMS, INC. 2005 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN        INITIAL EQUITY AWARD
      I,
                                          
                , being a prospective newly elected or appointed non-employee member of the Board of Directors of Cisco Systems, Inc. (the  Company ) hereby elect
to defer the settlement of my total initial restricted stock unit award anticipated to be granted under the 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ) on
                           in connection with my initial election or appointment as a non-employee member of the Board of
Directors of the Company.      This election will be effective only if received by
                                          
                 on or before
                                          
                 [the date of the non-employee director s election or appointment].      If I do not elect to defer the settlement of my initial restricted stock unit grant, the restricted stock unit grant will be automatically settled in shares of the Company s common stock on, or as soon as
practicable after, the below described vesting dates of the restricted stock unit grant.      Fifty percent (50%) of my initial restricted stock unit
grant will vest upon the completion of one year of Board service measured from my initial appointment or election date and the remaining fifty percent (50%) will vest upon my completion of one year of Board service thereafter (subject to
acceleration in certain cases), as more fully set forth in the Stock Unit Agreement. I understand that if my  separation from service  within the meaning of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code ( Separation from
Service ) occurs before my restricted stock unit grant vests, any unvested portion will be forfeited.      I understand that if I elect to defer the
settlement of my initial restricted stock unit grant, any vested portion of my stock unit grant will not be settled in shares of the Company s common stock upon the above mentioned vesting dates, but instead will be settled in shares of the
Company s common stock on, or as soon as practicable after, my Separation from Service (which generally will be the date my service as a member of the Board of Directors of the Company terminates).      I understand that my receipt of shares of the Company s common stock pursuant to any stock unit grant will be taxed as ordinary income to me based on the value of
the shares on the date the stock unit grant is settled and I receive shares of the Company s common stock.       

Signature of Non-Employee Director  

Date   
     * Because individual circumstances vary, Cisco Systems, Inc. can not provide tax advice and you should consult
with your own tax advisor regarding the income tax consequences of your potential elections.    

NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR ELECTION UNDER THE        CISCO SYSTEMS, INC. 2005 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN        ANNUAL RETAINER  
EQUITY AWARD         ANNUAL RETAINER        I,
                                          
                , being a non-employee member of the Board of Directors of Cisco Systems, Inc. (the  Company ) hereby elect to receive (complete  either 
(a) or (b) below):       

(a)  
            % (insert 0%  OR  a percentage between 25% and 100%) of my total annual retainer for the next year of Board service
commencing at the next annual meeting of shareholders;         

(b)  
  $               (insert $0  OR  a dollar amount between $18,750 and $75,000) of my total annual retainer for
the next year of Board service commencing at the next annual meeting of shareholders;        in the form of (check either (i) or
(ii) below):      (i)                a fully vested deferred stock unit
grant which will be granted under the 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ) on November       , 200     based on the closing value of the Company s common stock on that date;   
  (ii)                a fully vested stock grant which will be granted under the Plan
on November       , 200     based on the closing value of the Company s common stock on that date.      I
understand that this election will be effective only if received by
                                       on or before
                       [December 31, [PRECEDING YEAR]].      I further understand that I will receive my annual retainer in the form of cash to the extent that I do not elect to receive it in the form of a stock unit grant or stock grant under the Plan on, or as soon as practicable after, the date of
the annual meeting of shareholders on                       , 20      .      I understand that, if I elect to receive a stock unit grant, any such stock unit grant will be settled in shares of the Company s common stock on, or as soon as
practicable after, my  separation from service  within the meaning of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code (which generally will be the date my service as a member of the Board of Directors of the Company terminates).   
  I further understand that my receipt of shares of the Company s common stock pursuant to any stock unit grant will be taxed as ordinary income to me based on the
value of the shares on the date the stock unit grant is settled and I receive shares of the Company s common stock.      I understand that, if I elect to
receive a stock grant, I will receive the shares representing any such stock grant on, or as soon as practicable after, the date of the annual shareholder meeting and that my receipt of a stock grant will be taxed as ordinary income to me based on
the value of the shares on the date of grant.   

ANNUAL EQUITY AWARD        I further (check one) (i)             ELECT  or (ii)             DO NOT ELECT  to defer the settlement of my total annual
restricted stock unit award anticipated to be granted under the 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ) on                       ,
20       immediately following the Company s 20       Annual Meeting of Shareholders.      I understand
that this election will be effective only if received by
                                       on or before
                       [December 31, [PRECEDING YEAR]].      If I do not elect to defer the settlement of my annual restricted stock unit grant, the above-mentioned restricted stock unit grant will be automatically settled in shares of the Company s common stock on, or as soon as practicable
after, the vesting of the restricted stock unit grant upon the completion of one year of Board service following the date of grant (subject to acceleration in certain cases), as more fully set forth in the Stock Unit Agreement. I understand that if
my  separation from service  within the meaning of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code ( Separation from Service ) occurs before my restricted stock unit grant vests, the grant will be forfeited.      I understand that if I elect to defer the settlement of the above-mentioned annual restricted stock unit grant, any vested portion of my restricted stock unit grant will
not be settled in shares of the Company s common stock upon the above-described vesting date, but instead will be settled in shares of the Company s common stock on, or as soon as practicable after, my Separation from Service (which
generally will be the date my service as a member of the Board of Directors of the Company terminates).      I understand that my receipt of shares of the
Company s common stock pursuant to any stock unit grant will be taxed as ordinary income to me based on the value of the shares on the date the stock unit grant is settled and I receive shares of the Company s common stock.       

Signature of Non-Employee Director  

Date   
     * Because individual circumstances vary, Cisco Systems, Inc. can not provide tax advice and you should consult
with your own tax advisor regarding the income tax consequences of your potential elections.    

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.        VESTING ACCELERATION POLICY        FOR        DEATH AND TERMINAL ILLNESS        AS        AMENDED JULY 26, 2007       Unless and until the
Compensation   Management Development Committee of the Board of Directors of Cisco Systems, Inc. determines otherwise, the following policy shall be applied to all equity awards issued under any equity plan maintained Cisco or any Cisco
subsidiary, including equity awards and/or equity plans assumed by Cisco in connection with its acquisition of companies, and held by any employee of Cisco or any Cisco subsidiary (each such award shall be referred to herein as an  equity
award ), except to the extent that the application of such policy would be prohibited by the applicable equity plan, equity award agreement or any applicable law, rule or regulation.      For purposes of this policy:       

the value of stock options and stock appreciation rights is based on the difference between the exercise price of the equity awards and the closing price of
Cisco s stock on the date of the employee s death or terminal illness, as applicable, or if such day is not a trading day, the last trading day prior to the date of death or terminal illness, as applicable; and

the value of stock grants, stock units, and unvested shares previously acquired pursuant to equity awards (such shares are referred to herein as  unvested
equity award shares ) is based on the difference between the purchase price, if any, and the closing price of Cisco s stock on the date of the employee s death or terminal illness, as applicable, or if such day is not a trading day,
the last trading day prior to the date of death or terminal illness, as applicable.          ACCELERATION UPON DEATH OF EMPLOYEE
      Upon the death of an employee, Cisco will accelerate the vesting of the employee s outstanding equity awards and any unvested equity award shares
up to a specified limit based on the value of the equity awards and/or shares on the date of death. The limit on the amount of accelerated vesting is the greater of: (a) one-hundred percent (100%) of the unvested equity awards and/or unvested equity
award shares up to a total value of $10 million; or (b) up to one year of vesting from the date of death as to all unvested equity awards and/or unvested equity award shares. For example, if an employee held unvested options for 100,000 shares with
an exercise price of $1 which would vest in four annual installments of 25,000 shares, and the closing price of Cisco s stock on the date of the employee s death was $101, all 100,000 of the shares would become vested (100,000 shares x
$100 (the difference between $101 and $1) = $10,000,000).       ACCELERATION UPON TERMINAL ILLNESS OF EMPLOYEE       Upon the terminal illness of an employee, Cisco will accelerate the vesting of the employee s outstanding equity awards and any unvested equity award shares up to a
specified limit based on the value of the equity awards and/or shares on the date of the terminal illness. An employee will be considered terminally ill upon the approval by Cisco s employee life insurance provider of the accelerated life
insurance benefit which indicates 12 months or less to live. The date of terminal illness will be the date the determination is made by Cisco s employee life insurance provider. The limit on the amount of accelerated vesting is the greater of:
(a) one-hundred percent (100%) of the unvested equity awards and/or unvested equity award shares up to a total value of $10 million; or (b) up to one year of vesting from the date of the terminal illness as to all unvested equity awards and/or
unvested equity award shares. For example, if an employee holds unvested options for 100,000 shares with an exercise price of $1 which would vest in four annual installments of 25,000 shares, and the closing price of Cisco s stock on the date
that the employee is determined to be terminally ill was $101, all 100,000 of the shares would become vested (100,000 shares x $100 (the difference between $101 and $1) = $10,000,000).   

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.        VESTING POLICY        FOR        LEAVES OF ABSENCE       Unless and until the Compensation   Management Development Committee of
the Board of Directors of Cisco Systems, Inc. determines otherwise, the following policy shall be applied to all equity awards issued under any equity plan maintained Cisco or any Cisco subsidiary, including equity awards and/or equity plans assumed
by Cisco in connection with its acquisition of companies, and held by any employee of Cisco or any Cisco subsidiary (each such award shall be referred to herein as an  equity award ), except to the extent that the application of such
policy would be prohibited by the applicable equity plan, equity award agreement or any applicable law, rule or regulation.       (Effective until
approximately November 2008)        SUSPENSION OF VESTING UPON AUTHORIZED LEAVE OF ABSENCE       The exercise or vesting schedule in effect for any outstanding equity award and any unvested shares previously acquired pursuant to any equity award (such shares referred
to herein as  unvested equity award shares ) held by an employee at the time of the employee s commencement of an authorized leave of absence shall be suspended as of the first day of the authorized leave of absence, and the equity
award and any unvested equity shares shall not vest and/or become exercisable for any additional shares during the period the employee remains on such leave of absence.       (Effective in or around November 2008)        90 DAYS CONTINUED VESTING ON AUTHORIZED LEAVES OF ABSENCE    
  The exercise or vesting schedule in effect for any outstanding equity award and any unvested shares previously acquired pursuant to any equity award (such shares
referred to herein as  unvested equity award shares ) held by an employee at the time of the employee s commencement of an authorized leave of absence shall continue to vest and/or become exercisable in accordance with the vesting
schedule set forth in the applicable equity award agreement during the period the employee remains on such authorized leave of absence; provided that, in no event shall any employee be entitled to vest for more than 90 days of authorized leaves of
absence during any rolling 12-month period (the  LOA Limit ).      If an employee exceeds the LOA Limit during any rolling 12-month period, the
unvested equity award shares held by such an employee shall be suspended immediately following the expiration of the LOA Limit and the equity award and any unvested equity shares shall not vest and/or become exercisable for any additional shares
during the remainder of the rolling 12-month period.   

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.        TRANSFER POLICY        FOR        DIVORCE       Unless and until the Compensation   Management Development Committee of the Board
of Directors of Cisco Systems, Inc. determines otherwise, the following policy shall be applied to all equity awards issued under any equity plan maintained Cisco or any Cisco subsidiary, including equity awards and/or equity plans assumed by Cisco
in connection with its acquisition of companies, and held by any employee of Cisco or any Cisco subsidiary (each such award shall be referred to herein as an  equity award ), except to the extent that the application of such policy would
be prohibited by the applicable equity plan, equity award agreement or any applicable law, rule or regulation.       PROHIBITION ON TRANSFER OF EQUITY AWARDS
UPON DIVORCE       Equity awards and any unvested shares acquired pursuant to equity awards shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished,
optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process in connection with the divorce of the holder of such equity award or shares.   

</EX-10.1>

<EX-10.14>
 3
 dex1014.htm
 FIRST AMENDMENT TO CREDIT AGREEMENT

First Amendment to Credit Agreement 

Exhibit 10.14       FIRST AMENDMENT TO CREDIT AGREEMENT      This FIRST AMENDMENT TO CREDIT AGREEMENT (this
  Amendment  ) is entered into as of April 30, 2009 among CISCO SYSTEMS, INC., a California corporation (the   Borrower  ), the Lenders (as defined in that certain Credit Agreement dated as of August 17, 2007
(as amended and modified from time to time, the   Credit Agreement  ) and BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and L/C Issuer (the   Administrative Agent  ). Capitalized terms used herein
and not otherwise defined shall have the meanings set forth in the Credit Agreement.       RECITALS       WHEREAS, the Borrower, the Lenders and the Administrative Agent are party to the Credit Agreement;      WHEREAS, the Borrower has requested a non-pro rata reduction in the Commitments under the Credit Agreement as described below; and      WHEREAS, the Lenders are willing to agree to such non-pro rata reduction subject to the terms set forth herein as more fully set forth below.   
  NOW THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:
      AGREEMENT       1.
 Amendment to Credit Agreement . The parties to the Credit Agreement hereby agree as follows:      (a) On the Effective
Date (as defined below), the Commitment of Lehman Commercial Paper Inc. (  LCPI  ) under the Credit Agreement, whether used or unused, is irrevocably reduced to zero ($0.00) and from and after the Effective Date, LCPI shall have no
further obligation to fund any amount or extend any credit under the Loan Documents;      (b) LCPI shall be entitled to the
commitment fee accrued for its account through and including the Effective Date, but not thereafter, which fees shall be payable to LCPI as provided in the Credit Agreement;      (c) The Aggregate Commitments are reduced by the amount of LCPI s Commitment from $3,000,000,000 to $2,880,000,000; and   
  (d)  Schedule 2.01  to the Credit Agreement is amended and restated in its entirety in the form of  Exhibit A 
attached to this Amendment.      2. Confirmation. The parties hereto hereby confirm that as of the Effective Date, all of the provisions of the
Credit Agreement, including, without limitation, Section 3.01 ( Taxes ), Section 3.04 ( Increased Costs; Reserves on Eurocurrency Rate Loans ) and Section 10.04 ( Expenses; Indemnity; Damage Waiver ), to the extent they
pertain to LCPI and, where applicable,   

its Related Parties, shall continue in effect for the benefit of LCPI in accordance with the terms thereof as expressly
amended hereby; provided, for purposes of clarity, that LCPI shall not be considered a  Lender  for purposes of Article VI, Section 10.01(d), (e) and (f), or the consent to Borrower s assignment under Section 10.06(a)
of the Credit Agreement (as amended by this Amendment).      3.  Effectiveness; Conditions Precedent .      This Amendment shall become effective on the date (the   Effective Date  ) on which:      (a) the Administrative Agent shall have received copies of this Amendment duly executed by the Borrower, Lenders comprising the Required
Lenders, LCPI and the Administrative Agent; and      (b) LCPI shall have received on behalf of the Borrower payment, free and
clear of any recoupment or set-off, in immediately available funds, of the commitment fee as described in Section 1(b) hereto;      it being understood
that if each of the above conditions precedent is satisfied no later than 12:00 p.m. on May 8, 2009, the Effective Date shall be deemed to be April 30, 2009.      4.  Ratification of Credit Agreement . The term  Credit Agreement  as used in each of the Loan Documents shall hereafter mean the Credit
Agreement as amended and modified by this Amendment. Except as herein specifically agreed, the Credit Agreement, as amended by this Amendment, is hereby ratified and confirmed and shall remain in full force and effect according to its terms. Each
party hereto acknowledges and consents to the modifications set forth herein and agrees that, other than as explicitly set forth in Section 1 above, this Amendment does not impair, reduce or limit any of its obligations under the Loan Documents
(including, without limitation, the indemnity obligations set forth therein) and that, after the date hereof, this Amendment shall constitute a Loan Document.      5.  Authority/Enforceability . The Borrower represents and warrants as follows:      (a)
It has taken all necessary action to authorize its execution, delivery and performance of this Amendment.      (b) This
Amendment has been duly executed and delivered by the Borrower and constitutes the Borrower s legal, valid and binding obligations, enforceable in accordance with its terms, except as such enforceability may be subject to (i) bankruptcy,
insolvency, reorganization, fraudulent conveyance or transfer, moratorium or similar laws affecting creditors  rights generally and (ii) general principles of equity (regardless of whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding
at law or in equity).      (c) No consent, approval, authorization or order of, or filing, registration or qualification with,
any court or governmental authority or third party is required in connection with the execution, delivery or performance by the Borrower of this Amendment.      (d) The execution and delivery of this Amendment does not (i) violate, contravene or conflict with any provision of its
organizational documents or (ii) materially violate, contravene or conflict with any Requirement of Law or any other law,  
       
   2   

regulation, order, writ, judgment, injunction, decree or permit applicable to it or any of its Subsidiaries.      6.  No Default . No event has occurred and is continuing which constitutes a Default or an Event of Default.      7.  Successors and Assigns . This Amendment shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the successors and permitted assigns of LCPI, the
Lenders and the Borrower.      8.  Severability . If any provision of this Amendment is held to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable,
(a) the legality, validity and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Amendment shall not be affected or impaired thereby and (b) the parties shall endeavor in good faith negotiations to replace the illegal, invalid or
unenforceable provisions with valid provisions the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions. The invalidity of a provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate or
render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.      9.  Counterparts/Telecopy . This Amendment may be executed in any
number of counterparts, each of which when so executed and delivered shall be an original, but all of which shall constitute one and the same instrument. Delivery of executed counterparts of this Amendment by telecopy or electronic transmission of a
 PDF  copy shall be effective as an original and shall constitute a representation that an original shall be delivered promptly upon request.      10.  GOVERNING LAW . THIS AMENDMENT AND THE RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF THE PARTIES HEREUNDER SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED AND INTERPRETED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.      [remainder of page intentionally left blank]         
   3   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be duly executed as of the date
first above written.      BORROWER:        

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.,   
 
  a California corporation   

By:          /s/ Roger
Biscay                                        

Name:     Roger
Biscay                                        

Title:       Assistant Treasurer                            

ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT:        

BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.,   
 
  as Administrative Agent   

By:          /s/ Jean
Mok                                         

Name:     Jean
Mok                                         

Title:       Vice President                             

LENDERS:        

BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.,   
 
  as a Lender, L/C Issuer and Swing Line Lender   

By:          /s/ Christine Felsing                         

Name:     Christine Felsing                               

Title:       Vice President                             

DEUTSCHE BANK AG NEW YORK BRANCH,   
 
  as a Lender and L/C Issuer   

By:          /s/ Andreas Neumeier                         

Name:     Andreas Neumeier                               

Title:       Managing Director                             

By:          /s/ Christine Bohn                         

Name:     Christine Bohn                               

Title:       Assistant Vice President                           

JP MORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A.,   
 
  as a Lender   

By:          /s/ Ann B. Kerns                         

Name:     Ann B. Kerns                               

Title:       Vice President                             

CITIBANK, N.A.,   
 
  as a Lender   

By:          /s/ Avrum Spiegel                         

Name:     Avrum Spiegel                               

Title:       Vice President                             

MERRILL LYNCH BANK USA,     as a
Lender    

By:   
     
           /s/ David Millett    

Name:   
     
      David Millett    

Title:   
     
        Vice President    

MORGAN STANLEY BANK,   
 
  as a Lender   

By:   
     
           /s/ Chris Whelan    

Name:   
     
      /s/ Chris Whelan    

Title:   
     
        SCO    

BARCLAYS BANK PLC,   
 
  as a Lender   

By:   
     
           /s/ Alicia Borys    

Name:   
     
      Alicia Borys    

Title:   
     
        Assistant Vice President    

BNP PARIBAS,   
 
  as a Lender   

By:   
     
           /s/ Jamie Dillon    

Name:   
     
      Jamie Dillon    

Title:   
     
        Managing Director    

By:   
     
           /s/ Joseph Mack    

Name:   
     
      Joseph Mack    

Title:   
     
        Vice President    

UBS LOAN FINANCE LLC,   
 
  as a Lender   

By:   
     
           /s/ Mary E. Evans    

Name:   
     
      Mary E. Evans    

Title:   
     
        Associate Director    

By:   
     
           /s/ Irja R. Olsa    

Name:   
     
      Irja R. Olsa    

Title:   
     
        Associate Director    

WILLIAM STREET COMMITMENT CORP.,   
 
  (Recourse only to assets of William Street Commitment Corp) as a Lender   

By:   
     
           /s/ Mark Walton    

Name:   
     
      Mark Walton    

Title:   
     
        Assistant Vice President    

WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,     as a
Lender    

By:  
     
         /s/ Karen McClain   

Name:  
     
    Karen McClain   

Title:  
     
      Managing Director   

ING BANK N.V.,     as a
Lender    

By:  
     
         /s/ M.H. Elfrink-Rijntjes   

Name:  
     
    M.H. Elfrink-Rijntjes   

Title:  
     
      Vice President   

By:  
     
         /s/ J.C. Stubenitsky   

Name:  
     
    J.C. Stubenitsky   

Title:  

WELLS FARGO BANK, N.A.,     as a
Lender    

By:  
     
         /s/ Margarita Chichioco   

Name:  
     
    Margarita Chichioco   

Title:  
     
      Senior Vice President   

STANDARD CHARTERED BANK,     as a
Lender    

By:  
     
         /s/ Brendan Herley   

Name:  
     
    Brendan Herley   

Title:  
     
      Director - Syndications   

By:  
     
         /s/ Robert K. Reddington   

Name:  
     
    Robert K. Reddington   

Title:  
     
      AVP/Credit Documentation Credit Risk Control   

Standard Chartered Bank N.Y.   

Lehman Commercial Paper Inc. hereby agrees to and acknowledges the terms of this Amendment and agrees and consents to its
Commitment under the Credit Agreement being eliminated.        

LEHMAN COMMERCIAL PAPER INC.   

By:  
     
         /s/ Ahuva Schwager   

Name:  
     
    Ahuva Schwager   

Title:  
     
      Authorized Signatory   

EXHIBIT A       SCHEDULE 2.01      COMMITMENTS AND APPLICABLE PERCENTAGES       

</EX-10.14>

<EX-13.1>
 4
 dex131.htm
 PAGES 5 TO 78 OF THE REGISTRANT'S 2009 ANNUAL REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS

Pages 5 to 78 of the Registrant's 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders 

Reports of Management             Exhibit 13.1        Statement of
Management s Responsibility       Cisco s management has always assumed full accountability for maintaining compliance with our established financial
accounting policies and for reporting our results with objectivity and the highest degree of integrity. It is critical for investors and other users of the Consolidated Financial Statements to have confidence that the financial information that we
provide is timely, complete, relevant, and accurate. Management is responsible for the fair presentation of Cisco s Consolidated Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America, and has full responsibility for their integrity and accuracy.      Management, with oversight by Cisco s Board of Directors, has established
and maintains a strong ethical climate so that our affairs are conducted to the highest standards of personal and corporate conduct. Management also has established an effective system of internal controls. Cisco s policies and practices
reflect corporate governance initiatives that are compliant with the listing requirements of NASDAQ and the corporate governance requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.      We are committed to enhancing shareholder value and fully understand and embrace our fiduciary oversight responsibilities. We are dedicated to ensuring that our
high standards of financial accounting and reporting, as well as our underlying system of internal controls, are maintained. Our culture demands integrity and we have the highest confidence in our processes, our internal controls and our people, who
are objective in their responsibilities and who operate under the highest level of ethical standards.       Management s Report on Internal
Control Over Financial Reporting       Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for Cisco.
Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. Internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that: (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of
the assets of the Company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the Company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or
disposition of the Company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.      Because of its inherent limitations, internal
control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.      Management (with the participation of the principal executive officer and
principal financial officer) conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of Cisco s internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in  Internal Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on this evaluation, management concluded that Cisco s internal control over financial reporting was effective as of July 25, 2009. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public
accounting firm, has audited the effectiveness of Cisco s internal control over financial reporting and has issued a report on Cisco s internal control over financial reporting, which is included in their report on the following page.

John T. Chambers   
     
  Frank A. Calderoni   
 
    Chairman and Chief Executive Officer   
     
  Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer   
 
    September 10, 2009   
     
  September 10, 2009   
       
   2009 Annual Report  5   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm             To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Cisco Systems, Inc.:    
  In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated statements of operations, of shareholders  equity and of cash flows appearing on
pages 39 to 42 present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Cisco Systems, Inc. and its subsidiaries at July 25, 2009 and July 26, 2008, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended July 25, 2009 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over
financial reporting as of July 25, 2009, based on criteria established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company s management is
responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management s
Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits
in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an
understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also
included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.      As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted new accounting rules for other-than-temporary impairments of debt securities in 2009, and for uncertain tax positions in 2008.      A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to
the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and
(iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.      Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.     

      San Jose, California      September 10, 2009
        
   6  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Selected Financial Data      Five Years Ended July 25, 2009 (in millions, except per-share amounts)            The
following selected financial data should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes which appear on pages 39 to 76 of this Annual Report:       
    Net income for fiscal 2009, 2008, 2007, and 2006 included share-based compensation expense of $915 million, $750 million,
$617 million, and $836 million, net of tax, during the respective years. There was no employee share-based compensation expense recognized in fiscal 2005 due to the application of recognition principles provided by a previous accounting standard in
effect for periods prior to fiscal 2006. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The effects of the acquisition of Scientific-Atlanta, Inc. ( Scientific-Atlanta ) in February 2006 are reflected in the above selected financial
data since that date.         
   2009 Annual Report  7   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
            Forward-Looking Statements       The Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward-looking statements regarding future events and our future results
that are subject to the safe harbors created under the Securities Act of 1933 (the  Securities Act ) and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ). All statements other than statements of historical facts are
statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections about the industries in which we operate and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. Words
such as  expects,   anticipates,   targets,   goals,   projects,   intends,   plans,   believes,   seeks,   estimates,   continues, 
 endeavors,   strives,   may,  variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements that refer to projections of our future financial
performance, our anticipated growth and trends in our businesses, and other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are only predictions and are
subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict, including those identified below, as well as on the inside back cover of this Annual Report to Shareholders and under  Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors,  and
elsewhere in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any
reason.       Overview       We sell IP-based networking and other
products and services related to the communications and IT industry. Our products and services are designed to address a wide range of customers  business needs, including improving productivity, reducing costs, and gaining a competitive
advantage. In addition, they are designed to help customers build their own network infrastructures that support tools and applications that allow them to communicate with key stakeholders, including customers, prospects, business partners,
suppliers, and employees. We focus on delivering networking products and solutions that simplify and secure customers  network infrastructures. We conduct our business globally and are managed geographically in five segments: United States and
Canada, European Markets, Emerging Markets, Asia Pacific, and Japan. Our product offerings fall into the following categories: our core technologies, routing and switching; advanced technologies; and other products. In addition to our product
offerings, we provide a broad range of service offerings, including technical support services and advanced services. Our customer base spans virtually all types of public and private agencies and businesses, comprising enterprise businesses,
service providers, commercial customers, and consumers.      For fiscal 2009, our total net sales decreased by approximately 9% compared with fiscal 2008.
Throughout the first half of fiscal 2009, our results were impacted by a deterioration in the global macroeconomic environment. In the third quarter of fiscal 2009, certain of our customers indicated to us that they had begun to notice some signs of
economic stability, though at lower overall levels of economic activity compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2008. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, we experienced our only quarterly sequential increase in revenue during fiscal 2009,
as our results for the fourth quarter returned to a more typical sequential pattern for us. While the stabilization in our fourth quarter results was encouraging, we are unable to determine whether or not this possible improvement in the global
macroeconomic environment is sustainable.      Net income decreased by 24% in fiscal 2009 compared with fiscal 2008 primarily as a result of the decline
in sales. Lower interest and other income in fiscal 2009 compared with fiscal 2008 also contributed to the decrease in net income. These factors were partially offset by lower operating expenses, attributable primarily to our initiatives to reduce
operating expenses. Net income per diluted share decreased by 20% in fiscal 2009 compared with fiscal 2008.       Strategy and Focus Areas       Our strategy in fiscal 2009 was centered on the increasing role of intelligent networks, collaboration and Web 2.0 technologies, the United States and selected emerging countries,
the network as the platform, and resource management and realignment. Our strategy draws in part from our experience in managing through previous economic downturns. As we have done in the past, we will attempt to use the economic downturn as an
opportunity to expand our share of our customers  information technology spending and to continue moving into product markets similar, related, or adjacent to those in which we currently are active, which we refer to as market adjacencies. We
have expanded our movement into market adjacencies primarily through realignment of resources, while simultaneously reducing aggregate expenses.      We
refer to the evolutionary process by which adjacencies arise as market transitions. One example of a market in which a significant market transition appears to be underway is the enterprise data center market. We believe the market is at an
inflection point, as awareness grows that intelligent networks are becoming the platform for productivity improvement and global competitiveness. We further believe that disruption in the enterprise data center market will accelerate in the next 12
months, due to changing technology trends such as the increasing adoption of virtualization and the rise in scalable processing. Virtualization is the process of aggregating the current siloed data center resources into unified, shared resource
pools that can be dynamically delivered to applications on demand thus providing the ability to move content and applications between devices and the network.        
   8  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
           This market transition is being brought about through the convergence of
networking, computing, storage, and software technologies. We are seeking to capitalize on this market transition through, among other things, our Cisco Unified Computing System and Cisco Nexus product families, which are designed to integrate the
previously siloed technologies in the enterprise data center with a unified architecture.      The competitive landscape in our markets is changing, and
we expect there will be a new class of very large, well-financed and aggressive competitors, each bringing its own new class of products to address this new enterprise data center market. However, with respect to this market, we believe the network
will be the intersection of innovation through an open ecosystem and standards. We expect to see acquisitions, industry consolidation, and new alliances among companies as they seek to serve the enterprise data center market. As we enter this
next market phase, we expect that we will strengthen certain strategic alliances, compete more with certain strategic alliances and partners, and perhaps also encounter new competitors, in our attempt to deliver the best solutions for our customers.
     Other market adjacencies on which we are focusing attention include those related to the increased role of video, collaboration, and networked Web
2.0 technologies across our customer markets. The key market transitions relative to the convergence of video, collaboration, and networked Web 2.0 technologies, which we believe will drive productivity and growth in network loads, appear to be
evolving even faster than we had anticipated earlier this year. Cisco TelePresence systems are one example of our product offerings that have incorporated video, collaboration, and networked Web 2.0 technologies, as customers evolve their
communications and business models.      We believe that the architectural approach that has served us well in addressing the market adjacencies in the
communications and information technology industry will be adaptable to other markets. Examples of market adjacencies where we aim to apply this approach are the consumer, electrical services infrastructure, and video market segments. For the
consumer market, through collaboration with technology partners, retailers, service providers, and content publishers, we are striving to create compelling consumer experiences and make the network the platform for a variety of services in the home,
as broadband development moves from a device-centric phase to a network-centric model. In the electrical services infrastructure market, we are developing an architecture for managing energy in a highly secure fashion on electrical grids at various
steps from energy generation to consumption in homes and buildings. With regard to the video market segment, we are focused on simplifying and expanding the creation, distribution, and use of end-to-end video solutions for businesses and consumers.
     Our approach of moving into market adjacencies has contributed to the growth we experienced in the past. During fiscal 2009, we delivered several new
products, and we are pleased with the breadth and depth of our innovation across almost all aspects of our business and the impact that we believe this innovation will have on our long-term prospects. We believe that our strategy and our ability to
innovate and execute may enable us to improve our relative competitive position in difficult business conditions and may continue to provide us with long-term growth opportunities.       Revenue       We experienced a decline in net product sales across all of our geographic theaters during fiscal 2009 as net product sales
declined by 12% compared with fiscal 2008. The United States and Canada theater experienced weakness in the service provider market, the enterprise market excluding the public sector, and the commercial market. The decline in net product sales in
our Emerging Markets theater was driven by sales decreases in Russia, Brazil, and Mexico, partly due to lower shipments and the timing of revenue recognition. The product sales decline in our Asia Pacific theater was driven primarily by sales
declines in South Korea and India. Product sales also declined across all of our customer markets. However, within the enterprise market, the public sector showed relative strength across most of our geographic theaters.      In addition, the decrease in net product sales was reflected across all our product categories including routing, switching and advanced technologies. Within the
advanced technologies category certain product lines showed relative strength, such as unified communications, which had a slight increase in sales in fiscal 2009, while sales of video systems were relatively flat. The decrease in our sales of
routing products in fiscal 2009 resulted from lower sales of all categories of routers, particularly high-end routers. The decrease in switching revenue in fiscal 2009 reflected a decline in sales of both modular and fixed-configuration switches.
     Net service revenue increased by approximately 8% compared with fiscal 2008, reflecting increased service revenue across our geographic theaters. Our
service and support strategy seeks to capitalize on increased globalization. We believe this strategy, along with our architectural approach, has the potential to further differentiate us from competitors.         
   2009 Annual Report  9   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
            Gross Margin       In fiscal 2009, our gross margin percentage decreased slightly compared with fiscal 2008, reflecting a lower product gross margin percentage, partially offset by a higher service gross margin percentage. The lower product gross
margin percentage was due to higher sales discounts and rebates, lower product pricing, lower shipment volume and unfavorable product mix, partially offset by lower overall manufacturing costs. The increase in the service gross margin percentage was
primarily due to higher margins for technical support and advanced services and favorable mix between these categories. Our product and service gross margins may be impacted by economic downturns or uncertain economic conditions as well as our
movement into market adjacencies and could decline if any of the factors that impact our gross margins are adversely affected in future periods.       Operating
Expenses       During fiscal 2009, we realigned our resources to reduce expenses in response to the macroeconomic environment while maintaining the focus on our
priorities. Operating expenses in fiscal 2009 decreased in absolute dollars, but increased as a percentage of revenue, compared with fiscal 2008. The decrease in absolute dollars was attributable to lower discretionary expenses, lower variable
compensation expenses, lower acquisition-related compensation expenses, and favorable foreign currency exchange rates. During the second half of fiscal 2009, we offered an enhanced early retirement program to eligible employees and also undertook
limited workforce reduction actions, which increased our operating expenses.       Other Key Financial Measures       The following is a summary of our other key financial measures for fiscal 2009:       

We repurchased approximately 202 million shares of our common stock at an average price of $17.89 per share for an aggregate purchase price of $3.6 billion during fiscal
2009.          

Days sales outstanding in accounts receivable (DSO) at the end of fiscal 2009 was 34 days, the same as it was at the end of fiscal 2008.          

During the third quarter of fiscal 2009, we completed an offering of senior unsecured notes in an aggregate principal amount of $4.0 billion and retired $500 million of
senior unsecured notes when they were due.          
    We believe that our strong cash position and cash flows, our solid balance sheet, our visibility into our supply chain, our high-quality investment portfolio management, and our
financing capabilities together provide a key competitive advantage and collectively have enabled us to be well positioned to manage our business through the economic downturn that affected us during fiscal 2009, and prepare for any possible upturn.
        
   10  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
            Critical Accounting Estimates       The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires us to make judgments,
assumptions, and estimates that affect the amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes. Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements describes the significant accounting policies and methods used in the
preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements. The accounting policies described below are significantly affected by critical accounting estimates. Such accounting policies require significant judgments, assumptions, and estimates used in the
preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements, and actual results could differ materially from the amounts reported based on these policies. We ensured that our accounting-based judgments and estimates appropriately considered the
macroeconomic environment.       Revenue Recognition       Our products are generally
integrated with software that is essential to the functionality of the equipment. Additionally, we provide unspecified software upgrades and enhancements related to the equipment through our maintenance contracts for most of our products.
Accordingly, we account for revenue in accordance with Statement of Position No. 97-2,  Software Revenue Recognition,  and all related interpretations. For sales of products where software is incidental to the equipment, or in hosting
arrangements, we apply the provisions of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104,  Revenue Recognition,  and all related interpretations. Revenue is recognized when all of the following criteria have been met:       

When persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists.  Contracts, Internet commerce agreements, and customer purchase orders are generally used to determine the existence
of an arrangement.          

Delivery has occurred.  Shipping documents and customer acceptance, when applicable, are used to verify delivery.          

The fee is fixed or determinable.  We assess whether the fee is fixed or determinable based on the payment terms associated with the transaction and whether the sales
price is subject to refund or adjustment.          

Collectibility is reasonably assured.  We assess collectibility based primarily on the creditworthiness of the customer as determined by credit checks and analysis, as
well as the customer s payment history.         In instances where final acceptance of the product, system, or solution is specified by the customer,
revenue is deferred until all acceptance criteria have been met. When a sale involves multiple elements, such as sales of products that include services, the entire fee from the arrangement is allocated to each respective element based on its
relative fair value and recognized when revenue recognition criteria for each element are met. The amount of product and service revenue recognized in a given period is affected by our judgment as to whether an arrangement includes multiple elements
and, if so, whether vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value exists. Changes to the elements in an arrangement and our ability to establish vendor-specific objective evidence for those elements could affect the timing of the revenue
recognition.      Revenue deferrals relate to the timing of revenue recognition for specific transactions based on financing arrangements, service,
support, and other factors. Financing arrangements may include sales-type, direct-financing, and operating leases, loans, and guarantees of third-party financing. Our total deferred revenue for products was $2.9 billion and $2.7 billion as of
July 25, 2009 and July 26, 2008, respectively. Technical support services revenue is deferred and recognized ratably over the period during which the services are to be performed, which typically is from one to three years. Advanced
services revenue is recognized upon delivery or completion of performance. Our total deferred revenue for services was $6.5 billion and $6.1 billion as of July 25, 2009 and July 26, 2008, respectively.      We make sales to distributors and retail partners and recognize revenue based on a sell-through method using information provided by them. Our distributors and
retail partners participate in various cooperative marketing and other programs, and we maintain estimated accruals and allowances for these programs. If actual credits received by our distributors and retail partners under these programs were to
deviate significantly from our estimates, which are based on historical experience, our revenue could be adversely affected.         
   2009 Annual Report  11   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
            Allowances for Receivables and Sales Returns       The allowances for receivables were as follows (in millions, except percentages):       
    The allowances are based on our assessment of the collectibility of customer accounts. We regularly review the allowances to
ensure their adequacy by considering factors such as historical experience, credit quality, age of the receivable balances, and economic conditions that may affect a customer s ability to pay. In addition, we perform credit reviews and
statistical portfolio analysis to assess the credit quality of our receivables. We also consider the concentration of receivables outstanding with a particular customer in assessing the adequacy of our allowances. If a major customer s
creditworthiness deteriorates, or if actual defaults are higher than our historical experience, or if other circumstances arise, our estimates of the recoverability of amounts due to us could be overstated, and additional allowances could be
required, which could have an adverse impact on our revenue.      A reserve for future sales returns is established based on historical trends in product
return rates. The reserve for future sales returns as of July 25, 2009 and July 26, 2008 was $75 million and $103 million, respectively, and was recorded as a reduction of our accounts receivable. If the actual future returns were to
deviate from the historical data on which the reserve had been established, our revenue could be adversely affected.       Inventory Valuation and Liability for
Purchase Commitments with Contract Manufacturers and Suppliers       Our inventory balance was $1.1 billion and $1.2 billion as of July 25, 2009 and July 26,
2008, respectively. Inventory is written down based on excess and obsolete inventories determined primarily by future demand forecasts. Inventory write-downs are measured as the difference between the cost of the inventory and market, based upon
assumptions about future demand, and are charged to the provision for inventory, which is a component of our cost of sales. At the point of the loss recognition, a new, lower cost basis for that inventory is established, and subsequent changes in
facts and circumstances do not result in the restoration or increase in that newly established cost basis.      We record a liability for firm,
noncancelable, and unconditional purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers for quantities in excess of our future demand forecasts consistent with the valuation of our excess and obsolete inventory. As of July 25, 2009, the
liability for these purchase commitments was $175 million, compared with $184 million as of July 26, 2008, and was included in other current liabilities.      Our provision for inventory was $93 million, $102 million, and $214 million for fiscal 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. The provision for the liability related to purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers was $87
million, $97 million, and $34 million in fiscal 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. If there were to be a sudden and significant decrease in demand for our products, or if there were a higher incidence of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly
changing technology and customer requirements, we could be required to increase our inventory write-downs and our liability for purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers and gross margin could be adversely affected. In light of
the macroeconomic conditions in fiscal 2009 and the resulting potential for changes in future demand forecasts, we continued to regularly evaluate the exposure for inventory write-downs and the adequacy of our liability for purchase commitments.
Inventory and supply chain management remain areas of focus as we balance the need to maintain supply chain flexibility to help ensure competitive lead times with the risk of inventory obsolescence.       Warranty Costs       The liability for product warranties, included in other current
liabilities, was $321 million as of July 25, 2009, compared with $399 million as of July 26, 2008. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Our products are generally covered by a warranty for periods ranging from 90 days to
five years, and for some products we provide a limited lifetime warranty. We accrue for warranty costs as part of our cost of sales based on associated material costs, technical support labor costs, and associated overhead. Material cost is
estimated based primarily upon historical trends in the volume of product returns within the warranty period and the cost to repair or replace the equipment. Technical support labor cost is estimated based primarily upon historical trends in the
rate of customer cases and the cost to support the customer cases within the warranty period. Overhead cost is applied based on estimated time to support warranty activities.         
   12  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
           The provision for product warranties issued during fiscal 2009, 2008,
and 2007 was $374 million, $511 million, and $510 million, respectively. The decrease in the provision for product warranties issued during fiscal 2009 was driven primarily by lower product revenue, a decrease in the cost of servicing warranty
claims, and lower warranty claims. If we experience an increase in warranty claims compared with our historical experience, or if the cost of servicing warranty claims is greater than expected, our gross margin could be adversely affected.
      Share-Based Compensation Expense       Total share-based compensation expenses
are summarized as follows (in millions):       
    The determination of fair value of share-based payment awards on the date of grant using an option-pricing model is affected
by our stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of highly complex and subjective variables. For employee stock options and employee stock purchase rights, these variables include, but are not limited to, the expected stock price
volatility over the term of the awards, risk-free interest rate and expected dividends. For employee stock options, we used the implied volatility for two-year traded options on our stock as the expected volatility assumption required in the
lattice-binomial model. For employee stock purchase rights, we used the implied volatility for traded options (with lives corresponding to the expected life of the employee stock purchase rights) on our stock. The selection of the implied volatility
approach was based upon the availability of actively traded options on our stock and our assessment that implied volatility is more representative of future stock price trends than historical volatility. The valuation of employee stock options is
also impacted by kurtosis, and skewness, which are technical measures of the distribution of stock price returns, and the actual and projected employee stock option exercise behaviors.      Because share-based compensation expense recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Operations is based on awards ultimately expected to vest, it has been reduced
for forfeitures. If factors change and we employ different assumptions in the application of our option-pricing model in future periods or if we experience different forfeiture rates, the compensation expense that is derived may differ significantly
from what we have recorded in the current year.       Fair Value Measurements       Effective July 27, 2008, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements  ( SFAS 157 ) and its applicable Financial Accounting Standards Board Staff
Positions ( FSPs ) in determining the fair value of our investment securities. Our fixed income and publicly traded equity securities, collectively, are reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at a fair value of $29.3 billion as of
July 25, 2009, compared with $21.0 billion as of July 26, 2008. Our fixed income investment portfolio consists primarily of high-quality investment grade securities and as of July 25, 2009 had a weighted-average credit rating
exceeding AA. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.      As described more fully in Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, SFAS
157 establishes a valuation hierarchy based on the level of independent, objective evidence available regarding the value of the investments. It establishes three classes of investments: Level 1 consists of securities for which there are quoted
prices in active markets for identical securities; Level 2 consists of securities for which observable inputs other than Level 1 inputs are used, such as prices for similar securities in active markets or for identical securities in less active
markets and model-derived valuations for which the variables are derived from, or corroborated by, observable market data; and Level 3 consists of securities for which there are unobservable inputs to the valuation methodology that are significant
to the measurement of the fair value.      Our Level 2 securities are valued using quoted market prices for similar instruments, nonbinding market prices
that are corroborated by observable market data, or discounted cash flow techniques in limited circumstances. We use inputs such as actual trade data, benchmark yields, broker/dealer quotes, and other similar data, which are obtained from
independent pricing vendors, quoted market prices, or other sources to determine the ultimate fair value of our assets and liabilities. We use such pricing data as the primary input, to which we have not made any material adjustments during fiscal
2009 to make our assessments and determinations as to the ultimate valuation of our investment portfolio. We are ultimately responsible for the financial statements and underlying estimates.      The inputs and fair value are reviewed for reasonableness, may be further validated by comparison to publicly available information and could be adjusted based on
market indices or other information that management deems material to their estimate of fair value. In the current market environment, the assessment of fair value can be difficult and subjective. However, given the relative reliability of the
inputs we use to value our investment portfolio, and because substantially all of our valuation inputs are obtained using quoted market prices for similar or identical assets, we do not believe that the nature of estimates and assumptions affected
by levels of subjectivity and judgment was material to the valuation of the investment portfolio as of July 25, 2009. Level 3 assets do not represent a significant portion of our total investment portfolio as of July 25, 2009.   
     
   2009 Annual Report  13   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
            Other-Than-Temporary Impairments   We recognize an impairment charge
when the declines in the fair values of our fixed income or publicly traded equity securities below their cost basis are judged to be other than temporary. The ultimate value realized on these securities, to the extent unhedged, is subject to market
price volatility until they are sold.      Effective at the beginning of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, we were required to evaluate our fixed income
securities for impairments in connection with the recognition provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) Staff Position FAS 115-2 and FAS 124-2,  Recognition and Presentation of Other-Than-Temporary Impairments 
( FSP 115-2 ). If the fair value of a debt security is less than its amortized cost, we assess whether the impairment is other than temporary. Under FSP 115-2, an impairment is considered other than temporary if (i) we have the intent
to sell the security, (ii) it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery of its entire amortized cost basis, or (iii) we do not expect to recover the entire amortized cost of the security. If an
impairment is considered other than temporary based on (i) or (ii) described above, the entire difference between the amortized cost and the fair value of the security is recognized in earnings. If an impairment is considered other than
temporary based on condition (iii), the amount representing credit losses, defined as the difference between the present value of the cash flows expected to be collected and the amortized cost basis of the debt security, will be recognized in
earnings and the amount relating to all other factors will be recognized in other comprehensive income (OCI). In estimating the amount and timing of cash flows expected to be collected, we consider all available information including past events,
current conditions, the remaining payment terms of the security, the financial condition of the issuer, expected defaults, and the value of underlying collateral. We did not have any impairment charges on fixed income securities subsequent to the
adoption of FSP 115-2. Prior to the adoption of FSP 115-2, we recognized impairment charges on fixed income securities using the impairment policy as is currently applied to publicly traded equity securities, as discussed below.      For publicly traded equity securities, we consider various factors in determining whether we should recognize an impairment charge, including the length of time and
extent to which the fair value has been less than our cost basis, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, and our intent and ability to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery
in market value.      The total impairment charges that were recognized in earnings on investments in fixed income securities and publicly traded equity
securities were $258 million for fiscal 2009. There were no such impairments in either fiscal 2008 or fiscal 2007. Our ongoing consideration of all the factors described above could result in additional impairment charges in the future, which could
adversely affect our net income.      We also have investments in privately held companies, some of which are in the startup or development stages. As of
July 25, 2009, our investments in privately held companies were $709 million, compared with $706 million as of July 26, 2008, and were included in other assets. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We monitor these
investments for events or circumstances indicative of potential impairment and will make appropriate reductions in carrying values if we determine that an impairment charge is required, based primarily on the financial condition and near-term
prospects of these companies. These investments are inherently risky because the markets for the technologies or products these companies are developing are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. Our impairment charges on
investments in privately held companies were $85 million, $12 million, and $22 million in fiscal 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively.       Goodwill Impairments  
     Our methodology for allocating the purchase price relating to purchase acquisitions is determined through established valuation techniques. Goodwill is measured as
the excess of the cost of acquisition over the sum of the amounts assigned to tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired less liabilities assumed. We perform goodwill impairment tests on an annual basis in the fourth fiscal quarter and
between annual tests in certain circumstances for each reporting unit. The goodwill recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of July 25, 2009 and July 26, 2008 was $12.9 billion and $12.4 billion, respectively. In response to changes
in industry and market conditions, we could be required to strategically realign our resources and consider restructuring, disposing of, or otherwise exiting businesses, which could result in an impairment of goodwill. There was no impairment of
goodwill in fiscal 2009, 2008, or 2007. We performed a sensitivity analysis for goodwill impairment with respect to each of our respective reporting units and determined that a hypothetical 10% decline in the fair value of each reporting unit as of
July 25, 2009 would not result in an impairment of goodwill for any reporting unit.       Income Taxes       We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our effective tax rates differ from the statutory rate primarily due to the tax impact of
state taxes, foreign operations, research and development (R D) tax credits, tax audit settlements, nondeductible compensation, international realignments, and transfer pricing adjustments. Our effective tax rate was 20.3%, 21.5%, and 22.5% in
fiscal 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively.         
   14  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
           Significant judgment is required in evaluating our uncertain tax
positions and determining our provision for income taxes. Although we believe our reserves are reasonable, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be different from that which is reflected in our historical
income tax provisions and accruals. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit or the refinement of an estimate. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different
than the amounts recorded, such differences will impact the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. The provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are
considered appropriate, as well as the related net interest.      Significant judgment is also required in determining any valuation allowance recorded
against deferred tax assets. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider all available evidence, including past operating results, estimates of future taxable income, and the feasibility of tax planning strategies. In the event that
we change our determination as to the amount of deferred tax assets that can be realized, we will adjust our valuation allowance with a corresponding impact to the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made.
     Our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely impacted by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries that
have lower tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries that have higher tax rates; by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; by expiration of or lapses in the R D tax credit laws; by transfer pricing
adjustments including the effect of acquisitions on our intercompany R D cost sharing arrangement and legal structure; by tax effects of nondeductible compensation; by tax costs related to intercompany realignments; by changes in accounting
principles; or by changes in tax laws and regulations including possible U.S. changes to the taxation of earnings of our foreign subsidiaries, the deductibility of expenses attributable to foreign income, or the foreign tax credit
rules. Significant judgment is required to determine the recognition and measurement attribute prescribed in FASB Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  an interpretation of FASB Statement
No. 109  ( FIN 48 ). FIN 48 applies to all income tax positions, including the potential recovery of previously paid taxes, which if settled unfavorably could have an adverse impact on our provision for income taxes or additional
paid-in capital. Further, as a result of certain of our ongoing employment and capital investment actions and commitments, our income in certain countries is subject to reduced tax rates and in some cases is wholly exempt from tax. Our failure to
meet these commitments could adversely affect our provision for income taxes. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) and other tax authorities. We
regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an
adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition.       Loss Contingencies       We are subject to the possibility of various losses arising in the ordinary course of business. We consider the likelihood of loss or impairment of an asset or the incurrence of a liability, as well as our ability to reasonably
estimate the amount of loss, in determining loss contingencies. An estimated loss contingency is accrued when it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. We
regularly evaluate current information available to us to determine whether such accruals should be adjusted and whether new accruals are required.      Third parties, including customers, have in the past and may in the future assert claims or initiate litigation related to exclusive patent, copyright, trademark, and other intellectual property rights to technologies and related standards
that are relevant to us. These assertions have increased over time as a result of our growth and the general increase in the pace of patent claims assertions, particularly in the United States. If any infringement or other intellectual property
claim made against us by any third party is successful, or if we fail to develop non-infringing technology or license the proprietary rights on commercially reasonable terms and conditions, our business, operating results, and financial condition
could be materially and adversely affected.       Reclassifications       During fiscal 2009, we began to allocate certain costs, which had previously been recorded in general and administrative expenses (related to information technology, our financing business, and human resources), to sales and marketing
expenses, R D expenses, and cost of sales, as applicable. These changes were reflected accordingly in prior years for comparison purposes. In connection with these changes, we also reclassified gross margin amounts by theater in prior years. In
addition, we have made certain reclassifications to amounts for prior years relating to net sales by theater and net product sales by groups of similar products due to refinement of the respective categories, in order to conform to the current
year s presentation.         
   2009 Annual Report  15   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
            Discussion of Fiscal 2009, 2008, and 2007        Net Sales       The following table presents the breakdown of net sales between product and
service revenue (in millions, except percentages):       
    We primarily manage our business on a geographic basis, and we are organized into five geographic theaters. Our net sales,
which include product and service revenue, for each theater are summarized in the following table (in millions, except percentages):       
      Fiscal 2009 Compared with Fiscal 2008        We experienced a decline in our net product sales in fiscal 2009 compared with fiscal 2008, while our service revenue showed a year- over-year increase. The global economic downturn and the effect it has had on information
technology spending resulted in year- over-year decreases in product sales in our service provider, commercial, enterprise, and consumer markets and across all our geographic theaters. However, within our enterprise market, the public sector showed
relative strength across most of our geographic theaters, compared with other customer markets within the respective theaters. Our net product sales may continue to be impacted by weakness in the macroeconomic environment. Service revenue increased
across all theaters, led by higher sales in the Emerging Markets theater.      We conduct business globally in numerous currencies. The direct effect of
foreign currency fluctuations on sales has not been material because our sales are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars. However, if the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to other currencies, such strengthening could have an indirect effect on our
sales to the extent it raises the cost of our products to non-U.S. customers and thereby reduces demand. A weaker U.S. dollar could have the opposite effect. However, the precise indirect effect of currency fluctuations is difficult to measure or
predict because our sales are influenced by many factors in addition to the impact of such currency fluctuations.      Net sales by theater in a
particular period may be significantly impacted by several factors related to revenue recognition, including large and sporadic purchases by customers particularly in our service provider market; the complexity of transactions such as multiple
element arrangements; the mix of financings provided to our channel partners and end-user customers; and final acceptance of the product, system, or solution, among other factors.        Fiscal 2008 Compared with Fiscal 2007        For fiscal 2008, total revenue increased in each of our geographic theaters and customer
markets compared with fiscal 2007 as we benefited from increased IT-related capital spending in our markets. Our sales also benefited from our entry into new markets and the development of adjacent product offerings.         
   16  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
            Net Product Sales by Theater       The following table presents the breakdown of net product sales by theater (in millions, except percentages):       
     United States and Canada         Fiscal 2009 Compared with Fiscal 2008        Net product sales in the United States and Canada theater decreased during fiscal 2009 compared with
fiscal 2008 as a result of the unfavorable economic and market conditions and the associated impact on information technology spending. The decrease was driven by lower sales in the service provider and commercial markets and to a lesser extent by
lower sales in the enterprise market. In fiscal 2009, sales in the service provider market in the United States were particularly affected by lower spending by a few of the large customers in that market. Sales in our commercial and enterprise
markets decreased in fiscal 2009, primarily due to cautious spending by customers in these markets. Within our enterprise market, sales to the U.S. federal government showed relative strength, with increased sales in fiscal 2009 compared with fiscal
2008, while our sales to state and local governments decreased in fiscal 2009.        Fiscal 2008 Compared with Fiscal 2007        Net product sales in the United States and Canada theater increased during fiscal 2008 compared with fiscal 2007; however, during the second half of fiscal 2008, we experienced
slower growth in net product sales in this theater due to unfavorable economic and market conditions and the associated impact on information technology spending. In particular, during the second half of fiscal 2008, we experienced slower
year-over-year growth in sales in the service provider market in the United States due to lower spending by a few large customers, after having experienced higher year-over-year growth during the first six months of fiscal 2008. In the enterprise
market, our product sales were relatively flat in fiscal 2008 compared with fiscal 2007 despite increased sales to the U.S. federal government. In the commercial market, we experienced an increase in net product sales in fiscal 2008 compared with
fiscal 2007, due in part to the contribution of sales from WebEx Communications, Inc. ( WebEx ), which we acquired during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007.       European Markets         Fiscal 2009 Compared with Fiscal 2008        The decrease in net product sales in the European Markets theater in fiscal 2009 compared with fiscal 2008 was driven by lower sales to the service provider, commercial, and enterprise markets. Despite a decline in sales in our overall
enterprise market in this theater, sales to the public sector showed strength relative to other customer markets within this theater. The decline in sales for fiscal 2009 was experienced across the major countries in the European Markets theater,
and particularly in the United Kingdom, Italy, and Germany.        Fiscal 2008 Compared with Fiscal 2007        The increase in net product sales in the European Markets theater in fiscal 2008 was attributable to growth across our customer markets, with particular strength in the commercial
market. In fiscal 2008, we experienced strong revenue growth in Germany and the United Kingdom, although we experienced slower year-over-year growth in sales in the European Markets overall compared with fiscal 2007.         
   2009 Annual Report  17   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
            Emerging Markets         Fiscal 2009 Compared with Fiscal 2008        Net product sales in the Emerging Markets theater decreased across all customer market
segments in fiscal 2009 compared with fiscal 2008, primarily due to lower sales to the service provider, commercial and enterprise markets. We also experienced a sales decline in fiscal 2009 across most countries in this theater, with particular
weakness in Russia, Brazil, and Mexico. In addition to the impact from lower shipments, the decline in net product sales in this theater in fiscal 2009 was also due to the timing of revenue recognition for sales involving financing arrangements.
Certain of our customers in the Emerging Markets theater tend to make large and sporadic purchases, and the net sales related to these transactions may also be affected by the timing of revenue recognition. Further, some customers may continue to
require greater levels of financing arrangements, service, and support in future periods, which may also impact the timing of recognition of the revenue for this theater.        Fiscal 2008 Compared with Fiscal 2007        Net product sales in the Emerging Markets theater increased in fiscal 2008 due to increased shipments
and recognition of previously deferred revenue. In fiscal 2008, we experienced continued network deployments across our customer markets in this theater, with particular strength in Brazil and Russia.       Asia Pacific         Fiscal 2009 Compared with Fiscal 2008        The decrease in net product sales in the Asia Pacific theater in fiscal 2009 compared with fiscal 2008 was reflected across all the customer market segments. The decrease was
driven by lower sales in the enterprise and service provider markets, and to a lesser extent in the commercial market. The year-over-year decline in net product sales was experienced across most of the major countries in this theater, particularly
in South Korea and India. Net product sales in Australia remained relatively flat and China exhibited only a slight decline in net product sales in fiscal 2009 compared with fiscal 2008.        Fiscal 2008 Compared with Fiscal 2007        The increase in net product sales in the Asia Pacific theater in fiscal 2008 was primarily
attributable to the balanced growth in the enterprise, service provider, and commercial markets. In particular, China and India experienced strong growth in fiscal 2008.       Japan         Fiscal 2009 Compared with Fiscal 2008        Net
product sales in the Japan theater decreased in fiscal 2009 compared with fiscal 2008 primarily due to a decline in sales to the service provider market and a decline in sales to the enterprise market, excluding the public sector. Net product sales
to the public sector within the enterprise market increased in this theater.        Fiscal 2008 Compared with Fiscal 2007        Net product sales in the Japan theater increased in fiscal 2008 primarily due to service providers building out next-generation networks.         
   18  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
            Net Product Sales by Groups of Similar Products       In addition to the primary view on a geographic basis, we also prepare financial information related to groups of similar products and customer markets for various purposes. The
following table presents net sales for groups of similar products (in millions, except percentages):       
     Routers        Fiscal 2009 Compared
with Fiscal 2008        We categorize our routers primarily as high-end, midrange, and low-end routers. Our sales of routers decreased across each of these
categories with the decline in sales of high-end routers of approximately $1.1 billion representing the most significant decrease in dollar and percentage terms. Within the high-end router category, the decline was driven by the lower sales of Cisco
12000 Series Routers, Cisco 7600 Series Routers, and Cisco CRS-1 Carrier Routing System, partially offset by an increase in sales of Cisco ASR 1000 Series Aggregation Services Routers. Because our high-end routers are sold primarily to service
providers, our high-end router sales during fiscal 2009 were adversely impacted by, among other factors, a slowdown in capital expenditures in the global service provider market, and the tendency of service providers to make large and sporadic
purchases. Our decline in sales of midrange and low-end routers was primarily due to a decline in sales of our integrated services routers.        Fiscal 2008
Compared with Fiscal 2007        The increase in net product sales related to routers in fiscal 2008 compared with fiscal 2007 was primarily due to higher sales of
our high-end routers, with strength in our Cisco CRS-1 Carrier Routing System and Cisco 7600 Series Routers. Sales of our high-end routers increased by approximately $845 million in fiscal 2008 compared with fiscal 2007, which was partially offset
by the decrease in sales of midrange routers. We believe that the increase in high-end router sales was attributable to service providers scaling their network capacity to accommodate actual and projected increases in data, voice, video traffic and
implementation of next-generation networks to provide customized solutions. In fiscal 2008, our sales of our integrated services routers also increased and contributed to growth in sales of our advanced technologies products, such as our
security, unified communications, and wireless offerings.       Switches        Fiscal 2009 Compared with Fiscal 2008        The decrease in net product sales related to switches in fiscal 2009 compared with fiscal 2008 was due
to lower sales in modular switches and local-area network (LAN) fixed-configuration switches of approximately $740 million and approximately $690 million, respectively. The decrease in sales of modular switches was primarily due to decreased sales
of Cisco Catalyst 6500 and 4500 Series Switches, partially offset by increased sales of Cisco Nexus 7000 Series Switches. The decrease in sales of LAN fixed-configuration switches was primarily a result of lower sales of Cisco Catalyst 3560 and 3750
Series Switches.        Fiscal 2008 Compared with Fiscal 2007        The
increase in net product sales related to switches in fiscal 2008 was primarily due to higher sales of LAN fixed-configuration switches, which increased in fiscal 2008 by approximately $860 million compared with fiscal 2007, with the increase driven
primarily by higher sales of the Cisco Catalyst 2960, 3560, and 3750 Series Switches. The increase in sales of LAN fixed-configuration switches was a result of the continued adoption by our customers of new technologies throughout their networks
from the data center to the wiring closet. Additionally, growth in fiscal 2008 in advanced technologies, such as unified communications and wireless LANs, created demand for LAN fixed-configuration infrastructure as additional endpoints were added
to the network. Net product sales related to our modular switches increased slightly in fiscal 2008 compared with fiscal 2007.         
   2009 Annual Report  19   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
            Advanced Technologies        Fiscal 2009 Compared with Fiscal 2008         

Sales of unified communications products increased by approximately $30 million, primarily due to increased adoption of our web-based collaborative applications and related
conferencing media, partially offset by lower sales of IP phones and associated software.         

Sales of video systems were relatively flat for fiscal 2009 compared with fiscal 2008, as the increased sales of IP set-top boxes and other video products was offset by lower
sales of HD-DVR cable set-top boxes.          

Sales of security products decreased by approximately $70 million. Our decreased sales of security products were a result of the lower sales of module and line-cards related
to our routers and LAN switches, partially offset by increased sales of our web and email security products and security appliance products which integrate multiple technologies (including virtual private network (VPN), firewall, and intrusion
prevention services) on one platform.          

Sales of networked home products decreased by approximately $115 million. The decrease in sales of networked home products was primarily due to lower sales of wireless
routers for the connected home, cable modems, and adapters.          

Sales of storage area networking products decreased by approximately $85 million, which was primarily due to lower sales of our MDS 9000 product line.

Sales of wireless LAN products decreased by approximately $55 million.          

Sales of application networking services decreased by approximately $40 million. The decrease was primarily related to lower customer demand in fiscal 2009 for data center
application optimization solutions.           Fiscal 2008 Compared with Fiscal 2007         

Sales of unified communications increased by approximately $845 million, in part due to the contribution of sales from WebEx, which we acquired during the fourth quarter of
fiscal 2007. There was also an increase in sales of IP phones and associated messaging, conferencing and contact center software as our customers continued to transition from an analog-based to an IP-based infrastructure.

Sales of video systems products increased by approximately $355 million. The increase was attributable to several factors, including an increase in the sales of
high-definition (HD) and IP set-top boxes, network upgrades and international growth.          

Sales of security products increased by approximately $205 million, primarily due to revenue from IronPort Systems, Inc., which we acquired during the fourth quarter of
fiscal 2007, revenue from module and line card sales related to our routers and LAN switches, and revenue from our next-generation adaptive security appliance products.          

Sales of application networking services increased by approximately $125 million. The increase was primarily due to higher demand from customers for wide-area network (WAN)
optimization solutions.          

Sales of wireless LAN and storage area networking products increased by approximately $85 million and $45 million, respectively. Sales of networked home products decreased by
approximately $20 million.          Other Product Revenue      The
decrease in other product revenue in fiscal 2009 compared with fiscal 2008 was primarily due to the decline in sales of our cable, optical, and service provider voice products, partially offset by increased sales of emerging technology products such
as Cisco TelePresence systems.      The increase in other product revenue in fiscal 2008 compared with fiscal 2007 was primarily due to an increase in
sales of cable products, Cisco TelePresence systems and other emerging technology products.         
   20  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
            Net Service Revenue         Fiscal 2009 Compared with Fiscal 2008        Net service revenue increased across all of our geographic theaters in fiscal 2009, with
particular strength in our Emerging Markets theater. Higher revenue from technical support service contracts and increased revenue from advanced services relating to consulting services for specific customer networking needs contributed to the
growth in net service revenue in fiscal 2009. The increase in our technical support revenue was due to a combination of renewals, the amortization of existing technical support service contracts including multiyear service contracts initiated in
prior years, and initiations associated with recent product sales, which have led to a larger installed base of our equipment being serviced.        Fiscal 2008
Compared with Fiscal 2007        The increase in net service revenue in fiscal 2008 compared with fiscal 2007 was primarily due to increased technical support
service contract initiations and renewals associated with higher product sales, and increased revenue from advanced services. The increase in advanced services revenue in fiscal 2008, compared with fiscal 2007, was primarily attributable to our
revenue growth in the Emerging Markets theater, advanced technologies products, and our service provider market.       Gross Margin       The following table presents the gross margin for products and services (in millions, except percentages):       
     Product Gross Margin         Fiscal
2009 Compared with Fiscal 2008        The following table summarizes the key factors that contributed to the change in product gross margin percentage from fiscal
2008 to fiscal 2009:       
    Product gross margin for fiscal 2009 decreased by 0.8 percentage points compared with fiscal 2008, primarily due to higher
sales discounts and rebates and lower product pricing, which we experienced across our major geographic theaters. Lower shipment volume, net of certain variable costs, and the mix of products sold also contributed to the decrease in the product
gross margin percentage during fiscal 2009. The decrease in our product gross margin percentage was partially offset by lower manufacturing costs, as we benefited from cost savings in component costs and value engineering and other
manufacturing-related costs. Value engineering is the process by which production costs are reduced through component redesign, board configuration, test processes, and transformation processes.         
   2009 Annual Report  21   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
             Fiscal 2008 Compared with Fiscal 2007        Product gross margin for fiscal 2008 increased by 0.7 percentage points compared with fiscal 2007 due to the following factors:       

Lower overall manufacturing costs related to lower component costs and value engineering, partially offset by other manufacturing-related costs, which increased product gross
margin by 2.1 percentage points.          

Higher shipment volume, net of certain variable costs, which increased product gross margin by 0.5 percentage points.          

Sales discounts, rebates, and product pricing, which decreased product gross margin by 1.7 percentage points.          

Changes in the mix of products sold, which decreased product gross margin by 0.1 percentage points.          

Net effects of amortization of purchased intangible assets and share-based compensation expense, which decreased product gross margin by 0.1 percentage points.
         Service Gross Margin         Fiscal 2009 Compared with
Fiscal 2008        Our service gross margin percentage increased in fiscal 2009 compared with fiscal 2008, primarily due to higher margins for both technical
support and advanced services, and also due to the mix of service revenue, with advanced services constituting a lower proportion of total service revenue. The higher margins for both technical support and advanced services were attributable
primarily to the growth of our service revenue as well as to certain cost-control initiatives that have helped to limit costs. For advanced services, the higher gross margins also benefited from lower costs associated with delays in certain
projects.      Our service gross margin normally experiences some fluctuations due to various factors such as the timing of technical support service
contract initiations and renewals, our strategic investments in headcount, and resources to support this business. Other factors include the mix of service offerings, as the gross margin from our advanced services is typically lower than the gross
margin from technical support services. Our continued focus on providing comprehensive support to our customers  networking devices, applications, and infrastructures, or other reasons, may cause advanced services to increase to a higher
proportion of total service revenue.        Fiscal 2008 Compared with Fiscal 2007        Service gross margin percentage decreased slightly in fiscal 2008 compared with fiscal 2007, due primarily to advanced services constituting a higher proportion of total service revenue in fiscal 2008.       Gross Margin by Theater       The following table presents the gross margin for each theater
(in millions, except percentages):       

(1)  
  The unallocated corporate items primarily include the effects of amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, employee share-based compensation expense, and a $28 million charge
related to the enhanced early retirement program. We do not allocate these items to the gross margin for each theater because management does not include the information in measuring the performance of the operating segments.
       In fiscal 2009, the gross margin percentage increased in our two largest theaters, United States and Canada and European Markets. For these theaters,
the favorable impacts of improved service margins and lower overall manufacturing costs were partially offset by the effects of lower shipment volume, lower product pricing, and higher sales discounts. The gross margin percentage also increased in
our Japan theater in fiscal 2009, driven by improved service margins and lower overall manufacturing costs, partially offset by the effect of an unfavorable product mix. The decreases in the gross margin percentages for the Asia Pacific and Emerging
Markets theaters in fiscal 2009 were primarily a result of lower product pricing, higher sales discounts, and lower shipment volume, partially offset by lower overall manufacturing costs and improved service margins. For the Asia Pacific theater,
the lower product pricing and higher sales discounts effects were attributable to the impact from various market factors, including price-focused competition in that theater.      The gross margin percentage for a particular theater may fluctuate and period-to-period changes in such percentages may or may not be indicative of a trend for that
theater. Our product and service gross margins may be impacted by economic downturns or uncertain economic conditions as well as our movement into market adjacencies and could decline if any of the factors that impact our gross margins are adversely
affected in future periods.         
   22  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
            Factors That May Impact Net Sales and Gross Margin      Net product sales may continue to be affected by factors including the global economic downturn and related market uncertainty, which so far have resulted in reduced or cautious
spending in our global enterprise, service provider, and commercial markets; changes in the geopolitical environment and global economic conditions; competition, including price-focused competitors from Asia, especially from China; new product
introductions; sales cycles and product implementation cycles; changes in the mix of our customers between service provider and enterprise markets; changes in the mix of direct sales and indirect sales; variations in sales channels; and final
acceptance criteria of the product, system, or solution as specified by the customer. Sales to the service provider market have been and may be in the future characterized by large and sporadic purchases, especially relating to our router sales and
sales of certain advanced technologies. In addition, service provider customers typically have longer implementation cycles; require a broader range of services, including network design services; and often have acceptance provisions that can lead
to a delay in revenue recognition. Certain of our customers in the Emerging Markets theater also tend to make large and sporadic purchases, and the net sales related to these transactions may similarly be affected by the timing of revenue
recognition. As we focus on new market opportunities, customers may require greater levels of financing arrangements, service, and support, especially in the Emerging Markets theater, which may result in a delay in the timing of revenue recognition.
To improve customer satisfaction, we continue to focus on managing our manufacturing lead-time performance, which may result in corresponding reductions in order backlog. A decline in backlog levels could result in more variability and less
predictability in our quarter-to-quarter net sales and operating results.      Net product sales may also be adversely affected by fluctuations in demand
for our products, especially with respect to telecommunications service providers and Internet businesses, whether or not driven by any slowdown in capital expenditures in the service provider market; price and product competition in the
communications and information technology industry; introduction and market acceptance of new technologies and products; adoption of new networking standards; and financial difficulties experienced by our customers. We may, from time to time,
experience manufacturing issues that create a delay in our suppliers  ability to provide specific components, resulting in delayed shipments. To the extent that manufacturing issues and any related component shortages result in delayed
shipments in the future, and particularly in periods when we and our suppliers are operating at higher levels of capacity, it is possible that revenue for a quarter could be adversely affected if such matters are not remediated within the same
quarter. For additional factors that may impact net product sales, see  Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors  in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our distributors and retail partners participate in various cooperative marketing and other
programs. In addition, increasing sales to our distributors and retail partners generally results in greater difficulty in forecasting the mix of our products and, to a certain degree, the timing of orders from our customers. We recognize revenue
for sales to our distributors and retail partners based on a sell-through method using information provided by them, and we maintain estimated accruals and allowances for all cooperative marketing and other programs.      Product gross margin may be adversely affected in the future by changes in the mix of products sold, including further periods of increased growth of some of our
lower-margin products; introduction of new products, including products with price-performance advantages; our ability to reduce production costs; entry into new markets, including markets with different pricing structures and cost structures, as a
result of internal development or through acquisitions; changes in distribution channels; price competition, including competitors from Asia, especially from China; changes in geographic mix of our product sales; the timing of revenue recognition
and revenue deferrals; sales discounts; increases in material or labor costs; excess inventory and obsolescence charges; warranty costs; changes in shipment volume; loss of cost savings due to changes in component pricing; effects of value
engineering; inventory holding charges; and the extent to which we successfully execute on our strategy and operating plans. Service gross margin may be impacted by various factors such as the change in mix between technical support services and
advanced services, the timing of technical support service contract initiations and renewals, and the timing of our strategic investments in headcount and resources to support this business.         
   2009 Annual Report  23   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
            Research and Development (R D), Sales and Marketing, and General and
Administrative (G A) Expenses       R D, sales and marketing, and G A expenses are summarized in the following table (in millions, except percentages):
      
    During fiscal 2009, we realigned our resources to reduce expenses in response to the macroeconomic environment while
maintaining the focus on our priorities. Our combined expenses for R D, sales and marketing, and G A decreased in fiscal 2009 compared with fiscal 2008 primarily due to the following: (i) a decrease in discretionary expenses such as
travel, meetings and events, marketing, and certain other expenses as a result of our expense management initiatives; (ii) a decrease in variable compensation and sales commission expenses as a result of lower sales and operating results;
(iii) lower acquisition-related compensation expenses; and (iv) favorable foreign currency exchange rate effects.      During the second half of
fiscal 2009, we implemented an enhanced early retirement program, a voluntary program that was offered to eligible employees. In connection with the enhanced early retirement program, we incurred a charge of approximately $110 million within
operating expenses in fiscal 2009. In addition, during the second half of fiscal 2009, we incurred approximately $100 million of severance charges within operating expenses in connection with limited workforce reduction actions that impacted just
over 2,000 employees.      The year-over-year changes within operating expenses including the effects of foreign currency exchange rates, net of hedging,
are summarized by line item as follows:       R D Expenses         Fiscal
2009 Compared with Fiscal 2008        The decrease in R D expenses for fiscal 2009 was primarily due to lower discretionary expenses, lower variable
compensation expenses, and lower acquisition-related compensation expenses. Lower discretionary expenses included reduced expenses for travel, meeting and events, and outside services. These decreases were partially offset by the enhanced early
retirement and limited workforce reduction charges mentioned above, as well as increased employee share-based compensation expenses in fiscal 2009. All of our R D costs are expensed as incurred, and we continue to invest in R D in order to
bring a broad range of products to market in a timely fashion. If we believe that we are unable to enter a particular market in a timely manner with internally-developed products, we may purchase or license technology from other businesses or
acquire businesses as an alternative to internal R D.        Fiscal 2008 Compared with Fiscal 2007        R D expenses increased in fiscal 2008 compared with fiscal 2007 primarily due to higher headcount-related expenses and compensation expense related to our purchase of the
minority interest in Nuova Systems, Inc. The higher headcount-related expenses in fiscal 2008 reflected our investment in R D efforts for routers, switches, advanced technologies, and other product technologies.         
   24  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
            Sales and Marketing Expenses         Fiscal 2009 Compared with Fiscal 2008        Sales and marketing expenses declined in
fiscal 2009 compared with fiscal 2008 due to a decrease of approximately $170 million in sales expenses and a decrease of approximately $120 million in marketing expenses. The decrease in sales and marketing expenses was primarily a result of lower
discretionary expenses related to travel, meeting and events, marketing programs and outside services. An additional factor that contributed to the decrease in sales and marketing expenses in fiscal 2009 was lower variable compensation expenses,
partially offset by the enhanced early retirement and limited workforce reduction charges. Foreign currency fluctuations, net of hedging, decreased total sales and marketing expenses by approximately $200 million during fiscal 2009 compared with
fiscal 2008.        Fiscal 2008 Compared with Fiscal 2007        Sales and
marketing expenses increased in fiscal 2008 primarily due to an increase in sales expenses of approximately $1.0 billion. The increase in sales expenses was primarily driven by headcount-related expenses, which included additional sales expenses
related to WebEx, which we acquired in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007. Foreign currency fluctuations, net of hedging, increased total sales and marketing expenses by approximately $250 million during fiscal 2008 compared with fiscal 2007.
      G A Expenses         Fiscal 2009 Compared with Fiscal 2008   
     The increase in G A expenses in fiscal 2009 compared with fiscal 2008 was primarily due to increased project-related expenses, including information- technology
expenditures. Other factors also contributed to the increase in G A expenses in fiscal 2009, including higher share-based compensation and acquisition-related compensation expenses, as well as the enhanced early retirement and limited workforce
reduction charges in fiscal 2009.        Fiscal 2008 Compared with Fiscal 2007        G A expenses for fiscal 2008 increased primarily due to increased headcount-related expenses and increased information technology-related spending.       Effect of Foreign Currency       In fiscal 2009, foreign currency fluctuations, net of hedging, decreased combined R D, sales and marketing, and
G A expenses by approximately $280 million, or 1.8%, compared with fiscal 2008. In fiscal 2008, foreign currency fluctuations, net of hedging, increased combined R D, sales and marketing, and G A expenses by approximately $332 million,
or 2.5%, compared with fiscal 2007.       Headcount         Fiscal 2009 Compared
with Fiscal 2008        Our headcount decreased by 584 employees in fiscal 2009. The decrease in headcount in fiscal 2009 resulted from our limited workforce
reduction actions, employee attrition, and a hiring pause. The decrease was partially offset by the effect of acquisitions and the hiring of recent college graduates. We expect our headcount will continue to decrease in the near term when the
effects of the limited workforce reductions and the enhanced early retirement program are fully reflected.        Fiscal 2008 Compared with Fiscal 2007
       In fiscal 2008, our headcount increased by 4,594 employees, reflecting the effects of our investments in sales and R D as well as increased investments
in our service business and acquisitions.         
   2009 Annual Report  25   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
            Share-Based Compensation Expense       Employee share-based compensation expense was as follows (in millions):       

(1)  
  Share-based compensation expense related to acquisitions and investments of $91 million, $87 million and $34 million for fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, is disclosed in Note 3 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements and is not included in the preceding table.        Employee share-based compensation expense for fiscal 2009 increased
compared with fiscal 2008 primarily due to a larger proportion of share-based awards being subject to straight-line vesting, a shorter vesting period of four years for most share-based awards granted in fiscal 2009, and an increase in the
weighted-average estimated grant date fair value for each share-based award. The increase in employee share-based compensation expense in fiscal 2008 compared with fiscal 2007 was primarily due to the higher weighted-average estimated grant date
fair value for each share-based award. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.       Amortization of Purchased Intangible Assets and In-Process Research
and Development       The following table presents the amortization of purchased intangible assets included in operating expenses and in-process R D (in millions):
      
    For fiscal 2009, the increase in the amortization of purchased intangible assets included in operating expenses was
primarily due to impairment charges of $95 million in connection with write-downs of purchased intangible assets related to certain technologies and customer relationships as a result of reductions in expected future cash flows from those
technologies and relationships. This effect was partially offset by lower amortization in fiscal 2009 from certain purchased intangible assets, primarily from the Scientific-Atlanta acquisition, that became fully amortized during fiscal 2009. For
additional information regarding purchased intangible assets, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The increase in the amortization of purchased intangible assets for fiscal 2008 compared with fiscal 2007 was primarily due to the
additional amortization of purchased intangible assets related to acquisitions completed near the end of fiscal 2007.      In-process R D is expensed
upon acquisition when technological feasibility has not been established and no future alternative uses exist. The increase in in-process R D for fiscal 2009 compared with fiscal 2008 was due to acquisitions completed in fiscal 2009. See Note 3
to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the acquisitions completed in fiscal 2009, 2008, and 2007, and the associated in-process R D recorded for those acquisitions.      Our methodology for allocating the purchase price for acquisitions to in-process R D is determined through established valuation techniques. The fair value of
acquired purchased technology and patents, as well as technology under development, is typically determined using the income approach, which discounts expected future cash flows to present value. The discount rates used in the present value
calculations are typically derived from a weighted-average cost of capital analysis and then adjusted to reflect risks inherent in the development lifecycle as appropriate. We consider the pricing model for products related to these acquisitions to
be standard within the high-technology communications industry. However, we do not expect to achieve a material amount of expense reductions as a result of integrating the acquired in-process technology. Therefore, the valuation assumptions do not
include significant anticipated cost savings.         
   26  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
           For purchase acquisitions completed to date, the development of these
acquired technologies remains a significant risk due to the remaining efforts to achieve technological feasibility, rapidly changing customer markets, uncertain standards for new products, and significant competitive threats. The nature of the
efforts to develop these technologies into commercially viable products consists primarily of planning, designing, experimenting, and testing activities necessary to determine that the technologies can meet market expectations, including
functionality and technical requirements. Failure to bring these products to market in a timely manner could result in a loss of market share or a lost opportunity to capitalize on emerging markets and could have a material adverse impact on our
business and operating results.      The following table summarizes the key assumptions underlying the valuation for our purchase acquisitions completed
in fiscal 2009 for which in-process R D was recorded (in millions, except percentages):       
    The key assumptions primarily consist of an expected completion date for the in-process projects; estimated costs to
complete the projects; revenue and expense projections, assuming the products have entered the market; and discount rates based on the risks associated with the development lifecycle of the in-process technology acquired. Failure to achieve the
expected levels of revenue and net income from these products will negatively impact the return on investment expected at the time that the acquisitions were completed and may result in impairment charges. Actual results from the purchase
acquisitions to date did not have a material adverse impact on our business and operating results.       Interest and Other Income, Net        Interest Income (Expense), Net   The following table presents the breakdown of interest income (expense), net (in millions):       
      Fiscal 2009 Compared with Fiscal 2008        The decrease in interest income in fiscal 2009 compared with fiscal 2008 was due to lower average interest rates, partially offset by higher average total cash and cash equivalents and fixed income security balances in fiscal
2009. The increase in interest expense in fiscal 2009 compared with fiscal 2008 was primarily due to the higher average debt balances associated with the issuance of senior notes in an aggregate amount of $4.0 billion in February 2009, partially
offset by $500 million of senior unsecured notes which we retired when they were due.        Fiscal 2008 Compared with Fiscal 2007        The increase in interest income in fiscal 2008 compared with fiscal 2007 was primarily due to higher average total cash and cash equivalents and fixed income security balances in
fiscal 2008, partially offset by lower average interest rates. The decrease in interest expense in fiscal 2008 compared with fiscal 2007 was primarily due to lower average effective interest rates.         
   2009 Annual Report  27   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
            Other Income (Loss), Net   The components of other income (loss), net,
are as follows (in millions):       
      Fiscal 2009 Compared with Fiscal 2008        For fiscal 2009, we had an aggregate net loss on investments in publicly traded equity and fixed income securities recognized in other income (loss), compared with a net gain in fiscal 2008. The net loss in fiscal 2009 was
primarily a result of the volatile market conditions in the fixed income market during parts of fiscal 2009, which resulted in impairment charges on fixed income securities of $219 million during fiscal 2009. Net losses on fixed income securities in
fiscal 2009 were partially offset by gains on investments in publicly traded equity securities, which were primarily due to the termination of various forward sale agreements designated as fair value hedges of publicly traded equity securities. Net
gains on publicly traded equity securities include impairment charges of $39 million during fiscal 2009. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the unrealized gains and losses on investments.      Net losses on investments in privately held companies increased in fiscal 2009 compared with fiscal 2008 primarily as a result of higher impairment charges, which
were due to the deteriorating market conditions during parts of fiscal 2009. Net losses on investments in privately held companies included impairment charges of $85 million in fiscal 2009 compared with $12 million in fiscal 2008.        Fiscal 2008 Compared with Fiscal 2007        In fiscal 2008, our total net gains on
investments in publicly traded equity and fixed income securities recognized in other income (loss) decreased compared with fiscal 2007 primarily as a result of market conditions. Net losses on investment in privately held companies decreased in
fiscal 2008 compared with fiscal 2007, in part as a result of lower impairment charges in fiscal 2008 of $12 million compared with $22 million in fiscal 2007.      Other expenses in the preceding table of other income (loss), net, consisted primarily of foreign exchange activities and contributions to charitable organizations.       Provision for Income Taxes         Fiscal 2009 Compared with Fiscal 2008        The provision for income taxes resulted in an effective tax rate of 20.3% for fiscal 2009, compared with 21.5% for fiscal 2008. The net 1.2 percentage point decrease in the effective tax rates between fiscal years was
attributable in part to a greater proportion of net income which was subject to foreign income tax rates that are lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35%. Additionally, the effective tax rate of 20.3% for fiscal 2009 included a tax
benefit of $106 million, or 1.4 percentage points, related to fiscal 2008 R D expenses due to the retroactive reinstatement of the U.S. federal R D tax credit, which was offset by tax costs of $174 million, or 2.3 percentage points, related
to a transfer pricing adjustment for share-based compensation. The transfer pricing adjustment, which occurred in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, was a result of a decision by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit to overturn a 2005
U.S. Tax Court ruling in a case to which we were not a party. The Ninth Circuit decision impacted the tax treatment of share-based compensation expenses for the purpose of determining intangible development costs under a company s R D cost
sharing arrangement. The effective tax rate of 21.5% for fiscal 2008 included a net tax benefit of $162 million, or 1.6 percentage points, from the settlement of certain tax matters with the IRS, offset by tax costs of $226 million, or 2.2
percentage points, related to the intercompany realignment of certain of our foreign entities.      For a full reconciliation of our effective tax rate to
the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% and further explanation of our provision for income taxes, see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.        Fiscal
2008 Compared with Fiscal 2007        The provision for income taxes resulted in an effective tax rate of 21.5% for fiscal 2008, compared with 22.5% for fiscal
2007. The 1.0 percentage point decrease in the effective tax rate between fiscal years was primarily attributable to the net tax settlement of $162 million discussed above and the tax impact of foreign operations, partially offset by the then
expired U.S. federal R D tax credit and the tax costs related to the intercompany realignment of certain of our foreign entities.         
   28  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
            Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Effective        SFAS 141(R) and SFAS 160   In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007),  Business Combinations  ( SFAS 141(R) ) and SFAS
No. 160,  Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements   an amendment of ARB No. 51  ( SFAS 160 ). In April 2009, the FASB issued FSP FAS 141(R)-1,  Accounting for Assets Acquired and
Liabilities Assumed in a Business Combination That Arise from Contingencies  ( FSP 141(R)-1 ).      SFAS 141(R) will significantly change
previous accounting practices regarding business combinations. Among the more significant changes, SFAS 141(R) expands the definition of a business and a business combination; requires the acquirer to recognize the assets acquired, liabilities
assumed and noncontrolling interests (including goodwill) measured at fair value at the acquisition date; requires acquisition-related expenses and restructuring costs to be recognized separately from the business combination; requires assets
acquired and liabilities assumed to be recognized at their acquisition-date fair values with subsequent changes recognized in earnings; and requires in-process research and development to be capitalized at fair value as an indefinite-lived
intangible asset. FSP 141(R)-1 amends and clarifies SFAS 141(R) to address application issues on initial recognition and measurement, subsequent measurement and accounting, and disclosure of assets and liabilities arising from contingencies in a
business combination. SFAS 160 will change the accounting and reporting for minority interests, reporting them as equity separate from the parent entity s equity, as well as requiring expanded disclosures.      Each of SFAS 141(R), FSP 141(R)-1 and SFAS 160 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, and
therefore will be effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. SFAS 141(R) and its related FSP are effective for acquisitions closing in fiscal 2010, with impacts that may vary depending on each specific business combination or
asset purchase. Upon adoption of SFAS 160, we will disclose our noncontrolling interests in accordance with the guidance and we do not expect that there will be a material impact on our results of operations or financial position.       FSP FAS 157-2   In February 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS 157-2,  Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157  ( FSP 157-2 ), which delayed
the effective date of SFAS 157 for all nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities, except for items that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis (at least annually), until the beginning of our
fiscal 2010. We do not expect that the application of SFAS 157, when applied to nonfinancial assets and liabilities, will have a material impact on our results of operations or financial position.       SFAS 166   In June 2009, the FASB issued SFAS No. 166,  Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets   an amendment of FASB Statement
No. 140  ( SFAS 166 ). SFAS 166 eliminates the concept of a qualifying special-purpose entity; removes the scope exception from applying FASB Interpretation No. 46(R),  Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities 
to qualifying special-purpose entities; changes the requirements for derecognizing financial assets; and requires enhanced disclosure. SFAS 166 is effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2011. We are currently evaluating the impact
that the adoption of SFAS 166 will have on our consolidated financial statements.       SFAS 167   In June 2009, the FASB issued SFAS No. 167,
 Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R)  ( SFAS 167 ). SFAS 167 replaces the quantitative-based risks and rewards approach with a qualitative approach that focuses on identifying which enterprise has the power to direct
the activities of a variable interest entity that most significantly impact the entity s economic performance. It also requires an ongoing reassessment of whether an entity is the primary beneficiary, and it requires additional disclosures
about an enterprise s involvement in variable interest entities. SFAS 167 is effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2011. We are currently evaluating the impact that the adoption of SFAS 167 will have on our consolidated
financial statements.       IFRS   International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) is a comprehensive series of accounting standards published by the
International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). In November 2008, the SEC issued for comment a proposed roadmap outlining several milestones that, if achieved, could lead to mandatory adoption of IFRS by U.S. issuers in 2014. The roadmap also
contained proposed rule changes that would permit early adoption of IFRS by a limited number of eligible U.S. issuers beginning with filings in 2010. According to the roadmap, the SEC would make a determination in 2011 regarding the mandatory
adoption of IFRS. We are currently assessing the impact that this potential change would have on our consolidated financial statements, and we will continue to monitor the development of the potential implementation of IFRS as well as the ongoing
convergence efforts of the FASB and the IASB.         
   2009 Annual Report  29   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
            Liquidity and Capital Resources       The following sections discuss the effects of changes in our balance sheet, contractual obligations, other commitments, and the stock repurchase program on our liquidity and
capital resources. In the difficult macroeconomic environment during fiscal 2009, we maintained our strong financial position by monitoring and mitigating risks with respect to our investment portfolio and other working capital-related areas. With
regard to receivables, we continued to apply our credit standards and policies in making our financial decisions. We also continued to review our inventory and purchase commitments to ensure that the balances were appropriate relative to our lower
revenue levels during fiscal 2009. We continued to maintain a strong cash position and a high-quality investment portfolio. Because of the above measures, we believe that the global economic downturn during fiscal 2009 did not materially and
adversely impact the quality of our investment portfolio and working capital as of July 25, 2009.       Balance Sheet and Cash Flows        Cash and Cash Equivalents and Investments   The following table summarizes our cash and cash equivalents and investments (in millions):       
    The increase in cash and cash equivalents and investments was primarily the result of cash provided by operating activities
of $9.9 billion in fiscal 2009, a decrease from $12.1 billion in fiscal 2008, as well as the issuance of $4.0 billion of senior notes in February 2009 ($500 million of which was used to repay other senior notes that were due in February 2009), and
the issuance of common stock of $863 million related to employee stock option exercises and employee stock purchases. These factors were partially offset by the repurchase of common stock of $3.6 billion, capital expenditures of $1.0 billion, and
acquisitions totaling $426 million.      Our total in cash and cash equivalents and investments held outside of the United States in various foreign
subsidiaries was $29.1 billion and $24.4 billion, as of July 25, 2009 and July 26, 2008, respectively. The remaining balance held in the United States as of July 25, 2009 and July 26, 2008 was $5.9 billion and $1.8 billion,
respectively. In fiscal 2009, the increase in the balance of total cash and cash equivalents and investments held in the United States was attributable primarily to the issuance of senior notes discussed above. Under current tax laws and
regulations, if cash and cash equivalents and investments held outside the United States are distributed to the United States in the form of dividends or otherwise, we may be subject to additional U.S. income taxes (subject to an adjustment for
foreign tax credits) and foreign withholding taxes. For internal management purposes, we target specific ranges of net realizable cash, representing cash and cash equivalents and investments, net of (i) long-term debt and the present value of
operating lease commitments, and (ii) U.S. income taxes that we estimate would be payable upon the distribution to the United States of cash and cash equivalents and investments held outside the United States.      We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. We classify our investments as short term investments based on their nature and
their availability for use in current operations. We believe the overall credit quality of our portfolio is strong, with our cash equivalents and fixed income portfolio invested in securities with a weighted-average credit rating exceeding AA. We
believe that our strong cash and cash equivalents and investments position allows us to use our cash resources for strategic investments to gain access to new technologies, acquisitions, customer financing activities, working capital, and the
repurchase of shares.      We expect that cash provided by operating activities may fluctuate in future periods as a result of a number of factors,
including fluctuations in our operating results, the rate at which products are shipped during the period (which we refer to as shipment linearity), accounts receivable collections, inventory and supply chain management, deferred revenue, excess tax
benefits from share-based compensation, and the timing and amount of tax and other payments. For additional discussion, see  Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors  in our Annual Report on Form 10-K.         
   30  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
            Accounts Receivable, Net   The following table summarizes our accounts
receivable, net (in millions), and DSO:       
    Our accounts receivable, net decreased during fiscal 2009 due to lower revenue during fiscal 2009. Our DSO as of
July 25, 2009 was unchanged from the previous fiscal year end, as the negative effect on DSO from the timing of service billings in the later part of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 was offset by stronger collections.       Inventories and Purchase Commitments with Contract Manufacturers and Suppliers   The following table summarizes our inventories and purchase commitments with
contract manufacturers and suppliers (in millions, except annualized inventory turns):       
    The decline in our inventory and purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers was primarily a result of
our response to the decrease in our revenue in fiscal 2009. Our finished goods consist of distributor inventory and deferred cost of sales and manufactured finished goods. Distributor inventory and deferred cost of sales are related to unrecognized
revenue on shipments to distributors and retail partners as well as shipments to customers. Manufactured finished goods consist primarily of build-to-order and build-to-stock products. Service-related spares consist of reusable equipment related to
our technical support and warranty activities. All inventories are accounted for at the lower of cost or market. Inventory is written down based on excess and obsolete inventories determined primarily by future demand forecasts. Inventory
write-downs are measured as the difference between the cost of the inventory and market, based upon assumptions about future demand, and are charged to the provision for inventory, which is a component of our cost of sales.      We purchase components from a variety of suppliers and use several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products. During the normal
course of business, in order to manage manufacturing lead times and help ensure adequate component supply, we enter into agreements with contract manufacturers and suppliers that either allow them to procure inventory based upon criteria as defined
by us or that establish the parameters defining our requirements. A significant portion of our reported purchase commitments arising from these agreements are firm, noncancelable, and unconditional commitments.      We record a liability, included in other current liabilities, for firm, noncancelable, and unconditional purchase commitments for quantities in excess of our future
demand forecasts consistent with the valuation of our excess and obsolete inventory. The purchase commitments for inventory are expected to be primarily fulfilled within one year.      Inventory and supply chain management remain areas of focus as we balance the need to maintain supply chain flexibility to help ensure competitive lead times with
the risk of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements. We believe the amount of our inventory and purchase commitments is appropriate for our revenue levels.         
   2009 Annual Report  31   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
            Financing Receivables and Guarantees   The following table summarizes
our financing receivables, financing guarantees, and the related deferred revenue (in millions):       
      Financing Receivables    We provide financing to certain end-user customers and channel partners to
enable sales of our products, services, and networking solutions. These financing arrangements include leases, financed service contracts, and loans. These arrangements are generally collateralized by a security interest in the underlying assets.
Lease receivables include sales-type and direct-financing leases. We also provide certain qualified customers financing for long-term service contracts, which primarily relate to technical support services. Our loan financing arrangements may
include not only financing the acquisition of our products and services but also providing additional funds for other costs associated with network installation and integration of our products and services. We expect to continue to expand the use of
our financing programs in the near term.        Financing Guarantees    In the normal course of business, third parties may provide financing
arrangements to our customers and channel partners under financing programs. The financing arrangements to customers provided by third parties are related to leases and loans and typically have terms of up to three years. In some cases, we provide
guarantees to third parties for these lease and loan arrangements. The financing arrangements to channel partners consist of revolving short-term financing provided by third parties, generally with payment terms ranging from 60 to 90 days. In
certain instances, these financing arrangements result in a transfer of our receivables to the third party. The receivables are derecognized upon transfer, as these transfers qualify as true sales, and we receive a payment for the receivables from
the third party based on our standard payment terms. These financing arrangements facilitate the working capital requirements of the channel partners and, in some cases, we guarantee a portion of these arrangements. We could be called upon to make
payments under these guarantees in the event of nonpayment by the channel partners or end-user customers. Where we provide a guarantee, we defer the revenue associated with the channel partner and end-user financing arrangement in accordance with
revenue recognition policies, or we record a liability for the fair value of the guarantees. In either case, the deferred revenue is recognized as revenue when the guarantee is removed.        Deferred Revenue Related to Financing Receivables and Guarantees    The majority of the deferred revenue in the table above is related to financed service contracts. The revenue related to financed service
contracts, which primarily relates to technical support services, is deferred and included in deferred service revenue. The revenue related to financed service contracts is recognized ratably over the period during which the related services are to
be performed. A portion of the revenue related to lease and loan receivables is also deferred and included in deferred product revenue based on revenue recognition criteria.         
   32  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
            Borrowings         Senior Notes    The following table summarizes the principal amount of our senior notes (in millions):      
    In February 2009, we issued $2.0 billion of 4.95% senior notes due 2019 ( 2019 Notes ), and $2.0 billion of 5.90%
senior notes due 2039 ( 2039 Notes ), for an aggregate principal amount of $4.0 billion, as reflected in the preceding table. The proceeds from the offering are being used for general corporate purposes after repaying in full the 2009
Notes when they were due in February 2009.      Our senior notes were rated A1 by Moody s Investors Service, Inc. and A+ by Standard  
Poor s Ratings Services as of July 25, 2009. Interest is payable semi-annually on each class of the senior fixed-rate notes, each of which is redeemable by the Company at any time, subject to a make-whole premium. We were in compliance
with all debt covenants as of July 25, 2009.        Credit Facility    We have a credit agreement with certain institutional lenders that
provides for a $2.9 billion unsecured revolving credit facility that is scheduled to expire on August 17, 2012. Any advances under the credit agreement will accrue interest at rates that are equal to, based on certain conditions, either
(i) the higher of the Federal Funds rate plus 0.50% or Bank of America s  prime rate  as announced from time to time, or (ii) the London Interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ) plus a margin that is based on our senior
debt credit ratings as published by Standard   Poor s Ratings Services and Moody s Investors Service, Inc. The credit agreement requires that we comply with certain covenants including that we maintain an interest coverage ratio
as defined in the agreement.      As of July 25, 2009, we were in compliance with the required interest coverage ratio and the other covenants, and
we had not borrowed any funds under the credit facility. We may also, upon the agreement of either the then-existing lenders or of additional lenders not currently parties to the agreement, increase the commitments under the credit facility by up to
an additional $2.0 billion and/or extend the expiration date of the credit facility up to August 15, 2014.       Deferred Revenue   The following
table presents the breakdown of deferred revenue (in millions):       
    The increase in deferred service revenue reflects the impact of new contract initiations and renewals, partially offset by
an ongoing amortization of deferred service revenue. The increase in deferred product revenue was primarily related to an increase in shipments not having met revenue recognition criteria as well as other revenue deferrals associated with financing
arrangements, partially offset by the timing of cash receipts related to unrecognized revenue from two-tier distributors.         
   2009 Annual Report  33   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
            Contractual Obligations       The impact of contractual obligations on our liquidity and capital resources in future periods should be analyzed in conjunction with the factors that impact our cash flows from
operations discussed above. In addition, we plan for and measure our liquidity and capital resources through an annual budgeting process. The following table summarizes our contractual obligations at July 25, 2009 (in millions):       
     Operating Leases   We lease office space in several U.S. locations. Outside the United States, larger leased
sites are located in Australia, Belgium, China, France, Germany, India, Israel, Italy, Japan, and the United Kingdom. We also lease equipment and vehicles. Operating lease amounts include future minimum lease payments under all our noncancelable
operating leases with an initial term in excess of one year.       Purchase Commitments with Contract Manufacturers and Suppliers   We purchase components
from a variety of suppliers and use several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products. A significant portion of our reported purchase commitments arising from these agreements are firm, noncancelable, and
unconditional commitments. We record a liability for firm, noncancelable, and unconditional purchase commitments for quantities in excess of our future demand forecasts consistent with the valuation of our excess and obsolete inventory. As of
July 25, 2009, the liability for these purchase commitments was $175 million and is recorded in other current liabilities and is not included in the preceding table.       Purchase Obligations   Purchase obligations represent an estimate of all open purchase orders and contractual obligations in the ordinary course of business, other than commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers,
for which we have not received the goods or services. Although open purchase orders are considered enforceable and legally binding, the terms generally allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business
needs prior to the delivery of goods or performance of services.       Long-Term Debt   The amount of long-term debt in the preceding table represents the
principal amount of the respective debt instruments. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.       Other Long-Term Liabilities   Other
long-term liabilities include noncurrent income taxes payable, accrued liabilities for deferred compensation, noncurrent deferred tax liabilities, and certain other long-term liabilities. Due to the uncertainty in the timing of future payments, our
noncurrent income taxes payable of approximately $2.0 billion and noncurrent deferred tax liabilities of $57 million were presented as one aggregated amount in the total column on a separate line in the preceding table. Noncurrent income taxes
payable includes uncertain tax positions (see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements) partially offset by payments.       Other Commitments    
  In connection with our purchase acquisitions, asset purchases, and acquisitions of variable interest entities, we have agreed to pay certain additional amounts contingent upon
the achievement of agreed-upon technology, development, product, or other milestones, or continued employment with us of certain employees of acquired entities. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.      We also have certain funding commitments primarily related to our investments in privately held companies and venture funds, some of which are based on the
achievement of certain agreed-upon milestones, and some of which are required to be funded on demand. The funding commitments were approximately $313 million as of July 25, 2009, compared with approximately $359 million as of July 26,
2008.         
   34  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
            Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements       We consider our investments in unconsolidated variable interest entities to be off-balance sheet arrangements. In the ordinary course of business, we have investments in privately
held companies and provide financing to certain customers. These privately held companies and customers may be considered to be variable interest entities. We have evaluated our investments in these privately held companies and our customer
financings and have determined that there were no significant unconsolidated variable interest entities as of July 25, 2009.      Certain events can
require a reassessment of our investments in privately held companies or customer financings to determine if they are variable interest entities and if we would be regarded as the primary beneficiary. As a result of such events, we may be required
to make additional disclosures or consolidate these entities. Because we may not control these entities, we may not have the ability to influence these events.      We provide financing guarantees, which are generally for various third-party financing arrangements extended to our channel partners and end-user customers. We could be called upon to make payments under these guarantees in the
event of nonpayment by the channel partners or end-user customers. See the further discussion of these financing guarantees under Financing Receivables and Guarantees above.       Stock Repurchase Program       In September 2001, our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program. As of July 25, 2009, our Board of
Directors had authorized an aggregate repurchase of up to $62 billion of common stock under this program, and as of July 25, 2009 the remaining authorized repurchase amount was $4.8 billion with no termination date. The stock repurchase
activity under the stock repurchase program in fiscal 2008 and 2009 is summarized as follows (in millions, except per-share amounts):       

(1)   
    Includes stock repurchases that were pending settlement as of the end of the respective fiscal years.          Liquidity and Capital Resource Requirements       Based on past performance and current
expectations, we believe our cash and cash equivalents, investments, and cash generated from operations, and our ability to access capital markets, including committed credit lines, will satisfy our working capital needs, capital expenditures,
investment requirements, stock repurchases, contractual obligations, commitments, principal payments on long-term debt, future customer financings, and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations through at least the next 12 months.
There are no other transactions, arrangements, or other relationships with unconsolidated entities or other persons that are reasonably likely to materially affect liquidity, the availability, and our requirements for capital resources.   
     
   2009 Annual Report  35   

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk            Our financial position is exposed to a variety of risks including interest rate risk, equity price risk, and foreign currency exchange risk.
      Interest Rate Risk        Fixed Income Investments
      We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. Our primary objective for holding fixed income securities is to achieve an
appropriate investment return consistent with preserving principal and managing risk. At any time, a sharp rise in interest rates or credit spreads could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our fixed income investment portfolio.
Conversely, declines in interest rates, including the impact from lower credit spreads, could have a material adverse impact on interest income for our investment portfolio. We may utilize derivative instruments designated as hedging instruments to
achieve our investment objectives. We had no outstanding hedging instruments for our fixed income securities as of July 25, 2009. Our fixed income instruments are held for purposes other than trading. Our fixed income instruments are not
leveraged as of July 25, 2009. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We monitor our interest rate and credit risks, including our credit exposures to specific rating categories and to individual issuers. We believe the overall
credit quality of our portfolio is strong, with our cash equivalents and fixed income portfolio invested in securities with a weighted-average credit rating exceeding AA.      The following tables present the hypothetical fair values of our fixed income securities, including the hedging effects when applicable, as a result of selected potential market decreases and increases in interest rates. For
the balances as of July 25, 2009, the market changes reflect immediate hypothetical parallel shifts in the yield curve of plus or minus 50 basis points ( BPS ), plus 100 BPS, and plus 150 BPS. Due to the low interest rate environment
at the end of fiscal 2009, we did not believe a parallel of shift of minus 100 BPS or minus 150 BPS was relevant for the July 25, 2009 balances. For the balances as of July 26, 2008, the market changes reflect immediate hypothetical
parallel shifts in the yield curve of plus or minus 50 BPS, 100 BPS, and 150 BPS. The hypothetical fair values as of July 25, 2009 and July 26, 2008 are as follows (in millions):       
    Impairment charges on our investments in fixed income securities were $219 million for fiscal 2009. There were no impairment
charges on our investments in fixed income securities in fiscal 2008 or 2007.       Long-Term Debt       As of July 25, 2009, we had $10.0 billion in principal amount of fixed-rate long-term debt outstanding, with a carrying amount of $10.3 billion and a fair value of $10.5 billion, which fair value is based on market
prices. A hypothetical 50 BPS increase or decrease in market interest rates would decrease or increase, respectively, the fair value of the fixed-rate debt as of July 25, 2009 by approximately $300 million. However, this hypothetical
change in interest rates would not impact the interest expense on the fixed-rate debt.       Equity Price Risk       The fair value of our equity investments in publicly traded companies is subject to market price volatility. We may hold equity securities for strategic purposes or to diversify
our overall investment portfolio. Our equity portfolio consists of securities with characteristics that most closely match the Standard   Poor s 500 Index or NASDAQ Composite Index. These equity securities are held for purposes other
than trading. To manage our exposure to changes in the fair value of certain equity securities, we may enter into equity derivatives designated as hedging instruments.       
  
   36  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk             Publicly Traded Equity Securities       The following tables
present the hypothetical fair values of publicly traded equity securities as a result of selected potential decreases and increases in the price of each equity security in the portfolio, excluding hedged equity securities, if any. Potential
fluctuations in the price of each equity security in the portfolio of plus or minus 10%, 20%, and 30% were selected based on potential near-term changes in those security prices. The hypothetical fair values as of July 25, 2009 and
July 26, 2008 are as follows (in millions):       
    Impairment charges on our investments in publicly traded equity securities were $39 million for fiscal 2009. There were no
impairment charges on our investments in publicly traded equity securities in fiscal 2008 or 2007.       Investments in Privately Held Companies       We have also invested in privately held companies. These investments are recorded in other assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheet and are accounted for either at cost or the
equity method. As of July 25, 2009, the total carrying amount of our investments in privately held companies was $709 million, compared with $706 million at July 26, 2008. Some of the privately held companies in which we invested are in
the startup or development stages. These investments are inherently risky because the markets for the technologies or products these companies are developing are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. We could lose our entire
investment in these companies. Our evaluation of investments in privately held companies is based on the fundamentals of the businesses, including, among other factors, the nature of their technologies and potential for financial return. Our
impairment charges on investments in privately held companies were $85 million, $12 million, and $22 million for fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.       Foreign Currency Exchange Risk       Our foreign exchange forward and option contracts are summarized as follows (in millions):       
    We conduct business globally in numerous currencies. The direct effect of foreign currency fluctuations on sales has not
been material because our sales are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars. However, if the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to other currencies, such strengthening could have an indirect effect on our sales to the extent it raises the cost of our
products to non-U.S. customers and thereby reduces demand. A weaker U.S. dollar could have the opposite effect. However, the precise indirect effect of currency fluctuations is difficult to measure or predict because our sales are influenced by many
factors in addition to the impact of such currency fluctuations.         
   2009 Annual Report  37   

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk            Approximately 70% of our operating expenses are U.S.-dollar denominated. Foreign currency fluctuations, net of hedging, decreased our
operating expenses, categorized as research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative, by approximately 1.8% in fiscal 2009 compared with fiscal 2008 and increased our operating expenses by approximately 2.5% in fiscal
2008 compared with fiscal 2007. To reduce variability in operating expenses and service cost of sales caused by non-U.S.-dollar denominated operating expenses and costs, we hedge certain foreign currency forecasted transactions with currency options
and forward contracts. These hedging programs are not designed to provide foreign currency protection over long time horizons. In designing a specific hedging approach, we consider several factors, including offsetting exposures, significance of
exposures, costs associated with entering into a particular hedge instrument, and potential effectiveness of the hedge. The gains and losses on foreign exchange contracts mitigate the effect of currency movements on our operating expenses and
service cost of sales.      We also enter into foreign exchange forward and option contracts to reduce the short-term effects of foreign currency
fluctuations on receivables, investments, and payables, denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of the entities. The market risks associated with these foreign currency receivables, investments, and payables relate primarily
to variances from our forecasted foreign currency transactions and balances. Our forward and option contracts generally have the following maturities:       

Maturities   
 
    Forward and option contracts forecasted transactions related to operating expenses and service cost of sales   
      
  Up to 18 months   
 
    Forward contracts current assets and liabilities   
      
  Up to 3 months   
 
    Forward contracts net investments in foreign subsidiaries   
      
  Up to 6 months   
 
    Forward contracts long-term customer financings   
      
  Up to 2 years   
 
    Forward contracts investments   
      
  Up to 2 years   
    We do not enter into foreign exchange forward or option contracts for trading purposes.         
   38  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Consolidated Balance Sheets      (in millions, except par value)         
    See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.         
   2009 Annual Report  39   

Consolidated Statements of Operations      (in millions, except per-share amounts)         
    See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.         
   40  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows      (in millions)         
    See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.         
   2009 Annual Report  41   

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders  Equity      (in millions)             
     Supplemental Information       In
September 2001, the Company s Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program. As of July 25, 2009, the Company s Board of Directors had authorized an aggregate repurchase of up to $62 billion of common stock under this
program. For additional information regarding stock repurchases, see Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The stock repurchases since the inception of this program and the related impact on shareholders  equity are summarized in
the following table (in millions):       

Shares of     Common     Stock   
      
    Common Stock     and     Additional     Paid-In Capital   
      
    Retained     Earnings (Accumulated Deficit)   
      
    Accumulated     Other     Comprehensive     Income   
      
    Total     Shareholders      Equity    
 
    Repurchases of common stock   
      
  2,802  
      
  $  
  10,740  
      
  $  
  46,439  
      
  $  

$  
  57,179   
    See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.         
   42  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements             1. Basis of Presentation       The fiscal year for Cisco Systems, Inc. (the  Company  or  Cisco ) is the 52 or 53 weeks ending on the last Saturday in July. Fiscal 2009, 2008, and 2007 were
52-week fiscal years. The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Cisco and its subsidiaries. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. The Company conducts business globally and is primarily
managed on a geographic basis in the following theaters: United States and Canada, European Markets, Emerging Markets, Asia Pacific, and Japan. The Emerging Markets theater consists of Eastern Europe, Latin America, the Middle East and Africa, and
Russia and the Commonwealth of Independent States.      The Company has evaluated subsequent events, as defined by SFAS No. 165,
 Subsequent Events,  through the date that the financial statements were issued on September 10, 2009.       2. Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies        (a) Cash and Cash Equivalents   The Company considers all highly liquid investments purchased with an original or remaining
maturity of less than three months at the date of purchase to be cash equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents are maintained with various financial institutions.       (b) Investments   The Company s investments include government and government agency securities, corporate debt securities, asset-backed securities, and publicly traded equity securities. These investments are held in
the custody of several major financial institutions. The specific identification method is used to determine the cost basis of fixed income securities sold. The weighted-average method is used to determine the cost basis of publicly traded equity
securities sold. The Company classifies its investments as available-for-sale and these investments are recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses on these investments, to the extent the investments are
unhedged, are included as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI), net of tax. The Company classifies its investments as current or noncurrent based on the nature of the investments and their availability for use in
current operations.        Other-Than-Temporary Impairments    Effective April 26, 2009, the Company adopted FSP 115-2, which amends
other-than-temporary impairment guidance relating to debt securities. If the fair value of a debt security is less than its amortized cost, the Company assesses whether the impairment is other than temporary. An impairment is considered other than
temporary if (i) the Company has the intent to sell the security, (ii) it is more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell the security before recovery of the entire amortized cost basis, or (iii) the Company does not
expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the security. If an impairment is considered other than temporary based on condition (i) or (ii) described above, the entire difference between the amortized cost and the fair value of
the debt security is recognized in earnings. If an impairment is considered other than temporary based on condition (iii), the amount representing credit losses (defined as the difference between the present value of the cash flows expected to be
collected and the amortized cost basis of the debt security) will be recognized in earnings and the amount relating to all other factors will be recognized in OCI. Upon the adoption of FSP 115-2, the Company recorded a cumulative effect adjustment
of $49 million, which resulted in an increase to the balance of retained earnings with a corresponding decrease to OCI. Prior to the adoption of FSP 115-2, the Company recognized impairment charges on fixed income securities using the impairment
policy as is currently applied to publicly traded equity securities, as discussed below.      The Company recognizes an impairment charge on publicly
traded equity securities when a decline in the fair value of its investments in publicly traded equity securities below the cost basis is judged to be other than temporary. The Company considers various factors in determining whether a decline in
the fair value of these investments is other than temporary, including the length of time and extent to which the fair value of the security has been less than the Company s cost basis, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the
issuer, and the Company s intent and ability to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value.      Investments in privately held companies are included in other assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and are primarily accounted for using either the cost or equity method. The Company monitors these investments for
impairments and makes appropriate reductions in carrying values if the Company determines that an impairment charge is required based primarily on the financial condition and near-term prospects of these companies.       (c) Inventories   Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost is computed using standard cost, which approximates actual cost, on a first-in,
first-out basis. The Company provides inventory write-downs based on excess and obsolete inventories determined primarily by future demand forecasts. The write-down is measured as the difference between the cost of the inventory and market based
upon assumptions about future demand and charged to the provision for inventory, which is a component of cost of sales. At the point of the loss recognition, a new, lower-cost basis for that inventory is established, and subsequent changes in facts
and circumstances do not result in the restoration or increase in that newly established cost basis. In addition, the Company records a liability for firm, noncancelable, and unconditional purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and
suppliers for quantities in excess of the Company s future demand forecasts consistent with its valuation of excess and obsolete inventory.         
   2009 Annual Report  43   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements             (d) Allowance for Doubtful Accounts   The allowance for doubtful accounts is based on
the Company s assessment of the collectibility of customer accounts. The Company regularly reviews the allowance by considering factors such as historical experience, credit quality, age of the accounts receivable balances, and economic
conditions that may affect a customer s ability to pay.       (e) Financing Receivables and Guarantees   The Company provides financing arrangements,
including leases, financed service contracts, and loans, for certain qualified end-user customers to build, maintain, and upgrade their networks. Lease receivables primarily represent sales-type and direct-financing leases. Leases and loans
typically have a three-year term and are usually collateralized by a security interest in the underlying assets. Financed service contracts also typically have terms of one to three years and primarily relate to technical support services. The
Company maintains an allowance for uncollectible financing receivables based on a variety of factors, including the risk rating of the portfolio, macroeconomic conditions, historical experience, and other market factors.      In addition, the Company facilitates third-party financing arrangements for channel partners, consisting of revolving short-term financing, generally with payment
terms ranging from 60 to 90 days. In certain instances, these financing arrangements result in a transfer of the Company s receivables to the third party. The receivables are derecognized upon transfer, as these transfers qualify as true sales,
and the Company receives a payment for the receivables from the third party based on the Company s standard payment terms. These financing arrangements facilitate the working capital requirements of the channel partners and, in some cases, the
Company guarantees a portion of these arrangements. The Company also provides financing guarantees for third-party financing arrangements extended to end-user customers related to leases and loans, which typically have terms of up to three years.
The Company could be called upon to make payments under these guarantees in the event of nonpayment by the channel partners or end-user customers. Deferred revenue is recorded in accordance with revenue recognition policies or for the fair value of
the financing guarantees.       (f) Depreciation and Amortization   Property and equipment are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and
amortization. Depreciation and amortization are computed using the straight-line method, generally over the following periods:       

Period   
 
    Buildings   
      
  25 years   
 
    Building improvements   
      
  10 years   
 
    Furniture and fixtures   
      
  5 years   
 
    Production, engineering, and other equipment   
      
  Up to 5 years   
 
    Computer equipment and related software   
      
  30 to 36 months   
 
    Operating lease assets   
      
    Based on lease term      generally up to 3 years    
 
    Depreciation and amortization of leasehold improvements   
      
    Shorter of remaining     lease
term or 5 years    
     (g) Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets   Goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis in the
fourth fiscal quarter and between annual tests in certain circumstances, and written down when impaired. Based on the impairment tests performed, there was no impairment of goodwill in fiscal 2009, 2008, or 2007. Purchased intangible assets are
amortized over their useful lives unless these lives are determined to be indefinite. Purchased intangible assets are carried at cost, less accumulated amortization. Amortization is computed over the estimated useful lives of the respective assets,
generally two to seven years.       (h) Impairment of Long-Lived Assets   Long-lived assets and certain identifiable intangible assets to be held and used
are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable. Determination of recoverability of long-lived assets is based on an estimate of the undiscounted future
cash flows resulting from the use of the asset and its eventual disposition. Measurement of an impairment loss for long-lived assets and certain identifiable intangible assets that management expects to hold and use is based on the fair value of the
asset. Long-lived assets and certain identifiable intangible assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell.       (i) Derivative Instruments   The Company recognizes derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities and measures those instruments at fair value. The accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative depends on
the intended use of the derivative and the resulting designation. For a derivative instrument designated as a fair value hedge, the gain or loss is recognized in earnings in the period of change together with the offsetting loss or gain on the
hedged item attributed to the risk being hedged. For a derivative instrument designated as a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the derivative s gain or loss is initially reported as a component of AOCI and subsequently reclassified into
earnings when the hedged exposure affects earnings. The ineffective portion of the gain or loss is reported in earnings immediately. For derivative instruments that are not designated as accounting hedges, changes in fair value are recognized in
earnings in the period of change.         
   44  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements             (j) Minority Interest   The Company consolidates its investment in a venture fund
managed by SOFTBANK Corp. and its affiliates ( SOFTBANK ). The minority interest on the Consolidated Balance Sheets represents SOFTBANK s share of the venture fund.       (k) Foreign Currency Translation   Assets and liabilities of non-U.S. subsidiaries that operate in a local currency environment, where that local currency is the functional currency, are translated to U.S.
dollars at exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date, with the resulting translation adjustments directly recorded to a separate component of AOCI. Income and expense accounts are translated at average exchange rates during the year.
Remeasurement adjustments are recorded in other income (loss), net. The effect of foreign currency exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents was not material for any of the years presented.       (l) Concentrations of Risk   Cash and cash equivalents are maintained with several financial institutions. Deposits held with banks may exceed the amount of
insurance provided on such deposits. Generally, these deposits may be redeemed upon demand and are maintained with financial institutions with reputable credit and therefore bear minimal credit risk. The Company seeks to mitigate its credit risks by
spreading such risks across multiple counterparties and monitoring the risk profiles of these counterparties.     The Company performs ongoing credit
evaluations of its customers and, with the exception of certain financing transactions, does not require collateral from its customers. The Company receives certain of its components from sole suppliers. Additionally, the Company relies on a limited
number of contract manufacturers and suppliers to provide manufacturing services for its products. The inability of a contract manufacturer or supplier to fulfill supply requirements of the Company could materially impact future operating results.
      (m) Revenue Recognition   The Company s products are generally integrated with software that is essential to the functionality of the
equipment. Additionally, the Company provides unspecified software upgrades and enhancements related to the equipment through its maintenance contracts for most of its products. Accordingly, the Company accounts for revenue in accordance with
Statement of Position No. 97-2,  Software Revenue Recognition,  and all related interpretations. For sales of products where software is incidental to the equipment, or in hosting arrangements, the Company applies the provisions of
Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104,  Revenue Recognition,  and all related interpretations.      The Company recognizes revenue when
persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the fee is fixed or determinable, and collectibility is reasonably assured. In instances where final acceptance of the product, system, or solution is specified by the customer,
revenue is deferred until all acceptance criteria have been met. Technical support services revenue is deferred and recognized ratably over the period during which the services are to be performed, which is typically from one to three years.
Advanced services revenue is recognized upon delivery or completion of performance.      When a sale involves multiple elements, such as sales of products
that include services, the entire fee from the arrangement is allocated to each respective element based on its relative fair value and recognized when revenue recognition criteria for each element are met. Fair value for each element is established
based on the sales price charged when the same element is sold separately based on vendor-specific objective evidence.      The Company uses distributors
that stock inventory and typically sell to systems integrators, service providers, and other resellers. In addition, certain products are sold through retail partners. The Company refers to these sales through distributors and retail partners as its
two-tier system of sales to the end customer. Revenue from distributors and retail partners is recognized based on a sell-through method using information provided by them. Distributors and retail partners participate in various cooperative
marketing and other programs, and the Company maintains estimated accruals and allowances for these programs. The Company accrues for warranty costs, sales returns, and other allowances based on its historical experience.      The Company includes shipping and handling fees billed to customers in net sales with the associated costs included in cost of sales.       (n) Advertising Costs   The Company expenses all advertising costs as incurred. Advertising costs were not material for any of the years presented.       (o) Share-Based Compensation Expense   The Company measures and recognizes the compensation expense for all share-based awards made to employees and directors
including employee stock options and employee stock purchases related to the Employee Stock Purchase Plan ( employee stock purchase rights ) based on estimated fair values. The fair value of employee stock options and employee stock
purchase rights is estimated on the date of grant using a lattice-binomial option-pricing model ( lattice-binomial model ). The value of awards that are ultimately expected to vest is recognized as expense over the requisite service
periods in the Company s Consolidated Statements of Operations. Because share-based compensation expense recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Operations is based on awards ultimately expected to vest, it has been reduced for
forfeitures.         
   2009 Annual Report  45   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements            The Company s determination of fair value of employee stock options and employee
stock purchase rights on the date of grant using a lattice-binomial model is affected by the Company s stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of highly complex and subjective variables. These variables include, but are not
limited to, the Company s expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards and actual and projected employee stock option exercise behaviors. Option-pricing models were developed for use in estimating the value of traded options that
have no vesting or hedging restrictions and are fully transferable. Because the Company s employee stock options and employee stock purchase rights have certain characteristics that are significantly different from traded options and because
changes in the subjective assumptions can materially affect the estimated value, in management s opinion, the existing valuation models may not provide an accurate measure of the fair value of the Company s employee stock options. Although
the fair value of employee stock options is determined using an option-pricing model, that value may not be indicative of the fair value observed in a willing buyer/willing seller market transaction. The Company measures the fair value of restricted
stock and restricted stock units as if the awards were vested and issued on the grant date.       (p) Software Development Costs   Software development
costs required to be capitalized for software sold, leased, or otherwise marketed have not been material to date. Software development costs required to be capitalized for internal use software have also not been material to date.      (q) Income Taxes   Income tax expense is based on pretax financial accounting income. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected tax
consequences of temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts. Valuation allowances are recorded to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that will more likely than not be realized.   
  The Company accounts for uncertainty in income taxes pursuant to FIN 48. FIN 48 contains a two-step approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain tax
positions. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related
appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely of being realized upon settlement. The Company classifies the liability for unrecognized tax benefits as
current to the extent that the Company anticipates payment (or receipt) of cash within one year. Interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions are recognized in the provision for income taxes.       (r) Computation of Net Income per Share   Basic net income per share is computed using the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period.
Diluted net income per share is computed using the weighted-average number of common shares and dilutive potential common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted shares outstanding include the dilutive effect of in-the-money options and
unvested restricted stock and stock units. The dilutive effect is calculated based on the average share price for each fiscal period using the treasury stock method. Under the treasury stock method, the amount the employee must pay for exercising
stock options, the amount of compensation cost for future service that the Company has not yet recognized, and the amount of tax benefits that would be recorded in additional paid-in capital when the award becomes deductible are assumed to be used
to repurchase shares.       (s) Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities   In the event that the Company is the primary beneficiary of a variable
interest entity, the assets, liabilities, and results of operations of the variable interest entity will be included in the Company s consolidated financial statements.       (t) Use of Estimates   The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and judgments that
affect the amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes. Estimates are used for the following, among others:       

Revenue recognition      

Allowances for receivables and sales returns      

Inventory valuation and liability for purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers      

Warranty costs      

Share-based compensation expense      

Fair value measurements and other-than-temporary impairments      

Goodwill impairments      

Income taxes      

Loss contingencies         The actual results experienced by the Company may
differ materially from management s estimates.         
   46  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements             (u) Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Effective         SFAS 141(R) and SFAS 160    In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007),  Business Combinations  ( SFAS 141(R) )
and SFAS No. 160,  Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements   an amendment of ARB No. 51  ( SFAS 160 ). In April 2009, the FASB issued FSP FAS 141(R)-1,  Accounting for Assets Acquired and
Liabilities Assumed in a Business Combination That Arise from Contingencies  ( FSP 141(R)-1 ).      SFAS 141(R) will significantly change
previous accounting practices regarding business combinations. Among the more significant changes, SFAS 141(R) expands the definition of a business and a business combination; requires the acquirer to recognize the assets acquired, liabilities
assumed and noncontrolling interests (including goodwill) measured at fair value at the acquisition date; requires acquisition-related expenses and restructuring costs to be recognized separately from the business combination; requires assets
acquired and liabilities assumed to be recognized at their acquisition-date fair values with subsequent changes recognized in earnings; and requires in-process research and development to be capitalized at fair value as an indefinite-lived
intangible asset. FSP 141(R)-1 amends and clarifies SFAS 141(R) to address application issues on initial recognition and measurement, subsequent measurement and accounting, and disclosure of assets and liabilities arising from contingencies in a
business combination. SFAS 160 will change the accounting and reporting for minority interests, reporting them as equity separate from the parent entity s equity, as well as requiring expanded disclosures.      Each of SFAS 141(R), FSP 141(R)-1 and SFAS 160 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, and
therefore will be effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. SFAS 141(R) and its related FSP are effective for acquisitions closing in fiscal 2010, with impacts that may vary depending on each specific business
combination or asset purchase. Upon adoption of SFAS 160, the Company will disclose its noncontrolling interests in accordance with the guidance, and it does not expect that there will be a material impact on its results of operations or financial
position.        FSP FAS 157-2    In February 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS 157-2,  Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157 
( FSP 157-2 ), which delayed the effective date of SFAS 157 for all nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities, except for items that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis (at
least annually), until the beginning of the Company s fiscal 2010. The Company does not expect that the application of SFAS 157, when applied to nonfinancial assets and liabilities, will have a material impact on its results of operations or
financial position.        SFAS 166    In June 2009, the FASB issued SFAS No. 166,  Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets
  an amendment of FASB Statement No. 140  ( SFAS 166 ). SFAS 166 eliminates the concept of a qualifying special-purpose entity; removes the scope exception from applying FASB Interpretation No. 46(R),
 Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities  to qualifying special-purpose entities; changes the requirements for derecognizing financial assets; and requires enhanced disclosure. SFAS 166 is effective for the Company beginning in the
first quarter of fiscal 2011. The Company is currently evaluating the impact that the adoption of SFAS 166 will have on its consolidated financial statements.        SFAS 167    In June 2009, the FASB issued SFAS No. 167,  Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R)  ( SFAS 167 ). SFAS 167 replaces the quantitative-based risks and rewards approach
with a qualitative approach that focuses on identifying which enterprise has the power to direct the activities of a variable interest entity that most significantly impact the entity s economic performance. It also requires an ongoing
reassessment of whether an entity is the primary beneficiary and requires additional disclosures about an enterprise s involvement in variable interest entities. SFAS 167 is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal
2011. The Company is currently evaluating the impact that the adoption of SFAS 167 will have on its consolidated financial statements.       (v)
Reclassifications   Certain reclassifications have been made to amounts for prior years in order to conform to the current year s presentation.         
   2009 Annual Report  47   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements             3. Business Combinations        (a) Purchase Acquisitions       Under the terms of the definitive agreements related to the
Company s purchase acquisitions completed during fiscal 2009, 2008, and 2007, the purchase consideration consisted of one or more of cash, shares of Cisco common stock, or fully vested share-based awards assumed.      A summary of the purchase acquisitions completed in fiscal 2009, 2008, and 2007 is as follows (in millions):       
    The purchase consideration for the Company s purchase acquisitions was also allocated to tangible assets acquired and
liabilities assumed.       Fiscal 2009        

The Company acquired PostPath, Inc. to enhance the existing email and calendaring capabilities of the Cisco WebEx Connect collaboration platform.

The Company acquired Pure Digital Technologies, Inc. to provide consumer-friendly video solutions designed to have mass-market appeal.          

The Company acquired Pure Networks, Inc. to provide solutions designed to allow end users to easily set up and manage a home network and connect a range of devices,
applications, and services.          

The Company acquired Tidal Software, Inc. to provide intelligent application management and automation solutions for data centers.          Fiscal 2008        

The Company acquired Navini Networks, Inc. to extend the Company s WiMAX solutions for service providers.          

The Company acquired Securent, Inc. to allow the Company to offer its enterprise customers policy management software solutions, which are designed to allow enterprises to
administer, enforce, and audit access to data, communications, and applications across different types of IT environments.            
   48  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements             Fiscal 2007        

The Company acquired Arroyo Video Solutions, Inc. to enable carriers to accelerate the creation and distribution of network-delivered entertainment, interactive media, and
advertising services across the growing portfolio of televisions, personal computers, and mobile handsets.          

The Company acquired IronPort Systems, Inc. to extend the Company s security portfolio in email and messaging security solutions.          

The Company acquired Reactivity, Inc. to complement and extend the Company s application networking services portfolio within advanced technologies.

The Company acquired WebEx Communications, Inc. ( WebEx ), a provider of on-demand collaboration applications. WebEx s network-based solution for delivering
business-to-business collaboration extends the Company s unified communications portfolio, particularly within the small and medium-sized business (SMB) market.         The Consolidated Financial Statements include the operating results of each business from the date of acquisition. Pro forma results of operations for the acquisitions completed during fiscal 2009, 2008, and 2007 have not been
presented because the effects of the acquisitions, individually or in the aggregate, were not material to the Company s financial results.       (b) Compensation
Expense Related to Acquisitions and Investments       The following table presents the compensation expense related to acquisitions and investments (in millions):
      
     Cash Compensation Expense   In connection with the Company s purchase acquisitions, asset purchases,
and acquisitions of variable interest entities, the Company has agreed to pay certain additional amounts contingent upon the achievement of certain agreed-upon technology, development, product, or other milestones, or the continued employment with
the Company of certain employees of the acquired entities. In each case, any additional amounts paid will be recorded as compensation expense. As of July 25, 2009, the Company may be required to recognize future compensation expense pursuant to
these agreements of up to $293 million, which includes the remaining potential amount of additional compensation expense related to Nuova Systems, Inc. ( Nuova Systems ).        Nuova Systems, Inc.    During fiscal 2008, the Company purchased the remaining interests in Nuova Systems not previously held by the Company, representing approximately 20% of Nuova Systems. Under the
terms of the merger agreement, the former minority interest holders of Nuova Systems are eligible to receive up to three milestone payments based on agreed-upon formulas. During fiscal 2009, the Company recorded approximately $146 million of
compensation expense, and through July 25, 2009 the Company has recorded an aggregate compensation expense of $423 million related to the fair value of amounts that are expected to be earned by the minority interest holders pursuant to a
vesting schedule. Actual amounts payable to the former minority interest holders of Nuova Systems will depend upon achievement under the agreed-upon formulas.      Subsequent changes to the fair value of the amounts probable of being earned and the continued vesting will result in adjustments to the recorded compensation expense. The potential amount that could be recorded as compensation expense may
be up to a maximum of $678 million, including the $423 million that has been expensed through July 25, 2009. The compensation is expected to be paid primarily during fiscal 2010 through fiscal 2012.       Share-Based Compensation   As of July 25, 2009, the balance of share-based compensation related to acquisitions and investments to be recognized over the
remaining vesting periods was $211 million.         
   2009 Annual Report  49   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements             4. Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets        (a) Goodwill       The following tables present the goodwill allocated to the Company s
reportable segments as of July 25, 2009 and July 26, 2008, and the changes to goodwill during fiscal 2009 and 2008 (in millions):       
     
    In the preceding table,  Other  primarily includes foreign currency translation and purchase accounting
adjustments.       (b) Purchased Intangible Assets       The following tables present
details of the intangible assets acquired through business combinations during fiscal 2009 and 2008 (in millions, except years):       
       
   50  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements            The following tables present details of the Company s purchased intangible assets (in millions):

(1)   
    The technology category includes technology intangible assets acquired through business combinations as well as through technology licenses.         The following table presents the amortization of purchased intangible assets (in millions):       
    During the years ended July 25, 2009 and July 26, 2008, the Company recorded impairment charges of $95 million and
$33 million, respectively, from write-downs of purchased intangible assets related to certain technologies and customer relationships due to reductions in expected future cash flows, and the amounts were recorded as amortization of purchased
intangible assets. There were no impairment charges related to purchased intangible assets for the year ended July 28, 2007.      The estimated
future amortization expense of purchased intangible assets as of July 25, 2009, is as follows (in millions):       
       
   2009 Annual Report  51   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements             5. Balance Sheet Details and Other Information        (a) Balance Sheet Details       The following tables provide details of selected balance sheet
items (in millions):       
     (b) Enhanced Early Retirement Program and Limited Workforce Reduction Actions       During the second half of fiscal 2009, the Company implemented an enhanced early retirement program, a voluntary program that was offered to eligible employees. In connection with
the enhanced early retirement program, the Company incurred a charge of $138 million ($28 million in cost of sales and $110 million in operating expenses) during fiscal 2009. In addition, during the second half of fiscal 2009, the Company incurred
approximately $125 million of severance charges ($25 million in cost of sales and $100 million in operating expenses) in connection with limited workforce reduction actions that impacted just over 2,000 employees. As of July 25, 2009, the
remaining liability for the enhanced early retirement program and the limited workforce reduction actions was $186 million and was recorded in accrued compensation. The remaining liability is expected to be paid primarily in the first quarter of
fiscal 2010.         
   52  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements             6. Financing Receivables and Guarantees        (a) Lease Receivables       Lease receivables represent sales-type and direct-financing leases
resulting from the sale of the Company s and complementary third-party products. These lease arrangements typically have terms of up to three years and are generally collateralized by a security interest in the underlying assets. The net lease
receivables are summarized as follows (in millions):       
    Contractual maturities of the gross lease receivables at July 25, 2009 were $757 million in fiscal 2010, $607 million
in fiscal 2011, $374 million in fiscal 2012, $195 million in fiscal 2013, and $63 million in fiscal 2014 and thereafter. Actual cash collections may differ from the contractual maturities due to early customer buyouts, refinancings, or defaults.
      (b) Financed Service Contracts       Financed service contracts are summarized
as follows (in millions):       
    The revenue related to financed service contracts, which primarily relates to technical support services, is deferred and
included in deferred service revenue. The revenue is recognized ratably over the period during which the related services are to be performed, which is typically from one to three years.         
   2009 Annual Report  53   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements             (c) Loan Receivables       Loan receivables are summarized as follows (in millions):       
    A portion of the revenue related to loan receivables is deferred and included in deferred product revenue based on revenue
recognition criteria.       (d) Financing Guarantees       In the ordinary course of
business, the Company provides financing guarantees, which are generally for various third-party financing arrangements extended to channel partners and end-user customers.       Channel Partner Financing Guarantees   The Company facilitates arrangements for third-party financing extended to channel partners, consisting of revolving short-term financing, generally with payment terms ranging from 60
to 90 days. These financing arrangements facilitate the working capital requirements of the channel partners and, in some cases, the Company guarantees a portion of these arrangements. The volume of channel partner financing was $14.2 billion, $14.4
billion and $10.5 billion for fiscal 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. As of the end of fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, the balance of the channel partner financing subject to guarantees was $1.1 billion and $1.7 billion, respectively.       End-User Financing Guarantees     The Company also provides financing guarantees for third-party financing arrangements extended to end-user customers related
to leases and loans that typically have terms of up to three years. The volume of financing provided by third parties for leases and loans on which the Company has provided guarantees was $1.2 billion for both fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008.
      Financing Guarantee Summary     The aggregate amount of financing guarantees outstanding at July 25, 2009 and July 26, 2008,
representing the total maximum potential future payments under financing arrangements with third parties, and the related deferred revenue are summarized in the following table (in millions):       
       
   54  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements             7. Investments        (a) Summary of Investments       The following tables summarize the Company s investments (in millions):       
     (1)  In the tables in Note 7
and Note 8, government agency securities as of July 25, 2009 include bank-issued securities that are guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC).       (b) Gains and Losses on Investments       The following table presents gross realized gains and losses related to the Company s investments (in
millions):       
    The following table presents net realized gains and losses related to the Company s fixed income and publicly traded
equity securities (in millions):       
    For the year ended July 25, 2009, net realized losses included impairment charges of $219 million and $39 million for
fixed income and publicly traded equity securities, respectively. The impairment charges for both types of investments were due to a decline in the fair value of the investments below their cost basis that were judged to be other than temporary and
were recorded as a reduction to the amortized cost of the respective investments. The Company did not have any impairment charges, related to credit losses or otherwise, on fixed income securities subsequent to the adoption of FSP 115-2 during the
fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. There were no impairments of fixed income securities or publicly traded equity securities for fiscal 2008 or fiscal 2007.         
   2009 Annual Report  55   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements            The following table summarizes the activity related to credit losses for fixed income
securities during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 (in millions):       
    The following tables present the breakdown of the investments with gross unrealized losses at July 25, 2009 and
July 26, 2008 (in millions):       
    For fixed income securities that have unrealized losses as of July 25, 2009, the Company has determined that
(i) it does not have the intent to sell any of these investments, and (ii) it is not more likely than not that it will be required to sell any of these investments before recovery of the entire amortized cost basis. In addition, the
Company has evaluated these fixed income securities and has determined that no credit losses exist. In conclusion, the Company s management has determined that the unrealized losses on its fixed income securities as of July 25, 2009 were
temporary in nature.      The Company has evaluated its publicly traded equity securities as of July 25, 2009, and has determined that there were no
unrealized losses that indicate an other-than-temporary impairment. This determination was based on several factors, which include the length of time and extent to which fair value has been less than the cost basis and the financial condition and
near-term prospects of the issuer, and the Company s intent and ability to hold the publicly traded equity securities for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value.         
   56  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements             (c) Maturities of Fixed Income Securities       The following table summarizes the maturities of the Company s fixed income securities at July 25, 2009 (in millions):      
    Actual maturities may differ from the contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or prepay certain
obligations.      8. Fair Value       SFAS 157 defines fair value as
the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required or
permitted to be recorded at fair value, the Company considers the principal or most advantageous market in which it would transact and it considers assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability.       (a) Fair Value Hierarchy       SFAS 157 requires an entity to maximize the use of observable
inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. SFAS 157 establishes a fair value hierarchy based on the level of independent, objective evidence surrounding the inputs used to measure fair value. A financial
instrument s categorization within the fair value hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. SFAS 157 prioritizes the inputs into three levels that may be used to measure fair value:
      Level 1     Level 1 applies to assets or liabilities for which there are quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
      Level 2     Level 2 applies to assets or liabilities for which there are inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or
liability such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in markets with insufficient volume or infrequent transactions (less active markets); or model-derived valuations
in which significant inputs are observable or can be derived principally from, or corroborated by, observable market data.       Level 3     Level 3
applies to assets or liabilities for which there are unobservable inputs to the valuation methodology that are significant to the measurement of the fair value of the assets or liabilities.       (b) Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis       Assets and
liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of July 25, 2009 were as follows (in millions):       
       
   2009 Annual Report  57   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements            Level 2 fixed income securities are priced using quoted market prices for similar instruments,
nonbinding market prices that are corroborated by observable market data, or discounted cash flow techniques. The Company s derivative instruments are primarily classified as Level 2, as they are not actively traded and are valued using pricing
models that use observable market inputs. Level 3 assets include asset-backed securities and certain derivative assets, whose values are determined based on discounted cash flow models using inputs that the Company could not corroborate with market
data.      Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis were presented on the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheet as of
July 25, 2009 as follows (in millions):       
    The following table presents a reconciliation for all assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis using significant
unobservable inputs (Level 3) for the year ended July 25, 2009 (in millions):       
     (c) Financial Assets Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis       The following table presents the Company s financial assets that were measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis and the losses recorded to other income (loss), net
on those assets (in millions):       

FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS USING  

Net Carrying Value as of July 25, 2009  
      
    Quoted Prices in Active Markets for
Identical Instruments     (Level 1)   
      
    Significant Other Observable Inputs     (Level 2)   
      
    Significant Unobservable Inputs     (Level 3)   
      
  Total Losses for the Year Ended July 25, 2009   
 
    Investments in privately held companies   
      
  $  
    69  
      
  $  

$  

$  
    69  
      
  $  (78)   
 
    Losses on assets no longer held as of July 25, 2009   

(9)   
 
    Total   

$  (87)   
    The assets in the preceding table were measured at fair value during the year ended July 25, 2009 due to events or
circumstances the Company identified that significantly impacted the fair value of these investments. The Company measured fair value using financial metrics, comparison to other private and public companies, and analysis of the financial condition
and near-term prospects of the issuer, including recent financing activities and their capital structure as well as other economic variables. These investments were classified as  
       
   58  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements           
 Level 3 assets because the Company used unobservable inputs to value them, reflecting the Company s assessment of the assumptions market participants would use in
pricing these investments due to the absence of quoted market prices and inherent lack of liquidity.       (d) Other       The fair value of certain of the Company s financial instruments that are not measured at fair value, including accounts receivable, accounts payable, accrued compensation,
and other current liabilities, approximates the carrying amount because of their short maturities. In addition, the fair value of the Company s loan receivables and financed service contracts also approximate the carrying amount. The fair value
of the Company s long-term debt is disclosed in Note 9 and was determined using quoted market prices for those securities.      In the fourth quarter
of fiscal 2009, the Company adopted FSP FAS 157-4,  Determining Fair Value When the Volume and Level of Activity for the Asset or Liability Have Significantly Decreased and Identifying Transactions That Are Not Orderly  ( FSP
157-4 ). FSP 157-4 provides additional guidelines for estimating fair value in accordance with SFAS 157 when the volume and level of activity for the asset or liability have significantly decreased. This FSP also includes guidance on
identifying circumstances that indicate a transaction is not orderly. The adoption of FSP 157-4 in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 did not have a material impact on the Company s financial statements.      Effective July 27, 2008, the Company also adopted SFAS No. 159,  The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Including
an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115  ( SFAS 159 ), but has not elected the fair value option for any eligible financial instruments as of July 25, 2009.       9. Borrowings        (a) Long-Term Debt       The following table summarizes the Company s long-term debt (in millions, except percentages):       
    In February 2006, the Company issued $500 million of senior floating interest rate notes based on LIBOR due 2009, $3.0
billion of 5.25% senior notes due 2011, and $3.0 billion of 5.50% senior notes due 2016, for an aggregate principal amount of $6.5 billion. In February 2009, the Company issued $2.0 billion of 4.95% senior notes due 2019, and $2.0 billion of 5.90%
senior notes due 2039, for an aggregate principal amount of $4.0 billion. The Company repaid in full the 2009 Notes when they became due in February 2009.      The effective rates for the fixed-rate debt include the interest on the notes, the accretion of the discount, and adjustments related to hedging, if applicable. Based on market prices, the fair value of the Company s long-term debt was
$10.5 billion as of July 25, 2009 and the fair value of the Company s long-term debt, including the current portion of long-term debt, was $6.6 billion as of July 26, 2008. The Company was in compliance with all debt covenants as of
July 25, 2009. Interest is payable semi-annually on each class of the senior fixed-rate notes, and the notes are redeemable by the Company at any time, subject to a make-whole premium.         
   2009 Annual Report  59   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements            Interest expense and cash paid for interest are summarized as follows (in millions):
      
     (b) Credit Facility       In August
2007, the Company entered into a credit agreement with certain institutional lenders providing for a $3.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility that is scheduled to expire on August 17, 2012. Due to the bankruptcy of one of the lenders
during the first quarter of fiscal 2009, the credit facility has been reduced to $2.9 billion.      Any advances under the credit agreement will accrue
interest at rates that are equal to, based on certain conditions, either (i) the higher of the Federal Funds rate plus 0.50% or Bank of America s  prime rate  as announced from time to time, or (ii) LIBOR plus a margin that
is based on the Company s senior debt credit ratings as published by Standard   Poor s Ratings Services and Moody s Investors Service, Inc. The credit agreement requires that the Company comply with certain covenants
including that it maintains an interest coverage ratio as defined in the agreement.      As of July 25, 2009, the Company was in compliance with the
required interest coverage ratio and the other covenants, and the Company had not borrowed any funds under the credit facility. The Company may also, upon the agreement of either the then- existing lenders or of additional lenders not currently
parties to the agreement, increase the commitments under the credit facility by up to an additional $2.0 billion and/or extend the expiration date of the credit facility up to August 15, 2014.       10. Derivative Instruments        (a) Summary of Derivative Instruments  
     The Company uses derivative instruments primarily to manage exposures to foreign currency exchange rate, interest rate, and equity price risks. The Company s
primary objective in holding derivatives is to reduce the volatility of earnings and cash flows associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, and equity prices. The Company s derivatives expose it to credit risk to
the extent that the counterparties may be unable to meet the terms of the agreement. The Company does, however, seek to mitigate such risks by limiting its counterparties to major financial institutions. In addition, the potential risk of loss with
any one counterparty resulting from this type of credit risk is monitored. Management does not expect material losses as a result of defaults by counterparties.      The fair values of the Company s derivative instruments and the line items on the Consolidated Balance Sheet to which they were recorded as of July 25, 2009 are summarized as follows (in millions):       

DERIVATIVE ASSETS  

DERIVATIVE LIABILITIES   

Balance Sheet Line Item  
     
  Fair Value  

Balance Sheet Line Item  
     
  Fair Value   
 
    Derivatives designated as hedging instruments:   

Foreign currency derivatives   
     
  Prepaid expenses and other current assets  
     
  $  
  87  

Other current liabilities  
     
  $  
  36   
 
    Total   

87  

36   
 
    Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments:   

Foreign currency derivatives   
     
  Prepaid expenses and other current assets  

22  

Other current liabilities  

30   
 
    Equity derivatives   
     
  Prepaid expenses and other current assets  

2  

Other current liabilities  

Equity derivatives   
     
  Other assets  

2  

Other long-term liabilities  

Total   

26  

30   
 
    Total   

$  
   113  

$  
   66   
       
   60  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements            The effect of the Company s cash flow hedging instruments on OCI and the Consolidated Statement of
Operations for the year ended July 25, 2009 is summarized as follows (in millions):       

GAINS (LOSSES) RECOGNIZED IN OCI ON DERIVATIVES (EFFECTIVE PORTION)  

GAINS (LOSSES) RECLASSIFIED FROM     AOCI INTO INCOME     (EFFECTIVE PORTION)   

GAINS (LOSSES) RECOGNIZED     IN INCOME (INEFFECTIVE PORTION) (1)    

Derivatives Designated as Cash Flow Hedging Instruments  
     
    Amount   

Line Item in Statements     of Operations   
      
  Amount  

Line Item in Statements     of Operations   
      
  Amount  

Foreign currency derivatives   
     
  $  
  (116  
  )   

Operating expenses  
      
  $  
  (95  
  )   

Other income (loss), net  
      
  $  

Cost of sales-service  

(13  
  )   

Interest rate derivatives   

(42  
  )   

Interest income (expense), net  

Interest income (expense), net  

(4  
  )    
 
    Other derivatives   

(2  
  )   

Operating expenses  

(2  
  )   

Other income (loss), net  

Total   
     
  $  
  (160  
  )   

$  
  (110  
  )   

$  
  (4  
  )    

(1)   
    The Company did not exclude any component of the changes in fair value of the derivative instruments from the assessment of hedge effectiveness.      
  The effect on the Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year ended July 25, 2009 of derivative instruments designated as fair value hedges is summarized as follows
(in millions):       

Derivatives Designated as Fair Value Hedging Instruments  
      
    Line Item in Statements             of Operations   
      
    Gains (Losses)   

Equity derivatives   
      
  Other income (loss), net  
      
  $  
   97  

Interest rate derivatives   
      
  Other income (loss), net  

(7  
  )    
 
    Total   

$  
  90  
       
    The effect on the Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year ended July 25, 2009 of derivative instruments not
designated as hedges is summarized as follows (in millions):       

Derivatives not Designated as Hedging Instruments  
      
    Line Item in Statements             of Operations   
      
    Gains (Losses)   

Foreign currency derivatives   
      
  Other income (loss), net  
      
  $  
   1  

Equity derivatives   
      
  Operating expenses  

(14  
  )    
 
    Equity derivatives   
      
  Other income (loss), net  

11  

Total   

$  
  (2  
  )    
    As of July 25, 2009, the Company estimates that approximately $5 million of net derivative gains related to its cash
flow hedges included in AOCI will be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months.       (b) Foreign Currency Exchange Risk       The Company conducts business globally in numerous currencies. As such, it is exposed to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. To limit the exposure related to
foreign currency changes, the Company enters into foreign currency contracts. The Company does not enter into such contracts for trading purposes.      The Company hedges foreign currency forecasted transactions related to certain operating expenses and service cost of sales with currency options and forward contracts. These currency option and forward contracts, designated as cash flow
hedges, generally have maturities of less than 18 months. The Company assesses effectiveness based on changes in total fair value of the derivatives. The effective portion of the derivative s gain or loss is initially reported as a component of
AOCI and subsequently reclassified into earnings when the hedged exposure affects earnings. The ineffective portion, if any, of the gain or loss is reported in earnings immediately. The Company did not discontinue any hedges during any of the
periods presented because it was probable that the original forecasted transaction would not occur.         
   2009 Annual Report  61   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements            The Company enters into foreign exchange forward and option contracts to reduce the
short-term effects of foreign currency fluctuations on assets and liabilities such as foreign currency receivables including long-term customer financings, investments, and payables and these derivatives are not designated as hedging instruments.
Gains and losses on the contracts are included in other income (loss), net, and offset foreign exchange gains and losses from the remeasurement of intercompany balances or other current assets, investments, or liabilities denominated in currencies
other than the functional currency of the reporting entity.      The Company hedges certain net investments in its foreign subsidiaries with forward
contracts which generally have maturities of up to six months. The Company recognized a gain of $8 million in OCI for the effective portion of its net investment hedges for the year ended July 25, 2009. The Company s net investment hedges
are not included in the preceding tables.      The notional amounts of the Company s foreign currency derivatives as of July 25, 2009 are
summarized as follows (in millions):       

Notional Amounts   
 
    Derivatives designated as cash flow hedging instruments   
      
  $  
   2,965   
 
    Derivatives designated as net investment hedging instruments   

103   
 
    Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments   

4,423   
 
    Total   
      
  $  
  7,491   
     (c) Interest Rate Risk        Interest Rate Derivatives, Investments   The Company s primary objective for holding fixed income securities is to achieve an appropriate investment return consistent with preserving principal and managing risk. To
realize these objectives, the Company may utilize interest rate swaps or other derivatives designated as fair value or cash flow hedges. As of July 25, 2009, the Company did not have any outstanding interest rate derivatives related to its
fixed income securities.       Interest Rate Derivatives, Long-Term Debt   During the third quarter of fiscal 2009, in connection with the issuance of the
2019 and 2039 Notes, the Company entered into interest rate derivatives to hedge against interest rate movements prior to the pricing of the notes. These derivative instruments were settled in connection with the issuance of the 2019 and 2039 Notes.
The effective portion of the hedge was recorded to AOCI, net of tax, and will be amortized to interest expense over the respective lives of the 2019 and 2039 Notes.       (d) Equity Price Risk       The Company may hold equity securities for strategic purposes or to diversify its overall investment portfolio. The publicly
traded equity securities in the Company s portfolio are subject to price risk. To manage its exposure to changes in the fair value of certain equity securities, the Company may enter into equity derivatives that are designated as accounting
hedges. The changes in the value of the hedging instruments are included in other income (loss), net, and offset the change in the fair value of the underlying hedged investment. In addition, the Company periodically manages the risk of its
investment portfolio by entering into equity derivatives that are not designated as accounting hedges. The changes in the fair value of these derivatives were also included in other income (loss), net. As of July 25, 2009, there were no equity
derivatives outstanding related to its investment portfolio.      The Company is also exposed to variability in compensation charges related to
certain deferred compensation obligations to employees. Although not designated as accounting hedges, the Company utilizes equity derivatives to economically hedge this exposure. As of July 25, 2009, the notional amount of
the derivative instruments used to hedge such liabilities was $91 million.       (e) Credit-Risk-Related Contingent Features       Certain of the Company s derivative instruments contain credit-risk-related contingent features, such as provisions that allow a counterparty to terminate a transaction if the
Company s debt rating falls below investment grade. These provisions did not affect the Company s financial position as of July 25, 2009.         
   62  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements             11. Commitments and Contingencies        (a) Operating Leases       The Company leases office space in several U.S. locations. Outside
the United States, larger leased sites include sites in Australia, Belgium, China, France, Germany, India, Israel, Italy, Japan, and the United Kingdom. The Company also leases equipment and vehicles. Rent expense totaled $328 million, $291 million,
and $219 million in fiscal 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. Future annual minimum lease payments under all noncancelable operating leases with an initial term in excess of one year as of July 25, 2009 are as follows (in millions):
      
     (b) Purchase Commitments with Contract Manufacturers and Suppliers       The Company purchases components from a variety of suppliers and uses several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for its products. During the normal course of
business, in order to manage manufacturing lead times and help ensure adequate component supply, the Company enters into agreements with contract manufacturers and suppliers that either allow them to procure inventory based upon criteria as defined
by the Company or that establish the parameters defining the Company s requirements. A significant portion of the Company s reported purchase commitments arising from these agreements consists of firm, noncancelable, and unconditional
commitments. In certain instances, these agreements allow the Company the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust the Company s requirements based on its business needs prior to firm orders being placed. As of July 25, 2009 and
July 26, 2008, the Company had total purchase commitments for inventory of $2.2 billion and $2.7 billion, respectively.      The Company records a
liability for firm, noncancelable, and unconditional purchase commitments for quantities in excess of its future demand forecasts consistent with the valuation of the Company s excess and obsolete inventory. As of July 25, 2009 and
July 26, 2008, the liability for these purchase commitments was $175 million and $184 million, respectively, and was included in other current liabilities.       (c) Other Commitments       In connection with the Company s purchase acquisitions, asset purchases, and acquisitions of variable interest entities,
the Company has agreed to pay certain additional amounts contingent upon the achievement of certain agreed-upon technology, development, product, or other milestones, or the continued employment with the Company of certain employees of acquired
entities. See Note 3.      The Company also has certain funding commitments primarily related to its investments in privately held companies and venture
funds, some of which are based on the achievement of certain agreed-upon milestones, and some of which are required to be funded on demand. The funding commitments were approximately $313 million and $359 million as of July 25, 2009 and
July 26, 2008, respectively.       (d) Variable Interest Entities       In the
ordinary course of business, the Company has investments in privately held companies and provides financing to certain customers. These privately held companies and customers may be considered to be variable interest entities. The Company has
evaluated its investments in these privately held companies and its customer financings and has determined that there were no significant unconsolidated variable interest entities as of July 25, 2009.         
   2009 Annual Report  63   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements             (e) Product Warranties and Guarantees       The following table summarizes the activity related to the product warranty liability during fiscal 2009 and 2008 (in millions):       
    The Company accrues for warranty costs as part of its cost of sales based on associated material product costs, labor costs
for technical support staff, and associated overhead. The products sold are generally covered by a warranty for periods ranging from 90 days to five years, and for some products the Company provides a limited lifetime warranty.      In the normal course of business, the Company indemnifies other parties, including customers, lessors, and parties to other transactions with the Company, with
respect to certain matters. The Company has agreed to hold the other parties harmless against losses arising from a breach of representations or covenants, or out of intellectual property infringement or other claims made against certain parties.
These agreements may limit the time within which an indemnification claim can be made and the amount of the claim. In addition, the Company has entered into indemnification agreements with its officers and directors, and the Company s bylaws
contain similar indemnification obligations to the Company s agents. It is not possible to determine the maximum potential amount under these indemnification agreements due to the Company s limited history with prior indemnification claims
and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Historically, payments made by the Company under these agreements have not had a material effect on the Company s operating results, financial position, or cash
flows.      The Company also provides financing guarantees, which are generally for various third-party financing arrangements to channel partners and
other end-user customers. See Note 6. The Company s other guarantee arrangements as of July 25, 2009 that are subject to recognition and disclosure requirements were not material.       (f) Legal Proceedings       Brazilian authorities are investigating the Company s
Brazilian subsidiary and certain of its current and former employees, as well as a Brazilian importer of the Company s products, and its affiliates and employees, relating to the allegation of evading import taxes and other alleged improper
transactions involving the subsidiary and the importer. The Company is conducting a thorough review of the matter. During fiscal 2009, Brazilian authorities asserted claims against the Company for calendar years 2003 and 2004, and the Company
believes claims may also be asserted for calendar year 2005 through calendar year 2007. The Company believes the asserted claims are without merit and intends to defend the claims vigorously. The Company is unable to determine the likelihood of an
unfavorable outcome on any potential further claims against it. While the Company believes there is no legal basis for its alleged liability, due to the complexities and uncertainty surrounding the judicial process in Brazil, and the nature of the
claims asserting joint liability with the importer, the Company is unable to reasonably estimate a range of loss, if any. In addition, the Company is investigating the allegations regarding improper transactions. The Company has proactively
communicated with United States authorities to provide information and report on its findings, and the United States authorities are currently investigating such allegations.      In addition, the Company is subject to legal proceedings, claims, and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business, including intellectual property
litigation. While the outcome of these matters is currently not determinable, the Company does not expect that the ultimate costs to resolve these matters will have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial position, results of
operations, or cash flows.         
   64  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements             12. Shareholders  Equity        (a) Stock Repurchase Program       In September 2001, the Company s Board of Directors
authorized a stock repurchase program. As of July 25, 2009, the Company s Board of Directors had authorized an aggregate repurchase of up to $62 billion of common stock under this program and the remaining authorized repurchase amount was
$4.8 billion with no termination date. The stock repurchase activity under the stock repurchase program in fiscal 2008 and 2009 is summarized as follows (in millions, except per-share amounts):       

(1)   
    Includes stock repurchases that were pending settlement as of the end of the respective fiscal years.         The purchase price for the shares of the Company s stock repurchased is reflected as a reduction to shareholders  equity. The Company is required to allocate the
purchase price of the repurchased shares as (i) a reduction to retained earnings until retained earnings are zero and then as an increase to accumulated deficit and (ii) a reduction of common stock and additional paid-in capital. Issuance
of common stock and the tax benefit related to employee stock incentive plans are recorded as an increase to common stock and additional paid-in capital.       (b)
Other Repurchases of Common Stock       The Company also repurchases shares in settlement of employee tax withholding obligations due upon the vesting of restricted
stock or stock units.       (c) Preferred Stock       Under the terms of the
Company s Articles of Incorporation, the Board of Directors may determine the rights, preferences, and terms of the Company s authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock.       (d) Comprehensive Income       The components of comprehensive income are as follows (in millions):       
    The Company consolidates its investment in a venture fund managed by SOFTBANK, as the Company is the primary beneficiary. As
a result, SOFTBANK s interest in the change in the unrealized gains and losses on the investments in the venture fund is recorded as a component of AOCI and is reflected as a change in minority interest.      The components of AOCI, net of tax, are summarized as follows (in millions):       
       
   2009 Annual Report  65   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements             13. Employee Benefit Plans        (a) Employee Stock Purchase Plan       The Company has an Employee Stock Purchase Plan, which
includes its subplan, the International Employee Stock Purchase Plan (together, the  Purchase Plan ), under which 321.4 million shares of the Company s stock have been reserved for issuance. Effective July 1, 2009, eligible
employees are offered shares through a 24-month offering period, which consists of four consecutive 6-month purchase periods. Employees may purchase a limited number of shares of the Company s stock at a discount of up to 15% of the lesser
of the market value at the beginning of the offering period or the end of each 6-month purchase period. Prior to July 1, 2009 the offering period was six months. The Purchase Plan terminates on January 3, 2010. The Company
issued 28 million, 19 million, and 17 million shares under the Purchase Plan in fiscal 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. As of July 25, 2009, 33 million shares were available for issuance under the Purchase Plan.
      (b) Employee Stock Incentive Plans        Stock Incentive Plan Program
Description   As of July 25, 2009, the Company had five stock incentive plans: the 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  2005 Plan  the 1996 Stock Incentive Plan (the  1996 Plan  the 1997 Supplemental Stock
Incentive Plan (the  Supplemental Plan  the Cisco Systems, Inc. SA Acquisition Long-Term Incentive Plan (the  SA Acquisition Plan  and the Cisco Systems, Inc. WebEx Acquisition Long-Term Incentive Plan (the  WebEx
Acquisition Plan ). In addition, the Company has, in connection with the acquisitions of various companies, assumed the share-based awards granted under stock incentive plans of the acquired companies or issued share-based awards in replacement
thereof. Share-based awards are designed to reward employees for their long-term contributions to the Company and provide incentives for them to remain with the Company. The number and frequency of share-based awards are based on competitive
practices, operating results of the Company, government regulations, and other factors. Since the inception of the stock incentive plans, the Company has granted share-based awards to a significant percentage of its employees, and the majority has
been granted to employees below the vice president level. The Company s primary stock incentive plans are summarized as follows:        2005
Plan    As amended on November 15, 2007, the maximum number of shares issuable under the 2005 Plan over its term is 559 million shares plus the amount of any shares underlying awards outstanding on November 15, 2007
under the 1996 Plan, the SA Acquisition Plan and the WebEx Acquisition Plan that are forfeited or are terminated for any other reason before being exercised or settled. However, any shares underlying awards outstanding on November 15, 2007
under the 1996 Plan, the SA Acquisition Plan, and the WebEx Acquisition Plan that expire unexercised at the end of their maximum terms will not be considered to become available for reissuance under the 2005 Plan. If any awards granted under the
2005 Plan are forfeited or are terminated for any other reason before being exercised or settled, then the shares underlying the awards will again be available under the 2005 Plan. The number of shares available for issuance under the 2005 Plan is,
subsequent to November 15, 2007, reduced by 2.5 shares for each share awarded as stock grants or stock units.      The 2005 Plan permits the granting
of stock options, stock, stock units, and stock appreciation rights to employees (including employee directors and officers) and consultants of the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates, and non-employee directors of the Company. Stock options
granted under the 2005 Plan have an exercise price of at least 100% of the fair market value of the underlying stock on the grant date and expire no later than nine years from the grant date. The stock options will generally become exercisable for
20% or 25% of the option shares one year from the date of grant and then ratably over the following 48 or 36 months, respectively. Stock grants and stock units will generally vest with respect to 20% or 25% of the shares covered by the grant on each
of the first through fifth or fourth anniversaries of the date of the grant, respectively. The Compensation and Management Development Committee of the Board of Directors has the discretion to use different vesting schedules. Stock appreciation
rights may be awarded in combination with stock options or stock grants and such awards shall provide that the stock appreciation rights will not be exercisable unless the related stock options or stock grants are forfeited. Stock grants may be
awarded in combination with non-statutory stock options, and such awards may provide that the stock grants will be forfeited in the event that the related non-statutory stock options are exercised.         
   66  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements              1996 Plan    The 1996 Plan expired on December 31, 2006, and the Company can
no longer make equity awards under the 1996 Plan. The maximum number of shares issuable over the term of the 1996 Plan was 2.5 billion shares. Stock options granted under the 1996 Plan have an exercise price of at least 100% of the fair market value
of the underlying stock on the grant date and expire no later than nine years from the grant date. The stock options generally become exercisable for 20% or 25% of the option shares one year from the date of grant and then ratably over the following
48 or 36 months, respectively. Certain other grants have utilized a 60-month ratable vesting schedule. In addition, the Board of Directors, or other committees administering the plan, have the discretion to use a different vesting schedule and have
done so from time to time.        Supplemental Plan    The Supplemental Plan expired on December 31, 2007, and the Company can no longer make
equity awards under the Supplemental Plan. Officers and members of the Company s Board of Directors were not eligible to participate in the Supplemental Plan. Nine million shares were reserved for issuance under the Supplemental Plan.
       Acquisition Plans    In connection with the Company s acquisitions of Scientific-Atlanta and WebEx, the Company adopted the SA
Acquisition Plan and the WebEx Acquisition Plan, respectively, each effective upon completion of the applicable acquisition. These plans constitute assumptions, amendments, restatements, and renamings of the 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan of
Scientific-Atlanta and the WebEx Communications, Inc. Amended and Restated 2000 Stock Incentive Plan, respectively. The plans permit the grant of stock options, stock, stock units, and stock appreciation rights to certain employees of the Company
and its subsidiaries and affiliates who had been employed by Scientific-Atlanta or its subsidiaries or WebEx or its subsidiaries, as applicable. As a result of the shareholder approval of the amendment and extension of the 2005 Plan, as of
November 15, 2007, the Company will no longer make stock option grants or direct share issuances under either the SA Acquisition Plan or the WebEx Acquisition Plan.       General Share-Based Award Information         Stock Option Awards    A summary of the stock option activity is as follows (in millions,
except per-share amounts):       
     (1)  The total pretax intrinsic
value of stock options exercised during fiscal 2009, 2008, and 2007 was $158 million, $1.6 billion, and $3.1 billion, respectively.         
   2009 Annual Report  67   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements            The following table summarizes significant ranges of outstanding and exercisable stock options as of
July 25, 2009 (in millions, except years and share prices):       
    The aggregate intrinsic value in the preceding table represents the total pretax intrinsic value, based on the
Company s closing stock price of $21.88 as of July 24, 2009, which would have been received by the option holders had those option holders exercised their stock options as of that date. The total number of in-the-money stock options
exercisable as of July 25, 2009 was 496 million. As of July 26, 2008, 795 million outstanding stock options were exercisable and the weighted-average exercise price was $29.53.        Restricted Stock and Stock Unit Awards    A summary of the restricted stock and stock unit activity is as follows (in millions, except per-share amounts):
      
    Certain of the restricted stock units are awarded contingent on the future achievement of financial performance metrics.
        
   68  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements             Share-Based Awards Available for Grant   A summary of share-based awards available for
grant are as follows (in millions):       
    As reflected in the preceding table, for each share awarded as restricted stock or subject to a restricted stock unit award
under the 2005 Plan subsequent to November 15, 2007, an equivalent of 2.5 shares is deducted from the available share-based award balance.       Valuation and
Expense Information for Share-Based Awards   Share-based compensation expense consists primarily of expenses for stock options, stock purchase rights, restricted stock, and restricted stock units granted to employees. The following
table summarizes employee share-based compensation expense (in millions):       
    (1) Share-based compensation expense of $91 million, $87 million, and $34 million related to acquisitions and investments for
fiscal 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively, is disclosed in Note 3 and is not included in the preceding table.      As of July 25, 2009, total compensation cost
related to unvested share-based awards, including share-based compensation relating to acquisitions and investments, not yet recognized was $3.2 billion, which is expected to be recognized over approximately 2.9 years on a weighted-average basis.
The income tax benefit for employee share-based compensation expense was $298 million, $330 million, and $342 million for fiscal 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively.         
   2009 Annual Report  69   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements             Valuation of Employee Stock Options and Employee Stock Purchase Rights   The Company
estimates the value of employee stock options and employee stock purchase rights on the date of grant using a lattice-binomial option-pricing model. The Company s employee stock options have vesting provisions and various restrictions including
restrictions on transfer and hedging, among others, and are often exercised prior to their contractual maturity. Lattice-binomial models are more capable of incorporating the features of the Company s employee stock options than closed-form
models such as the Black-Scholes model. The use of a lattice-binomial model requires extensive actual employee exercise behavior data and a number of complex assumptions including expected volatility, risk-free interest rate, expected dividends,
kurtosis, and skewness.      The valuation of employee stock options and employee stock purchase rights is summarized as follows:       
    The determination of the fair value of employee stock options and employee stock purchase rights on the date of grant using
the lattice-binomial model is impacted by the Company s stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of highly complex and subjective variables. The weighted-average assumptions were determined as follows:       

For employee stock options, the Company used the implied volatility for two-year traded options on the Company s stock as the expected volatility assumption required in
the lattice-binomial model. For employee stock purchase rights, the Company used the implied volatility for traded options (with lives corresponding to the expected life of the employee stock purchase rights) on the Company s stock. The
selection of the implied volatility approach was based upon the availability of actively traded options on the Company s stock and the Company s assessment that implied volatility is more representative of future stock price trends than
historical volatility.          

The risk-free interest rate assumption is based upon observed interest rates appropriate for the term of the Company s employee stock options and employee stock purchase
rights.          

The dividend yield assumption is based on the history and expectation of dividend payouts.          

The estimated kurtosis and skewness are technical measures of the distribution of stock price returns, which affect expected employee exercise behaviors, and are based on the
Company s stock price return history as well as consideration of various academic analyses.         The expected life of employee stock options
represents the weighted-average period the stock options are expected to remain outstanding and is a derived output of the lattice-binomial model. The expected life of employee stock options is impacted by all of the underlying assumptions and
calibration of the Company s model. The lattice-binomial model assumes that employees  exercise behavior is a function of the option s remaining vested life and the extent to which the option is in-the-money. The lattice-binomial
model estimates the probability of exercise as a function of these two variables based on the entire history of exercises and cancellations on all past option grants made by the Company. The Company measures the fair value of restricted stock and
restricted stock units as if the awards were vested and issued on the grant date.         
   70  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements             Accuracy of Fair Value Estimates   The Company uses third-party analyses to assist in
developing the assumptions used in, as well as calibrating, its lattice-binomial model. The Company is responsible for determining the assumptions used in estimating the fair value of its share-based payment awards. The Company s determination
of the fair value of share-based payment awards is affected by assumptions regarding a number of highly complex and subjective variables. These variables include, but are not limited to, the Company s expected stock price volatility over the
term of the awards and actual and projected employee stock option exercise behaviors. Option-pricing models were developed for use in estimating the value of traded options that have no vesting or hedging restrictions and are fully transferable.
Because the Company s employee stock options have certain characteristics that are significantly different from traded options, and because changes in the subjective assumptions can materially affect the estimated value, in management s
opinion, the existing valuation models may not provide an accurate measure of the fair value or be indicative of the fair value that would be observed in a willing buyer/willing seller market for the Company s employee stock options.
      (c) Employee 401(k) Plans       The Company sponsors the Cisco Systems, Inc.
401(k) Plan (the  Plan ) to provide retirement benefits for its employees. As allowed under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code, the Plan provides for tax-deferred salary contributions for eligible employees. Effective
January 1, 2009, the Plan allows employees to contribute from 1% to 75% of their annual compensation to the Plan on a pretax and after-tax basis. Employee contributions are limited to a maximum annual amount as set periodically by the Internal
Revenue Code. Effective January 1, 2009, the Company matches pretax employee contributions up to 100% of the first 4.5% of eligible earnings that are contributed by employees. Therefore, the maximum matching contribution that the Company may
allocate to each participant s account will not exceed $11,025 for the 2009 calendar year due to the $245,000 annual limit on eligible earnings imposed by the Internal Revenue Code. All matching contributions vest immediately. The
Company s matching contributions to the Plan totaled $202 million, $171 million, and $131 million in fiscal 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively.      The Plan allows employees who meet the age requirements and reach the Plan contribution limits to make a catch-up contribution not to exceed the lesser of 75% of their eligible compensation or the limit set forth in the Internal Revenue
Code. The catch-up contributions are not eligible for matching contributions. In addition, the Plan provides for discretionary profit-sharing contributions as determined by the Board of Directors. Such contributions to the Plan are allocated among
eligible participants in the proportion of their salaries to the total salaries of all participants. There were no discretionary profit-sharing contributions made in fiscal 2009, 2008, or 2007.      The Company also sponsors other 401(k) plans that arose from acquisitions of other companies. The Company s contributions to these plans were not material to
the Company on either an individual or aggregate basis for any of the fiscal years presented.       (d) Deferred Compensation Plans       The Cisco Systems, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan (the  Deferred Compensation Plan ), a nonqualified deferred compensation plan, became effective June 25, 2007. As
required by applicable law, participation in the Deferred Compensation Plan is limited to a group of the Company s management employees, which group includes each of the Company s named executive officers. Under the Deferred Compensation
Plan, which is an unfunded and unsecured deferred compensation arrangement, a participant may elect to defer base salary, bonus, and/or commissions, pursuant to such rules as may be established by the Company, up to the maximum percentages for each
deferral election as described in the plan. The Company may also, at its discretion, make a matching contribution to the employee under the Deferred Compensation Plan. A matching contribution equal to 4% of eligible compensation over the Internal
Revenue Code limit for calendar year 2009 that is deferred by participants under the Deferred Compensation Plan will be made to eligible participants  accounts at the end of calendar year 2009. The deferred compensation liability under this
plan was approximately $100 million as of July 25, 2009 and was recorded primarily in other long-term liabilities.      In addition to the Deferred
Compensation Plan, the Company also maintains a deferred compensation plan for certain employees and directors of Scientific-Atlanta (the  SA Plan ). The deferred compensation liability under the SA Plan was approximately $118 million and
$126 million, as of July 25, 2009 and July 26, 2008, respectively, and was recorded in accrued compensation and in other long-term liabilities.         
   2009 Annual Report  71   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements             14. Income Taxes        (a) Provision for Income Taxes       The provision for income taxes consists of the following (in millions):       
    The Company paid income taxes of $1.4 billion, $2.8 billion, and $1.7 billion in fiscal 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively.
Income before provision for income taxes consists of the following (in millions):       
    The items accounting for the difference between income taxes computed at the federal statutory rate and the provision for
income taxes consists of the following:       
    In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit overturned a 2005 U.S. Tax Court
ruling in  Xilinx, Inc. v. Commissioner . The decision impacts the tax treatment of share-based compensation expenses for the purpose of determining intangible development costs under a company s research and development cost sharing
arrangement. While Cisco was not a named party to the case, the decision resulted in a change in the Company s tax benefits recognized in its financial statements, which included a related tax charge of approximately $174 million in the
provision for income taxes, or an impact of 2.3 percentage points as presented in the preceding table. In addition, a decrease was recorded to additional paid-in capital for $550 million. This case is subject to further appeal.      The tax provision in fiscal 2009 also included a net tax benefit of $106 million, related to the R D tax credit for fiscal 2008, as a result of the Tax
Extenders and Alternative Minimum Tax Relief Act of 2008 which reinstated the U.S. federal R D tax credit retroactive to January 1, 2008. The tax provision in fiscal 2008 included tax expense of $229 million related to the intercompany
realignment of certain of the Company s foreign operations during the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2008. The tax provision in fiscal 2008 also included a net tax benefit of $162 million related to a settlement of certain tax matters
with the IRS during the first quarter of fiscal 2008. The tax provision for fiscal 2007 included a tax benefit of approximately $60 million related to the R D tax credit attributable to fiscal 2006 R D as a result of the reinstatement of the
U.S. federal R D tax credit by the Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2006.         
   72  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements            U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes associated with the repatriation of
earnings of foreign subsidiaries were not provided for on a cumulative total of $24.1 billion of undistributed earnings for certain foreign subsidiaries as of the end of fiscal 2009. The Company intends to reinvest these earnings indefinitely in its
foreign subsidiaries. If these earnings were distributed to the United States in the form of dividends or otherwise, or if the shares of the relevant foreign subsidiaries were sold or otherwise transferred, the Company would be subject to additional
U.S. income taxes (subject to an adjustment for foreign tax credits) and foreign withholding taxes. Determination of the amount of unrecognized deferred income tax liability related to these earnings is not practicable.      As a result of certain employment and capital investment actions, the Company s income in certain foreign countries is subject to reduced tax rates, and in
some cases is wholly exempt from taxes. These tax incentives expire in whole or in part at various times through fiscal 2025. As of the end of the respective fiscal years, the gross income tax benefits attributable to these tax
incentives were estimated to be $1.3 billion ($0.22 per diluted share) in fiscal 2009, $1.6 billion ($0.26 per diluted share) in fiscal 2008, and $1.2 billion ($0.20 per diluted share) in fiscal 2007. These gross income tax benefits for the
respective years were partially offset by accruals of U.S. income taxes on undistributed earnings.       (b) Unrecognized Tax Benefits       On July 29, 2007, the Company adopted FIN 48, which prescribes a comprehensive model for the financial statement recognition, measurement, classification, and disclosure of
uncertain tax positions. In the year of adoption, the Company reduced the liability for net unrecognized tax benefits by $451 million and accounted for this as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle at the beginning of fiscal
2008.      The aggregate changes in the balance of gross unrecognized tax benefits during fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2009 were as follows (in millions):
      
    As of July 25, 2009, $2.2 billion of the unrecognized tax benefits would affect the effective tax rate if realized. The
Company recognizes interest and penalties accrued related to unrecognized tax benefits in its provision for income taxes. During fiscal 2009 and 2008, the Company recognized $163 million and $8 million, respectively, in interest and penalties. The
Company had $329 million and $166 million for the payment of interest and penalties accrued at the end of fiscal 2009 and 2008, respectively. The Company is no longer subject to U.S. federal income tax audit for returns covering tax years through
fiscal year 2001. With limited exceptions, the Company is no longer subject to state and local or foreign income tax audits for returns covering tax years through fiscal year 1997.      In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, as a result of the U.S. Court of Appeals decision in  Xilinx, Inc. v. Commissioner , the Company increased the amount of
gross unrecognized tax benefits by approximately $214 million. The Company also increased the amount of accrued interest by $197 million. The Company believes that adequate amounts have been reserved for any adjustments that may
ultimately result from this decision.      In the first quarter of fiscal 2008, the Company and the IRS agreed to a settlement with respect to certain tax
issues related to U.S. income inclusions arising from the Company s international operations for fiscal years ended July 27, 2002 through July 29, 2006. As a result of the settlement, the Company reduced the amount of gross
unrecognized tax benefits by approximately $1.0 billion. The Company also reduced the amount of accrued interest by $39 million. In addition, the IRS has proposed other adjustments that are not covered under the settlement agreement related to
fiscal years ended July 27, 2002 through July 31, 2004. The Company has timely filed a protest with the IRS Appeals Office on these proposed adjustments. The Company believes that adequate amounts have been reserved for any adjustments
that may ultimately result from these examinations. Although timing of the resolution of audits is highly uncertain, the Company does not believe it is reasonably possible that the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits as of July 25, 2009
will materially change in the next 12 months.         
   2009 Annual Report  73   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements             (c) Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities       The following table presents the breakdown between current and noncurrent net deferred tax assets (in millions):       
    The components of the deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows (in millions):       
    As of July 25, 2009, the Company s federal, state, and foreign net operating loss carryforwards for income tax
purposes were $421 million, $1.9 billion, and $229 million, respectively. If not utilized, the federal net operating loss carryforwards will begin to expire in fiscal 2018, the state net operating loss carryforwards will begin to expire in fiscal
2010, and the foreign net operating loss carryforwards will begin to expire in fiscal 2011. As of July 25, 2009, the Company s federal and state tax credit carryforwards for income tax purposes were approximately $10 million and $618
million, respectively. If not utilized, the federal and state tax credit carryforwards will begin to expire in fiscal 2010.         
   74  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements             15. Segment Information and Major Customers       The Company s operations involve the design, development, manufacturing, marketing, and technical support of networking and other products and services related to the
communications and IT industry. Cisco products include routers, switches, advanced technologies, and other products. These products, primarily integrated by Cisco IOS Software, link geographically dispersed local-area networks (LANs),
metropolitan-area networks (MANs) and wide-area networks (WANs).       (a) Net Sales and Gross Margin by Theater       The Company conducts business globally and is primarily managed on a geographic basis. The Company s management makes financial decisions and allocates resources based on the
information it receives from its internal management system. Sales are attributed to a geographic theater based on the ordering location of the customer.      The Company does not allocate research and development, sales and marketing, or general and administrative expenses to its geographic theaters in this internal management system because management does not include the information in its
measurement of the performance of the operating segments. In addition, the Company does not allocate amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, share-based compensation expense, and charges from the enhanced early retirement program to
the gross margin for each theater because management does not include this information in its measurement of the performance of the operating segments.      Summarized financial information by theater for fiscal 2009, 2008, and 2007, based on the Company s internal management system and as utilized by the Company s Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM), is as follows (in millions):
      
    (1) Net sales in the United States were $18.2 billion, $20.1 billion, and $18.3 billion for fiscal 2009, 2008, and 2007,
respectively.      (2) The unallocated corporate items include the effects of amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, employee share-based compensation
expense, and charges related to the enhanced early retirement program.      Certain reclassifications have been made to amounts for prior years to conform to the current
year s presentation.         
   2009 Annual Report  75   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements             (b) Net Sales for Groups of Similar Products and Services       The following table presents net sales for groups of similar products and services (in millions):       
    Certain reclassifications have been made to amounts for prior years to conform to the current year s presentation.
     The Company refers to some of its products and technologies as advanced technologies. As of July 25, 2009, the Company had identified the
following advanced technologies for particular focus: application networking services, home networking, security, storage area networking, unified communications, video systems, and wireless technology. The Company continues to identify additional
advanced technologies for focus and investment in the future, and the Company s investments in some previously-identified advanced technologies may be curtailed or eliminated depending on market developments.       (c) Other Segment Information       The majority of the Company s assets, excluding cash
and cash equivalents and investments, as of July 25, 2009 and July 26, 2008 were attributable to its U.S. operations. The Company s total cash and cash equivalents and investments held outside of the United States in various foreign
subsidiaries was $29.1 billion and $24.4 billion as of July 25, 2009 and July 26, 2008, respectively, and the remaining $5.9 billion and $1.8 billion at the respective year ends was held in the United States. In fiscal 2009, 2008, and
2007, no single customer accounted for 10% or more of the Company s net sales.      Property and equipment information is based on the physical
location of the assets. The following table presents property and equipment information for geographic areas (in millions):       
     16. Net Income per Share       Diluted shares outstanding include the dilutive effect of in-the-money options and unvested restricted stock and stock units. The dilutive effect is calculated based on the average share price for each fiscal period using the treasury stock
method. Under the treasury stock method, the amount the employee must pay for exercising stock options, the amount of compensation cost for future service that the Company has not yet recognized, and the amount of tax benefits that would be recorded
in additional paid-in capital when the award becomes deductible are assumed to be used to repurchase shares.      The following table presents the
calculation of basic and diluted net income per share (in millions, except per-share amounts):       
       
   76  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Supplementary Financial Data (Unaudited)      (in millions, except per-share amounts)         
     Stock Market Information       Cisco common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol CSCO. The following table lists the high and low sales prices for each period indicated:       
    The Company has never paid cash dividends on its common stock and has no present plans to do so. There were 66,903
registered shareholders as of September 3, 2009.         
   2009 Annual Report  77   

Supplementary Financial Data (Unaudited)      (in millions, except per-share amounts)             Stock Performance Graph       The graph depicted below shows a five-year comparison of the cumulative total shareholder return
on Cisco common stock with the cumulative total returns of the S P Information Technology Index and the S P 500 Index. The graph tracks the performance of a $100 investment in the Company s common stock and in each of the indexes (with
the reinvestment of all dividends) on July 30, 2004. No cash dividends have been declared on Cisco common stock. Shareholder returns over the indicated period are based on historical data and should not be considered indicative of future
shareholder returns.       Comparison of 5-Year Cumulative Total Return Among Cisco Systems, Inc., the S P Information Technology Index and the S P 500 Index

78  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

</EX-13.1>

<EX-21.1>
 5
 dex211.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

Subsidiaries of the Registrant 

EXHIBIT 21.1        SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT        

Subsidiaries    
      
   State Or Other     Jurisdiction of     Incorporation or     Organization    
 
    3010081 Nova Scotia Company   
      
  Canada   
 
    3045848 Nova Scotia Company   
      
  Canada   
 
    3048504 Nova Scotia Company   
      
  Canada   
 
    3801110 Canada Inc.   
      
  Canada   
 
    Actona Technologies Ltd.   
      
  Israel   
 
    Airespace Wireless Networks Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Aironet Canada Inc.   
      
  Canada   
 
    Aironet Canada Limited   
      
  Canada   
 
    Arroyo Video Solutions LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    BarcoNet Pty. Ltd.   
      
  Australia   
 
    Broadware Technologies LLC   
      
  California   
 
    Cisco Albania SHPK   
      
  Albania   
 
    Cisco Bahrain (SPC)   
      
  Bahrain   
 
    Cisco Cameroon Limited   
      
  Cameroon   
 
    Cisco Capital (Dubai) Limited   
      
  Dubai   
 
    Cisco Comercio E Servicos De Hardware E Software Do Brasil LTDA   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Cisco Development India Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Cisco Do Brasil Ltda.   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Cisco Fast Data, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cisco International Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Cisco Iris, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cisco IronPort Systems LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cisco ISH B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Cisco ISH II B.V   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Cisco Linksys Kiss ApS   
      
  Denmark   
 
    Cisco Malaysia Managed Services Sdn. Bhd   
      
  Malaysia   
 
    Cisco Managed Solutions, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cisco Media Solutions, Inc.   
      
  California   
 
    Cisco MO B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Cisco Photonics Italy S.r.l.   
      
  Italy   
 
    Cisco QSTP-LLC   
      
  Qatar   
 
    Cisco Ravenscourt LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cisco RZ LLC (formerly Richard Zeta Intelligence, Inc.)   
      
  California   
 
    Cisco SBAIF III, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cisco Serbia doo Beograd   
      
  Serbia   Montenegro   
 
    Cisco Services Malaysia Sdn. Bhd.   
      
  Malaysia   
 
    Cisco Systems (Argentina) S.A.   
      
  Argentina   
 
    Cisco Systems (Bermuda) Holdings Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Cisco Systems (Bermuda) Ltd   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Cisco Systems (China) Information Technology Services Limited   
      
  China   
 
    Cisco Systems (China) Networking Technology Co., Ltd.   
      
  China   
 
    Cisco Systems (China) Research and Development Co., Ltd.   
      
  China   
 
    Cisco Systems (Colombia) Limitada   
      
  Colombia   
 
    Cisco Systems (Czech Republic) S.R.O.   
      
  Czech Republic   
 
    Cisco Systems (Ethiopia) PLC   
      
  Ethiopia   
 
    Cisco Systems (HK) Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Cisco Systems (India) Ltd.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cisco Systems (India) Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Cisco Systems (Italy) S.r.l.   
      
  Italy   
 
    Cisco Systems (Jordan)   
      
  Jordan   
 
    Cisco Systems (Korea) Limited   
      
  Korea   

Subsidiaries    
      
   State Or Other     Jurisdiction of     Incorporation or     Organization    
 
    Cisco Systems (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd   
      
  Malaysia   
 
    Cisco Systems (Nigeria) Limited   
      
  Nigeria   
 
    Cisco Systems (Puerto Rico) Corp.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cisco Systems (Scotland) Limited   
      
  Scotland   
 
    Cisco Systems (Senegal) SUARL   
      
  Senegal   
 
    Cisco Systems (South Africa) (Proprietary) Limited   
      
  South Africa   
 
    Cisco Systems (Spain) S.L.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Cisco Systems (Sweden) AB   
      
  Sweden   
 
    Cisco Systems (Switzerland) GmbH   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Cisco Systems (Switzerland) Investments Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Cisco Systems (Thailand) Limited   
      
  Thailand   
 
    Cisco Systems (Trinidad   Tobago) Limited   
      
  Trinidad   Tobago   
 
    Cisco Systems (USA) Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Cisco Systems Algeria EURL   
      
  Algeria   
 
    Cisco Systems Australia Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Cisco Systems Austria GmbH   
      
  Austria   
 
    Cisco Systems Belgium BVBA/SPRL   
      
  Belgium   
 
    Cisco Systems Bulgaria EOOD   
      
  Bulgaria   
 
    Cisco Systems Canada Co./Les Systemes Cisco Canada Cie   
      
  Canada   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital (Australia) Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital (India) Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital (Korea) Limited   
      
  Korea   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital (Thailand) Limited   
      
  Thailand   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital Asia Pte. Ltd   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital Canada Co./Les Systemes Cisco Capital Canada Cie   
      
  Canada   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital China Corporation   
      
  China   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital Corporation   
      
  Nevada   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital France SAS   
      
  France   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital Italy S.r.l.   
      
  Italy   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital K.K.   
      
  Japan   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital Netherlands B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital Sdn. Bhd.   
      
  Malaysia   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital South Africa (Proprietary) Limited   
      
  South Africa   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital Spain, S.L.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Cisco Systems Chile S.A.   
      
  Chile   
 
    Cisco Systems Co.   
      
  Canada   
 
    Cisco Systems Costa Rica, Sociedad Anonima   
      
  Costa Rica   
 
    Cisco Systems Croatia Ltd. For Trade   
      
  Croatia   
 
    Cisco Systems Cyprus Ltd.   
      
  Cyprus   
 
    Cisco Systems Danmark ApS   
      
  Denmark   
 
    Cisco Systems De Mexico, S.A. de C.V.   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Cisco Systems Dominicana, S.A.   
      
  Dominican Republic   
 
    Cisco Systems Ecuador S.A.   
      
  Ecuador   
 
    Cisco Systems Egypt Ltd.   
      
  Egypt   
 
    Cisco Systems El Salvador, Ltda. de C.V.   
      
  El Salvador   
 
    Cisco Systems Estonia OU   
      
  Estonia   
 
    Cisco Systems Finance International   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Cisco Systems Finance International Holdings I Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Cisco Systems Finance International Holdings II Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Cisco Systems Finance International Holdings III Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Cisco Systems Finance International Holdings IV Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Cisco Systems Finance International Holdings V Limited   
      
  Ireland   

Subsidiaries    
      
   State Or Other     Jurisdiction of     Incorporation or     Organization    
 
    Cisco Systems Finance International Holdings VI Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Cisco Systems Finland Oy   
      
  Finland   
 
    Cisco Systems France Sarl   
      
  France   
 
    Cisco Systems G.K.   
      
  Japan   
 
    Cisco Systems Global Holdings Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Cisco Systems GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Cisco Systems Holding GmbH   Co. KG   
      
  Germany   
 
    Cisco Systems Holdings I, Inc.   
      
  California   
 
    Cisco Systems Hungary Ltd. / Cisco Systems Hungary Servicing and Trading Limited Liability Company   
      
  Hungary   
 
    Cisco Systems International B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Cisco Systems International Holdings Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Cisco Systems International Sarl   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Cisco Systems Internetworking (Ireland) Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Cisco Systems Internetworking d.o.o. za marketing, tehnicke I druge usluge Sarajevo   
      
  Bosnia   Herzegovina   
 
    Cisco Systems Internetworking Hellas S.A.   
      
  Greece   
 
    Cisco Systems Internetworking Iletisim Hizmetleri Limited Sirketi   
      
  Turkey   
 
    Cisco Systems Island Ehf.   
      
  Iceland   
 
    Cisco Systems Israel Ltd.   
      
  Israel   
 
    Cisco Systems Jamaica Limited   
      
  Jamaica   
 
    Cisco Systems Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Cisco Systems Luxembourg International S.a.r.l.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Cisco Systems Luxembourg S.a.r.l.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Cisco Systems Macedonia Dooel Skopje   
      
  Macedonia   
 
    Cisco Systems Management B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Cisco Systems Management GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Cisco Systems Management LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cisco Systems Management Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Cisco Systems Mo ambique, Limitada   
      
  Mozambique   
 
    Cisco Systems Netherlands Holdings B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Cisco Systems New Zealand Limited   
      
  New Zealand   
 
    Cisco Systems Norway AS   
      
  Norway   
 
    Cisco Systems Pakistan (Private) Limited   
      
  Pakistan   
 
    Cisco Systems Panama S. de R.L.   
      
  Panama   
 
    Cisco Systems Peru S.A.   
      
  Peru   
 
    Cisco Systems Poland Sp. Z o.o.   
      
  Poland   
 
    Cisco Systems Portugal- Sistemas Inform ticos, Sociedade Unipessoal, Limitada   
      
  Portugal   
 
    Cisco Systems Romania S.R.L.   
      
  Romania   
 
    Cisco Systems Sales   Service Y.K.   
      
  Japan   
 
    Cisco Systems Services (UK) Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Cisco Systems Services B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Cisco Systems Slovakia, SPOL. S R.O.   
      
  Slovakia   
 
    Cisco Systems Taiwan Ltd.   
      
  Taiwan   
 
    Cisco Systems Uruguay S.R.L.   
      
  Uruguay   
 
    Cisco Systems Venezuela, C.A.   
      
  Venezuela   
 
    Cisco Systems Vietnam Limited   
      
  Vietnam   
 
    Cisco Systems Wireless Networking (Australia) Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Cisco Systems-Linksys (Asia) Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Cisco Technology and Services (South Africa) (Pty.) Limited   
      
  South Africa   
 
    Cisco Technology, Inc.   
      
  California   
 
    Cisco TelePresence Suites LLC   
      
  California   
 
    Cisco THV LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cisco Tunisia SARL   
      
  Tunisia   
 
    Cisco-Linksys (Chengdu) Networking Technology Co., Ltd.   
      
  China   

Subsidiaries    
      
   State Or Other     Jurisdiction of     Incorporation or     Organization    
 
    Cisco-Linksys (HK) Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Cisco-Linksys LLC   
      
  California   
 
    Cisco-Navini Networks LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cognio LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    CSI (BD) Mauritius Inc   
      
  Mauritius   
 
    CSI Mauritius Inc.   
      
  Mauritius   
 
    Divitech A/S   
      
  Denmark   
 
    dynamicsoft LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Fibercore Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Fineground Networks LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Flip Video UK Ltd   
      
  UK   
 
    Greenfield Networks LLC   
      
  California   
 
    Greenfield Networks Technologies Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Infogear Technology (Israel) Ltd.   
      
  Israel   
 
    IronPort APAC Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    IronPort do Brasil Intermediacao de Servicos Ltda   
      
  Brazil   
 
    IronPort EMEA, Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    IronPort Systems EURL   
      
  France   
 
    IronPort Systems GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    IronPort Systems K.K.   
      
  Japan   
 
    IronPort Systems Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Jabber LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Latigent, LLC   
      
  Kansas   
 
    Latitude Communications, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Limited Liability Company Cisco Capital CIS   
      
  Russia   
 
    LLC Cisco Systems   
      
  Russia   
 
    Navini Networks (Suzhou) Ltd   
      
  China   
 
    Navini Networks Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    NeoPath Networks, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    NetSolve LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Orative Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    P-Cube Ltd.   
      
  Israel   
 
    PostPath EOOD   
      
  Bulgaria   
 
    PostPath LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    PostX LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    PT Cisco Systems Indonesia   
      
  Indonesia   
 
    Pure Digital Technologies LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pure Networks LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Radiata, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Reactivity LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    SA Japan K.K.   
      
  Japan   
 
    SA Limited Enterprises LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    SA Management Enterprises LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Sameco, S.A. De C.V.   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Sammex, L.P.   
      
  Texas   
 
    Scientific Atlanta Holdings BV   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta (HK) Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta (Shanghai) Company Limited   
      
  China   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta Argentina S.A.   
      
  Argentina   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta Belgium BVBA   
      
  Belgium   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta Canada Company   
      
  Canada   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta Central Europe GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta China, LLC   
      
  California   

Subsidiaries    
      
   State Or Other     Jurisdiction of     Incorporation or     Organization    
 
    Scientific-Atlanta De Mexico, S. De R.L. De C.V.   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta Denmark ApS   
      
  Denmark   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta Do Brasil Ltda.   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta Europe NV   
      
  Belgium   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta Financial Enterprises, LLC   
      
  Georgia   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta France S.A.   
      
  France   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta Holdings BV   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta Iberia, S.L.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta India Sales   Service Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta India Technology Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta Italy S.R.L.   
      
  Italy   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta Korea Co., Ltd.   
      
  Korea   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta LLC   
      
  Georgia   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta Netherlands B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta Pty. Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta Strategic Investments, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta UB Video, Inc.   
      
  Georgia   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta Vancouver Company   
      
  Canada   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta Ventas Y Servicios, S.A. de C.V.   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta Western Europe Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Securent (India) Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Securent LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Sheer Networks Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    SIA  Cisco Latvia    
      
  Latvia   
 
    Simac Product Market Research B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Spans Logic Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Telebit Corporation   
      
  California   
 
    Tidal Software Limited   
      
  UK   
 
    Tidal Software LLC   
      
  California   
 
    Tivella LLC   
      
  California   
 
    Topspin Communication Technologies India Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Topspin Communications LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    UAB  Cisco LT    
      
  Lithuania   
 
    UB Video Tunisia SARL.   
      
  Tunisia   
 
    WebEx (China) Software Co., Ltd.   
      
  China   
 
    WebEx Asia Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    WebEx Australia Pty. Ltd.   
      
  Australia   
 
    WebEx Communications B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    WebEx Communications Deutschland GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    WebEx Communications France Sarl   
      
  France   
 
    WebEx Communications India, Pvt. Ltd.   
      
  India   
 
    WebEx Communications Japan, K.K.   
      
  Japan   
 
    WebEx Communications UK, Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    WebEx Communications, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    WebEx Worldwide B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 6
 dex231.htm
 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

EXHIBIT 23.1        CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       We hereby consent to the incorporation by
reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-3 (Nos.: 333-17839, 333-20157, 333-24559, 333-33093, 333-33663, 333-36197, 333-47191, 333-47191, 333-49141, 333-51089, 333-51487, 333-51089, 333-58533, 333-65867, 333-65867, 333-67789, 333-79941,
333-82945, 333-84663, 333-88917, 333-89893, 333-91241, 333-91239, 333-91285, 333-91897, 333-89893, 333-92439, 333-92441, 333-92435, 333-92439, 333-94225, 333-94365, 333-94753, 333-94753, 333-94225, 333-89893, 333-92435, 333-91897, 333-91239,
333-91241, 333-88917, 333-91285, 333-92441, 333-92439, 333-94365, 333-34400, 333-36034, 333-36156, 333-34400, 333-36156, 333-38738, 333-39086, 333-39818, 333-39086, 333-39858, 333-39086, 333-43628, 333-45788, 333-45794, 333-45898, 333-46124,
333-47920, 333-47922, 333-51118, 333-46124, 333-51118, 333-51118, 333-51118, 333-56004, 333-56960, 333-57328, 333-56960, 333-57328, 333-131723, and 333-157177) dated December 13, 1996, January 22, 1997, April 4,
1997, August 7, 1997, August 14, 1997, September 23, 1997, March 2, 1998, March 9, 1998, April 1, 1998, April 27, 1998, April 30, 1998, May 1,
1998, July 6, 1998, October 19, 1998, November 9, 1998, November 24, 1998, June 4, 1999, July 15, 1999, August 6, 1999, October 13, 1999, October 29,
1999, November 18, 1999, November 18, 1999, November 19, 1999, December 1, 1999, December 9, 1999, December 9, 1999, December 9, 1999, December 9, 1999, January 4,
2000, January 7, 2000, January 10, 2000, January 14, 2000, February 4, 2000, February 4, 2000, February 4, 2000, February 4, 2000, February 4, 2000, February 4,
2000, February 4, 2000, February 4, 2000, February 4, 2000, February 4, 2000, February 4, 2000, February 10, 2000, April 10, 2000, May 1, 2000, May 3,
2000, May 9, 2000, May 9, 2000, June 7, 2000, June 12, 2000, June 21, 2000, June 21, 2000, June 22, 2000, June 22, 2000, August 11, 2000, September 14,
2000, September 14, 2000, September 15, 2000, September 19, 2000, October 13, 2000, October 13, 2000, December 1, 2000, December 6, 2000, December 12,
2000, January 3, 2001, January 4, 2001, February 21, 2001, March 13, 2001, March 20, 2001, March 22, 2001, April 4, 2001, February 10, 2006, and February 9, 2009, respectively, of
Cisco Systems, Inc. and on Form S-8 (Nos.: 33-63331, 33-64283, 333-64283 [Post Eff.], 333-01069, 333-02101, 333-05447 [Post Eff.], 333-09903, 333-14383, 333-14661, 333-14679, 333-16577, 333-17287, 333-24741, 333-33613, 333-33619, 333-35805,
333-01069 [Post Eff.], 333-34849 [Post Eff.], 33-40509 [Post Eff.], 33-44221 [Post Eff.], 33-71860 [Post Eff.], 33-87096 [Post Eff.], 333-42249, 333-47159, 333-48949, 333-48949 [Post Eff.], 333-51093, 333-51315, 333-42249 [Post Eff.], 333-64651,
333-65871,333-68335, 333-69117, 333-74237, 333-79717, 333-79721, 333-81971, 333-83045, 333-83277, 333-88695, 333-88699, 333-88831, 333-90883, 333-90885, 333-83227 [Post Eff.], 333-91813, 333-91911, 333-93283, 333-93281, 333-96203, 333-96367,
333-35246, 333-36124, 333-36126, 333-36414, 333-39108, 333-39902, 333-43120, 333-43632, 333-45478, 333-47828, 333-51114, 333-51280, 333-54248, 333-55742, 333-56224, 333-56756, 333-56916, 333-58556, 333-76184, 333-42249 [Post Eff.], 333-91258,
333-96797, 333-42249 [Post Eff.], 333-101340, 333-102623, 333-105300, 333-105713, 333-106284, 333-111977, 333-111995, 333-113993, 333-1114558, 333-118238, 333-118870, 333-119954, 333-120064, 333-120843, 333-120844, 333-121307, 333-122946,
333-123872, 333-125568, 333-125570, 333-125573, 333-126430, 333-126841, 333-128755, 333-129719, 333-132050, 333-133436, 333-135687, 333-135688, 333-137653, 333-137654, 333-139175, 333-140069, 333-141123, 333-141945, 333-142332, 333-142333,
333-143389, 333-143506, 333-143997, 333-144305, 333-147522, 333-147523, 333-147763, 333-148576, 333-153248, 333-153808, 333-155494, 333-157368, 333-159679, and 333-159681) dated October 11, 1995, November 15,
1995, February 20, 1996, February 20, 1996, April 1, 1996, July 29, 1996, August 9, 1996, October 18, 1996, October 23, 1996, October 23, 1996, November 21,
1996, December 5, 1996, April 8, 1997, August 14, 1997, August 14, 1997, September 17, 1997, December 10, 1997, December 10, 1997, December 10, 1997, December 10,
1997, December 10, 1997, December 10, 1997, December 15, 1997, March 2, 1998, March 31, 1998, April 13, 1998, April 27, 1998, April 29, 1998, September 28,
1998, September 29, 1998, October 19, 1998, December 3, 1998, December 17, 1998, March 11, 1999, June 1, 1999, June 1, 1999, June 30, 1999, July 16,
1999, July 20, 1999, October 8, 1999, October 8, 1999, October 12, 1999, November 12, 1999, November 12, 1999, November 12, 1999, November 30, 1999, December 1,
1999, December 21, 1999, December 21, 1999, February 4, 2000, February 8, 2000, April 20, 2000, May 2, 2000, May 2, 2000, May 5, 2000, June 12,
2000, June 22, 2000, August 4, 2000, August 11, 2000, September 8, 2000, October 12, 2000, December 1, 2000, December 5, 2000, January 24, 2001, February 16,
2001, February 26, 2001, March 8, 2001, March 12, 2001, April 9, 2001, January 2, 2002, June 25, 2002, June 26, 2002, July 19, 2002, August 20,
2002, November 20, 2002, January 21, 2003, May 15, 2003, May 30, 2003, June 19, 2003, January 16, 2004, January 16, 2004, March 29, 2004, April 19,
2004, August 13, 2004, September 8, 2004, October 26, 2004, October 29, 2004, November 30, 2004, November 30, 2004, December 16, 2004, February 22, 2005, April 6,
2005, June 6, 2005, June 6, 2005, June 6, 2005, July 6, 2005, July 25, 2005, September 30, 2005, November 15, 2005, February 27, 2006, April 20, 2006, July 11,
2006, July 11, 2006, September 28, 2006, September 28, 2006, December 7, 2006, January 18, 2007, March 7, 2007, April 6, 2007, April 24, 2007, April 24,
2007, May 31, 2007, June 5, 2007, June 22, 2007, July 3, 2007, November 20, 2007, November 20, 2007, December 3, 2007, January 10, 2008, August 29,
2008, October 2, 2008, November 20, 2008, February 17, 2009, June 2, 2009, and June 2, 2009, respectively, of Cisco Systems, Inc. of our report dated September 10, 2009 relating to the consolidated
financial statements and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in the Annual Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We also consent to the incorporation by reference
of our report dated September 10, 2009 relating to the financial statement schedule, which appears in this Form 10-K.      /s/ P RICEWATERHOUSE C OOPERS  LLP      San Jose, California      September 10, 2009   

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 7
 dex311.htm
 RULE 13A-14(A)/15D-14(A) CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER

Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of Principal Executive Officer 

EXHIBIT 31.1        CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER        PURSUANT TO EXCHANGE ACT RULE 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a)
       AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 302        OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       I, John T. Chambers, certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Cisco Systems, Inc.;         

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:         

(a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;         

(b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;         

(c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

(d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and         

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

(a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize, and report financial information; and         

(b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.
       Date: September 10, 2009       

/s/    J OHN  T.
C HAMBERS             
 
     John T. Chambers       Chairman and Chief Executive Officer       (Principal Executive Officer)     

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 8
 dex312.htm
 RULE 13A-14(A)/15D-14(A) CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER

Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of Principal Financial Officer 

EXHIBIT 31.2        CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER        PURSUANT TO EXCHANGE ACT RULE 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a)
       AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 302        OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       I, Frank A. Calderoni, certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Cisco Systems, Inc.;         

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:         

(a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;         

(b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;         

(c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

(d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and         

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

(a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize, and report financial information; and         

(b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.
       Date: September 10, 2009       

/s/     F RANK  A.
C ALDERONI             
 
     Frank A. Calderoni       Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer       (Principal Financial
Officer)     

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 9
 dex321.htm
 SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER

Section 1350 Certification of Principal Executive Officer 

EXHIBIT 32.1        CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER        PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350        AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906        OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       I, John T. Chambers, do hereby certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as
adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that, to my knowledge:       

The Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended July 25, 2009, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the
 Report ), fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and          

The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.
        Date: September 10, 2009       

/s/    J OHN  T.
C HAMBERS             
 
     John T. Chambers       Chairman and Chief Executive Officer       (Principal Executive Officer)     

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 10
 dex322.htm
 SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER

Section 1350 Certification of Principal Financial Officer 

EXHIBIT 32.2        CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER        PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350        AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906        OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       I, Frank A. Calderoni, do hereby certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as
adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that, to my knowledge:       

The Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended July 25, 2009, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the
 Report ), fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and          

The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.
        Date: September 10, 2009       

/s/    F RANK  A.
C ALDERONI             
 
     Frank A. Calderoni       Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer       (Principal Financial
Officer)     

</EX-32.2>

