<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20100921_10-K_edgar_data_858877_0001193125-10-213400_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>21196614</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>972223</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>3746632</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1841421</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>4927346</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>9295136</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>104</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>15</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-10-213400.hdr.sgml : 20100921
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20100921070132
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-10-213400
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		20
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20100731
FILED AS OF DATE:		20100921
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20100921

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			CISCO SYSTEMS INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000858877
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	COMPUTER COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT [3576]
		IRS NUMBER:				770059951
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			CA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0728

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-18225
		FILM NUMBER:		101081478

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		170 WEST TASMAN DR
		CITY:			SAN JOSE
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			95134-1706
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4085264000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		225 WEST TASMAN DR
		CITY:			SAN JOSE
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			95134-1706

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 JadIbWdSdQnyabNls1/OiuGJZNY+OM+YwTtvw4wzrVlJAD9CnQcVLbYAGOHYJupl
 7i+jEIIml2sA8F4minCdSg==

 0001193125-10-213400.txt : 20100921

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

UNITED STATES    
   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION    
   WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549    
   FORM 10-K        (Mark one)

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE      
 
   For the fiscal year ended July 31, 2010    
   or        

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE      
 
   For the transition period from
                         to
                            
   Commission file number 0-18225    
   CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.    
   (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)    

Registrant s telephone number, including area code: (408) 526-4000    
   Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:    

Title of Each Class:    
     
     Name of Each Exchange on which
Registered     
 
    Common Stock, par value $0.001 per share   
     
  The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC    
   Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None    
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.         Yes         No   
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act.         Yes         No   
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
days.         Yes         No   
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive
Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such
files).         Yes         No   
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will
not be contained to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form
10-K.             Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule
12b-2 of the Exchange Act.       

Large accelerated filer        
     
  Accelerated filer        
 
    Non-accelerated filer      (Do not check if a smaller reporting
company)           
     
  Smaller reporting company         
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act).         Yes         No   
  Aggregate market value of registrant s common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant, based upon the closing price of a share
of the registrant s common stock on January 22, 2010 as reported by the NASDAQ Global Select Market on that date: $131,623,106,220   
  Number of shares of the registrant s common stock outstanding as of September 15, 2010: 5,585,268,740   
      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE    

(1)  
  Portions of the registrant s Annual Report to Shareholders for its fiscal year ended July 31, 2010 are incorporated by reference into Part I and Part II of
this Annual Report on Form 10-K where indicated.     

(2)  
  Portions of the registrant s Proxy Statement relating to the registrant s 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, to be held on November 18, 2010, are
incorporated by reference into Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K where indicated.         

Table of Contents  

       PART I     

Item 1.   
      
   Business   
      
  3   

General   
      
  3   

Products and Services   
      
  3   

Customers and Markets   
      
  7   

Sales Overview   
      
  8   

Product Backlog   
      
  9   

Acquisitions, Investments, and Alliances   
      
  9   

Competition   
      
  10   

Research and Development   
      
  10   

Manufacturing   
      
  11   

Patents, Intellectual Property, and Licensing   
      
  11   

Employees   
      
  12   

Executive Officers of the Registrant   
      
  13   

Item 1A.   
      
   Risk Factors   
      
  15   

Item 1B.   
      
   Unresolved Staff Comments   
      
  31   

Item 2.   
      
   Properties   
      
  31   

Item 3.   
      
   Legal Proceedings   
      
  32   

Item 4.   
      
   Reserved   
      
  32   

PART II     

Item 5.   
      
   Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   
      
  33   

Item 6.   
      
   Selected Financial Data   
      
  33   

Item 7.   
      
   Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   
      
  33   

Item 7A.   
      
   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   
      
  33   

Item 8.   
      
   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   
      
  33   

Item 9.   
      
   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   
      
  33   

Item 9A.   
      
   Controls and Procedures   
      
  34   

Item 9B.   
      
   Other Information   
      
  34   

PART III     

Item 10.   
      
   Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance   
      
  35   

Item 11.   
      
   Executive Compensation   
      
  35   

Item 12.   
      
   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters   
      
  35   

Item 13.   
      
   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence   
      
  35   

Item 14.   
      
   Principal Accountant Fees and Services   
      
  35   

PART IV     

Item 15.   
      
   Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules   
      
  36   

Signatures   
      
  40          
   2   

Table of Contents  

    This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the  Management s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,  which is incorporated by reference from our 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders, contains forward-looking statements regarding future events and our future results that are subject to
the safe harbors created under the Securities Act of 1933 (the  Securities Act ) and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ). All statements other than statements of historical facts are statements that could be
deemed forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections about the industries in which we operate and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. Words such as
 expects,   anticipates,   targets,   goals,   projects,   intends,   plans,   believes,   seeks,   estimates,   continues, 
 endeavors,   strives,   may,  variations of such words, and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements that refer to projections of our future financial
performance, our anticipated growth and trends in our businesses, and other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are only predictions and are
subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict, including those identified below, under  Item 1A. Risk Factors,  and elsewhere herein and in the 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders. Therefore, actual results
may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason.    
     PART I    
     ITEM 1. Business    
     General    
  We design, manufacture, and sell Internet Protocol (IP)-based networking and other products related to the communications and information
technology (IT) industry and provide services associated with these products and their use. We provide a broad line of products for transporting data, voice, and video within buildings, across campuses, and around the world. Our products are
designed to transform how people connect, communicate, and collaborate. Our products are installed at enterprise businesses, public institutions, telecommunications companies, commercial businesses, and personal residences.   
  We conduct our business globally and are managed geographically in five segments: United States and Canada, European Markets, Emerging
Markets, Asia Pacific, and Japan. The Emerging Markets theater consists of Eastern Europe, Latin America, the Middle East and Africa, and Russia and the Commonwealth of Independent States. For revenue and other information regarding these segments,
see Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders. Note 15 is incorporated into this report by reference.   
  We were incorporated in California in December 1984, and our headquarters are in San Jose, California. The mailing address of our
headquarters is 170 West Tasman Drive, San Jose, California 95134-1706, and our telephone number at that location is (408) 526-4000. Our website is www.cisco.com. Through a link on the Investor Relations section of our website, we make
available the following filings as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ): our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q,
Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. All such filings are available free of charge.   
     Products and Services    
  We design, manufacture, and sell IP-based networking and other products related to the communications and IT industry and provide services
associated with these products and their use. Our products and services are designed to address a wide range of customers  needs, including improving productivity, reducing costs, and gaining a competitive advantage. In addition, our products
and services are designed to help customers build their own network infrastructures that support tools and applications that allow them to communicate with key stakeholders, including customers, prospects, business partners, suppliers, and
employees. We focus on delivering networking products and solutions that are designed to simplify and secure customers  network infrastructures. We believe that integrating multiple network services into our products helps our customers reduce
their total cost of network ownership. Our product offerings fall into the following categories: our core technologies, routing and switching; advanced technologies; and other products. In addition to our product offerings, we provide a broad range
of service offerings, including technical support services and advanced services. Our customer base spans virtually all types of public and private agencies and businesses, comprising enterprise businesses, service providers, commercial customers,
and consumers.      Our products are used individually or as integrated offerings to connect personal and business computing
devices to networks or computer networks with each other whether they are within a building, across a campus, or around the world. Our breadth of product and service offerings across multiple technology segments enables us to offer a wide range
of products and services to meet customer-specific requirements. We also provide products and services that allow customers to transition their various networks to a single multi-service data, voice, and video network, enabling economies of scale.
        
   3   

Table of Contents  

   Network architectures, built on core routing and switching technologies, are evolving to
accommodate the demands of increasing numbers of users, network applications and new network-related markets. These new markets are a natural extension of our core business, are redefined when delivered by the network platform and are what we
refer to as market adjacencies. Our position is not only differentiated by our architectural approach and IP leadership, but is strengthened through our experience, expertise, partners and services. Our unique value proposition, in our view,
allows us to comprehensively deliver on and accelerate the transformation of these market adjacencies.      In the past several
years we have addressed market adjacencies related to our core routing and switching products through the development of various network-related offerings in our advanced and emerging technologies groups of products. Our advanced and emerging
technologies offerings build upon our existing competencies which we believe allows us to expand the overall market for our products and services. In this respect, we have focused our efforts on the following product categories: application
networking services, Cisco TelePresence systems, the Cisco Unified Computing System platform, digital media, home networking, physical security, security, storage area networking, unified communications, video systems, and wireless technology, among
others. We are in the process of identifying additional advanced and emerging technologies for focus and investment in the future. As has been the case from time to time, one or more of our currently identified advanced or emerging technologies may
be curtailed or eliminated due to market developments or other factors.      We refer to the evolutionary process by which
adjacencies arise as market transitions. Market transitions on which we are focusing primary attention include those related to the increased role of virtualization/the cloud, video, collaboration, and networked Web 2.0 technologies. With regard to
virtualization/the cloud, one example of a market in which a significant market transition is underway is the enterprise data center market. We believe the market is at an inflection point, as awareness grows that intelligent networks are becoming
the platform for productivity improvement and global competitiveness. We further believe that disruption in the enterprise data center market is accelerating, due to changing technology trends such as the increasing adoption of virtualization, the
rise in scalable processing, and the advent of cloud computing and cloud-based IT resource deployments and business models. These key terms are defined as follows:   
    Virtualization:   refers to the process of aggregating the current siloed data center resources into unified, shared
resource pools that can be dynamically delivered to applications on demand thus enabling the ability to move content and applications between devices and the network.  
    The Cloud:   refers to an information technology hosting and delivery system in which resources, such as servers or software
applications, are no longer tethered to a user s physical infrastructure but which instead are delivered to and consumed by the user  on demand  as an Internet-based service, whether singularly or with multiple other users
simultaneously.      This virtualization and cloud-driven market transition in the enterprise data center market is being brought
about through the convergence of networking, computing, storage, and software technologies. We are seeking to take advantage of this market transition through, among other things, our Cisco Unified Computing System platform and Cisco Nexus product
families, which are designed to integrate the previously siloed technologies in the enterprise data center with a unified architecture. We are also seeking to capitalize on this market transition through the development of cloud-based product and
service offerings, through which we intend to enable customers to develop and deploy their own cloud-related IT solutions, including software-as-a-service (SaaS), and other-as-a-service (XaaS) solutions.   
  In addition, in fiscal 2010, Cisco and EMC, together with VMware, formed the Virtual Computing Environment ( VCE ) coalition to
accelerate customers  ability to increase business agility through greater IT infrastructure flexibility and lower IT, energy and real estate costs through pervasive data center virtualization and a transition to private cloud infrastructures.
The VCE coalition introduced Vblock Infrastructure packages designed to be fully integrated, tested, validated, scalable, and immediately deployable infrastructure packages that combine innovative virtualization, networking, computing, storage,
security and management technologies from Cisco, EMC, and VMware with end-to-end vendor accountability .  Similarly, our investment in Acadia Enterprises, LLC ( Acadia ), a joint venture with EMC, in which VMware and Intel have also
invested, is designed to pave the way to new delivery models for cloud computing solutions.      The competitive landscape in the
enterprise data center market is changing, and we expect there will be a new class of very large, well-financed and aggressive competitors, each bringing its own new class of products to address this new market. However, with respect to this market,
we believe the network will be the intersection of innovation through an open ecosystem and standards. We expect to see acquisitions, further industry consolidation, and new alliances among companies as they seek to serve the enterprise data center
market. As we enter this next market phase, we expect that we will strengthen certain strategic alliances, compete more with certain strategic alliances and partners, and perhaps also encounter new competitors in our attempt to deliver the best
solutions for our customers.      Other market transitions on which we are focusing primary attention include those related to the
increased role of video, collaboration, and networked Web 2.0 technologies. The key market transitions relative to the convergence of video, collaboration, and networked Web 2.0 technologies, which we believe will drive productivity and growth in
network loads, appear to be evolving even more quickly and more significantly than we had previously anticipated. Cisco TelePresence systems are one example of product offerings that have incorporated video, collaboration, and networked Web 2.0
technologies, as customers evolve their communications and business models. We are focused on simplifying and expanding the creation, distribution, and use of end-to-end video solutions for businesses and consumers, and our fiscal 2010 acquisition
of Tandberg ASA ( Tandberg ) is an example of our increased emphasis on the video market segment.         
   4   

Table of Contents  

   We believe that the architectural approach that has served us well in addressing the market
adjacencies in the communications and information technology industry will be adaptable to other markets. Examples of market adjacencies where we aim to apply this approach are mobility, the consumer, and electrical services infrastructure. With
regard to mobility, the growth of IP traffic on handheld devices is driving the need for more robust architectures, equipment and services in order to accommodate not only an increasing number of worldwide mobile device users, but also increased
user demand for broadband-quality business network and consumer web applications to be seamlessly delivered on such devices. Our fiscal 2010 acquisition of Starent Networks, Corp. ( Starent ) reflects the significance of this market
adjacency and our intent to offer solutions that help expand IP network load capabilities for mobile devices. For the consumer market, through collaboration with technology partners, retailers, service providers, and content publishers, we are
striving to create compelling consumer experiences and make the network the platform for a variety of services in the home, as broadband development moves from a device-centric phase to a network-centric model. In the electrical services
infrastructure market, we are developing an architecture for managing energy in a highly secure fashion on electrical grids at various steps from energy generation to consumption in homes and buildings.   
  To address these market adjacencies, we believe a collaborative strategy is required. We believe that we need the subject area and
functional skill expertise of not just one person but many within our company. Accordingly, we have developed what we feel is an innovative organizational structure of boards and councils, bringing together Cisco managers from across many functional
areas within our company to collaboratively define, plan, execute, and monitor our progress in these many market adjacencies.   
  For a discussion of the risks associated with our strategy, see  Item 1A. Risk Factors,  including the risk factor entitled
 We depend upon the development of new products and enhancements to existing products, and if we fail to predict and respond to emerging technological trends and customers  changing needs, our operating results and market share may
suffer.  For information regarding sales of our major products and services, see Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders. Note 15 is incorporated into this report by reference.   
  Our current offerings fall into several categories:   
    Routing     
  Routing technology is fundamental to the Internet, and this technology interconnects public and private IP networks for mobile, data,
voice, and video applications. Our routing products are designed to enhance the intelligence, security, reliability, scalability, and level of performance in the transmission of information and media-rich applications. We offer a broad range of
routers, from core network infrastructure for service providers and enterprises to access routers for branch offices and for telecommuters and consumers at home. Key products within our routing category are the Cisco 1800, 2800, and 3800 Series
Integrated Services Routers as well as the Cisco ASR 1000, 5000 and 9000 Series Aggregation Service Routers; Cisco 7200, 7600 and 12000 Series Routers and the Cisco CRS Carrier Routing System.   
  During fiscal 2010, we introduced the Cisco CRS-3 Carrier Routing System ( CRS-3). Built on the same design principles as the CRS-1,
the Cisco CRS-3 more than triples performance and provides efficiency by consuming less power while using cooling and rack-space resources for intelligent, service-rich bandwidth capacity. Developed for service provider core networks, the CRS-3 is
designed to transport the growing video and application traffic on the Internet.        Switching     
  Switching is another integral networking technology used in campuses, branch offices, and data centers. Switches are used within buildings
in local-area networks (LANs), across cities in metropolitan-area networks (MANs), and across great distances in wide-area networks (WANs). Our switching products offer many forms of connectivity to end users, workstations, IP phones, access points,
and servers, and also function as aggregators on LANs, MANs, and WANs. Our switching systems employ several widely used technologies, including Ethernet, Power over Ethernet, Fibre Channel over Ethernet, Packet over Synchronous Optical Network, and
Multiprotocol Label Switching. Many of our switches are designed to support an integrated set of advanced services, allowing organizations to be more efficient by using one switch for multiple networking functions rather than multiple switches to
accomplish the same functions. Cisco offers a comprehensive family of Ethernet switching solutions from fixed-configuration switches for small and medium-sized businesses to modular switches for enterprises and service providers. Our
fixed-configuration switches are designed to provide a foundation for converged data, voice, and video services. They range from small, standalone switches to stackable models that function as a single, scalable switching unit. Modular switches
offer flexibility for enterprises, which due to large-scale network demands often need to deploy numerous, concurrent intelligent networking services without degrading overall performance. Key products within our switching category are the Cisco
Catalyst 2960, 3560, 3750, 4500, 4900, and 6500 Series; the Nexus 1000V, 4000, 5000 and 7000 Series switches; and Cisco Nexus 2000 Series Fabric Extenders.   
  During fiscal 2010, we enhanced our fixed configuration switches, to deliver key network services that are designed to work with Cisco
routing, security, and wireless products to enable video collaboration, enterprise-wide energy management, and policy-based security. In fiscal 2010, we continued to expand on the Cisco Catalyst 4900 series and the deployment options for Nexus 7000
by introducing support for up to one million routes.         
   5   

Table of Contents  

     Advanced Technologies     
   Application Networking Services    
  Cisco Application Networking Services consist of a broad portfolio of application networking solutions that enable secure, high
performance, reliable delivery of applications within data centers and across WANs to remote and branch office users. Our solutions are designed to help facilitate the deployment and delivery of business applications across an entire organization by
using technology to accelerate, maximize availability of, and secure both application traffic and computing resources. A key product within our application networking services category is Cisco Wide Area Application Services (WAAS), a comprehensive
WAN optimization solution.      During fiscal 2010, we introduced WAN Optimization Services for SaaS-based applications and WAN
Optimization solutions for the Integrated Service Router G2 s Services Ready Engine.       Home Networking    
  Today s consumers have increasing demands for wireless connectivity. Our home networking strategy aligns with Cisco s broader
vision to enable consumers to live a connected life that is more personal, more social, and more visual. Our products connect different devices in the household, allowing people to share Internet access, printers, storage, video, music, movies, and
games throughout the home. Products include routers, adapters, gateways, switches, modems, home network management software, and other products that are designed to provide both tech-savvy and mass-market consumers with rich in-home experiences.
These products are sold through select retailers, value-added resellers, online retailers, and service providers worldwide.   
  During fiscal 2010, we re-launched our home networking product lines in the United States and Canada. The launch included Valet, a new
product line of wireless products aimed at providing mainstream users with the benefits of wireless home networking experiences. In addition, we launched the new Linksys E-Series wireless routers and adapters for technology-minded consumers. Both of
these product families support the new 802.11n Wi-Fi standard. They also include our new Cisco Connect Software, enabling consumers to easily set up and manage their wireless network.   
   Security    
  Cisco security solutions deliver network and content security systems that are designed to enable highly secure collaboration. Our
products in this category span firewall, intrusion prevention, remote access, virtual private networks (VPN), unified client, web, and email security. We focus on a proactive, layered approach to counter both existing and emerging security threats.
We provide security solutions that are designed to be integrated, timely, comprehensive, and effective, helping to ensure holistic security for organizations worldwide. In addition, Cisco security systems include network and application policy
solutions for identity services used in data centers and collaboration services as a series of network access control and entitlement solutions. A key product line within our security product category is the Cisco ASA 5500 Series Adaptive Security
Appliances line.      In fiscal 2010, we introduced the Cisco AnyConnect VPN Client, which enables users to access networks with
their mobile device of choice, including laptops and smartphone-based mobile devices while allowing organizations to manage the security risks of borderless networks. We also acquired ScanSafe, Inc. ( ScanSafe ) a cloud-based web security
service designed to prevent zero-day malware from reaching corporate networks, including roaming or mobile users. As a cloud-based service, the ScanSafe solution requires no hardware or upfront capital costs or maintenance and is designed to provide
real-time threat protection for accurate policy and security enforcement.       Storage Area Networking    
  We provide storage area networking (SAN) products for data center environments designed to deliver multilayer, scalable, and highly secure
connectivity between servers and storage systems, including products such as storage arrays and tape drives. These products incorporate intelligent network features, such as advanced network security, traffic management, virtualization, and tools
that are designed to help make storing, retrieving, and protecting critical data across widely distributed environments more efficient. The Cisco MDS 9000 Series currently is the key product line within our storage area networking product category.
     During fiscal 2010, we continued to enhance our MDS 9000 product line by introducing features to enable server
virtualization, SAN consolidation and pay-as-you-grow flexibility to scale from an entry-level departmental switch to edge connectivity in enterprise SANs.   
   Unified Communications    
  Cisco Unified Communications products integrate voice, video, data, and mobile applications on fixed and mobile networks, delivering a
media-rich collaboration experience to the workspace. Specific products include IP phones, client software, servers, and network appliances supporting call control, contact centers, messaging, conferencing, voice mobility, and collaboration
including presence and preference information. These products are available as software and web-based collaborative offerings, as standalone devices, and as integrated components in Cisco routers and switches. These applications aim to use the
network as the platform to enhance competitive advantage by enabling users to accelerate decision time and reduce transaction time. The security and scalability of the network enable users in any workspace to connect with one another through a
computer, handset, smartphone, or other similar communications equipment. Cisco Unified Communications products are part of a comprehensive solution that includes network infrastructure, security, wireless, management
        
   6   

Table of Contents  

applications, lifecycle services, flexible deployment, outsourced management options, and third-party applications. In addition, Cisco WebEx products provide web-based collaborative offerings
that allow users to share presentations, applications, documents, and desktops, with full-motion video and integrated audio, in a rich multimedia environment online through the use of a standard web browser.   
  During fiscal 2010, we introduced unified communications solutions, which provide more deployment options for our customers, with support
for virtualization of unified communications applications on the Cisco Unified Computing System (UCS) and we also announced the launch of Cisco Hosted Collaboration Solution for partners who are looking to offer Cisco Unified Communications and
Collaboration in an  as a Service  consumption model. We also provided additional support for customers migrating from legacy voice to IP-based networks and we enhanced capabilities to our Unified Messaging, Conferencing, Mobility, and
Customer Contact solutions.       Video Systems    
  Our video systems offerings consist primarily of digital set-top boxes and digital media technology products. Digital set-top boxes
provide video entertainment services to consumers. They enable subscribers to access a variety of interactive digital television services developed by either Cisco or third parties. Our equipment includes standard-definition (SD), IP television
(IPTV) service-enabled, Data over Cable System Interface Specification (DOCSIS), DOCSIS gateway (DSG), high-definition (HD), digital video recorder (DVR), HD-DVR, multiple-room DVR, and digital-only set-top boxes. Digital media technology products
span a wide range of signal processing and headend capabilities including reception, encoding or transcoding, transrating, multiplexing, ad insertion, switching, and modulation. Deployment of these capabilities can help service providers and
broadcast customers to more efficiently deliver entertainment, information, and communications services over their existing access networks.   
   Wireless Technology    
  The Cisco Unified Wireless Network is designed to unify high-performance 802.11n wireless access across campus, branch, remote, and
outdoor environments. This wireless system strives to maximize flexibility and reliability with its access point, controller, antenna, and integrated management products. Simplified management and mobile device troubleshooting are features of the
platform designed to reduce operational cost. This platform delivers, through an open application programming interface (API), business-relevant mobility data, voice, video, and context-aware applications to partners and end-user customers. A
current key product line within our wireless technology category is the Cisco Aironet product family.        Other Products
       Our other products category primarily consists of optical networking products, cable access, Cisco s Flip Video
family which includes the Flip Ultra and Flip Mino camcorder lines, and service provider voice-over-IP (VoIP) services. Additional items in our other products category include emerging technologies such as Cisco TelePresence systems, the Cisco
Unified Computing System, physical security and video surveillance, digital media systems, and building systems that help companies manage energy efficiently.   
  During fiscal 2010, with the acquisition of Tandberg, our TelePresence products within the other products category now include the
Tandberg line of video conferencing products. We also launched new Flip camcorders in the United States and Canada.   
    Service     
  In addition to our product offerings, we provide a broad range of service offerings, including technical support services and advanced
services. Technical support services help ensure that our products operate efficiently, remain available, and benefit from the most up-to-date system software. These services help customers protect their network investments and minimize downtime for
systems running mission-critical applications. Advanced services are services that are part of a comprehensive program that is designed to provide responsive, preventive, and consultative support of our technologies for specific networking needs.
The advanced services program supports networking devices, applications, solutions, and complete infrastructures. Our service and support strategy seeks to capitalize on increased globalization, and we believe this strategy, along with our
architectural approach, has the potential to further differentiate us from competitors.         Customers and Markets  
     Many factors influence the IT, collaboration, and networking requirements of our customers. These include the size of the
organization, number and types of technology systems, geographic location, and the business applications deployed throughout the customer s network. Our customer base is not limited to any specific industry, geography, or market segment. In
each of the past three fiscal years, no single customer has accounted for 10 percent or more of our net sales. Our customers primarily operate in the following markets: enterprise, service provider, commercial, and consumer.   
    Enterprise     
  Enterprise businesses are large regional, national, or global organizations with multiple locations or branch offices and typically employ
1,000 or more employees. Many enterprise businesses have unique IT, collaboration, and networking needs within a multi-vendor environment. Our enterprise customers also include public sector entities and governments. We strive to take advantage of
the network-as-a-platform strategy to integrate business processes with technology architectures to assist customer growth. We offer service and support packages, financing, and managed network services through our service provider partners. We sell
these products through a network of third-party application and technology vendors and channel partners.         
   7   

Table of Contents  

     Service Providers     
  Service providers offer data, voice, video, and mobile/wireless services to businesses, governments, utilities, and consumers worldwide.
They include regional, national, and international wireline carriers, as well as Internet, cable, and wireless providers. We also group media, broadcast, and web portal providers within our service provider market, as the lines in the
telecommunications industry continue to blur between traditional network-based services and content-based and application-based services. Service providers use a variety of our routing and switching, optical, security, video, connected home,
mobility, and network management products and systems in their own networks. In addition, many service providers use Cisco data center, virtualization, and collaboration technologies to offer managed or Internet-based services to their business
customers. These technologies include Cisco Unified Communications and call center products and applications, Cisco WebEx collaboration tools, and Cisco TelePresence systems products, as well as other video and security products and systems that can
be incorporated into network-attached data centers. Compared with other customers, service providers are more likely to require network design, deployment, and support services because of the scale and complexity of their networks, which
requirements are addressed, we believe, by our architectural approach.        Commercial     
  Generally, we define commercial businesses as companies with fewer than 1,000 employees. The larger, or midmarket, customers within the
commercial market are served by a combination of our direct salesforce and our channel partners. These customers typically require the latest advanced technologies that our enterprise customers demand, but with less complexity. Small businesses, or
companies with fewer than 100 employees, require information technologies and communication products that are easy to configure, install, and maintain. These smaller companies within the commercial market are primarily served by our channel
partners.        Consumer     
  Our consumer customers are individuals who use the network at home, or while away from home, for personal use to enjoy a broad range of
entertainment, communications, and information experiences. Cisco is able to deliver these solutions to consumers through major consumer channels, including both traditional and online retailers, directly through our website and through value added
resellers. The Flip Video family of camcorders represents a new addition to our consumer product line, having been added to our product portfolio through the acquisition of Pure Digital Technologies, Inc. The Flip Video family of camcorders is
designed to make video simple, accessible, and fun by allowing people to easily capture and edit videos and then share them instantly with friends and family and on popular video-sharing websites.   
     Sales Overview    
  As of the end of fiscal 2010, our worldwide sales and marketing department consisted of approximately 24,600 employees, including
managers, sales representatives, and technical support personnel. We have field sales offices in approximately 90 countries, and we sell our products and services both directly and through a variety of channels with support from our salesforce. A
substantial portion of our products and services is sold through our channel partners, and the remainder is sold through direct sales. Our channel partners include systems integrators, service providers, other resellers, distributors, and retail
partners.      Systems integrators and service providers typically sell directly to end users and often provide system
installation, technical support, professional services, and other support services in addition to network equipment sales. Systems integrators also typically integrate our products into an overall solution. Some service providers are also systems
integrators.      Distributors hold inventory and typically sell to systems integrators, service providers, and other resellers.
In addition, home networking products are generally sold through distributors and retail partners. We refer to sales through distributors and retail partners as our two-tier system of sales to the end customer. Revenue from distributors and retail
partners generally is recognized based on a sell-through method using information provided by them. These distributors and retail partners are generally given business terms that allow them to return a portion of inventory, receive credits for
changes in selling prices, and participate in various cooperative marketing programs.      For information regarding risks related
to our channels, see  Item 1A. Risk Factors,  including the risk factors entitled  Disruption of or changes in our distribution model could harm our sales and margins  and  Our inventory management relating to our sales to
our two-tier distribution channel is complex, and excess inventory may harm our gross margins.       For information
regarding risks relating to our international operations, see  Item 1A. Risk Factors,  including the risk factors entitled  Our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions and the
uncertain geopolitical environment   Entrance into new or developing markets exposes us to additional competition and will likely increase demands on our service and support operations   Due to the global nature of our
operations, political or economic changes or other factors in a specific country or region could harm our operating results and financial condition   We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could negatively impact
our financial results and cash flows  and  Man-made problems such as computer viruses or terrorism may disrupt our operations and harm our operating results , among others.   
  Our service offerings complement our products through a range of consulting, technical, project, quality, and maintenance services,
including 24-hour online and telephone support through technical assistance centers.         
   8   

Table of Contents  

   We provide financing arrangements, such as leases, financed service contracts, and loans,
for certain qualified customers to build, maintain, and upgrade their networks. We believe customer financing is a competitive factor in obtaining business, particularly in serving customers involved in significant infrastructure projects. Leases
include sales-type, direct financing, and operating leases. We also provide certain qualified customers with the option of financing long-term service contracts, which primarily relate to technical support services and typically range from one to
three years. Our loan financing arrangements may include not only financing for the acquisition of our products and services, but also may provide additional funds for other costs associated with network installation and integration of our products
and services. For additional information regarding these financing arrangements, see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders. Note 6 is incorporated into this report by reference.   
     Product Backlog    
  Our product backlog at July 31, 2010, the last day of our 2010 fiscal year, was approximately $4.1 billion, compared with product
backlog of approximately $3.9 billion at July 25, 2009, the last day of our 2009 fiscal year. The product backlog includes orders confirmed for products scheduled to be shipped within 90 days to customers with approved credit status. Because of
the generally short cycle between order and shipment and occasional customer changes in delivery schedules or cancellation of orders (which are made without significant penalty), we do not believe that our product backlog, as of any particular date,
is necessarily indicative of actual net product sales for any future period.         Acquisitions, Investments, and
Alliances       The markets in which we compete require a wide variety of technologies, products, and capabilities. The
combination of technological complexity and rapid change within our markets makes it difficult for a single company to develop all of the technological solutions that it desires to offer within its family of products and services. We work to broaden
the range of products and services we deliver to customers in target markets through acquisitions, investments, and alliances. We employ the following strategies to address the need for new or enhanced networking and communications products and
services:       

Developing new technologies and products internally          

Entering into joint-development efforts with other companies      

Reselling other companies  products          

Acquiring all or parts of other companies      
    Acquisitions     
  We have acquired many companies, and we expect to make future acquisitions. Mergers and acquisitions of high-technology companies are
inherently risky, especially if the acquired company has yet to ship a product. No assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful or will not materially adversely affect our financial condition or operating
results. Prior acquisitions have resulted in a wide range of outcomes, from successful introduction of new products and technologies to an inability to do so. The risks associated with acquisitions are more fully discussed in  Item 1A. Risk
Factors,  including the risk factor entitled  We have made and expect to continue to make acquisitions that could disrupt our operations and harm our operating results.    
    Investments in Privately Held Companies     
  We make investments in privately held companies that develop technology or provide services that are complementary to our products or that
provide strategic value. The risks associated with these investments are more fully discussed in  Item 1A. Risk Factors,  including the risk factor entitled  We are exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our portfolio
investments and in interest rates; impairment of our investments could harm our earnings.         Strategic Alliances
       We pursue strategic alliances with other companies in areas where collaboration can produce industry advancement and
acceleration of new markets. The objectives and goals of a strategic alliance can include one or more of the following: technology exchange, product development, joint sales and marketing, or new-market creation. Currently, we have strategic
alliances with Accenture Ltd; AT T Inc.; Cap Gemini S.A.; EMC Corporation; Fujitsu Limited; Intel Corporation; International Business Machines Corporation; Italtel SpA; Johnson Controls Inc.; Microsoft Corporation; Nokia Corporation; Nokia
Siemens Networks; Oracle Corporation; SAP AG; Sprint Nextel Corporation; Tata Consultancy Services Ltd.; VMware, Inc.; Wipro Limited; and others. Companies with which we have strategic alliances in some areas may be competitors in other areas. The
risks associated with our strategic alliances are more fully discussed in  Item 1A. Risk Factors,  including the risk factor entitled  If we do not successfully manage our strategic alliances, we may not realize the expected benefits
from such alliances and we may experience increased competition or delays in product development.          
   9   

Table of Contents  

      Competition    
  We compete in the networking and communications equipment markets, providing products and services for transporting data, voice, and video
traffic across intranets, extranets, and the Internet. These markets are characterized by rapid change, converging technologies, and a migration to networking and communications solutions that offer relative advantages. These market factors
represent both an opportunity and a competitive threat to us. We compete with numerous vendors in each product category. The overall number of our competitors providing niche product solutions may increase. Also, the identity and composition of
competitors may change as we increase our activity in our advanced technology markets and market adjacencies. As we continue to expand globally, we may see new competition in different geographic regions. In particular, we have experienced
price-focused competition from competitors in Asia, especially from China, and we anticipate this will continue.      Our
competitors include Alcatel-Lucent; ARRIS Group, Inc.; Aruba Networks, Inc.; Avaya Inc.; Belden Inc.; Brocade Communications Systems, Inc.; Check Point Software Technologies Ltd.; Citrix Systems, Inc.; D-Link Corporation; LM Ericsson Telephone
Company; Extreme Networks, Inc.; F5 Networks, Inc.; Force10 Networks, Inc.; Fortinet, Inc.; Hewlett-Packard Company; Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd.; International Business Machines Corporation; Juniper Networks, Inc.; LogMeIn, Inc.; Meru Networks,
Inc.; Microsoft Corporation; Motorola, Inc.; NETGEAR, Inc.; Polycom, Inc.; Riverbed Technology, Inc.; and Symantec Corporation; among others.   
  Some of these companies compete across many of our product lines, while others are primarily focused in a specific product area. Barriers
to entry are relatively low, and new ventures to create products that do or could compete with our products are regularly formed. In addition, some of our competitors may have greater resources, including technical and engineering resources, than we
do. As we expand into new markets, we will face competition not only from our existing competitors but also from other competitors, including existing companies with strong technological, marketing, and sales positions in those markets. We also
sometimes face competition from resellers and distributors of our products. Companies with whom we have strategic alliances in some areas may be competitors in other areas. For example, the enterprise data center is undergoing a fundamental
transformation arising from the convergence of technologies, including computing, networking, storage, and software, that previously were siloed. Due to several factors, including the availability of highly scalable and general purpose
microprocessors, application-specific integrated circuits offering advanced services, standards based protocols, cloud computing and virtualization, the convergence of technologies within the enterprise data center is spanning multiple, previously
independent, technology segments. Also, some of our current and potential competitors for enterprise data center business have made acquisitions, or announced new strategic alliances, designed to position them to provide end-to-end technology
solutions for the enterprise data center. As a result of all of these developments, we face greater competition in the development and sale of enterprise data center technologies, including competition from entities that are among our long-term
strategic alliance partners. Companies that are strategic alliance partners in some areas of our business may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, thereby reducing their business with us.   
  The principal competitive factors in the markets in which we presently compete and may compete in the future include:   

The ability to provide a broad range of networking and communications products and services      

Product performance          

Price          

The ability to introduce new products, including products with price-performance advantages      

The ability to reduce production costs          

The ability to provide value-added features such as security, reliability, and investment protection      

Conformance to standards          

Market presence          

The ability to provide financing          

Disruptive technology shifts and new business models      
  We also face competition from customers to which we license or supply technology and suppliers from which we transfer technology. The
inherent nature of networking requires interoperability. As such, we must cooperate and at the same time compete with many companies. Any inability to effectively manage these complicated relationships with customers, suppliers, and strategic
alliance partners could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition, and accordingly affect our chances of success.   
     Research and Development    
  We regularly seek to introduce new products and features to address the requirements of our markets. We allocate our research and
development budget among routers, switches, advanced technologies, and other product technologies for this purpose. Our research and development expenditures were $5.3 billion, $5.2 billion, and $5.3 billion in fiscal 2010, 2009, and 2008,
respectively. These expenditures are applied generally to all product areas, with specific areas of focus being identified from time to time. Recent areas of focus include, but are not limited to, Cisco TelePresence systems products, physical
security, digital media, and the Cisco Unified Computing System. Our expenditures for research and development costs were expensed as incurred.         
   10   

Table of Contents  

   The industry in which we compete is subject to rapid technological developments, evolving
standards, changes in customer requirements, and new product introductions and enhancements. As a result, our success depends in part upon our ability, on a cost-effective and timely basis, to continue to enhance our existing products and to develop
and introduce new products that improve performance and reduce total cost of ownership. To achieve these objectives, our management and engineering personnel work with customers to identify and respond to customer needs, as well as with other
innovators of internetworking products, including universities, laboratories, and corporations. We also expect to continue to make acquisitions and investments, where appropriate, to provide us with access to new technologies. We intend to continue
developing products that meet key industry standards and to support important protocol standards as they emerge. Nonetheless, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully develop products to address new customer requirements and
technological changes, or that those products will achieve market acceptance.         Manufacturing    
  We primarily employ an outsourced manufacturing strategy that relies on contract manufacturers for manufacturing services. We presently
use a variety of independent third-party companies to provide services related to printed-circuit board assembly, in-circuit test, product repair, and product assembly. Proprietary software on electronically programmable memory chips is used to
configure products that meet customer requirements and to maintain quality control and security. The manufacturing process enables us to configure the hardware and software in unique combinations to meet a wide variety of individual customer
requirements. The manufacturing process uses automated testing equipment and burn-in procedures, as well as comprehensive inspection, testing, and statistical process controls, which are designed to help ensure the quality and reliability of our
products. The manufacturing processes and procedures are generally certified to International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 9001 or ISO 9003 standards.   
  Our arrangements with contract manufacturers generally provide for quality, cost, and delivery requirements, as well as manufacturing
process terms, such as continuity of supply; inventory management; flexibility regarding capacity, quality, and cost management; oversight of manufacturing; and conditions for use of our intellectual property. We have not entered into any
significant long-term contracts with any manufacturing service provider. We generally have the option to renew arrangements on an as-needed basis, primarily annually. These arrangements generally do not commit us to purchase any particular amount or
any quantities beyond certain amounts covered by orders or forecasts that we submit covering discrete periods of time, defined as less than one year. We experienced longer than normal lead times on several of our products in fiscal 2010 and continue
to see challenges at some of our component suppliers. This was attributable in part to increasing demand driven by the improvement in our overall markets, and similar to what is happening in the industry, the longer than normal lead time extensions
also stemmed from supplier constraints based upon their labor and other actions taken during the global economic downturn.   
  Although we primarily employ an outsourced manufacturing strategy, we continue to operate manufacturing facilities, including a principal
facility in Juarez, Mexico, for the manufacture of set-top boxes. The manufacturing operations in Juarez range from automated assembly lines for volume production to complete assembly of a particular product by one individual or a small group of
individuals.         Patents, Intellectual Property, and Licensing    
  We seek to establish and maintain our proprietary rights in our technology and products through the use of patents, copyrights,
trademarks, and trade secret laws. We have a program to file applications for and obtain patents, copyrights, and trademarks in the United States and in selected foreign countries where we believe filing for such protection is appropriate. We also
seek to maintain our trade secrets and confidential information by nondisclosure policies and through the use of appropriate confidentiality agreements. We have obtained a substantial number of patents and trademarks in the United States and in
other countries. There can be no assurance, however, that the rights obtained can be successfully enforced against infringing products in every jurisdiction. Although we believe the protection afforded by our patents, copyrights, trademarks, and
trade secrets has value, the rapidly changing technology in the networking industry and uncertainties in the legal process make our future success dependent primarily on the innovative skills, technological expertise, and management abilities of our
employees rather than on the protection afforded by patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret laws.      Many of our products
are designed to include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. While it may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of our products, we believe, based upon past experience and
standard industry practice, that such licenses generally could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. Nonetheless, there can be no assurance that the necessary licenses would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Our inability to
obtain certain licenses or other rights or to obtain such licenses or rights on favorable terms, or the need to engage in litigation regarding these matters, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial
condition. Moreover, inclusion in our products of software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties on a nonexclusive basis can limit our ability to protect our proprietary rights in our products.   
     
   11   

Table of Contents  

   The industry in which we compete is characterized by rapidly changing technology, a large
number of patents, and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. There can be no assurance that our patents and other proprietary rights will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented; that
others will not assert intellectual property rights to technologies that are relevant to us; or, that our rights will give us a competitive advantage. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same
extent as the laws of the United States. The risks associated with patents and intellectual property are more fully discussed in  Item 1A. Risk Factors,  including the risk factors entitled  Our proprietary rights may prove difficult
to enforce,   We may be found to infringe on intellectual property rights of others,  and  We rely on the availability of third-party licenses.    
     Employees    
  As of July 31, 2010, we employed approximately 70,700 employees, including approximately 18,250 in manufacturing and service,
approximately 21,250 in engineering, approximately 24,600 in sales and marketing, and approximately 6,600 in general and administration. Approximately 38,350 employees are in locations within the United States. We consider the relationships with our
employees to be positive. Competition for technical personnel in the industry in which we compete is intense. We believe that our future success depends in part on our continued ability to hire, assimilate, and retain qualified personnel. To date,
we believe that we have been successful in recruiting qualified employees, but there is no assurance that we will continue to be successful in the future.         
   12   

Table of Contents  

      Executive Officers of the Registrant    
  The following table shows the name, age and position as of August 31, 2010 of each of our executive officers:   

Name    
      
   Age   
      
     Position     
 
    Susan L. Bostrom   
      
  49  
      
    Executive Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer, Global Policy and Government Affairs  
      Ms. Bostrom joined Cisco in October 1997 as Vice President of Cisco s
Applications and Services Marketing group. In August 1998, she was appointed Vice President of the Internet Business Solutions Group, and she was promoted to Senior Vice President in February 2000. In October 2002, she also assumed responsibility
for Worldwide Government Affairs. Since January 2006, she has served as Chief Marketing Officer, and in August 2007 she was named Executive Vice President. Before joining Cisco, Ms. Bostrom had served as Senior Vice President of Global Marketing and
Strategic Planning at FTP Software. Ms. Bostrom also currently serves on the board of directors of Varian Medical Systems, Inc.    

Frank A. Calderoni   
      
  53  
      
    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer      
  Mr. Calderoni joined Cisco in May 2004 as Vice President, Worldwide Sales Finance. In June 2007, he was promoted to Senior Vice President, Customer
Solutions Finance. He was appointed to his current position effective in February 2008. From March 2002 until he joined Cisco, Mr. Calderoni served as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of QLogic Corporation, a supplier of storage
networking solutions. Prior to that, he was Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration and Chief Financial Officer of SanDisk Corporation from February 2000 to February 2002. Prior to that, he was employed by IBM Corporation where he held a
number of executive positions.    

John T. Chambers   
      
  61  
      
    Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, and Director      
  Mr. Chambers has served as Chief Executive Officer since January 1995, as Chairman of the Board of Directors since November 2006 and as a member of the
Board of Directors since November 1993. Mr. Chambers also served as President from January 31, 1995 to November 2006. He joined Cisco as Senior Vice President in January 1991 and was promoted to Executive Vice President in June 1994. Mr. Chambers
was promoted to President and Chief Executive Officer as of January 31, 1995. Before joining Cisco, he was employed by Wang Laboratories, Inc. for eight years, where, in his last role, he was the Senior Vice President of U.S.
Operations.    

Mark Chandler   
      
  54  
      
    Senior Vice President, Legal Services, General Counsel and Secretary  
      Mr. Chandler joined Cisco in July 1996, upon Cisco s acquisition of StrataCom,
Inc., where he served as General Counsel. He served as Cisco s Managing Attorney for Europe, the Middle East, and Africa from December 1996 until June 1999; as Director, Worldwide Legal Operations from June 1999 until February 2001; and was
promoted to Vice President, Worldwide Legal Services in February 2001. In October 2001, he was promoted to Vice President, Legal Services and General Counsel and in May 2003, he was also appointed Secretary. In February 2006, he was promoted to
Senior Vice President. Before joining StrataCom, he had served as Vice President, Corporate Development and General Counsel of Maxtor Corporation.    

Wim Elfrink   
      
  58  
      
    Executive Vice President and Chief Globalisation Officer  
      Mr. Elfrink joined Cisco in 1997 as Vice President of Customer Advocacy in Europe. In
November 2000 he was promoted to Senior Vice President, Customer Advocacy and took over global responsibility for the function, relocating to San Jose, California. Mr. Elfrink was appointed Chief Globalisation Officer in December 2006
and moved to Bangalore India to establish Cisco s Globalisation Centre East. In August 2007 he was named Executive Vice President.     
     
   13   

Table of Contents  

Name    
      
   Age   
      
     Position     

Robert W. Lloyd   
      
  54  
      
    Executive Vice President, Worldwide Operations      
  Mr. Lloyd joined Cisco in November 1994 as General Manager of Cisco Canada. In October 1998, he was promoted to Vice President, EMEA (Europe, Middle East
and Africa); in February 2001, he was promoted to Senior Vice President, EMEA; and in July 2005, Mr. Lloyd was appointed Senior Vice President, US, Canada and Japan. In April 2009, he was promoted to his current position.    

Gary B. Moore   
      
  61  
      
    Executive Vice President, Cisco Services      
  Mr. Moore joined Cisco in October 2001 as Senior Vice President, Advanced Services. In August 2007, he also assumed responsibility as co-lead of Cisco
Services. In May 2010, he was promoted to his current position. Immediately before joining Cisco, Mr. Moore served for approximately two years as chief executive officer of Netigy Corporation, a network consulting company. Prior to that,
he was employed by Electronic Data Systems where he held a number of executive positions.    

Randy Pond   
      
  56  
      
    Executive Vice President, Operations, Processes and Systems  
      Mr. Pond joined Cisco in September 1993. In 1994, Mr. Pond assumed leadership of
Cisco s Supply/Demand group. In 1994, he was appointed Director of Manufacturing Operations. He was promoted to Vice President of Manufacturing in 1995. In January 2000, Mr. Pond was promoted to Senior Vice President of West Coast and Asia
operations. He was promoted to Senior Vice President, Worldwide Manufacturing Operations and Logistics in June 2001. In August 2003, he was promoted to Senior Vice President, Operations, Processes and Systems, and he was named Executive Vice
President in August 2007. Before joining Cisco, Mr. Pond held the position of Vice President Finance, Chief Financial Officer, and Vice President of Operations at Crescendo Communications.     
     
   14   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 1A.   
   Risk Factors         Set forth
below and elsewhere in this report and in other documents we file with the SEC are descriptions of the risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements
contained in this report.       OUR OPERATING RESULTS MAY FLUCTUATE IN FUTURE PERIODS, WHICH MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR STOCK PRICE
      Our operating results have been in the past, and will continue to be, subject to quarterly and annual fluctuations as a result of numerous
factors, some of which may contribute to more pronounced fluctuations in an uncertain global economic environment. These factors include:      

Fluctuations in demand for our products and services, especially with respect to telecommunications service providers and Internet businesses, in part
due to changes in the global economic environment          

Changes in sales and implementation cycles for our products and reduced visibility into our customers  spending plans and associated revenue

Our ability to maintain appropriate inventory levels and purchase commitments      

Price and product competition in the communications and networking industries, which can change rapidly due to technological innovation and different
business models from various geographic regions          

The overall movement toward industry consolidation among both our competitors and our customers      

The introduction and market acceptance of new technologies and products and our success in new and evolving markets, including emerging and advanced
technologies, as well as the adoption of new standards          

Variations in sales channels, product costs, or mix of products sold      

The timing, size, and mix of orders from customers          

Manufacturing and customer lead times          

Fluctuations in our gross margins, and the factors that contribute to such fluctuations, as described below      

The ability of our customers, channel partners, contract manufacturers and suppliers to obtain financing or to fund capital expenditures, especially
during a period of global credit market disruption or in the event of customer, channel partner, contract manufacturer or supplier financial problems          

Share-based compensation expense          

Actual events, circumstances, outcomes, and amounts differing from judgments, assumptions, and estimates used in determining the values of certain
assets (including the amounts of related valuation allowances), liabilities, and other items reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements          

How well we execute on our strategy and operating plans      

Benefits anticipated from our investments in engineering, sales and manufacturing activities      

Changes in tax laws or regulations or accounting rules      
  As a consequence, operating results for a particular future period are difficult to predict, and, therefore, prior results are not
necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. Any of the foregoing factors, or any other factors discussed elsewhere herein, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition
that could adversely affect our stock price.         
   15   

Table of Contents  

    OUR OPERATING RESULTS MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY UNFAVORABLE ECONOMIC AND MARKET CONDITIONS AND THE
UNCERTAIN GEOPOLITICAL ENVIRONMENT       Challenging economic conditions worldwide have from time to time contributed, and may
continue to contribute, to slowdowns in the communications and networking industries at large, as well as to specific segments and markets in which we operate, resulting in:   

Reduced demand for our products as a result of continued constraints on IT-related capital spending by our customers, particularly service providers,
and other customer markets as well          

Increased price competition for our products, not only from our competitors but also as a consequence of customers disposing of unutilized products

Risk of excess and obsolete inventories          

Risk of supply constraints          

Risk of excess facilities and manufacturing capacity          

Higher overhead costs as a percentage of revenue and higher interest expense      
  Instability in the global credit markets, including the recent European economic and financial turmoil related to sovereign debt issues
in certain countries, the instability in the geopolitical environment in many parts of the world and other disruptions, such as changes in energy costs, may continue to put pressure on global economic conditions. Our operating results in one or more
segments may also be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions particularly germane to that segment or to particular customer markets within that segment. The world has recently experienced a global macroeconomic downturn, and if global
economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in key markets, remain uncertain or deteriorate further, we may experience material impacts on our business, operating results, and financial condition.   
     
   16   

Table of Contents  

    DURING THE RECENT GLOBAL ECONOMIC DOWNTURN AND WHILE THE RELATED MARKET UNCERTAINTY PERSISTS, WE HAVE
BEEN INVESTING IN MARKET ADJACENCIES AND ALSO IN THE UNITED STATES AND TARGETED EMERGING COUNTRIES, AND IF THE RETURN ON THESE INVESTMENTS IS LOWER OR DEVELOPS MORE SLOWLY THAN WE EXPECT, OUR OPERATING RESULTS MAY BE HARMED    
  We have been realigning and are dedicating resources to focus on certain market adjacencies, such as enterprise data center
virtualization, video/visual networking, collaboration architectures, and globalization, primarily in targeted geographic locations and to focus efforts particularly where we believe the economic recovery will progress the fastest, such as the
United States and targeted emerging countries, creating opportunities for us even while other countries or markets may not be recovering. However, the return on our investments in such market adjacencies and in such geographic markets may be lower,
or may develop more slowly, than we expect. If we do not achieve the benefits anticipated from these investments (including if our selection of areas for investment does not play out as we expect), or if the achievement of these benefits is delayed,
our operating results may be adversely affected.       OUR REVENUE FOR A PARTICULAR PERIOD IS DIFFICULT TO PREDICT, AND A SHORTFALL IN REVENUE
MAY HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS       As a result of a variety of factors discussed in this report, our revenue for a particular
quarter is difficult to predict, especially in light of the recent global economic downturn and related market uncertainty. Our net sales may grow at a slower rate than in past periods or may decline, which recently occurred in fiscal 2009. Our
ability to meet financial expectations could also be adversely affected if the nonlinear sales pattern seen in some of our past quarters recurs in future periods. We have experienced periods of time during which shipments have exceeded net bookings
or manufacturing issues have delayed shipments, leading to nonlinearity in shipping patterns. In addition to making it difficult to predict revenue for a particular period, nonlinearity in shipping can increase costs, because irregular shipment
patterns result in periods of underutilized capacity and periods in which overtime expenses may be incurred, as well as in potential additional inventory management-related costs. In addition, to the extent that manufacturing issues and any related
component shortages result in delayed shipments in the future, and particularly in periods in which we and our contract manufacturers are operating at higher levels of capacity, it is possible that revenue for a quarter could be adversely affected
if such matters occur and are not remediated within the same quarter.      The timing of large orders can also have a significant
effect on our business and operating results from quarter to quarter, primarily in the United States and in our Emerging Markets theater and other emerging countries. From time to time, we receive large orders that have a significant effect on our
operating results in the period in which the order is recognized as revenue. The timing of such orders is difficult to predict, and the timing of revenue recognition from such orders may affect period to period changes in net sales. As a result, our
operating results could vary materially from quarter to quarter based on the receipt of such orders and their ultimate recognition as revenue.   
  Inventory management remains an area of focus. We experienced longer than normal lead times on several of our products in fiscal 2010.
This was attributable in part to increasing demand driven by the improvement in our overall markets, and similar to what is happening in the industry, the longer than normal lead time extensions also stemmed from supplier constraints based upon
their labor and other actions taken during the global economic downturn. We continue to see challenges at some of our component suppliers. Longer manufacturing lead times in the past have caused some customers to place the same order multiple times
within our various sales channels and to cancel the duplicative orders upon receipt of the product, or to place orders with other vendors with shorter manufacturing lead times. Such multiple ordering (along with other factors) or risk of order
cancellation may cause difficulty in predicting our sales and, as a result, could impair our ability to manage parts inventory effectively. In addition, our efforts to improve manufacturing lead-time performance may result in corresponding
reductions in order backlog. A decline in backlog levels could result in more variability and less predictability in our quarter-to-quarter net sales and operating results. In addition, we have increased our efforts in procuring components in order
to meet customer expectations which have contributed to an increase in purchase commitments. Increases in our purchase commitments to shorten lead times could also lead to excess and obsolete inventory charges if the demand for our products is less
than our expectations.      We plan our operating expense levels based primarily on forecasted revenue levels. These expenses and
the impact of long-term commitments are relatively fixed in the short term. A shortfall in revenue could lead to operating results being below expectations because we may not be able to quickly reduce these fixed expenses in response to short-term
business changes.      Any of the above factors could have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial results.
        
   17   

Table of Contents  

    WE EXPECT GROSS MARGIN TO VARY OVER TIME, AND OUR LEVEL OF PRODUCT GROSS MARGIN MAY NOT BE SUSTAINABLE
      Our level of product gross margins may not be sustainable and may continue to be adversely affected by numerous factors,
including:      

Changes in customer, geographic, or product mix, including mix of configurations within each product group      

Introduction of new products, including products with price-performance advantages      

Our ability to reduce production costs          

Entry into new markets or growth in lower margin markets, including markets with different pricing and cost structures, through acquisitions or
internal development          

Sales discounts          

Increases in material, labor or other manufacturing-related costs, which could be significant especially during periods of supply constraints

Excess inventory and inventory holding charges          

Obsolescence charges          

Changes in shipment volume          

The timing of revenue recognition and revenue deferrals      

Increased cost, loss of cost savings or dilution of savings due to changes in component pricing or charges incurred due to inventory holding periods if
parts ordering does not correctly anticipate product demand or if the financial health of either contract manufacturers or suppliers deteriorates          

Lower than expected benefits from value engineering          

Increased price competition, including competitors from Asia, especially from China      

Changes in distribution channels          

Increased warranty costs          

How well we execute on our strategy and operating plans      
  Changes in service gross margin may result from various factors such as changes in the mix between technical support services and
advanced services, as well as the timing of technical support service contract initiations and renewals and the addition of personnel and other resources to support higher levels of service business in future periods.   
     
   18   

Table of Contents  

    SALES TO THE SERVICE PROVIDER MARKET ARE ESPECIALLY VOLATILE, AND WEAKNESS IN SALES ORDERS FROM THIS
INDUSTRY MAY HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION       Sales to the service provider market have been
characterized by large and sporadic purchases, especially relating to our router sales and sales of certain of our advanced technologies, in addition to longer sales cycles. In the past, we have experienced significant weakness in sales to service
providers over certain extended periods of time as market conditions have fluctuated. Sales activity in this industry depends upon the stage of completion of expanding network infrastructures; the availability of funding; and the extent to which
service providers are affected by regulatory, economic, and business conditions in the country of operations. Weakness in orders from this industry, including as a result of any slowdown in capital expenditures by service providers (which may be
more prevalent during a global economic downturn or periods of economic uncertainty), could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. For example, during fiscal 2009, we experienced a slowdown in
service provider capital expenditures globally, which may recur in future periods. Orders from this industry could decline for many reasons other than the competitiveness of our products and services within their respective markets. For example, in
the past, many of our service provider customers have been materially and adversely affected by slowdowns in the general economy, by overcapacity, by changes in the service provider market, by regulatory developments, and by constraints on capital
availability, resulting in business failures and substantial reductions in spending and expansion plans. These conditions have materially harmed our business and operating results in the past, and some of these or other conditions in the service
provider market could affect our business and operating results in any future period. Finally, service provider customers typically have longer implementation cycles; require a broader range of services, including design services; demand that
vendors take on a larger share of risks; often require acceptance provisions, which can lead to a delay in revenue recognition; and expect financing from vendors. All these factors can add further risk to business conducted with service providers.
      DISRUPTION OF OR CHANGES IN OUR DISTRIBUTION MODEL COULD HARM OUR SALES AND MARGINS    
  If we fail to manage distribution of our products and services properly, or if our distributors  financial condition or operations
weaken, our revenue and gross margins could be adversely affected.      A substantial portion of our products and services is sold
through our channel partners, and the remainder is sold through direct sales. Our channel partners include systems integrators, service providers, other resellers, distributors, and retail partners. Systems integrators and service providers
typically sell directly to end users and often provide system installation, technical support, professional services, and other support services in addition to network equipment sales. Systems integrators also typically integrate our products into
an overall solution, and a number of service providers are also systems integrators. Distributors stock inventory and typically sell to systems integrators, service providers, and other resellers. In addition, home networking products are generally
sold through distributors and retail partners. We refer to sales through distributors and retail partners as our two-tier system of sales to the end customer. Revenue from distributors and retail partners generally is recognized based on a
sell-through method using information provided by them. These distributors and retail partners are generally given business terms that allow them to return a portion of inventory, receive credits for changes in selling prices, and participate in
various cooperative marketing programs. If sales through indirect channels increase, this may lead to greater difficulty in forecasting the mix of our products and, to a degree, the timing of orders from our customers.   
  Historically, we have seen fluctuations in our gross margins based on changes in the balance of our distribution channels. Although
variability to date has not been significant, there can be no assurance that changes in the balance of our distribution model in future periods would not have an adverse effect on our gross margins and profitability.   
  Some factors could result in disruption of or changes in our distribution model, which could harm our sales and margins, including the
following:       

We compete with some of our channel partners, including through our direct sales, which may lead these channel partners to use other suppliers that do
not directly sell their own products or otherwise compete with them          

Some of our channel partners may demand that we absorb a greater share of the risks that their customers may ask them to bear
           
   19   

Table of Contents  

Some of our channel partners may have insufficient financial resources and may not be able to withstand changes and challenges in business conditions

Revenue from indirect sales could suffer if our distributors  financial condition or operations weaken      
  In addition, we depend on our channel partners globally to comply with applicable regulatory requirements. To the extent that they fail to
do so, that could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition.       THE MARKETS IN WHICH WE
COMPETE ARE INTENSELY COMPETITIVE, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR ACHIEVEMENT OF REVENUE GROWTH       The markets in which we
compete are characterized by rapid change, converging technologies, and a migration to networking and communications solutions that offer relative advantages. These market factors represent a competitive threat to us. We compete with numerous
vendors in each product category. The overall number of our competitors providing niche product solutions may increase. Also, the identity and composition of competitors may change as we increase our activity in our advanced technology markets and
market adjacencies. As we continue to expand globally, we may see new competition in different geographic regions. In particular, we have experienced price-focused competition from competitors in Asia, especially from China, and we anticipate this
will continue. For information regarding our competitors, see the section entitled  Competition  contained in Item 1 of this report.   
  Some of our competitors compete across many of our product lines, while others are primarily focused in a specific product area. Barriers
to entry are relatively low, and new ventures to create products that do or could compete with our products are regularly formed. In addition, some of our competitors may have greater resources, including technical and engineering resources, than we
do. As we expand into new markets, we will face competition not only from our existing competitors but also from other competitors, including existing companies with strong technological, marketing, and sales positions in those markets. We also
sometimes face competition from resellers and distributors of our products. Companies with whom we have strategic alliances in some areas may be competitors in other areas.   
  For example, the enterprise data center is undergoing a fundamental transformation arising from the convergence of technologies,
including computing, networking, storage, and software, that previously were siloed. Due to several factors, including the availability of highly scalable and general purpose microprocessors, application-specific integrated circuits offering
advanced services, standards based protocols, cloud computing and virtualization, the application of these converging technologies is spanning multiple, previously independent, technology segments. Also, some of our current and potential competitors
for enterprise data center business have made acquisitions, or announced new strategic alliances, designed to position them to provide end-to-end technology solutions for the enterprise data center. As a result of all of these developments, we face
greater competition in the development and sale of enterprise data center technologies, including competition from entities that are among our long-term strategic alliance partners. Companies that are strategic alliance partners in some areas of our
business may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, thereby reducing their business with us.      The principal
competitive factors in the markets in which we presently compete and may compete in the future include:      

The ability to provide a broad range of networking and communications products and services      

Product performance          

Price          

The ability to introduce new products, including products with price-performance advantages      

The ability to reduce production costs          

The ability to provide value-added features such as security, reliability, and investment protection      

Conformance to standards          

Market presence          

The ability to provide financing          

Disruptive technology shifts and new business models      
  We also face competition from customers to which we license or supply technology and suppliers from which we transfer technology. The
inherent nature of networking requires interoperability. As such, we must cooperate and at the same time compete with many companies. Any inability to effectively manage these complicated relationships with customers, suppliers, and strategic
alliance partners could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition and accordingly affect our chances of success.   
     
   20   

Table of Contents  

    OUR INVENTORY MANAGEMENT RELATING TO OUR SALES TO OUR TWO-TIER DISTRIBUTION CHANNEL IS COMPLEX, AND
EXCESS INVENTORY MAY HARM OUR GROSS MARGINS       We must manage our inventory relating to sales to our distributors and retail
partners effectively, because inventory held by them could affect our results of operations. Our distributors and retail partners may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders if their inventory is too high, or delay orders
in anticipation of new products. They also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors that are available to them and in response to seasonal fluctuations in end-user demand. Revenue to our
distributors and retail partners generally is recognized based on a sell-through method using information provided by them, and they are generally given business terms that allow them to return a portion of inventory, receive credits for changes in
selling price, and participate in various cooperative marketing programs. Inventory management remains an area of focus as we balance the need to maintain strategic inventory levels to ensure competitive lead times against the risk of inventory
obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements. We continue to see challenges at some of our component suppliers and have increased our efforts in procuring components in order to meet customer expectations. If we
ultimately determine that we have excess inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write down inventory, which in turn could result in lower gross margins.   
   SUPPLY CHAIN ISSUES, INCLUDING FINANCIAL PROBLEMS OF CONTRACT MANUFACTURERS OR COMPONENT SUPPLIERS, OR A SHORTAGE OF ADEQUATE COMPONENT SUPPLY OR
MANUFACTURING CAPACITY THAT INCREASED OUR COSTS OR CAUSED A DELAY IN OUR ABILITY TO FULFILL ORDERS, COULD HAVE AN ADVERSE IMPACT ON OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATING RESULTS, AND OUR FAILURE TO ESTIMATE CUSTOMER DEMAND PROPERLY MAY RESULT IN EXCESS OR
OBSOLETE COMPONENT SUPPLY, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR GROSS MARGINS       The fact that we do not own or operate the bulk
of our manufacturing facilities and that we are reliant on our extended supply chain could have an adverse impact on the supply of our products and on our business and operating results:  

Any financial problems of either contract manufacturers or component suppliers could either limit supply or increase costs

Reservation of manufacturing capacity at our contract manufacturers by other companies, inside or outside of our industry, could either limit supply or
increase costs         A reduction or interruption in supply; a significant increase in the price of one or more
components; a failure to adequately authorize procurement of inventory by our contract manufacturers; a failure to appropriately cancel, reschedule, or adjust our requirements based on our business needs; or a decrease in demand for our products
could materially adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition and could materially damage customer relationships. Furthermore, as a result of binding price or purchase commitments with suppliers, we may be obligated to
purchase components at prices that are higher than those available in the current market. In the event that we become committed to purchase components at prices in excess of the current market price when the components are actually used, our gross
margins could decrease. We experienced longer than normal lead times on several of our products in fiscal 2010 and we continue to see challenges at some of our component suppliers. See the risk factor above entitled  Our revenue for a
particular period is difficult to predict, and a shortfall in revenue may harm our operating results.          
   21   

Table of Contents  

   Our growth and ability to meet customer demands depend in part on our ability to obtain
timely deliveries of parts from our suppliers and contract manufacturers. We have experienced component shortages in the past, including shortages caused by manufacturing process issues, that have affected our operations. We may in the future
experience a shortage of certain component parts as a result of our own manufacturing issues, manufacturing issues at our suppliers or contract manufacturers, capacity problems experienced by our suppliers or contract manufacturers, or strong demand
in the industry for those parts. A return to growth in the economy is likely to create greater pressures on us and our suppliers to accurately project overall component demand and component demands within specific product categories and to establish
optimal component levels and manufacturing capacity, especially for labor-intensive components, components for which we purchase a substantial portion of the supply, or re-ramping manufacturing capacity for highly complex products. For example,
during fiscal 2010, we experienced longer than normal lead times on several of our products and we continue to see challenges at some of our component suppliers. This was attributable in part to increasing demand driven by the improvement in our
overall markets, and similar to what is happening in the industry, the longer than normal lead time extensions also stemmed from supplier constraints based upon their labor and other actions taken during the global economic downturn. If shortages or
delays persist or worsen, the price of these components may increase, or the components may not be available at all, and we may also encounter shortages if we do not accurately anticipate our needs. We may not be able to secure enough components at
reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build new products in a timely manner in the quantities or configurations needed. Accordingly, our revenue and gross margins could suffer until other sources can be developed. Our operating results would
also be adversely affected if, anticipating greater demand than actually develops, we commit to the purchase of more components than we need, which is more likely to occur in a period of demand uncertainties such as we are currently experiencing.
There can be no assurance that we will not encounter these problems in the future. Although in many cases we use standard parts and components for our products, certain components are presently available only from a single source or limited sources,
and a global economic downturn and related market uncertainty could negatively impact the availability of components from one or more of these sources, especially during times such as we are currently seeing when there are supplier constraints based
on labor and other actions taken during economic downturns. We may not be able to diversify sources in a timely manner, which could harm our ability to deliver products to customers and seriously impact present and future sales.   
  We believe that we may be faced with the following challenges in the future:  

New markets in which we participate may grow quickly, which may make it difficult to quickly obtain significant component capacity

As we acquire companies and new technologies, we may be dependent, at least initially, on unfamiliar supply chains or relatively small supply partners

We face competition for certain components that are supply-constrained, from existing competitors, and companies in other markets
        Manufacturing capacity and component supply constraints could continue to be significant issues for us. We
purchase components from a variety of suppliers and use several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products. During the normal course of business, in order to improve manufacturing lead-time performance and to help
ensure adequate component supply, we enter into agreements with contract manufacturers and suppliers that either allow them to procure inventory based upon criteria as defined by us or that establish the parameters defining our requirements. In
certain instances, these agreements allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to firm orders being placed. We have increased our efforts in procuring components in order to meet customer
expectations which have contributed to an increase in purchase commitments. Increases in our purchase commitments to shorten lead times could also lead to excess and obsolete inventory charges if the demand for our products is less than our
expectations. If we fail to anticipate customer demand properly, an oversupply of parts could result in excess or obsolete components that could adversely affect our gross margins. For additional information regarding our purchase commitments with
contract manufacturers and suppliers, see Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in our 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders, which Note is incorporated into this report by reference.   
  Our key manufacturing facility for Scientific-Atlanta s products is located in Juarez, Mexico, and we may be materially and
adversely affected by any prolonged disruption in the operation of this facility.         
   22   

Table of Contents  

    WE DEPEND UPON THE DEVELOPMENT OF NEW PRODUCTS AND ENHANCEMENTS TO EXISTING PRODUCTS, AND IF WE FAIL TO
PREDICT AND RESPOND TO EMERGING TECHNOLOGICAL TRENDS AND CUSTOMERS  CHANGING NEEDS, OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND MARKET SHARE MAY SUFFER    
  The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, new product introductions, and
evolving methods of building and operating networks. Our operating results depend on our ability to develop and introduce new products into existing and emerging markets and to reduce the production costs of existing products. We believe the
industry is evolving to enable personal and business process collaboration enabled by networked Web 2.0, the technologies that enable user collaboration, as part of the second major phase of the Internet. As such, many of our strategic initiatives
and investments are aimed at meeting the requirements that a network capable of multiple-party, collaborative interaction would demand, and the investments we have made and our architectural approach are designed to enable networked Web 2.0 and the
increased use of the network as the platform for all forms of communications and IT. In fiscal 2009 we launched our Cisco Unified Computing System, our next-generation enterprise data center platform architected to unite computing, network, storage
access, and virtualization resources in a single system, which is designed to address the fundamental transformation occurring in the enterprise data center. Cisco Unified Computing System is one of several market adjacencies on which we are
focusing resources.      The process of developing new technology is complex and uncertain, and if we fail to accurately predict
customers  changing needs and emerging technological trends our business could be harmed. We must commit significant resources, including the investments we have been making in market adjacencies and in the United States and targeted emerging
countries mentioned above, to developing new products before knowing whether our investments will result in products the market will accept. In particular, if our model of the evolution of networking to collaborative systems does not emerge as we
believe it will, or if the industry does not evolve as we believe it will, or if our strategy for addressing this evolution is not successful, many of our strategic initiatives and investments may be of no or limited value. Furthermore, we may not
execute successfully on that vision because of errors in product planning or timing, technical hurdles that we fail to overcome in a timely fashion, or a lack of appropriate resources. This could result in competitors providing those solutions
before we do and loss of market share, net sales, and earnings. The success of new products depends on several factors, including proper new product definition, component costs, timely completion and introduction of these products, differentiation
of new products from those of our competitors, and market acceptance of these products. There can be no assurance that we will successfully identify new product opportunities, develop and bring new products to market in a timely manner, or achieve
market acceptance of our products or that products and technologies developed by others will not render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. The products and technologies that we identify as  emerging technologies  or
 advanced technologies  may not prove to have the market success we anticipate, and we may not successfully identify and invest in other emerging or advanced technologies.   
   OVER THE LONG TERM WE INTEND TO INCREASE OUR INVESTMENT IN ENGINEERING, SALES, SERVICE, MARKETING AND MANUFACTURING ACTIVITIES, AND THESE INVESTMENTS
MAY ACHIEVE DELAYED, OR LOWER THAN EXPECTED BENEFITS WHICH COULD HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS       While recently we have focused
on managing our costs and expenses, we expect to continue to increase our headcount in upcoming quarters, and over the long term we intend to continue to add personnel and other resources to our engineering, sales, service, marketing and
manufacturing functions as we focus on developing market adjacencies, emerging technologies, the next wave of advanced technologies, growing the commercial market segment, capitalizing on our emerging market opportunities, enhancing our evolving
support model and increasing our market share gains. We are likely to recognize the costs associated with these investments earlier than some of the anticipated benefits, and the return on these investments may be lower, or may develop more slowly,
than we expect. If we do not achieve the benefits anticipated from these investments, or if the achievement of these benefits is delayed, our operating results may be adversely affected.   
   OUR BUSINESS SUBSTANTIALLY DEPENDS UPON THE CONTINUED GROWTH OF THE INTERNET AND INTERNET-BASED SYSTEMS    
  A substantial portion of our business and revenue depends on growth and evolution of the Internet, including the continued development of
networked Web 2.0 as part of the second major phase of the Internet, and on the deployment of our products by customers who depend on such continued growth and evolution. To the extent that an economic slowdown or economic uncertainty and related
reduction in capital spending adversely affect spending on Internet infrastructure, as we have recently seen, we could experience material harm to our business, operating results, and financial condition.   
  Because of the rapid introduction of new products and changing customer requirements related to matters such as cost-effectiveness and
security, we believe that there could be performance problems with Internet communications in the future, which could receive a high degree of publicity and visibility. Because we are a large supplier of networking products, our business, operating
results, and financial condition may be materially adversely affected, regardless of whether or not these problems are due to the performance of our own products. Such an event could also result in a material adverse effect on the market price of
our common stock independent of direct effects on our business.         
   23   

Table of Contents  

    CHANGES IN INDUSTRY STRUCTURE AND MARKET CONDITIONS COULD LEAD TO CHARGES RELATED TO DISCONTINUANCES OF
CERTAIN OF OUR PRODUCTS OR BUSINESSES AND ASSET IMPAIRMENTS       In response to changes in industry and market conditions, we
may be required to strategically realign our resources and consider restructuring, disposing of, or otherwise exiting businesses. Any decision to limit investment in or dispose of or otherwise exit businesses may result in the recording of special
charges, such as inventory and technology-related write-offs, workforce reduction costs, charges relating to consolidation of excess facilities, or claims from third parties who were resellers or users of discontinued products. Our estimates with
respect to the useful life or ultimate recoverability of our carrying basis of assets, including purchased intangible assets, could change as a result of such assessments and decisions. Further, our estimates relating to the liabilities for excess
facilities are affected by changes in real estate market conditions. Additionally, we are required to perform goodwill impairment tests on an annual basis and between annual tests in certain circumstances, and future goodwill impairment tests may
result in a charge to earnings.       WE HAVE MADE AND EXPECT TO CONTINUE TO MAKE ACQUISITIONS THAT COULD DISRUPT OUR OPERATIONS AND HARM OUR
OPERATING RESULTS       Our growth depends upon market growth, our ability to enhance our existing products, and our ability to
introduce new products on a timely basis. We intend to continue to address the need to develop new products and enhance existing products through acquisitions of other companies, product lines, technologies, and personnel. Acquisitions involve
numerous risks, including the following:       

Difficulties in integrating the operations, systems, technologies, products, and personnel of the acquired companies, particularly companies with large
and widespread operations and/or complex products, such as Scientific-Atlanta, WebEx and Tandberg          

Diversion of management s attention from normal daily operations of the business and the challenges of managing larger and more widespread
operations resulting from acquisitions          

Potential difficulties in completing projects associated with in-process research and development intangibles      

Difficulties in entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market
positions          

Initial dependence on unfamiliar supply chains or relatively small supply partners      

Insufficient revenue to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions      

The potential loss of key employees, customers, distributors, vendors and other business partners of the companies we acquire following and continuing
after announcement of acquisition plans         Acquisitions may also cause us to:   

Issue common stock that would dilute our current shareholders  percentage ownership      

Use a substantial portion of our cash resources, or incur debt, as we did in fiscal 2006 when we issued and sold $6.5 billion in senior unsecured notes
to fund our acquisition of Scientific-Atlanta          

Significantly increase our interest expense, leverage and debt service requirements if we incur additional debt to pay for an acquisition
           
   24   

Table of Contents  

Assume liabilities          

Record goodwill and nonamortizable intangible assets that are subject to impairment testing on a regular basis and potential periodic impairment
charges          

Incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets      

Incur tax expenses related to the effect of acquisitions on our intercompany research and development (R D) cost sharing
arrangement and legal structure          

Incur large and immediate write-offs and restructuring and other related expenses      

Become subject to intellectual property or other litigation      
  Mergers and acquisitions of high-technology companies are inherently risky and subject to many factors outside of our control, and no
assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful and will not materially adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition. Failure to manage and successfully integrate acquisitions could
materially harm our business and operating results. Prior acquisitions have resulted in a wide range of outcomes, from successful introduction of new products and technologies to a failure to do so. Even when an acquired company has already
developed and marketed products, there can be no assurance that product enhancements will be made in a timely fashion or that pre-acquisition due diligence will have identified all possible issues that might arise with respect to such products.
     From time to time, we have made acquisitions that resulted in charges in an individual quarter. These charges may occur in
any particular quarter, resulting in variability in our quarterly earnings. In addition, our effective tax rate for future periods is uncertain and could be impacted by mergers and acquisitions. Risks related to new product development also apply to
acquisitions. Please see the risk factors above, including the risk factor entitled  We depend upon the development of new products and enhancements to existing products, and if we fail to predict and respond to emerging technological trends
and customers  changing needs, our operating results and market share may suffer  for additional information.       ENTRANCE INTO NEW
OR DEVELOPING MARKETS EXPOSES US TO ADDITIONAL COMPETITION AND WILL LIKELY INCREASE DEMANDS ON OUR SERVICE AND SUPPORT OPERATIONS    
  As we focus on new market opportunities for example, storage; wireless; security; transporting data, voice, and video traffic across
the same network; and other advanced technologies, emerging technologies and market adjacencies we will increasingly compete with large telecommunications equipment suppliers as well as startup companies. Several of our competitors may have
greater resources, including technical and engineering resources, than we do. Additionally, as customers in these markets complete infrastructure deployments, they may require greater levels of service, support, and financing than we have provided
in the past, especially in the Emerging Markets theater. Demand for these types of service, support, or financing contracts may increase in the future. There can be no assurance that we can provide products, service, support, and financing to
effectively compete for these market opportunities.      Further, provision of greater levels of services, support and financing
by us may result in a delay in the timing of revenue recognition. In addition, entry into other markets, including our entry into the consumer market, has subjected and will subject us to additional risks, particularly to those markets, including
the effects of general market conditions and reduced consumer confidence.         
   25   

Table of Contents  

    INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION MAY LEAD TO INCREASED COMPETITION AND MAY HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS
      There has been a trend toward industry consolidation in our markets for several years. We expect this trend to continue as
companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry and as companies are acquired or are unable to continue operations. For example, some of our current and potential competitors for enterprise data center business
have made acquisitions, or announced new strategic alliances, designed to position them with the ability to provide end-to-end technology solutions for the enterprise data center. Companies that are strategic alliance partners in some areas of our
business may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, thereby reducing their business with us. We believe that industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete as sole-source vendors for customers.
This could lead to more variability in our operating results and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Furthermore, particularly in the service provider market, rapid consolidation will
lead to fewer customers, with the effect that loss of a major customer could have a material impact on results not anticipated in a customer marketplace composed of more numerous participants.   
   PRODUCT QUALITY PROBLEMS COULD LEAD TO REDUCED REVENUE, GROSS MARGINS, AND NET INCOME    
  We produce highly complex products that incorporate leading-edge technology, including both hardware and software. Software typically
contains bugs that can unexpectedly interfere with expected operations. There can be no assurance that our preshipment testing programs will be adequate to detect all defects, either ones in individual products or ones that could affect numerous
shipments, which might interfere with customer satisfaction, reduce sales opportunities, or affect gross margins. In the past, we have had to replace certain components and provide remediation in response to the discovery of defects or bugs in
products that we had shipped. Although the cost of such remediation has not been material in the past, there can be no assurance that such a remediation, depending on the product involved, would not have a material impact. An inability to cure a
product defect could result in the failure of a product line, temporary or permanent withdrawal from a product or market, damage to our reputation, inventory costs, or product reengineering expenses, any of which could have a material impact on our
revenue, margins, and net income.       DUE TO THE GLOBAL NATURE OF OUR OPERATIONS, POLITICAL OR ECONOMIC CHANGES OR OTHER FACTORS IN A SPECIFIC
COUNTRY OR REGION COULD HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION       We conduct significant sales and customer
support operations in countries outside of the United States; maintain a manufacturing facility for a substantial portion of our video systems products in Juarez, Mexico; and also depend on non-U.S. operations of our contract manufacturers,
component suppliers and distribution partners. Although sales in our Emerging Markets theater decreased during the recent global economic downturn, our Emerging Markets theater generally has been a relatively fast growing theater, and we have
announced plans to expand our commitments and expectations in this theater. As such, our growth depends in part on our increasing sales into this theater. We also intend to expand our level of business activity in two large emerging countries, India
and China, and our growth in the Asia Pacific theater will also depend in part upon our increasing sales in these countries. Our future results could be materially adversely affected by a variety of factors relating to our operations outside the
United States, any or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, including, among others, the following:       

The worldwide impact of the recent global economic downturn and related market uncertainty, including the recent European economic and financial
turmoil related to sovereign debt issues in certain countries          

Foreign currency exchange rates          

Political or social unrest          

Economic instability or weakness or natural disasters in a specific country or region; environmental and trade protection measures and other legal and
regulatory requirements, some of which may affect our ability to import our products, to export our products from, or sell our products in various countries      

Political considerations that affect service provider and government spending patterns      
     
   26   

Table of Contents  

Health or similar issues, such as a pandemic or epidemic      

Difficulties in staffing and managing international operations      

Adverse tax consequences, including imposition of withholding or other taxes on payments by subsidiaries      
   WE ARE EXPOSED TO THE CREDIT RISK OF SOME OF OUR CUSTOMERS AND TO CREDIT EXPOSURES IN WEAKENED MARKETS, WHICH COULD RESULT IN MATERIAL LOSSES  
     Most of our sales are on an open credit basis, with typical payment terms of 30 days in the United States and, because of
local customs or conditions, longer in some markets outside the United States. We monitor individual customer payment capability in granting such open credit arrangements, seek to limit such open credit to amounts we believe the customers can pay,
and maintain reserves we believe are adequate to cover exposure for doubtful accounts. Beyond our open credit arrangements, we have also experienced demands for customer financing and facilitation of leasing arrangements. We expect demand for
customer financing to continue, and recently we have been experiencing an increase in this demand as the credit markets have been impacted by the recent global economic downturn and related market uncertainty, including increased demand from
customers in certain countries within our Emerging Markets theater. We believe customer financing is a competitive factor in obtaining business, particularly in serving customers involved in significant infrastructure projects. Our loan financing
arrangements may include not only financing the acquisition of our products and services but also providing additional funds for other costs associated with network installation and integration of our products and services.   
  Our exposure to the credit risks relating to our financing activities described above may increase if our customers are adversely
affected by a global economic downturn or periods of economic uncertainty. Although we have programs in place that are designed to monitor and mitigate the associated risk, including monitoring of particular risks in certain geographic areas, there
can be no assurance that such programs will be effective in reducing our credit risks.      In the past, there have been
significant bankruptcies among customers both on open credit and with loan or lease financing arrangements, particularly among Internet businesses and service providers, causing us to incur economic or financial losses. There can be no assurance
that additional losses will not be incurred. Although these losses have not been material to date, future losses, if incurred, could harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. A portion of
our sales is derived through our distributors and retail partners. These distributors and retail partners are generally given business terms that allow them to return a portion of inventory, receive credits for changes in selling prices, and
participate in various cooperative marketing programs. We maintain estimated accruals and allowances for such business terms. However, distributors tend to have more limited financial resources than other resellers and end-user customers and
therefore represent potential sources of increased credit risk, because they may be more likely to lack the reserve resources to meet payment obligations. Additionally, to the degree that turmoil in the credit markets makes it more difficult for
some customers to obtain financing, those customers  ability to pay could be adversely impacted, which in turn could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition.   
   WE ARE EXPOSED TO FLUCTUATIONS IN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES THAT COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS AND CASH FLOWS    
  Because a significant portion of our business is conducted outside the United States, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign
currency exchange rates. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve, and they could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows. Historically, our primary exposures have related to
nondollar-denominated sales in Japan, Canada, and Australia and certain nondollar-denominated operating expenses and service cost of sales in Europe, Latin America, and Asia, where we sell primarily in U.S. dollars. Additionally, we have exposures
to emerging market currencies, which can have extreme currency volatility. An increase in the value of the dollar could increase the real cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside the United States where we sell in dollars, and
a weakened dollar could increase the cost of local operating expenses and procurement of raw materials to the extent that we must purchase components in foreign currencies.   
  Currently, we enter into foreign exchange forward contracts and options to reduce the short-term impact of foreign currency fluctuations
on certain foreign currency receivables, investments, and payables. In addition, we periodically hedge anticipated foreign currency cash flows. Our attempts to hedge against these risks may not be successful, resulting in an adverse impact on our
net income.       OUR PROPRIETARY RIGHTS MAY PROVE DIFFICULT TO ENFORCE    
  We generally rely on patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secret laws to establish and maintain proprietary rights in our technology
and products. Although we have been issued numerous patents and other patent applications are currently pending, there can be no assurance that any of these patents or other proprietary rights will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented or
that our rights will, in fact, provide competitive advantages to us.         
   27   

Table of Contents  

Furthermore, many key aspects of networking technology are governed by industrywide standards, which are usable by all market entrants. In addition, there can be no assurance that patents will be
issued from pending applications or that claims allowed on any patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of
the United States. The outcome of any actions taken in these foreign countries may be different than if such actions were determined under the laws of the United States. Although we are not dependent on any individual patents or group of patents for
particular segments of the business for which we compete, if we are unable to protect our proprietary rights to the totality of the features (including aspects of products protected other than by patent rights) in a market, we may find ourselves at
a competitive disadvantage to others who need not incur the substantial expense, time, and effort required to create innovative products that have enabled us to be successful.   
   WE MAY BE FOUND TO INFRINGE ON INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS OF OTHERS    
  Third parties, including customers, have in the past and may in the future assert claims or initiate litigation related to exclusive
patent, copyright, trademark, and other intellectual property rights to technologies and related standards that are relevant to us. These assertions have increased over time as a result of our growth and the general increase in the pace of patent
claims assertions, particularly in the United States. Because of the existence of a large number of patents in the networking field, the secrecy of some pending patents, and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, it is not economically practical
or even possible to determine in advance whether a product or any of its components infringes or will infringe on the patent rights of others. The asserted claims and/or initiated litigation can include claims against us or our manufacturers,
suppliers, or customers, alleging infringement of their proprietary rights with respect to our existing or future products or components of those products. Regardless of the merit of these claims, they can be time-consuming, result in costly
litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel, or require us to develop a non-infringing technology or enter into license agreements. Where claims are made by customers, resistance even to unmeritorious claims could damage customer
relationships. There can be no assurance that licenses will be available on acceptable terms and conditions, if at all, or that our indemnification by our suppliers will be adequate to cover our costs if a claim were brought directly against us or
our customers. Furthermore, because of the potential for high court awards that are not necessarily predictable, it is not unusual to find even arguably unmeritorious claims settled for significant amounts. If any infringement or other intellectual
property claim made against us by any third party is successful, if we are required to indemnify a customer with respect to a claim against the customer, or if we fail to develop non-infringing technology or license the proprietary rights on
commercially reasonable terms and conditions, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.   
  Our exposure to risks associated with the use of intellectual property may be increased as a result of acquisitions, as we have a lower
level of visibility into the development process with respect to such technology or the care taken to safeguard against infringement risks. Further, in the past, third parties have made infringement and similar claims after we have acquired
technology that had not been asserted prior to our acquisition.       WE RELY ON THE AVAILABILITY OF THIRD-PARTY LICENSES    
  Many of our products are designed to include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. It may be necessary in
the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of these products. There can be no assurance that the necessary licenses would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. The inability to obtain certain licenses or other rights or
to obtain such licenses or rights on favorable terms, or the need to engage in litigation regarding these matters, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Moreover, the inclusion in our
products of software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties on a nonexclusive basis could limit our ability to protect our proprietary rights in our products.   
   OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND FUTURE PROSPECTS COULD BE MATERIALLY HARMED BY UNCERTAINTIES OF REGULATION OF THE INTERNET    
  Currently, few laws or regulations apply directly to access or commerce on the Internet. We could be materially adversely affected by
regulation of the Internet and Internet commerce in any country where we operate. Such regulations could include matters such as voice over the Internet or using IP, encryption technology, sales taxes on Internet product sales, and access charges
for Internet service providers. The adoption of regulation of the Internet and Internet commerce could decrease demand for our products and, at the same time, increase the cost of selling our products, which could have a material adverse effect on
our business, operating results, and financial condition.       CHANGES IN TELECOMMUNICATIONS REGULATION AND TARIFFS COULD HARM OUR PROSPECTS
AND FUTURE SALES       Changes in telecommunications requirements, or regulatory requirements in other industries in which we
operate, in the United States or other countries could affect the sales of our products. In particular, we believe that there may be future changes in U.S. telecommunications regulations that could slow the expansion of the service providers 
network infrastructures and materially adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition.      Future
changes in tariffs by regulatory agencies or application of tariff requirements to currently untariffed services could affect the sales of our products for certain classes of customers. Additionally, in the United States, our products must comply
with various requirements and regulations of the Federal Communications Commission and other regulatory authorities.   
     
   28   

Table of Contents  

In countries outside of the United States, our products must meet various requirements of local telecommunications and other industry authorities. Changes in tariffs or failure by us to obtain
timely approval of products could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition.       FAILURE TO
RETAIN AND RECRUIT KEY PERSONNEL WOULD HARM OUR ABILITY TO MEET KEY OBJECTIVES       Our success has always depended in large
part on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled technical, managerial, sales, and marketing personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense, especially in the Silicon Valley area of Northern California. Stock incentive plans are
designed to reward employees for their long-term contributions and provide incentives for them to remain with us. Volatility or lack of positive performance in our stock price or equity incentive awards, or changes to our overall compensation
program, including our stock incentive program, resulting from the management of share dilution and share-based compensation expense or otherwise, may also adversely affect our ability to retain key employees. As a result of one or more of these
factors, we may increase our hiring in geographic areas outside the United States, which could subject us to additional geopolitical and exchange rate risk. The loss of services of any of our key personnel; the inability to retain and attract
qualified personnel in the future; or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly engineering and sales personnel, could make it difficult to meet key objectives, such as timely and effective product introductions. In addition, companies in
our industry whose employees accept positions with competitors frequently claim that competitors have engaged in improper hiring practices. We have received these claims in the past and may receive additional claims to this effect in the future.
      ADVERSE RESOLUTION OF LITIGATION OR GOVERNMENTAL INVESTIGATIONS MAY HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS OR FINANCIAL CONDITION    
  We are a party to lawsuits in the normal course of our business. Litigation can be expensive, lengthy, and disruptive to normal business
operations. Moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. For example, Brazilian authorities have investigated our Brazilian subsidiary and certain of our current and former employees, as well as a Brazilian importer
of our products, and its affiliates and employees, relating to alleged evasion of import taxes and alleged improper transactions involving the subsidiary and the importer. Brazilian authorities have assessed claims against our Brazilian subsidiary
based on a theory of joint liability with the Brazilian importer for import taxes and related penalties. The claims are for calendar years 2003 through 2007 and aggregate to approximately $190 million for the alleged evasion of import taxes,
approximately $85 million for interest, and approximately $1.6 billion for various penalties, all determined using an exchange rate as of July 31, 2010. We have completed a thorough review of the matter and believe the asserted tax claims
against us are without merit, and we intend to defend the claims vigorously. While we believe there is no legal basis for our alleged liability, due to the complexities and uncertainty surrounding the judicial process in Brazil and the nature of the
claims asserting joint liability with the importer, we are unable to determine the likelihood of an unfavorable outcome against us and are unable to reasonably estimate a range of loss, if any. We have investigated the alleged improper transactions
referred to above. We communicated with United States authorities to provide information and report on our findings and the United States authorities have investigated such allegations. An unfavorable resolution of lawsuits or governmental
investigations could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, or financial condition. For additional information regarding certain of the matters in which we are involved, see Item 3,  Legal Proceedings, 
contained in Part I of this report.       CHANGES IN OUR PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES OR ADVERSE OUTCOMES RESULTING FROM EXAMINATION OF OUR INCOME
TAX RETURNS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS       Our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be
adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries that have lower tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries that have higher tax rates; by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; by
expiration of or lapses in the R D tax credit laws; by transfer pricing adjustments, including the effect of acquisitions on our intercompany R D cost sharing arrangement and legal structure; by tax effects of nondeductible compensation; by
tax costs related to intercompany realignments; by changes in accounting principles; or by changes in tax laws and regulations, including possible U.S. changes to the taxation of earnings of our foreign subsidiaries, the deductibility of expenses
attributable to foreign income, or the foreign tax credit rules. Significant judgment is required to determine the recognition and measurement attribute prescribed in the accounting guidance for uncertainty in income taxes. The accounting guidance
for uncertainty in income taxes applies to all income tax positions, including the potential recovery of previously paid taxes, which if settled unfavorably could adversely impact our provision for income taxes or additional paid-in capital.
Further, as a result of certain of our ongoing employment and capital investment actions and commitments, our income in certain countries is subject to reduced tax rates and in some cases is wholly exempt from tax. Our failure to meet these
commitments could adversely impact our provision for income taxes. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of
adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results
and financial condition.         
   29   

Table of Contents  

    OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS ARE ESPECIALLY SUBJECT TO THE RISKS OF EARTHQUAKES, FLOODS, AND OTHER NATURAL
CATASTROPHIC EVENTS       Our corporate headquarters, including certain of our research and development operations are located
in the Silicon Valley area of Northern California, a region known for seismic activity. Additionally, a certain number of our facilities are located near rivers that have experienced flooding in the past. Also certain of our suppliers and logistics
centers are located in regions that may be affected by recent volcanic activity which could disrupt the flow of components and delivery of products. A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, a hurricane, volcano, or a flood, could have
a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition.       MAN-MADE PROBLEMS SUCH AS COMPUTER VIRUSES OR
TERRORISM MAY DISRUPT OUR OPERATIONS AND HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS       Despite our implementation of network security
measures our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial
condition. Efforts to limit the ability of malicious third parties to disrupt the operations of the Internet or undermine our own security efforts may meet with resistance. In addition, the continued threat of terrorism and heightened security and
military action in response to this threat, or any future acts of terrorism, may cause further disruptions to the economies of the United States and other countries and create further uncertainties or otherwise materially harm our business,
operating results, and financial condition. Likewise, events such as widespread blackouts could have similar negative impacts. To the extent that such disruptions or uncertainties result in delays or cancellations of customer orders or the
manufacture or shipment of our products, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.   
   WE ARE EXPOSED TO FLUCTUATIONS IN THE MARKET VALUES OF OUR PORTFOLIO INVESTMENTS AND IN INTEREST RATES; IMPAIRMENT OF OUR INVESTMENTS COULD HARM OUR
EARNINGS       We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. These securities are generally
classified as available-for-sale and, consequently, are recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax. Our portfolio includes
fixed income securities and equity investments in publicly traded companies, the values of which are subject to market price volatility to the extent unhedged. If such investments suffer market price declines, as we experienced with some of our
investments during fiscal 2009, we may recognize in earnings the decline in the fair value of our investments below their cost basis when the decline is judged to be other than temporary. For information regarding the sensitivity of and risks
associated with the market value of portfolio investments and interest rates, refer to the section titled  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  included in our 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders, which section is
incorporated by reference into this report. Our investments in private companies are subject to risk of loss of investment capital. These investments are inherently risky because the markets for the technologies or products they have under
development are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. We could lose our entire investment in these companies.       IF WE DO
NOT SUCCESSFULLY MANAGE OUR STRATEGIC ALLIANCES, WE MAY NOT REALIZE THE EXPECTED BENEFITS FROM SUCH ALLIANCES AND WE MAY EXPERIENCE INCREASED COMPETITION OR DELAYS IN PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT    
  We have several strategic alliances with large and complex organizations and other companies with which we work to offer complementary
products and services and have established a joint venture to market services associated with our Cisco Unified Computing System products. These arrangements are generally limited to specific projects, the goal of which is generally to facilitate
product compatibility and adoption of industry standards. There can be no assurance we will realize the expected benefits from these strategic alliances or from the joint venture. If successful, these relationships may be mutually beneficial and
result in industry growth. However, alliances carry an element of risk because, in most cases, we must compete in some business areas with a company with which we have a strategic alliance and, at the same time, cooperate with that company in other
business areas. Also, if these companies fail to perform or if these relationships fail to materialize as expected, we could suffer delays in product development or other operational difficulties. Joint ventures can be difficult to manage, given the
potentially different interests of joint venture partners.         
   30   

Table of Contents  

    OUR STOCK PRICE MAY BE VOLATILE    
  Historically, our common stock has experienced substantial price volatility, particularly as a result of variations between our actual
financial results and the published expectations of analysts and as a result of announcements by our competitors and us. Furthermore, speculation in the press or investment community about our strategic position, financial condition, results of
operations, business, security of our products, or significant transactions can cause changes in our stock price. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many
technology companies, in particular, and that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These factors, as well as general economic and political conditions and the announcement of proposed and completed acquisitions
or other significant transactions, or any difficulties associated with such transactions, by us or our current or potential competitors, may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock in the future. Additionally, volatility,
lack of positive performance in our stock price or changes to our overall compensation program, including our stock incentive program, may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, virtually all of whom are compensated, in part, based on
the performance of our stock price.       THERE CAN BE NO ASSURANCE THAT OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION WILL NOT BE ADVERSELY
AFFECTED BY OUR INCURRENCE OF SENIOR UNSECURED DEBT       In February 2006, we issued senior unsecured notes in an aggregate
principal amount of $6.5 billion, of which $500 million matured in February 2009, $3.0 billion will mature in February 2011, and the balance will mature in February 2016. In addition, in February 2009 we issued an aggregate of $4.0 billion of senior
unsecured notes that mature at specific dates in 2019 and 2039. A portion of the proceeds of the notes issued in February 2009 was used to repay in full the notes that matured that month. Also, in November 2009, we issued senior unsecured notes in
an aggregate principal amount of $5.0 billion, of which $500 million will mature in November 2014, $2.5 billion will mature in January 2020, and the balance will mature in January 2040. The outstanding notes bear fixed-rate interest payable
semiannually. The fair value of the long-term debt is subject to market interest rate volatility. The instruments governing the notes contain certain covenants applicable to us and our subsidiaries that may adversely affect our ability to incur
certain liens or engage in certain types of sale and leaseback transactions. In addition, we will be required to have available in the United States sufficient cash to repay these notes on maturity. There can be no assurance that our incurrence of
this debt will be a better means of providing liquidity to us than would our use of our existing cash resources, including cash currently held offshore. Further, we cannot be assured that our maintenance of this indebtedness will not adversely
affect our operating results or financial condition. In addition, changes by any rating agency to our credit rating can negatively impact the value and liquidity of both our debt and equity securities.   
     ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments    
  Not applicable.        
 ITEM 2. Properties       Our headquarters are located at an owned site in San Jose, California. In addition to this
site, we own certain sites in the United States, which include facilities in the surrounding areas of San Jose, California; Boston, Massachusetts; Richardson, Texas; Lawrenceville, Georgia; and Research Triangle Park, North Carolina. We also own
land for expansion in some of these locations. In addition, we lease office space in several U.S. locations.      Outside the
United States our operations are conducted primarily in leased sites, such as our Globalisation Centre East campus in Bangalore, India. Other significant sites are located in Australia, Belgium, China, Germany, India, Israel, Italy, Japan, Norway,
and the United Kingdom.      We own and lease certain Scientific-Atlanta manufacturing facilities with a principal manufacturing
facility, which we own, located in Juarez, Mexico. We believe that our existing facilities, including both owned and leased, are in good condition and suitable for the conduct of our business.   
  For additional information regarding obligations under operating leases, see Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2010
Annual Report to Shareholders. Note 11 is incorporated by reference herein. For additional information regarding properties by operating segment, see Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders. Note 15
is incorporated by reference herein.         
   31   

Table of Contents  

      ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings    
  Brazilian authorities have investigated our Brazilian subsidiary and certain of our current and former employees, as well as a Brazilian
importer of our products, and its affiliates and employees, relating to alleged evasion of import taxes and alleged improper transactions involving the subsidiary and the importer. Brazilian authorities have assessed claims against our Brazilian
subsidiary based on a theory of joint liability with the Brazilian importer for import taxes and related penalties. The claims are for calendar years 2003 through 2007 and aggregate to approximately $190 million for the alleged evasion of import
taxes, $85 million for interest, and approximately $1.6 billion for various penalties, all determined using an exchange rate as of July 31, 2010. We have completed a thorough review of the matter and believe the asserted tax claims against us
are without merit, and we intend to defend the claims vigorously. While we believe there is no legal basis for our alleged liability, due to the complexities and uncertainty surrounding the judicial process in Brazil and the nature of the claims
asserting joint liability with the importer, we are unable to determine the likelihood of an unfavorable outcome against us and are unable to reasonably estimate a range of loss, if any. We do not expect a final judicial determination for several
years.      We have investigated the alleged improper transactions referred to above. We communicated with United States
authorities to provide information and report on our findings and the United States authorities have investigated such allegations.   
  We and other defendants were subject to patent claims asserted by Network-1 Security Solutions, Inc. on February 7, 2008 in the
Federal District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. Network-1 alleged that various of our products implement a method for remotely powering equipment that infringes United States Patent No. 6,218,930. Network-1 sought monetary
damages. The trial on these claims began on July 12, 2010. During trial, we and Network-1 settled our dispute on terms that are not material to us, and the lawsuit was dismissed with prejudice on August 6, 2010.   
  In addition, we are subject to legal proceedings, claims, and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business, including
intellectual property litigation. While the outcome of these matters is currently not determinable, we do not expect that the ultimate costs to resolve these matters will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results
of operations, or cash flows. For additional information regarding intellectual property litigation, see  Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors We may be found to infringe on intellectual property rights of others  herein.   
     ITEM 4. Reserved          
   32   

Table of Contents  

      PART II    
     ITEM 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity
Securities       (a) The market price and related Cisco shareholder information required by this item are incorporated by
reference to the section entitled  Stock Market Information  on page 77 of our 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders.   
  (b) Not Applicable.   
  (c) Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities (in millions, except per-share amounts):   

(1)   
  
    Includes approximately 1.9 million shares repurchased to satisfy tax withholding obligations that arose on the vesting of shares of restricted
stock and restricted stock units.      

(2)   
  
    On September 13, 2001, we announced that our Board of Directors had authorized a stock repurchase program. As of July 31, 2010, our Board of
Directors had authorized the repurchase of up to $72 billion of common stock under this program. During fiscal 2010, we repurchased and retired 325 million shares of our common stock at an average price of $24.02 per share for an aggregate
purchase price of $7.8 billion. As of July 31, 2010, we had repurchased and retired 3.1 billion shares of our common stock at an average price of $20.78 per share for an aggregate purchase price of $65.0 billion since inception of the stock
repurchase program, and the remaining authorized amount for stock repurchases under this program was $7.0 billion with no termination date.      
     ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data    
  The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to page 7 of our 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders.   
     ITEM 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    
  The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to pages 8 to 35 of our 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders.
        ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk    
  The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to pages 36 to 38 of our 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders.
        ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data    
  The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to pages 39 to 76 and the section entitled  Supplementary
Financial Data (Unaudited)  on page 77 of our 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders.         ITEM 9. Changes in
and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosures       None.   
     
   33   

Table of Contents  

      ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures    
   Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures    
  Based on our management s evaluation (with the participation of our principal executive officer and principal financial officer), as
of the end of the period covered by this report, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended, (the  Exchange Act )) are effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time
periods specified in Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms and is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions
regarding required disclosure.       Internal Control Over Financial Reporting    
  Management s report on our internal control over financial reporting and the report of our independent registered public accounting
firm on our internal control over financial reporting are incorporated by reference to the portion of page 5 under the caption  Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  and to page 6, respectively,
of our 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders.      There was no change in our internal control over financial reporting during our
fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.   
     ITEM 9B. Other Information    
  None.         
   34   

Table of Contents  

      PART III    

ITEM 10.   
   Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance      
  The information required by this item relating to our directors and nominees is included under the captions  Proposal No. 1:
Election of Directors General,    Business Experience and Qualifications of Nominees,  and   Board Committees and Meetings Nomination and Governance Committee  in our Proxy Statement related to the 2010
Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference.     The information required by this item regarding our
Audit Committee is included under the caption  Proposal No. 1: Election of Directors Board Committees and Meetings  in our Proxy Statement related to the 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein by
reference.      Pursuant to General Instruction G(3) of Form 10-K, the information required by this item relating to our executive
officers is included under the caption  Executive Officers of the Registrant  in Part I of this report.      The
information required by this item regarding compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Act of 1934 is included under the caption  Ownership of Securities Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  in our Proxy
Statement related to the 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference.      We have adopted a code
of ethics that applies to our principal executive officer and all members of our finance department, including the principal financial officer and principal accounting officer. This code of ethics, which consists of the  Special Ethics
Obligations for Employees with Financial Reporting Responsibilities  section of our Code of Business Conduct that applies to employees generally, is posted on our website. The Internet address for our website is  www.cisco.com , and the
code of ethics may be found from our main webpage by clicking first on  About Cisco  and then on  Corporate Governance  under  Investor Relations,  next on  Code of Business Conduct  under  Corporate
Governance,  and finally on  Special Ethics Obligations for Employees with Financial Reporting Responsibilities.    
  We intend to satisfy any disclosure requirement under Item 5.05 of Form 8-K regarding an amendment to, or waiver from, a provision
of this code of ethics by posting such information on our website, on the webpage found by clicking through to  Code of Business Conduct  as specified above.      

ITEM 11.   
   Executive Compensation      
  The information appearing under the headings  Proposal No. 1: Election of Directors Director Compensation  and
 Executive Compensation and Related Information  in our Proxy Statement related to the 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.   

ITEM 12.   
   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters      
  The information required by this item relating to security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management is included under the
caption  Ownership of Securities,  and the information required by this item relating to securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans is included under the caption  Equity Compensation Plan Information,  in
each case in our Proxy Statement related to the 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, and is incorporated herein by reference.       

ITEM 13.   
   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence      
  The information required by this item relating to review, approval or ratification of transactions with related persons is included under
the caption  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions,  and the information required by this item relating to director independence is included under the caption  Proposal No. 1: Election of Directors Independent
Directors,  in each case in our Proxy Statement related to the 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, and is incorporated herein by reference.       

ITEM 14.   
   Principal Accountant Fees and Services      
  The information required by this item is included under the captions  Proposal No. 3: Ratification of Independent Registered
Public Accounting Firm Principal Accountant Fees and Services  and  Policy on Audit Committee Pre-Approval of Audit and Permissible Non-Audit Services of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  in our Proxy Statement
related to the 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, and is incorporated herein by reference.         
   35   

Table of Contents  

      PART IV    

ITEM 15.   
   Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules          

(a)    1.  
  Financial Statements     
  The Index to Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule on page 37 is incorporated herein by reference as the
list of financial statements required as part of this report.       

2.  
  Financial Statement Schedule     
  The Index to Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule on page 37 is incorporated herein by reference as the
list of financial statement schedules required as part of this report.       
    The
exhibit list in the Index to Exhibits is incorporated herein by reference as the list of exhibits required as part of this report.         
   36   

Table of Contents  

    INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    
   AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE    
   Item 15(a)        

Page    

Form 10-K   
      
   2010 Annual Report to Shareholders    
 
    Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting   

5   
 
    Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

6   
 
    Consolidated Balance Sheets at July 31, 2010 and July 25, 2009   

39   
 
    Consolidated Statements of Operations for each of the three years in the period ended July 31, 2010   

40   
 
    Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of the three years in the period ended July 31, 2010   

41   
 
    Consolidated Statements of Equity for each of the three years in the period ended July 31, 2010   

42   
 
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

43-76   
 
    Supplementary Financial Data (Unaudited) and Stock Market Information Fiscal 2010 and 2009 by Quarter   

77   
 
    Financial Statement Schedule:   

Schedule II Valuation and Qualifying Accounts   
      
  38  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Financial Statement Schedule   
      
  39  

37   

Table of Contents  

    SCHEDULE II    
   VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS    
   (in millions)        
       
   38   

Table of Contents  

    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM    
   ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE    
  To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Cisco Systems, Inc.:   
  Our audits of the consolidated financial statements and of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting referred to in
our report dated September 20, 2010 appearing in the 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders of Cisco Systems, Inc. (which report and consolidated financial statements are incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K) also included
an audit of the financial statement schedule listed in Item 15(a)(2) of this Form 10-K. In our opinion, this financial statement schedule presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with
the related consolidated financial statements.      /s/ PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP   
  San Jose, California      September 20, 2010
        
   39   

Table of Contents  

      SIGNATURES    
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this
Report on Form 10-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.       

September 21, 2010  

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.   

/s/    J OHN  T. C HAMBERS         

John T. Chambers   
   Chairman and Chief Executive Officer      
   POWER OF ATTORNEY    
  KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints John T. Chambers and Frank A.
Calderoni, jointly and severally, his attorney-in-fact, each with the full power of substitution, for such person, in any and all capacities, to sign any and all amendments to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and to file the same, with all exhibits
thereto and other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto said attorney-in-fact and agent full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be
done in connection therewith, as fully to all intents and purposes as he might do or could do in person hereby ratifying and confirming all that each of said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or his substitute, may do or cause to be done by virtue
hereof.      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Report on Form 10-K has been signed below
by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.       

Signature    
      
     Title    
     
     Date     

/ S /    J OHN  T.
C HAMBERS               John T. Chambers    
      
    Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Director (Principal Executive Officer)   
     
  September 21, 2010   

/ S /    F RANK  A.
C ALDERONI               Frank A. Calderoni    
      
    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer)   
     
  September 21, 2010   

/ S /    P RAT  S.
B HATT               Prat S. Bhatt    
      
    Vice President and Corporate Controller (Principal Accounting Officer)   
     
  September 21, 2010   

/ S /    C AROL  A.
B ARTZ               Carol A. Bartz    
      
    Lead Independent Director   
     
  September 21, 2010   

/ S /    M. M ICHELE 
B URNS               M. Michele Burns    
      
    Director   
     
  September 21, 2010   

/ S /    M ICHAEL  D.
C APELLAS               Michael D. Capellas    
      
    Director   
     
  September 21, 2010    
     
   40   

Table of Contents  

41   

Table of Contents  

    INDEX TO EXHIBITS    

42   

Table of Contents  

*  
  Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.     

**  
  XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language) information is furnished and not filed herewith, is not a part of a registration statement or Prospectus for purposes of
sections 11 or 12 of the Securities Act of 1933, is deemed not filed for purposes of section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and otherwise is not subject to liability under these sections.     
     
   43   

<EX-10.1>
 2
 dex101.htm
 CISCO SYSTEMS, INC. 2005 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN

Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan 

Exhibit 10.1    
   CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.    
   2005 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN    
   AS AMENDED AND RESTATED    
   EFFECTIVE AS OF NOVEMBER 12, 2009   

SECTION 1.   

INTRODUCTION   
      
  1   

SECTION 2.   

DEFINITIONS   
      
  1   

(a)  
     
      Affiliate     
      
  1   

(b)  
     
      Award     
      
  1   

(c)  
     
      Board     
      
  1   

(d)  
     
      Cashless Exercise     
      
  1   

(e)  
     
      Cause     
      
  2   

(f)  
     
      Change In Control     
      
  2   

(g)  
     
      Code     
      
  2   

(h)  
     
      Committee     
      
  2   

(i)  
     
      Common Stock     
      
  2   

(j)  
     
      Company     
      
  2   

(k)  
     
      Consultant     
      
  2   

(l)  
     
      Corporate Transaction     
      
  3   

(m)  
     
      Covered Employees     
      
  3   

(n)  
     
      Director     
      
  3   

(o)  
     
      Disability     
      
  3   

(p)  
     
      Employee     
      
  3   

(q)  
     
      Exchange Act     
      
  3   

(r)  
     
      Exercise Price     
      
  3   

(s)  
     
      Fair Market Value     
      
  3   

(t)  
     
      Fiscal Year     
      
  4   

(u)  
     
      Grant     
      
  4   

(v)  
     
      Incentive Stock Option  or  ISO     
      
  4   

(w)  
     
      Key Employee     
      
  4   

(x)  
     
      Non-Employee Director     
      
  4   

(y)  
     
      Nonstatutory Stock Option  or  NSO     
      
  4   

(z)  
     
      Option     
      
  4   

(aa)  
     
      Optionee     
      
  4   

(bb)  
     
      Parent     
      
  4   

(cc)  
     
      Participant     
      
  4   

(dd)  
     
      Performance Goal     
      
  5   

(ee)  
     
      Performance Period     
      
  5    

(ff)  
     
      Plan     
      
  5   

(gg)  
     
      Previous Plan Award     
      
  5   

(hh)  
     
      Re-Price     
      
  5   

(ii)  
     
      SAR Agreement     
      
  5   

(jj)  
     
      SEC     
      
  5   

(kk)  
     
      Section 16 Persons     
      
  5   

(ll)  
     
      Securities Act     
      
  5   

(mm)  
     
      Service     
      
  5   

(nn)  
     
      Share     
      
  6   

(oo)  
     
      Stock Appreciation Right  or  SAR     
      
  6   

(pp)  
     
      Stock Grant     
      
  6   

(qq)  
     
      Stock Grant Agreement     
      
  6   

(rr)  
     
      Stock Option Agreement     
      
  6   

(ss)  
     
      Stock Unit     
      
  6   

(tt)  
     
      Stock Unit Agreement     
      
  6   

(uu)  
     
      Subsidiary     
      
  6   

(vv)  
     
      10-Percent Shareholder     
      
  6   

SECTION 3.   

ADMINISTRATION   
      
  7   

(a)  
     
     Committee Composition    
      
  7   

(b)  
     
     Authority of the Committee    
      
  7   

(c)  
     
     Indemnification    
      
  8   

SECTION 4.   

GENERAL   
      
  8   

(a)  
     
     General Eligibility    
      
  8   

(b)  
     
     Incentive Stock Options    
      
  8   

(c)  
     
     Restrictions on Shares    
      
  8   

(d)  
     
     Beneficiaries    
      
  8   

(e)  
     
     Performance Conditions    
      
  9   

(f)  
     
     No Rights as a Shareholder    
      
  9   

(g)  
     
     Termination of Service    
      
  9   

(h)  
     
     Director Fees    
      
  9   

SECTION 5.   

SHARES SUBJECT TO PLAN AND SHARE LIMITS   
      
  10   

(a)  
     
     Basic Limitations    
      
  10          
   -ii-   

(b)  
     
     Additional Shares    
      
  10   

(c)  
     
     Dividend Equivalents    
      
  10   

(d)  
     
     Share Limits    
      
  10   

SECTION 6.   

TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF OPTIONS   
      
  11   

(a)  
     
     Stock Option Agreement    
      
  11   

(b)  
     
     Number of Shares    
      
  11   

(c)  
     
     Exercise Price    
      
  11   

(d)  
     
     Exercisability and Term    
      
  11   

(e)  
     
     Modifications or Assumption of Options    
      
  12   

(f)  
     
     Assignment or Transfer of Options    
      
  12   

SECTION 7.   

PAYMENT FOR OPTION SHARES   
      
  12   

SECTION 8.   

TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS   
      
  13   

(a)  
     
     SAR Agreement    
      
  13   

(b)  
     
     Number of Shares    
      
  13   

(c)  
     
     Exercise Price    
      
  13   

(d)  
     
     Exercisability and Term    
      
  13   

(e)  
     
     Exercise of SARs    
      
  13   

(f)  
     
     Modification or Assumption of SARs    
      
  14   

(g)  
     
     Assignment or Transfer of SARs    
      
  14   

SECTION 9.   

TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR STOCK GRANTS   
      
  14   

(a)  
     
     Amount and Form of Awards    
      
  14   

(b)  
     
     Stock Grant Agreement    
      
  14   

(c)  
     
     Payment for Stock Grants    
      
  15   

(d)  
     
     Vesting Conditions    
      
  15   

(e)  
     
     Assignment or Transfer of Stock Grants    
      
  15   

(f)  
     
     Voting and Dividend Rights    
      
  15   

(g)  
     
     Modification or Assumption of Stock Grants    
      
  15   

SECTION 10.   

TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF STOCK UNITS   
      
  16   

(a)  
     
     Stock Unit Agreement    
      
  16   

(b)  
     
     Number of Shares    
      
  16   

(c)  
     
     Payment for Stock Units    
      
  16          
   -iii-   

-iv-   

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.    
   2005 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN    
   AS AMENDED AND RESTATED    
  (Effective as of November 12, 2009)   
     SECTION 1.   INTRODUCTION  .    
  The Company s shareholders approved the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated and effective on
November 15, 2007. The Company s Board of Directors approved an amendment and restatement of the Plan; provided that, the amendment and restatement of the Plan shall become effective upon its approval by Company shareholders. If the
Company s shareholders do not approve the amendment and restatement of the Plan, Awards will be made under the Plan as approved by shareholders on November 15, 2007.   
  The purpose of the Plan is to promote the long-term success of the Company and the creation of shareholder value by offering Key Employees
an opportunity to share in such long-term success by acquiring a proprietary interest in the Company.      The Plan seeks to
achieve this purpose by providing for discretionary long-term incentive Awards in the form of Options (which may constitute Incentive Stock Options or Nonstatutory Stock Options), Stock Appreciation Rights, Stock Grants, and Stock Units.   
  The Plan shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of California (except its choice-of-law
provisions).      Capitalized terms shall have the meaning provided in Section 2 unless otherwise provided in this Plan or any
related Stock Option Agreement, SAR Agreement, Stock Grant Agreement or Stock Unit Agreement.         SECTION 2.
  DEFINITIONS  .         (a)  Affiliate  means any entity other than a Subsidiary,
if the Company and/or one or more Subsidiaries own not less than 50% of such entity.        (b)
 Award  means any award of an Option, SAR, Stock Grant or Stock Unit under the Plan.        (c)
 Board  means the Board of Directors of the Company, as constituted from time to time.        (d)
 Cashless Exercise  means, to the extent that a Stock Option Agreement so provides and as permitted by applicable law, a program approved by the Committee in which payment may be made all or in part by delivery (on a form prescribed by the
Committee) of an irrevocable direction to a securities broker to sell Shares and to deliver all or part of the sale proceeds to the Company in payment of the aggregate Exercise Price and, if   
     
   -1-   

applicable, the amount necessary to satisfy the Company s withholding obligations at the minimum statutory withholding rates, including, but not limited to, U.S. federal and state income
taxes, payroll taxes, and foreign taxes, if applicable.        (e)  Cause  means, except as may
otherwise be provided in a Participant s employment agreement or Award agreement, a conviction of a Participant for a felony crime or the failure of a Participant to contest prosecution for a felony crime, or a Participant s misconduct,
fraud or dishonesty (as such terms are defined by the Committee in its sole discretion), or any unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential information or trade secrets, in each case as determined by the Committee, and the Committee s
determination shall be conclusive and binding.        (f)  Change In Control  except as may
otherwise be provided in a Participant s employment agreement or Award agreement, means the occurrence of any of the following:   
  (i) A change in the composition of the Board over a period of thirty-six consecutive months or less such that a majority
of the Board members ceases, by reason of one or more contested elections for Board membership, to be comprised of individuals who either (A) have been Board members continuously since the beginning of such period or (B) have been elected
or nominated for election as Board members during such period by at least a majority of the Board members described in clause (A) who were still in office at the time the Board approved such election or nomination; or   
  (ii) The acquisition, directly or indirectly, by any person or related group of persons (other than the Company or a
person that directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, the Company) of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) of securities of the Company representing more than 35% of
the total combined voting power of the Company s then outstanding securities pursuant to a tender or exchange offer made directly to the Company s shareholders which the Board does not recommend such shareholders accept.   
    (g)  Code  means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the regulations and
interpretations promulgated thereunder.        (h)  Committee  means a committee described in
Section 3.        (i)  Common Stock  means the Company s common stock.   
    (j)  Company  means Cisco Systems, Inc., a California corporation.   
    (k)  Consultant  means an individual who performs bona fide services to the Company, a Parent, a
Subsidiary or an Affiliate, other than as an Employee or Director or Non-Employee Director.         
   -2-   

(l)  Corporate Transaction  except as may otherwise be
provided in a Participant s employment agreement or Award agreement, means the occurrence of any of the following shareholder approved transactions:   
  (i) The consummation of a merger or consolidation of the Company with or into another entity or any other corporate
reorganization, if more than 50% of the combined voting power of the continuing or surviving entity s securities outstanding immediately after such merger, consolidation or other reorganization is owned by persons who were not shareholders of
the Company immediately prior to such merger, consolidation or other reorganization; or      (ii) The sale,
transfer or other disposition of all or substantially all of the Company s assets.      A transaction shall not constitute a
Corporate Transaction if its sole purpose is to change the state of the Company s incorporation or to create a holding company that will be owned in substantially the same proportions by the persons who held the Company s securities
immediately before such transactions.        (m)  Covered Employees  means those persons who are
subject to the limitations of Code Section 162(m).        (n)  Director  means a member of
the Board who is also an Employee.        (o)  Disability  means that the Key Employee is
classified as disabled under a long-term disability policy of the Company or, if no such policy applies, the Key Employee is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment
which can be expected to result in death or which has lasted or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months.   
    (p)  Employee  means an individual who is a common-law employee of the Company, a Parent, a
Subsidiary or an Affiliate.        (q)  Exchange Act  means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
as amended.        (r)  Exercise Price  means, in the case of an Option, the amount for which a
Share may be purchased upon exercise of such Option, as specified in the applicable Stock Option Agreement.  Exercise Price,  in the case of a SAR, means an amount, as specified in the applicable SAR Agreement, which is subtracted from the
Fair Market Value in determining the amount payable upon exercise of such SAR.        (s)  Fair
Market Value  means the market price of a Share as determined in good faith by the Committee. The Fair Market Value shall be determined by the following:         
   -3-   

(i) If the Shares were traded over-the-counter or listed with NASDAQ on the
date in question, then the Fair Market Value shall be equal to the last transaction price quoted by the NASDAQ system for the date in question or (ii) if the Common Stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange or the American Stock Exchange
on the date in question, the Fair Market Value is the closing selling price for the Common Stock as such price is officially quoted in the composite tape of transactions on the exchange determined by the Committee to be the primary market for the
Common Stock for the date in question; provided, however, that if there is no such reported price for the Common Stock for the date in question under (i) or (ii), then such price on the last preceding date for which such price exists shall be
determinative of Fair Market Value.      If neither (i) or (ii) are applicable, then the Fair Market Value shall be
determined by the Committee in good faith on such basis as it deems appropriate.      Whenever possible, the determination of Fair
Market Value by the Committee shall be based on the prices reported in the Western Edition of  The Wall Street Journal . Such determination shall be conclusive and binding on all persons.   
    (t)  Fiscal Year  means the Company s fiscal year.   
    (u)  Grant  means any grant of an Award under the Plan.   
    (v)  Incentive Stock Option  or  ISO  means an incentive stock option described in Code
Section 422.        (w)  Key Employee  means an Employee, Director, Non-Employee Director
or Consultant who has been selected by the Committee to receive an Award under the Plan.        (x)
 Non-Employee Director  means a member of the Board who is not an Employee.        (y)
 Nonstatutory Stock Option  or  NSO  means a stock option that is not an ISO.   
    (z)  Option  means an ISO or NSO granted under the Plan entitling the Optionee to purchase Shares.
       (aa)  Optionee  means an individual, estate or other entity that holds an Option.
       (bb)  Parent  means any corporation (other than the Company) in an unbroken chain of
corporations ending with the Company, if each of the corporations other than the Company owns stock possessing 50% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of the other corporations in such chain. A corporation that
attains the status of a Parent on a date after the adoption of the Plan shall be considered a Parent commencing as of such date.   
    (cc)  Participant  means an individual or estate or other entity that holds an Award.   
     
   -4-   

(dd)  Performance Goal  means an objective formula or
standard determined by the Committee with respect to each Performance Period utilizing one or more of the following factors and any objectively verifiable adjustment(s) thereto permitted and preestablished by the Committee in accordance with Code
Section 162(m): (i) operating income; (ii) earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization; (iii) earnings; (iv) cash flow; (v) market share; (vi) sales; (vii) revenue; (viii) profits
before interest and taxes; (ix) expenses; (x) cost of goods sold; (xi) profit/loss or profit margin; (xii) working capital; (xiii) return on capital, equity or assets; (xiv) earnings per share; (xv) economic value
added; (xvi) stock price; (xvii) price/earnings ratio; (xviii) debt or debt-to-equity; (xix) accounts receivable; (xx) writeoffs; (xxi) cash; (xxii) assets; (xxiii) liquidity; (xxiv) operations;
(xxv) intellectual property (e.g., patents); (xxvi) product development; (xxvii) regulatory activity; (xxviii) manufacturing, production or inventory; (xxix) mergers and acquisitions or divestitures; (xxx) financings;
and/or (xxxi) customer satisfaction, each with respect to the Company and/or one or more of its affiliates or operating units. Awards issued to persons who are not Covered Employees may take into account other factors (including subjective
factors).        (ee)  Performance Period  means any period not exceeding 36 months as
determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion. The Committee may establish different Performance Periods for different Participants, and the Committee may establish concurrent or overlapping Performance Periods.   
    (ff)  Plan  means this Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan as amended and restated, and as
it may be further amended from time to time.        (gg)  Previous Plan Award  means any award
of an Option, SAR, Stock Grant or Stock Unit under the Cisco Systems, Inc. 1996 Stock Incentive Plan, the Cisco Systems, Inc. SA Acquisition Long-Term Incentive Plan or the Cisco Systems, Inc. WebEx Acquisition Long-Term Incentive Plan.   
    (hh)  Re-Price  means that the Company has lowered or reduced the Exercise Price of outstanding
Options and/or outstanding SARs for any Participant(s), whether through amendment, cancellation, or replacement grants, or any other means.   
    (ii)  SAR Agreement  means the agreement described in Section 8 evidencing each Award of a Stock
Appreciation Right.        (jj)  SEC  means the Securities and Exchange Commission.   
    (kk)  Section 16 Persons  means those officers, directors or other persons who are subject to
Section 16 of the Exchange Act.        (ll)  Securities Act  means the Securities Act of
1933, as amended.        (mm)  Service  means service as an Employee, Director, Non-Employee
Director or Consultant. A Participant s Service does not terminate when continued service crediting         
   -5-   

is required by applicable law. However, for purposes of determining whether an Option is entitled to continuing ISO status, a common-law employee s Service will be treated as terminating
ninety (90) days after such Employee went on leave, unless such Employee s right to return to active work is guaranteed by law or by a contract. Service terminates in any event when the approved leave ends, unless such Employee immediately
returns to active work. The Committee determines which leaves count toward Service, and when Service terminates for all purposes under the Plan. Further, unless otherwise determined by the Committee, a Participant s Service shall not be deemed
to have terminated merely because of a change in the capacity in which the Participant provides service to the Company, a Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate, or a transfer between entities (the Company or any Parent, Subsidiary, or Affiliate); provided
that there is no interruption or other termination of Service.        (nn)  Share  means one
share of Common Stock.        (oo)  Stock Appreciation Right  or  SAR  means a stock
appreciation right awarded under the Plan.        (pp)  Stock Grant  means Shares awarded under
the Plan.        (qq)  Stock Grant Agreement  means the agreement described in Section 9
evidencing each Award of a Stock Grant.        (rr)  Stock Option Agreement  means the agreement
described in Section 6 evidencing each Award of an Option.        (ss)  Stock Unit  means a
bookkeeping entry representing the equivalent of one Share, as awarded under the Plan.        (tt)
 Stock Unit Agreement  means the agreement described in Section 
10 evidencing each Award of a Stock Unit.        (uu)  Subsidiary  means any corporation (other
than the Company) in an unbroken chain of corporations beginning with the Company, if each of the corporations other than the last corporation in the unbroken chain owns stock possessing 50% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes
of stock in one of the other corporations in such chain. A corporation that attains the status of a Subsidiary on a date after the adoption of the Plan shall be considered a Subsidiary commencing as of such date.   
    (vv)  10-Percent Shareholder  means an individual who owns more than 10% of the total combined voting
power of all classes of outstanding stock of the Company, its Parent or any of its Subsidiaries. In determining stock ownership, the attribution rules of Section 424(d) of the Code shall be applied.   
     
   -6-   

SECTION 3.   ADMINISTRATION  .    
    (a) Committee Composition. The Board or a Committee appointed by the Board shall administer the Plan. Unless
the Board provides otherwise, the Company s Compensation   Management Development Committee shall be the Committee. Members of the Committee shall serve for such period of time as the Board may determine and shall be subject to removal
by the Board at any time. The Board may also at any time terminate the functions of the Committee and reassume all powers and authority previously delegated to the Committee.   
  The Committee shall have membership composition which enables (i) Awards to Section 16 Persons to qualify as exempt from
liability under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act and (ii) Awards to Covered Employees to qualify as performance-based compensation as provided under Code Section 162(m).   
  The Board may also appoint one or more separate committees of the Board, each composed of two or more directors of the Company who need
not qualify under Rule 16b-3 or Code Section 162(m), that may administer the Plan with respect to Key Employees who are not Section 16 Persons or Covered Employees, respectively, may grant Awards under the Plan to such Key Employees and
may determine all terms of such Awards.      Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board shall constitute the Committee and shall
administer the Plan with respect to Non-Employee Directors, shall grant Awards under the Plan to such Non-Employee Directors, and shall determine all terms of such Awards.   
    (b) Authority of the Committee. Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall have full authority
and sole discretion to take any actions it deems necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan. Such actions shall include:   
  (i) selecting Key Employees who are to receive Awards under the Plan;   
  (ii) determining the type, number, vesting requirements and other features and conditions of such Awards and amending such
Awards;      (iii) correcting any defect, supplying any omission, or reconciling any inconsistency in the Plan or
any Award agreement;      (iv) accelerating the vesting, or extending the post-termination exercise term, of Awards
at any time and under such terms and conditions as it deems appropriate;      (v) interpreting the Plan;
     (vi) making all other decisions relating to the operation of the Plan; and   
  (vii) adopting such plans or subplans as may be deemed necessary or appropriate to provide for the participation by Key
Employees of the Company and its Subsidiaries and Affiliates who reside outside the U.S., which plans and/or subplans shall be attached hereto as Appendices.         
   -7-   

The Committee may adopt such rules or guidelines as it deems appropriate to implement the
Plan. The Committee s determinations under the Plan shall be final and binding on all persons.   
    (c) Indemnification. To the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, each member of the Committee, or of the
Board, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Company against and from (i) any loss, cost, liability, or expense that may be imposed upon or reasonably incurred by him or her in connection with or resulting from any claim, action, suit,
or proceeding to which he or she may be a party or in which he or she may be involved by reason of any action taken or failure to act under the Plan or any Stock Option Agreement, SAR Agreement, Stock Grant Agreement or Stock Unit Agreement, and
(ii) from any and all amounts paid by him or her in settlement thereof, with the Company s approval, or paid by him or her in satisfaction of any judgment in any such claim, action, suit, or proceeding against him or her, provided he or
she shall give the Company an opportunity, at its own expense, to handle and defend the same before he or she undertakes to handle and defend it on his or her own behalf. The foregoing right of indemnification shall not be exclusive of any other
rights of indemnification to which such persons may be entitled under the Company s Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws, by contract, as a matter of law, or otherwise, or under any power that the Company may have to indemnify them or hold them
harmless.         SECTION 4.   GENERAL  .    
    (a) General Eligibility. Only Employees, Directors, Non-Employee Directors and Consultants shall be eligible
for designation as Key Employees by the Committee, in its sole discretion.        (b) Incentive Stock
Options. Only Key Employees who are common-law employees of the Company, a Parent or a Subsidiary shall be eligible for the grant of ISOs. In addition, a Key Employee who is a 10-Percent Shareholder shall not be eligible for the grant of an ISO
unless the requirements set forth in Section 422(c)(5) of the Code are satisfied.        (c)
Restrictions on Shares. Any Shares issued pursuant to an Award shall be subject to such rights of repurchase, rights of first refusal and other transfer restrictions as the Committee may determine, in its sole discretion. Such restrictions shall
apply in addition to any restrictions that may apply to holders of Shares generally and shall also comply to the extent necessary with applicable law. In no event shall the Company be required to issue fractional Shares under this Plan.   
    (d) Beneficiaries. Unless stated otherwise in an Award agreement, a Participant may designate one or more
beneficiaries with respect to an Award by timely filing the prescribed form with the Company. A beneficiary designation may be changed by filing the prescribed form with the Company at any time before the Participant s death. If no beneficiary
was designated or if no designated beneficiary survives the Participant, then         
   -8-   

after a Participant s death any vested Award(s) shall be transferred or distributed to the Participant s estate.   
    (e) Performance Conditions. The Committee may, in its discretion, include performance conditions in an Award or
grant an Award upon the satisfaction of performance conditions. If performance conditions are included in Awards to Covered Employees, then such Awards may be subject to the achievement of Performance Goals established by the Committee. Such
Performance Goals shall be established and administered pursuant to the requirements of Code Section 162(m). Before any Shares underlying an Award or any Award payments subject to Performance Goals are released to a Covered Employee with
respect to a Performance Period, the Committee shall certify in writing that the Performance Goals for such Performance Period have been satisfied. Awards with performance conditions that are granted to Key Employees who are not Covered Employees
need not comply with the requirements of Code Section 162(m).        (f) No Rights as a Shareholder.
A Participant, or a transferee of a Participant, shall have no rights as a shareholder with respect to any Common Stock covered by an Award until such person has satisfied all of the terms and conditions to receive such Common Stock, has satisfied
any applicable withholding or tax obligations relating to the Award and the Shares have been issued (as evidenced by an appropriate entry on the books of the Company or a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company).   
    (g) Termination of Service. Unless the applicable Award agreement or, with respect to Participants who reside
in the U.S., the applicable employment agreement provides otherwise, the following rules shall govern the vesting, exercisability and term of outstanding Awards held by a Participant in the event of termination of such Participant s Service (in
all cases subject to the expiration term of the Option or SAR as applicable): (i) upon termination of Service for any reason, all unvested portions of any outstanding Awards shall be immediately forfeited without consideration and the vested
portions of any outstanding Stock Units shall be settled upon termination; (ii) if the Service of a Participant is terminated for Cause, then all unexercised Options and SARs, unvested portions of Stock Units and unvested portions of Stock
Grants shall terminate and be forfeited immediately without consideration; (iii) if the Service of a Participant is terminated for any reason other than for Cause, death, or Disability, then the vested portion of his or her then-outstanding
Options and/or SARs may be exercised by such Participant or his or her personal representative within three months after the date of such termination; or (iv) if the Service of a Participant is terminated due to death or Disability, the vested
portion of his or her then-outstanding Options and/or SARs may be exercised within eighteen months after the date of termination of Service.   
    (h) Director Fees. Each Non-Employee Director may elect to receive a Stock Grant or Stock Unit under the Plan
in lieu of payment of a portion of his or her regular annual retainer based on the Fair Market Value of the Shares on the date any regular annual retainer would otherwise be paid. For purposes of the Plan, a Non-Employee Director s regular
annual retainer shall not include any additional retainer paid in connection with service on any committee of the Board or paid for any other reason. Such an election   
     
   -9-   

may be for any dollar or percentage amount equal to at least 25% of the Non-Employee Director s regular annual retainer (up to a limit of 100% of the Non-Employee Director s regular
annual retainer). The election must be made prior to the beginning of the annual board of directors cycle which shall be any twelve month continuous period designated by the Board. Any amount of the regular annual retainer not elected to be received
as a Stock Grant or Stock Unit shall be payable in cash in accordance with the Company s standard payment procedures. Shares granted under this Section 4(h) shall otherwise be subject to the terms of the Plan applicable to Non-Employee
Directors or to Participants generally (other than provisions specifically applying only to Employees).         SECTION
5.   SHARES SUBJECT TO PLAN AND SHARE LIMITS  .         (a) Basic Limitations. The stock
issuable under the Plan shall be authorized but unissued Shares. The aggregate number of Shares reserved for Awards under the Plan shall not exceed 559,000,000 Shares, subject to adjustment pursuant to Section 11. Shares issued as Stock Grants
or pursuant to Stock Units will count against the Shares available for issuance under the Plan as 1.5 Shares for every 1 Share issued in connection with the Award.   
    (b) Additional Shares. If Awards are forfeited or are terminated for any other reason before being exercised or
settled, then the Shares underlying such Awards, plus the number of additional Shares, if any, that counted against Shares available for issuance under the Plan in respect thereof at the time of Grant, shall again become available for Awards under
the Plan. If a Previous Plan Award is forfeited or is terminated for any other reason before being exercised or settled, then the Shares underlying such Previous Plan Award shall again become available for Awards under this Plan. SARs shall be
counted in full against the number of Shares available for issuance under the Plan, regardless of the number of Shares issued upon settlement of the SARs.   
    (c) Dividend Equivalents. Any dividend equivalents distributed under the Plan shall not be applied against the
number of Shares available for Awards.        (d) Share Limits.   
  (i)  Limits on Options .   Subject to adjustment pursuant to Section 11, no Key Employee shall receive
Options to purchase Shares during any Fiscal Year covering in excess of 5,000,000 Shares and the aggregate maximum number of Shares that may be issued in connection with ISOs shall be 559,000,000 Shares.   
  (ii)  Limits on SARs.  Subject to adjustment pursuant to Section 11, no Key Employee shall receive Awards of
SARs during any Fiscal Year covering in excess of 5,000,000 Shares and the aggregate maximum number of Shares that may be issued in connection with SARs shall be 559,000,000 Shares.   
     
   -10-   

(iii)  Limits on Stock Grants and Stock Units.  Subject to adjustment
pursuant to Section 11, no Key Employee shall receive Stock Grants or Stock Units during any Fiscal Year covering, in the aggregate, in excess of 5,000,000 Shares.   
  (iv)  Limits on Awards to Non-Employee Directors.  Subject to adjustment pursuant to Section 11, no Non-Employee
Director shall receive Awards during any Fiscal Year covering, in the aggregate, in excess of 50,000 Shares; provided that any Shares received pursuant to an election under Section 4(h) shall not count against such limit.   
     SECTION 6.   TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF OPTIONS  .    
    (a) Stock Option Agreement. Each Grant of an Option under the Plan shall be evidenced and governed exclusively
by a Stock Option Agreement between the Optionee and the Company. Such Option shall be subject to all applicable terms and conditions of the Plan and may be subject to any other terms and conditions that are not inconsistent with the Plan and that
the Committee deems appropriate for inclusion in a Stock Option Agreement (including without limitation any performance conditions). The provisions of the various Stock Option Agreements entered into under the Plan need not be identical. The Stock
Option Agreement shall also specify whether the Option is an ISO or an NSO.        (b) Number of Shares.
Each Stock Option Agreement shall specify the number of Shares that are subject to the Option and shall be subject to adjustment of such number in accordance with Section 11.   
    (c) Exercise Price. An Option s Exercise Price shall be established by the Committee and set forth in a
Stock Option Agreement. The Exercise Price of an Option shall not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value (110% for ISO grants to 10-Percent Shareholders) on the date of Grant.   
    (d) Exercisability and Term. Each Stock Option Agreement shall specify the date when all or any installment of
the Option is to become exercisable. The Stock Option Agreement shall also specify the term of the Option; provided that the term of an Option shall in no event exceed ten years from the date of Grant. Unless the applicable Stock Option Agreement
provides otherwise, each Option shall vest and become exercisable with respect to 20% of the Shares subject to the Option upon completion of one year of Service measured from the vesting commencement date, the balance of the Shares subject to the
Option shall vest and become exercisable in forty-eight equal installments upon completion of each month of Service thereafter, and the term of the Option shall be ten years from the date of Grant. A Stock Option Agreement may provide for
accelerated vesting in the event of the Participant s death, Disability, or other events. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, no Option can be exercised after the expiration date provided in the applicable Stock Option Agreement
and no Option may provide that, upon exercise of the Option, a new Option will automatically be granted.         
   -11-   

(e) Modifications or Assumption of Options. Within the
limitations of the Plan, the Committee may modify, extend or assume outstanding options or may accept the cancellation of outstanding options (whether granted by the Company or by another issuer) in return for the grant of new Options for the same
or a different number of Shares, at the same or a different Exercise Price, and with the same or different vesting provisions. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence or anything to the contrary herein, the Committee may not Re-Price outstanding
Options unless there is approval by the Company shareholders and, unless a modification is necessary or desirable to comply with any applicable law, regulation or rule, such modification of an Option shall not, without the consent of the
Optionee, impair his or her rights or obligations under such Option.        (f) Assignment or Transfer of
Options. Except as otherwise provided in the applicable Stock Option Agreement and then only to the extent permitted by applicable law, no Option shall be transferable by the Optionee other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.
Except as otherwise provided in the applicable Stock Option Agreement, an Option may be exercised during the lifetime of the Optionee only by the Optionee or by the guardian or legal representative of the Optionee. No Option or interest therein may
be assigned, pledged or hypothecated by the Optionee during his or her lifetime, whether by operation of law or otherwise, or be made subject to execution, attachment or similar process.   
     SECTION 7.   PAYMENT FOR OPTION SHARES  .    
  The entire Exercise Price of Shares issued upon exercise of Options shall be payable in cash at the time when such Shares are purchased,
except as follows and if so provided for in an applicable Stock Option Agreement:      (i) Surrender of Stock.
Payment for all or any part of the Exercise Price or Options may be made with Shares which have already been owned by the Optionee; provided that the Committee may, in its sole discretion, require that Shares tendered for payment be previously held
by the Optionee for a minimum duration. Such Shares shall be valued at their Fair Market Value.      (ii) Cashless
Exercise. Payment for all or any part of the Exercise Price may be made through Cashless Exercise at the Committee s sole discretion.   
  (iii) Other Forms of Payment. Payment for all or any part of the Exercise Price may be made in any other form that is
consistent with applicable laws, regulations and rules and approved by the Committee.      In the case of an ISO granted under the
Plan, payment shall be made only pursuant to the express provisions of the applicable Stock Option Agreement. The Stock Option Agreement may specify that payment may be made in any form(s) described in this
        
   -12-   

Section 7. In the case of an NSO granted under the Plan, the Committee may, in its discretion at any time, accept payment in any form(s) described in this Section 7.   
     SECTION 8.   TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS  .    
    (a) SAR Agreement. Each Grant of a SAR under the Plan shall be evidenced and governed exclusively by a SAR
Agreement between the Participant and the Company. Such SAR shall be subject to all applicable terms and conditions of the Plan and may be subject to any other terms and conditions that are not inconsistent with the Plan and that the Committee deems
appropriate for inclusion in a SAR Agreement (including without limitation any performance conditions). A SAR Agreement may provide for a maximum limit on the amount of any payout notwithstanding the Fair Market Value on the date of exercise of the
SAR. The provisions of the various SAR Agreements entered into under the Plan need not be identical. SARs may be granted in consideration of a reduction in the Participant s compensation.   
    (b) Number of Shares. Each SAR Agreement shall specify the number of Shares to which the SAR pertains and shall
be subject to adjustment of such number in accordance with Section 11.        (c) Exercise Price.
Each SAR Agreement shall specify the Exercise Price which shall be established by the Committee. The Exercise Price of a SAR shall not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value on the date of Grant.   
    (d) Exercisability and Term. Each SAR Agreement shall specify the date when all or any installment of the SAR
is to become exercisable. The SAR Agreement shall also specify the term of the SAR which shall not exceed ten years from the date of Grant. Unless the applicable SAR Agreement provides otherwise, each SAR shall vest and become exercisable with
respect to 20% of the Shares subject to the SAR upon completion of one year of Service measured from the vesting commencement date, the balance of the Shares subject to the SAR shall vest and become exercisable in forty-eight equal installments upon
completion of each month of Service thereafter, and the term of the SAR shall be ten years from the date of Grant. A SAR Agreement may provide for accelerated vesting in the event of the Participant s death, Disability, or other events. SARs
may be awarded in combination with Options or Stock Grants, and such an Award shall provide that the SARs will not be exercisable unless the related Options or Stock Grants are forfeited. A SAR may be included in an ISO only at the time of Grant but
may be included in an NSO at the time of Grant or at any subsequent time, but not later than six months before the expiration of such NSO. No SAR may provide that, upon exercise of the SAR, a new SAR will automatically be granted.   
    (e) Exercise of SARs. If, on the date when a SAR expires, the Exercise Price under such SAR is less than the
Fair Market Value on such date but any portion of such SAR has not been exercised or surrendered, then such SAR shall automatically be deemed to be exercised as of such date with respect to such portion. Upon exercise of a SAR, the
        
   -13-   

Participant (or any person having the right to exercise the SAR) shall receive from the Company (i) Shares, (ii) cash or (iii) any combination of Shares and cash, as the Committee
shall determine at the time of Grant of the SAR, in its sole discretion. The amount of cash and/or the Fair Market Value of Shares received upon exercise of SARs shall, in the aggregate, be equal to the amount by which the Fair Market Value (on the
date of exercise) of the Shares subject to the SARs exceeds the Exercise Price of those Shares.        (f)
Modification or Assumption of SARs. Within the limitations of the Plan, the Committee may modify, extend or assume outstanding stock appreciation rights or may accept the cancellation of outstanding stock appreciation rights (including stock
appreciation rights granted by another issuer) in return for the grant of new SARs for the same or a different number of Shares, at the same or a different Exercise Price, and with the same or different vesting provisions. Notwithstanding the
preceding sentence or anything to the contrary herein, the Committee may not Re-Price outstanding SARs unless there is approval by the Company shareholders and, unless a modification is necessary or desirable to comply with any applicable
law, regulation or rule, such modification of a SAR shall not ,  without the consent of the Participant, impair his or her rights or obligations under such SAR.   
    (g) Assignment or Transfer of SARs. Except as otherwise provided in the applicable SAR Agreement and then only
to the extent permitted by applicable law, no SAR shall be transferable by the Participant other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. Except as otherwise provided in the applicable SAR Agreement, a SAR may be exercised during the
lifetime of the Participant only by the Participant or by the guardian or legal representative of the Participant. No SAR or interest therein may be assigned, pledged or hypothecated by the Participant during his or her lifetime, whether by
operation of law or otherwise, or be made subject to execution, attachment or similar process.         SECTION 9. 
 TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR STOCK GRANTS    .         (a) Amount and Form of Awards. Awards
under this Section 9 may be granted in the form of a Stock Grant. Each Stock Grant Agreement shall specify the number of Shares to which the Stock Grant pertains and shall be subject to adjustment of such number in accordance with
Section 11. A Stock Grant may also be awarded in combination with NSOs, and such an Award may provide that the Stock Grant will be forfeited in the event that the related NSOs are exercised.   
    (b) Stock Grant Agreement. Each Stock Grant awarded under the Plan shall be evidenced and governed exclusively
by a Stock Grant Agreement between the Participant and the Company. Each Stock Grant shall be subject to all applicable terms and conditions of the Plan and may be subject to any other terms and conditions that are not inconsistent with the Plan and
that the Committee deems appropriate for inclusion in the applicable Stock Grant Agreement (including without limitation any performance   
     
   -14-   

conditions). The provisions of the various Stock Grant Agreements entered into under the Plan need not be identical.   
    (c) Payment for Stock Grants. Stock Grants may be issued with or without cash consideration or any other form
of legally permissible consideration approved by the Committee.        (d) Vesting Conditions. Each Stock
Grant may or may not be subject to vesting. Any such vesting provision may provide that Shares shall vest based on Service over time or shall vest, in full or in installments, upon satisfaction of performance conditions specified in the Stock Grant
Agreement which may include Performance Goals pursuant to Section 4(e). Unless the applicable Stock Grant Agreement provides otherwise, each Stock Grant shall vest with respect to 20% of the Shares subject to the Stock Grant upon completion of
each year of Service on each of the first through fifth annual anniversaries of the vesting commencement date. A Stock Grant Agreement may provide for accelerated vesting in the event of the Participant s death, Disability, or other events.
       (e) Assignment or Transfer of Stock Grants. Except as provided in the applicable Stock Grant
Agreement, and then only to the extent permitted by applicable law, a Stock Grant awarded under the Plan shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether
voluntarily, involuntarily or by operation of law. Any act in violation of this Section 9(e) shall be void. However, this Section 9(e) shall not preclude a Participant from designating a beneficiary who will receive any vested outstanding
Stock Grant Awards in the event of the Participant s death, nor shall it preclude a transfer of vested Stock Grant Awards by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.   
    (f) Voting and Dividend Rights. The holder of a Stock Grant awarded under the Plan shall have the same voting,
dividend and other rights as the Company s other shareholders. A Stock Grant Agreement, however, may require that the holder of such Stock Grant invest any cash dividends received in additional Shares subject to the Stock Grant. Such additional
Shares subject to the Stock Grant shall be subject to the same conditions and restrictions as the Stock Grant with respect to which the dividends were paid. Such additional Shares subject to the Stock Grant shall not reduce the number of Shares
available for issuance under Section 5.        (g) Modification or Assumption of Stock Grants. Within
the limitations of the Plan, the Committee may modify or assume outstanding stock grants or may accept the cancellation of outstanding stock grants (including stock granted by another issuer) in return for the grant of new Stock Grants for the same
or a different number of Shares and with the same or different vesting provisions. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence or anything to the contrary herein, the Committee may not modify an outstanding Stock Grant such that the modification shall,
without the consent of the Participant, impair his or her rights or obligations under such Stock Grant, unless such modification is necessary or desirable to comply with any applicable law, regulation or rule.   
     
   -15-   

SECTION 10.   TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF STOCK UNITS  .    
       (a) Stock Unit Agreement. Each grant of Stock Units under the Plan shall be evidenced and governed
exclusively by a Stock Unit Agreement between the Participant and the Company. Such Stock Units shall be subject to all applicable terms and conditions of the Plan and may be subject to any other terms and conditions that are not inconsistent with
the Plan and that the Committee deems appropriate for inclusion in the applicable Stock Unit Agreement (including without limitation any performance conditions). The provisions of the various Stock Unit Agreements entered into under the Plan need
not be identical. Stock Units may be granted in consideration of a reduction in the Participant s other compensation.       
 (b) Number of Shares. Each Stock Unit Agreement shall specify the number of Shares to which the Stock Unit Grant pertains and shall be subject to adjustment of such number in accordance with Section 11.   
    (c) Payment for Stock Units. Stock Units shall be issued without consideration.   
    (d) Vesting Conditions. Each Award of Stock Units may or may not be subject to vesting. Any such vesting
provision may provide that Shares shall vest based on Service over time or shall vest, in full or in installments, upon satisfaction of performance conditions specified in the Stock Unit Agreement which may include Performance Goals pursuant to
Section 4(e). Unless the applicable Stock Unit Agreement provides otherwise, each Stock Unit shall vest with respect to 20% of the Shares subject to the Stock Unit upon completion of each year of Service on each of the first through fifth
annual anniversaries of the vesting commencement date. A Stock Unit Agreement may provide for accelerated vesting in the event of the Participant s death, Disability, or other events.   
    (e) Voting and Dividend Rights. The holders of Stock Units shall have no voting rights. Prior to settlement or
forfeiture, any Stock Unit awarded under the Plan may, at the Committee s discretion, carry with it a right to dividend equivalents. Such right entitles the holder to be credited with an amount equal to all cash dividends paid on one Share
while the Stock Unit is outstanding. Dividend equivalents may be converted into additional Stock Units. Settlement of dividend equivalents may be made in the form of cash, in the form of Shares, or in a combination of both. Prior to distribution,
any dividend equivalents which are not paid shall be subject to the same conditions and restrictions as the Stock Units to which they attach.   
    (f) Form and Time of Settlement of Stock Units. Settlement of vested Stock Units may be made in the form of
(a) cash, (b) Shares or (c) any combination of both, as determined by the Committee at the time of the grant of the Stock Units, in its sole discretion. Methods of converting Stock Units into cash may include (without limitation) a
method based on the average Fair Market Value of Shares over a series of trading days. Vested Stock Units may be settled in a lump sum or in installments. The distribution may occur or commence when the vesting conditions applicable to the Stock
Units have been         
   -16-   

satisfied or have lapsed, or it may be deferred, in accordance with applicable law, to any later date. The amount of a deferred distribution may be increased by an interest factor or by dividend
equivalents. Until an Award of Stock Units is settled, the number of such Stock Units shall be subject to adjustment pursuant to Section 11.   
    (g) Creditors  Rights. A holder of Stock Units shall have no rights other than those of a general
creditor of the Company. Stock Units represent an unfunded and unsecured obligation of the Company, subject to the terms and conditions of the applicable Stock Unit Agreement.   
    (h) Modification or Assumption of Stock Units. Within the limitations of the Plan, the Committee may modify or
assume outstanding stock units or may accept the cancellation of outstanding stock units (including stock units granted by another issuer) in return for the grant of new Stock Units for the same or a different number of Shares and with the same or
different vesting provisions. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence or anything to the contrary herein, the Committee may not modify an outstanding Stock Unit such that the modification shall, without the consent of the Participant, impair his or
her rights or obligations under such Stock Unit, unless such modification is necessary or desirable to comply with any applicable law, regulation or rule.   
    (i) Assignment or Transfer of Stock Units. Except as provided in the applicable Stock Unit Agreement, and then
only to the extent permitted by applicable law, Stock Units shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily, involuntarily or by operation of law. Any
act in violation of this Section 10(i) shall be void. However, this Section 10(i) shall not preclude a Participant from designating a beneficiary who will receive any outstanding vested Stock Units in the event of the Participant s
death, nor shall it preclude a transfer of vested Stock Units by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.   
     SECTION 11.   PROTECTION AGAINST DILUTION  .    
    (a) Adjustments. In the event of a subdivision of the outstanding Shares, a declaration of a dividend payable
in Shares, a declaration of a dividend payable in a form other than Shares in an amount that has a material effect on the price of Shares, a combination or consolidation of the outstanding Shares (by reclassification or otherwise) into a lesser
number of Shares, a recapitalization, a spin-off or a similar occurrence, the Committee shall make appropriate adjustments to the following:   
  (i) the number of Shares and the kind of shares or securities available for future Awards under Section 
     (ii) the limits on Awards specified in Section    
     
   -17-   

(iii) the number of Shares and the kind of shares or securities covered by
each outstanding Award; or      (iv) the Exercise Price under each outstanding SAR or Option.   
    (b) Participant Rights. Except as provided in this Section 11, a Participant shall have no rights by
reason of any issue by the Company of stock of any class or securities convertible into stock of any class, any subdivision or consolidation of shares of stock of any class, the payment of any stock dividend or any other increase or decrease in the
number of shares of stock of any class. If by reason of an adjustment pursuant to this Section 11 a Participant s Award covers additional or different shares of stock or securities, then such additional or different shares and the Award in
respect thereof shall be subject to all of the terms, conditions and restrictions which were applicable to the Award and the Shares subject to the Award prior to such adjustment.   
    (c) Fractional Shares. Any adjustment of Shares pursuant to this Section 11 shall be rounded down to the
nearest whole number of Shares. Under no circumstances shall the Company be required to authorize or issue fractional shares and no consideration shall be provided as a result of any fractional shares not being issued or authorized.   
     SECTION 12.   EFFECT OF A CORPORATE TRANSACTION  .    
    (a) Corporate Transaction. In the event that the Company is a party to a Corporate Transaction, outstanding
Awards shall be subject to the applicable agreement of merger, reorganization, or sale of assets. Such agreement may provide, without limitation, for the assumption or substitution of outstanding Options, SARs, or Stock Units by the surviving
corporation or its parent, for the assumption of outstanding Stock Grant Agreements by the surviving corporation or its parent, for the replacement of outstanding Options, SARs, and Stock Units with a cash incentive program of the surviving
corporation which preserves the spread existing on the unvested portions of such outstanding Awards at the time of the transaction and provides for subsequent payout in accordance with the same vesting provisions applicable to those Awards, for
accelerated vesting of outstanding Awards, or for the cancellation of outstanding Options, SARs, and Stock Units, with or without consideration, in all cases without the consent of the Participant.   
    (b) Acceleration. The Committee may determine, at the time of grant of an Award or thereafter, that such Award
shall become fully vested as to all Shares subject to such Award in the event that a Corporate Transaction or a Change in Control occurs. Unless otherwise provided in the applicable Award agreement, in the event that a Corporate Transaction occurs
and any outstanding Options, SARs or Stock Units are not assumed, substituted, or replaced with a cash incentive program pursuant to Section 12(a) or any outstanding Stock Grant Agreements are not assumed pursuant to Section 12(a), then
such Awards shall fully vest and be fully exercisable immediately prior to such Corporate Transaction. Immediately following the consummation of a Corporate Transaction, all   
     
   -18-   

outstanding Options, SARs and Stock Units shall terminate and cease to be outstanding, except to the extent that they are assumed by the surviving corporation or its parent.   
    (c) Dissolution. To the extent not previously exercised or settled, Options, SARs and Stock Units shall
terminate immediately prior to the dissolution or liquidation of the Company.         SECTION 13.   LIMITATIONS
ON RIGHTS  .         (a) No Entitlements. A Participant s rights, if any, in respect of or
in connection with any Award is derived solely from the discretionary decision of the Company to permit the individual to participate in the Plan and to benefit from a discretionary Award. By accepting an Award under the Plan, a Participant
expressly acknowledges that there is no obligation on the part of the Company to continue the Plan and/or grant any additional Awards. Any Award granted hereunder is not intended to be compensation of a continuing or recurring nature, or part of a
Participant s normal or expected compensation, and in no way represents any portion of a Participant s salary, compensation, or other remuneration for purposes of pension benefits, severance, redundancy, resignation or any other purpose.
     Neither the Plan nor any Award granted under the Plan shall be deemed to give any individual a right to remain an employee,
consultant or director of the Company, a Parent, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate. The Company and its Parents and Subsidiaries and Affiliates reserve the right to terminate the Service of any person at any time, and for any reason, subject to
applicable laws, the Company s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws and a written employment agreement (if any), and such terminated person shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived any claim to damages or specific performance for breach of
contract or dismissal, compensation for loss of office, tort or otherwise with respect to the Plan or any outstanding Award that is forfeited and/or is terminated by its terms or to any future Award.   
    (b) Shareholders  Rights. A Participant shall have no dividend rights, voting rights or other rights as a
shareholder with respect to any Shares covered by his or her Award prior to the issuance of such Shares (as evidenced by an appropriate entry on the books of the Company or a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company). No adjustment shall be
made for cash dividends or other rights for which the record date is prior to the date when such Shares are issued, except as expressly provided in Section 11.   
    (c) Regulatory Requirements. Any other provision of the Plan notwithstanding, the obligation of the Company to
issue Shares or other securities under the Plan shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules and regulations and such approval by any regulatory body as may be required. The Company reserves the right to restrict, in whole or in part, the delivery
of Shares or other securities pursuant to any Award prior to the satisfaction of all legal requirements relating to the issuance of such Shares or other securities, to   
     
   -19-   

their registration, qualification or listing or to an exemption from registration, qualification or listing.   
     SECTION 14.   WITHHOLDING TAXES  .    
    (a) General. A Participant shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Company for the satisfaction of any
withholding tax obligations that arise in connection with his or her Award. The Company shall not be required to issue any Shares or make any cash payment under the Plan until such obligations are satisfied.   
    (b) Share Withholding. If a public market for the Company s Shares exists, the Committee may permit a
Participant to satisfy all or part of his or her withholding or income tax obligations by having the Company withhold all or a portion of any Shares that otherwise would be issued to him or her or by surrendering or attesting to all or a portion of
any Shares that he or she previously acquired. Such Shares shall be valued based on the value of the actual trade or, if there is none, the Fair Market Value as of the previous day. Any payment of taxes by assigning Shares to the Company may be
subject to restrictions, including, but not limited to, any restrictions required by rules of the SEC. The Committee may, in its discretion, also permit a Participant to satisfy withholding or income tax obligations related to an Award through
Cashless Exercise or through a sale of Shares underlying the Award.         SECTION 15.   DURATION AND
AMENDMENTS  .         (a) Term of the Plan. The Plan shall become effective upon its approval by
Company shareholders. The Plan shall terminate at the Company s 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and may be terminated on any earlier date pursuant to this Section 15.   
    (b) Right to Amend or Terminate the Plan. The Board may amend or terminate the Plan at any time and for any
reason. The termination of the Plan, or any amendment thereof, shall not impair the rights or obligations of any Participant under any Award previously granted under the Plan without the Participant s consent, unless such modification is
necessary or desirable to comply with any applicable law, regulation or rule. No Awards shall be granted under the Plan after the Plan s termination. An amendment of the Plan shall be subject to the approval of the Company s shareholders
only to the extent such approval is otherwise required by applicable laws, regulations or rules.         
   -20-   

SECTION 16.   EXECUTION  .    
  To record the adoption of the Plan by the Board, the Company has caused its duly authorized officer to execute this Plan on behalf of the
Company.        

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.    

By:  

Mark Chandler   
 
  Title:  
     
  Senior Vice President, Legal Services, General Counsel and Secretary    
      
   -21-   

(For Grants Prior to September 2008)    
   CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.    
    NOTICE OF GRANT OF STOCK OPTION     
  Notice is hereby given of the following option grant (the  Option ) made to purchase shares of Cisco Systems, Inc. (the  Company )
common stock:      Optionee:

Grant Date:

Type of Option:  
     
             Incentive Stock Option  

Nonstatutory Stock Option  

Grant Number:

Number of Option Shares:

shares   
  Exercise Price: $               per share   
  Vesting Commencement Date:

Expiration Date:

Exercise Schedule     
  The Option shall vest and become exercisable with respect to (i) twenty percent (20%) of the Option Shares upon Optionee s completion of
one (1) year of Service measured from the Vesting Commencement Date and (ii) the balance of the Option Shares in a series of forty-eight (48) successive equal monthly installments upon Optionee s completion of each additional
month of Service over the forty-eight (48)-month period measured from the first annual anniversary of the Vesting Commencement Date. In no event shall the Option vest and become exercisable for any additional Option Shares after Optionee s
cessation of Service.      Should Optionee request a reduction to his or her work commitment to less than thirty (30) hours per week, then
the Committee shall have the right, to extend the period over which the Option shall thereafter vest and become exercisable for the Option Shares during the remainder of the Option term. The decision whether or not to approve Optionee s request
for any reduced work commitment shall be at the sole discretion of the Company. In no event shall any extension of the Exercise Schedule for the Option Shares result in the extension of the Expiration Date of the Option.   
  Optionee understands and agrees that the Option is offered subject to and in accordance with the terms of the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive
Plan (the  Plan ). Optionee further agrees to be bound by the terms of the Plan and the terms of the Option as set forth in the Stock Option Agreement attached hereto.   
    No Employment or Service Contract  . Nothing in this Notice or in the attached Stock Option Agreement or in the Plan shall confer upon
Optionee any right to continue in Service for any period of specific duration or interfere with or otherwise restrict in any way the rights of the Company (or any Parent or Subsidiary employing or retaining Optionee) or of Optionee, which rights are
hereby expressly reserved by each, to terminate Optionee s Service at any time for any reason, with or without cause.   
    Definitions  . All capitalized terms in this Notice shall have the meaning assigned to them in this Notice, the attached Stock Option
Agreement or the Plan.   

STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT     
    Recitals        A. The Board has
adopted the Plan for the purpose of retaining the services of selected Employees, non-employee members of the Board or of the board of directors of any Parent or Subsidiary and Consultants and other independent advisors who provide services to the
Company (or any Parent or Subsidiary).      B. Optionee is to render valuable services to the Company (or a Parent or Subsidiary), and this
Agreement is executed pursuant to, and is intended to carry out the purposes of, the Plan in connection with the Company s grant of an option to Optionee.   
  C. All capitalized terms in this Agreement shall have the meaning assigned to them in this Agreement, the attached Notice of Grant of Stock Option (the
  Notice ), or the Plan.       NOW, THEREFORE , it is hereby agreed as follows:   
   1.    Grant of Option  . The Company hereby grants to Optionee, as of the Grant Date, an option to purchase up to the number of Option
Shares specified in the Notice. The Option Shares shall be purchasable from time to time during the Option term specified in Paragraph 2 at the Exercise Price specified in the Notice.   
   2.    Option Term  . This Option shall have a maximum term of nine (9) years measured from the Grant Date and shall accordingly
expire at the close of business on the Expiration Date, unless sooner terminated in accordance with Paragraph 4, 5 or 6.       3. 
  Non-Transferability  . This Option shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by operation of law.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, should the Optionee die while holding this Option, then this Option shall be transferred in accordance with Optionee s will or the laws of descent and distribution.   
   4.    Dates of Exercise  . This Option shall vest and become exercisable for the Option Shares in one or more installments as specified
in the Notice. As the Option becomes exercisable for such installments, those installments shall accumulate and the Option shall remain exercisable for the accumulated installments until the Expiration Date or sooner termination of the Option term
under Paragraph 5 or 6. As an administrative matter, the exercisable portion of this Option may only be exercised until the close of the Nasdaq Global Select Market on the Expiration Date or the earlier termination date under Paragraph 5 or 6 or, if
such date is not a trading day on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, the last trading day before such date. Any later attempt to exercise this Option will not be honored. For example, if Optionee ceases to remain in Service as provided in Paragraph
5(i) and the date three (3) months from the date of cessation is Monday, July 4 (a holiday on which the Nasdaq Global Select Market is closed), Optionee must exercise the exercisable portion of this Option by 4 pm Eastern Daylight Time on
Friday, July 1.   

5.    Cessation of Service  . The Option term specified in Paragraph 2 shall terminate (and
this Option shall cease to be outstanding) prior to the Expiration Date should any of the following provisions become applicable:   
  (i) Should Optionee cease to remain in Service for any reason (other than death, Disability or Cause) while this Option is outstanding,
then Optionee shall have a period of three (3) months (commencing with the date of such cessation of Service) during which to exercise this Option, but in no event shall this Option be exercisable at any time after the Expiration Date.
     (ii) If Optionee dies while this Option is outstanding, then the personal representative of Optionee s estate or the
person or persons to whom the Option is transferred pursuant to Optionee s will or in accordance with the laws of descent and distribution shall have the right to exercise this Option. Such right shall lapse, and this Option shall cease to be
outstanding, upon the earlier of (A) the expiration of the eighteen (18)- month period measured from the date of Optionee s death or (B) the Expiration Date.   
  (iii) Should Optionee cease Service by reason of Disability while this Option is outstanding, then Optionee shall have a period of
eighteen (18) months (commencing with the date of such cessation of Service) during which to exercise this Option, but in no event shall this Option be exercisable at any time after the Expiration Date.   
  (iv) Optionee s date of cessation of Service shall mean the date upon which Optionee ceases active performance of services for the
Company following the provision of such notification of termination or resignation from Service and shall be determined solely by this Agreement and without reference to any other agreement, written or oral, including Optionee s contract of
employment, and shall not otherwise include any period of notice of termination of employment, whether expressed or implied.   
  (v) During the limited period of post-Service exercisability, this Option may not be exercised in the aggregate for more than the number
of vested Option Shares for which the Option is exercisable at the time of Optionee s cessation of Service. Upon the expiration of such limited exercise period or (if earlier) upon the Expiration Date, this Option shall terminate and cease to
be outstanding for any vested Option Shares for which the Option has not been exercised. However, this Option shall, immediately upon Optionee s cessation of Service for any reason, terminate and cease to be outstanding with respect to any
Option Shares in which Optionee is not otherwise at that time vested or for which this Option is not otherwise at that time exercisable.   
  (vi) Should Optionee s Service be terminated for Cause or should Optionee otherwise engage in activities constituting Cause while
this Option is outstanding, then this Option shall terminate immediately and cease to remain outstanding. In the event Optionee s Service with the Company is suspended pending an investigation of whether Optionee s Service will be
terminated for Cause, all Optionee s rights under the Option, including the right to exercise the Option, shall be suspended during the investigation period.   
     
   2   

6.      Special Acceleration of Option     
  (a) This Option, to the extent outstanding at the time of a Corporate Transaction but not otherwise fully vested and exercisable, shall
automatically accelerate so that this Option shall, immediately prior to the effective date of the Corporate Transaction, become vested and exercisable for all of the Option Shares at the time subject to this Option and may be exercised for any or
all of those Option Shares as fully-vested Shares. No such acceleration of this Option, however, shall occur if and to the extent: (i) this Option is, in connection with the Corporate Transaction, either assumed by the successor corporation (or
parent thereof) or replaced with a comparable option to purchase shares of the capital stock of the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or (ii) this Option is replaced with a cash incentive program of the successor corporation which
preserves the spread existing on the unvested Option Shares at the time of the Corporate Transaction (the excess of the Fair Market Value of those Option Shares over the aggregate Exercise Price payable for such Shares) and provides for subsequent
pay-out in accordance with the same Exercise Schedule set forth in the Notice. The determination of option comparability under clause (i) shall be made by the Committee, and such determination shall be final, binding and conclusive.   
  (b) Immediately following the effective date of the Corporate Transaction, this Option shall terminate and cease to be outstanding,
except to the extent assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) in connection with the Corporate Transaction.   
  (c) If this Option is assumed in connection with a Corporate Transaction, then the Committee shall appropriately adjust the number of
shares and the kind of shares or securities covered by the Option and the Exercise Price immediately after such Corporate Transaction, provided the aggregate Exercise Price shall remain the same.   
  (d) This Option, to the extent outstanding at the time of a Change in Control but not otherwise fully vested and exercisable, shall
automatically accelerate so that this Option shall, immediately prior to the effective date of the Change in Control, become vested and exercisable for all of the Option Shares at the time subject to this Option and may be exercised for any or all
of those Option Shares as fully-vested Shares. This Option shall remain so exercisable until the Expiration Date or sooner termination of the Option term.   
  (e) This Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Company to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital
or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate or sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets.         
   3   

7.    Adjustment in Option Shares  . In the event of a subdivision of the outstanding
Shares, a declaration of a dividend payable in Shares, a declaration of a dividend payable in a form other than Shares in an amount that has a material effect on the price of Shares, a combination or consolidation of the outstanding Shares (by
reclassification or otherwise) into a lesser number of Shares, a recapitalization, a spin-off or a similar occurrence, appropriate adjustments shall be made to (i) the total number and/or kind of shares or securities subject to this Option and
(ii) the Exercise Price in order to reflect such change and thereby preclude a dilution or enlargement of benefits hereunder.       8. 
  Shareholder Rights  . The holder of this Option shall not have any shareholder rights with respect to the Option Shares until such person shall have exercised the Option, paid the Exercise Price and become a holder of record of the
purchased Shares.       9.    Manner of Exercising Option  .   
  (a) In order to exercise this Option with respect to all or any part of the Option Shares for which this Option is at the time
exercisable, Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising the Option) must take the following actions:      (i) Pay the
aggregate Exercise Price for the purchased Shares in one or more of the following forms:      (A) cash or check which, in the
Company s sole discretion, shall be made payable to a Company-designated brokerage firm or the Company;      (B) as
permitted by applicable law, through a special sale and remittance procedure pursuant to which Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising the Option) shall concurrently provide irrevocable written instructions (I) to a
Company-designated brokerage firm (or in the case of an executive officer or Board member of the Company, an Optionee-designated brokerage firm) to effect the immediate sale of the purchased Shares and remit to the Company, out of the sale proceeds
available on the settlement date, sufficient funds to cover the aggregate Exercise Price payable for the purchased Shares plus, if applicable, the amount necessary to satisfy the Company s withholding obligations at the minimum statutory
withholding rates and (II) to the Company to deliver the certificates for the purchased Shares directly to such brokerage firm in order to complete the sale transaction; and   
  (C) a promissory note payable to the Company, but only to the extent authorized by the Committee in accordance with Paragraph 13.
     (ii) Furnish to the Company appropriate documentation that the person or persons exercising the Option (if other than
Optionee) have the right to exercise this Option.      (iii) Make appropriate arrangements with the Company (or Parent or
Subsidiary employing or retaining Optionee) for the satisfaction of all tax withholding requirements applicable to the Option exercise.         
   4   

(b) As soon as practical after the exercise date, the Company shall issue to or on behalf of
Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising this Option) the purchased Option Shares (as evidenced by an appropriate entry on the books of the Company or a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company), subject to the appropriate legends
and/or stop transfer instructions.      (c) In no event may this Option be exercised for any fractional Shares.   
  (d) Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan, this Agreement or any other agreement to the contrary, if at the time this Option
is exercised, Optionee is indebted to the Company (or any Parent or Subsidiary) for any reason, the following actions shall be taken, as deemed appropriate by the Committee:   
  (i) any Shares to be issued upon such exercise shall automatically be pledged against Optionee s outstanding indebtedness; and
     (ii) if this Option is exercised in accordance with subparagraph 9(a)(i)(B) above, the after tax proceeds of the sale of
Optionee s Shares shall automatically be applied to the outstanding balance of Optionee s indebtedness.       10.    Compliance
with Laws and Regulations  .      (a) The exercise of this Option and the issuance of the Option Shares upon such exercise
shall be subject to compliance by the Company and Optionee with all applicable laws, regulations and rules relating thereto, including all applicable regulations of any stock exchange (or the Nasdaq Global Select Market, if applicable) on which the
Shares may be listed for trading at the time of such exercise and issuance.      (b) The inability of the Company to obtain
approval from any regulatory body having authority deemed by the Company to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any Shares pursuant to this Option shall relieve the Company of any liability with respect to the non-issuance or sale of the
Shares as to which such approval shall not have been obtained. The Company, however, shall use its best efforts to obtain all such approvals.   
   11.    Successors and Assigns  . Except to the extent otherwise provided in Paragraphs 3 and 6, the provisions of this Agreement shall
inure to the benefit of, and be binding upon, the Company and its successors and assigns and Optionee, Optionee s assigns and the legal representatives, heirs and legatees of Optionee s estate.   
   12.    Notices  . Any notice required or permitted under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed sufficient
when delivered personally or sent by confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the U.S. mail, as certified or registered mail, with postage prepaid, and addressed to the Company at the Company s
principal corporate offices or to the Optionee at the address maintained for the Optionee in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently modified by written notice to the other party.   
     
   5   

13.    Financing  . The Committee may, in its absolute discretion and without any obligation
to do so, permit Optionee to pay the Exercise Price for the purchased Option Shares by delivering a full-recourse promissory note payable to the Company. The terms of any such promissory note (including the interest rate, the requirements for
collateral and the terms of repayment) shall be established by the Committee in its sole discretion.       14.    Construction  .
The Notice, this Agreement, and the Option evidenced hereby (a) are made and granted pursuant to the Plan and are in all respects limited by and subject to the terms of the Plan, and (b) constitute the entire agreement between Optionee and
the Company on the subject matter hereof and supercede all proposals, written or oral, and all other communications between the parties related to the subject matter. All decisions of the Committee with respect to any question or issue arising under
the Notice, this Agreement or the Plan shall be conclusive and binding on all persons having an interest in this Option.       15. 
  Governing Law  . The interpretation, performance and enforcement of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California without resort to the conflict of laws principles thereof.   
   16.    Excess Shares  . If the Option Shares covered by this Agreement exceed, as of the Grant Date, the number of Shares which may
without shareholder approval be issued under the Plan, then this Option shall be void with respect to those excess shares, unless shareholder approval of an amendment sufficiently increasing the number of Shares issuable under the Plan is obtained
in accordance with the provisions of the Plan and all applicable laws, regulations and rules.       17.    Additional Terms Applicable to
an Incentive Stock Options  . In the event this Option is designated an Incentive Stock Option in the Notice, the following terms and conditions shall also apply to the Option:   
  (a) This Option shall cease to qualify for favorable tax treatment as an Incentive Stock Option if (and to the extent) this Option is
exercised for one or more Option Shares: (A) more than three (3) months after the date Optionee ceases to be an Employee for any reason other than death or Disability or (B) more than twelve (12) months after the date Optionee
ceases to be an Employee by reason of Disability.      (b) Even if this Option is designated as an Incentive Stock Option, if the
Shares subject to this Option (and all other Incentive Stock Options granted to Optionee by the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary, including under other plans of the Company) that first become exercisable in any calendar year have an aggregate
Fair Market Value (determined for each Share as of the date of grant of the option covering such Share) in excess of $100,000, the Shares in excess of $100,000 shall be treated as subject to a Nonstatutory Stock Option in accordance all applicable
laws, regulations and rules.         
   6   

18.    Leave of Absence .  Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, the following
provisions shall apply upon the Optionee s commencement of an authorized leave of absence:      (a) The Exercise Schedule in
effect under the Notice shall be frozen as of the first day of the authorized leave, and this Option shall not become exercisable for any additional installments of the Option Shares during the period Optionee remains on such leave.   
  (b) If the Option is designated as an Incentive Stock Option in the Notice and if the leave of absence continues for more than ninety
(90) days, then this Option shall automatically convert to a Nonstatutory Stock Option at the end of the three (3)-month period measured from the ninety-first (91st) day of such leave, unless the Optionee s right to return to active
work is guaranteed by law or by a contract.      (c) In no event shall this Option become exercisable for any additional Option
Shares or otherwise remain outstanding if Optionee does not resume Service prior to the Expiration Date of the Option term.       19. 
  Further Instruments  . The parties agree to execute such further instruments and to take such further action as may be reasonably necessary to carry out the purposes and intent of this Agreement.   
   20.    Authorization to Release Necessary Personal Information  .   
  (a) Optionee hereby authorizes and directs Optionee s employer to collect, use and transfer in electronic or other form, any personal
information (the  Data ) regarding Optionee s employment, the nature and amount of Optionee s compensation and the fact and conditions of Optionee s participation in the Plan (including, but not limited to, Optionee s
name, home address, telephone number, date of birth, social security number (or any other social or national identification number), salary, nationality, job title, number of Shares held and the details of all options or any other entitlement to
Shares awarded, cancelled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding) for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing Optionee s participation in the Plan. Optionee understands that the Data may be transferred to the Company or any
of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, including any requisite transfer to a broker or other third party assisting with the exercise of Options under the Plan or with
whom Shares acquired upon exercise of this Option or cash from the sale of such shares may be deposited. Optionee acknowledges that recipients of the Data may be located in different countries, and those countries may have data privacy laws and
protections different from those in the country of Optionee s residence. Furthermore, Optionee acknowledges and understands that the transfer of the Data to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties is necessary for
Optionee s participation in the Plan.      (b) Optionee may at any time withdraw the consents herein, by
        
   7   

contacting Optionee s local human resources representative in writing. Optionee further acknowledges that withdrawal of consent may affect Optionee s ability to exercise or realize
benefits from the Option, and Optionee s ability to participate in the Plan.       21.    No Entitlement or Claims for
Compensation  .      (a) Optionee s rights, if any, in respect of or in connection with this Option or any other Award
is derived solely from the discretionary decision of the Company to permit Optionee to participate in the Plan and to benefit from a discretionary Award. By accepting this Option, Optionee expressly acknowledges that there is no obligation on the
part of the Company to continue the Plan and/or grant any additional Awards to Optionee. This Option is not intended to be compensation of a continuing or recurring nature, or part of Optionee s normal or expected compensation, and in no way
represents any portion of a Optionee s salary, compensation, or other remuneration for purposes of pension benefits, severance, redundancy, resignation or any other purpose.   
  (b) Neither the Plan nor this Option or any other Award granted under the Plan shall be deemed to give Optionee a right to remain an
Employee, Consultant or director of the Company, a Parent or a Subsidiary or an Affiliate. The Company and its Parents and Subsidiaries and Affiliates reserve the right to terminate the Service of Optionee at any time, with or without cause, and for
any reason, subject to applicable laws, the Company s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws and a written employment agreement (if any), and Optionee shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived any claim to damages or specific performance for
breach of contract or dismissal, compensation for loss of office, tort or otherwise with respect to the Plan, this Option or any outstanding Award that is forfeited and/or is terminated by its terms or to any future Award.   
  (c) Optionee agrees that the Company may require Options granted hereunder be exercised with, and the Option Shares held by, a broker
designated by the Company. In addition, Optionee agrees that his or her rights hereunder shall be subject to set-off by the Company for any valid debts the Optionee owes to the Company.   
     
   8   

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.    
    NOTICE OF GRANT OF STOCK OPTION     
  Notice is hereby given of the following option grant (the  Option ) made to purchase shares of Cisco Systems, Inc. (the  Company )
common stock:      Optionee:

Grant Date:

Type of
Option: U.S. Nonstatutory Stock Option      Grant Number:

Number of Option Shares:

shares      Exercise Price:
$               per share      First Vest Date:

Expiration Date:

Exercise Schedule  .   So long as
Optionee s Service continues, the Option shall vest and become exercisable with respect to (i)                        percent
(      %) of the option shares, as set forth above (the  Option Shares ) on the First Vest Date as set forth above and (ii) the balance of the Option Shares in
                       installments upon Optionee s completion of each additional
                       of Service over the
                       period measured from the 
                      First Vest Date. In no event shall the Option vest and become exercisable for any additional Option Shares after
Optionee s cessation of Service.      Should Optionee request a reduction to his or her work commitment to less than thirty (30) hours
per week, then the Company shall have the right to extend the period over which the Option shall thereafter vest and become exercisable for the Option Shares during the remainder of the Option term to the extent permitted under local law. In no
event shall any extension of the exercise schedule, as set forth above ( Exercise Schedule ) for the Option Shares result in the extension of the expiration date, as set forth above, ( Expiration Date ) of the Option.   
  Optionee understands and agrees that the Option is offered subject to and in accordance with the terms of the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive
Plan (the  Plan ). Optionee further agrees to be bound by the terms of the Plan and the terms of the Option as set forth in the Stock Option Agreement (the  Agreement ) attached hereto.   
    No Employment or Service Contract  . Nothing in this Notice or in the attached Agreement or in the Plan shall confer upon Optionee any right
to continue in Service for any period of specific duration or interfere with or otherwise restrict in any way the rights of the Company (or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate employing or retaining Optionee) or of Optionee, which rights are hereby
expressly reserved by each, to terminate Optionee s Service at any time for any reason, with or without cause to the extent permissible under local law.   
    Definitions  .   All capitalized terms in this Notice shall have the meaning assigned to them in this Notice, the attached Agreement or
the Plan.   

STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT     
    Recitals        A. The Board has
adopted the Plan for the purpose of retaining the services of selected Employees, non-employee members of the Board and Consultants.      B.
Optionee is to render valuable services to the Company (or a Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate), and this Agreement is executed pursuant to, and is intended to carry out the purposes of, the Plan in connection with the Company s grant of an
option to Optionee.      C. All capitalized terms in this Agreement shall have the meaning assigned to them in this Agreement, the attached Notice
of Grant of Stock Option (the  Notice ), or the Plan.       NOW, THEREFORE , it is hereby agreed as follows:   
   1.    Grant of Option  . The Company hereby grants to Optionee, as of the grant date, as set forth in the Notice, (the  Grant
Date ) an option to purchase up to the number of Option Shares specified in the Notice. The Option Shares shall be purchasable from time to time during the Option term specified in Paragraph 2 at the Exercise Price specified in the Notice.
      2.    Option Term  . This Option shall have a maximum term of
                       years [not to exceed ten (10) years] measured from the Grant Date and shall accordingly expire at the close of
business on the Expiration Date, unless sooner terminated in accordance with Paragraph 4, 5 or 6.       3.
   Non-Transferability  . This Option shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by operation of law.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, should the Optionee die while holding this Option, then this Option shall be transferred in accordance with Optionee s will or the laws of descent and distribution.   
   4.    Dates of Exercise  . This Option shall vest and become exercisable for the Option Shares in one or more installments as specified
in the Notice. As the Option becomes exercisable for such installments, those installments shall accumulate and the Option shall remain exercisable for the accumulated installments until the Expiration Date or sooner termination of the Option term
under Paragraph 5 or 6. As an administrative matter, the exercisable portion of this Option may only be exercised until the close of the Nasdaq Global Select Market on the Expiration Date or the earlier termination date under Paragraph 5 or 6 or, if
such date is not a trading day on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, the last trading day before such date. Any later attempt to exercise this Option will not be honored. For example, if Optionee ceases to remain in Service as provided in Paragraph
5(i) and the date three (3) months from the date of cessation is Monday, July 4 (a holiday on which the Nasdaq Global Select Market is closed), Optionee must exercise the exercisable portion of this Option by 4:00 p.m. Eastern Daylight
Time on Friday, July 1.   

5.    Cessation of Service  . The Option term specified in Paragraph 2 shall terminate (and
this Option shall cease to be outstanding) prior to the Expiration Date should any of the following provisions become applicable:   
  (i) Should Optionee cease to remain in Service for any reason (other than death, Disability or Cause and whether or not in breach of local
labor laws) while this Option is outstanding, then Optionee shall have a period of three (3) months (commencing with the date of such cessation of Service) during which to exercise this Option, but in no event shall this Option be exercisable
at any time after the Expiration Date.      (ii) If Optionee dies while this Option is outstanding, then the Optionee s
designated beneficiary or, if no beneficiary was designated or properly designated or, if no designated beneficiary survives the Optionee, the Optionee s estate (to the extent reasonably determinable) or other individual or entity entitled to
receive the Option under applicable local law shall have the right to exercise this Option. Such right shall lapse, and this Option shall cease to be outstanding, upon the earlier of (A) the expiration of the eighteen (18) month period
measured from the date of Optionee s death or (B) the Expiration Date. Optionee may only make a beneficiary designation with respect to this Option if the Company has approved a process or procedure for such beneficiary designation for the
local jurisdiction within which Optionee performs services for the Company or a Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate. If no such beneficiary designation process or procedure has been approved by the Company, then, in the event of Optionee s death,
this Option may only be exercised by the Optionee s estate (to the extent reasonably determinable) or other individual or entity entitled to receive the Option under applicable local law.   
  (iii) Should Optionee cease Service by reason of Disability while this Option is outstanding, then Optionee shall have a period of
eighteen (18) months (commencing with the date of such cessation of Service) during which to exercise this Option, but in no event shall this Option be exercisable at any time after the Expiration Date.   
  (iv) During the limited period of post-Service exercisability, this Option may not be exercised in the aggregate for more than the number
of vested Option Shares for which the Option is exercisable at the date the Optionee ceases to actively provide Service (not extended by any notice period mandated under local law). Upon the expiration of such limited exercise period or (if earlier)
upon the Expiration Date, this Option shall terminate and cease to be outstanding for any vested Option Shares for which the Option has not been exercised. However, this Option shall, immediately as of the date the Optionee ceases to actively
provide Service for any reason, terminate and cease to be outstanding with respect to any Option Shares in which Optionee is not otherwise at that time vested or for which this Option is not otherwise at that time exercisable.   
  (v) Should Optionee s Service be terminated for Cause or should Optionee otherwise engage in activities constituting Cause while
this Option is         
   2   

outstanding, then this Option shall terminate immediately and cease to remain outstanding. In the event Optionee s Service is suspended pending an investigation of whether Optionee s
Service will be terminated for Cause, all Optionee s rights under the Option, including the right to exercise the Option, shall be suspended during the investigation period.   
  (vi) For purposes of this Paragraph 5, in the event of Optionee s cessation of Service, Optionee s right to receive additional
options or to vest in the Option will end as of the date the Optionee is no longer actively providing Service and will not be extended by any notice period mandated under local law ( e.g ., active Service would not include any period of
 garden leave  or similar period pursuant to local law); the Company shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when an Optionee is no longer actively providing Service for purposes of this Option.   
   6.    Special Acceleration of Option   .    
  (a) This Option, to the extent outstanding at the time of a Corporate Transaction but not otherwise fully vested and exercisable, shall
automatically accelerate so that this Option shall, immediately prior to the effective date of the Corporate Transaction, become vested and exercisable for all of the Option Shares at the time subject to this Option and may be exercised for any or
all of those Option Shares as fully-vested Shares. No such acceleration of this Option, however, shall occur if and to the extent: (i) this Option is, in connection with the Corporate Transaction, either assumed by the successor corporation (or
parent thereof) or replaced with a comparable option to purchase shares of the capital stock of the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or (ii) this Option is replaced with a cash incentive program of the successor corporation which
preserves the spread existing on the unvested Option Shares at the time of the Corporate Transaction (the excess of the Fair Market Value of those Option Shares over the aggregate Exercise Price payable for such Shares) and provides for subsequent
pay-out in accordance with the same Exercise Schedule set forth in the Notice. The determination of option comparability under clause (i) shall be made by the Committee, and such determination shall be final, binding and conclusive.   
  (b) Immediately following the effective date of the Corporate Transaction, this Option shall terminate and cease to be outstanding,
except to the extent assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) in connection with the Corporate Transaction.   
  (c) If this Option is assumed in connection with a Corporate Transaction, then the Committee shall appropriately adjust the number of
shares and the kind of shares or securities covered by the Option and the Exercise Price immediately after such Corporate Transaction, provided the aggregate Exercise Price shall remain the same.   
  (d) This Option, to the extent outstanding at the time of a Change in Control but not otherwise fully vested and exercisable, shall
automatically accelerate so that this Option shall, immediately prior to the effective date of the Change in Control,   
     
   3   

become vested and exercisable for all of the Option Shares at the time subject to this Option and may be exercised for any or all of those Option Shares as fully-vested Shares. This Option shall
remain so exercisable until the Expiration Date or sooner termination of the Option term.      (e) This Agreement shall not in any
way affect the right of the Company to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate or sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets.   
   7.    Adjustment in Option Shares  . In the event of a subdivision of the outstanding Shares, a declaration of a dividend payable in
Shares, a declaration of a dividend payable in a form other than Shares in an amount that has a material effect on the price of Shares, a combination or consolidation of the outstanding Shares (by reclassification or otherwise) into a lesser number
of Shares, a recapitalization, a spin-off or a similar occurrence, appropriate adjustments shall be made to (i) the total number and/or kind of shares or securities subject to this Option and (ii) the Exercise Price in order to reflect
such change and thereby preclude a dilution or enlargement of benefits hereunder.       8.    Shareholder Rights  . The holder of
this Option shall not have any shareholder rights with respect to the Option Shares until such person shall have exercised the Option, paid the Exercise Price and become a holder of record of the purchased Shares.   
   9.    Manner of Exercising Option  .   
  (a) In order to exercise this Option with respect to all or any part of the Option Shares for which this Option is at the time
exercisable, Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising the Option) must take the following actions:      (i) Pay the
aggregate Exercise Price for the purchased Shares in one or more of the following forms:      (A) cash or check which, in the
Company s sole discretion, shall be made payable to a Company-designated brokerage firm or the Company; and      (B) as
permitted by applicable law, through a special sale and remittance procedure pursuant to which Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising the Option) shall concurrently provide irrevocable written instructions (I) to a
Company-designated brokerage firm (or in the case of an executive officer or Board member of the Company, an Optionee-designated brokerage firm) to effect the immediate sale of the purchased Shares and remit to the Company, out of the sale proceeds
available on the settlement date, sufficient funds to cover the aggregate Exercise Price payable for the purchased Shares plus, if applicable, the amount necessary to satisfy the Company s (or a Parent s, Subsidiary s or
Affiliate s) withholding obligations         
   4   

(including income tax, social taxes or insurance contributions, payroll tax, payment on account or other tax items related to Optionee s participation in the Plan and legally applicable to
Optionee ( Tax-Related Items )) and (II) to the Company to deliver the purchased Shares directly to such brokerage firm in order to complete the sale transaction.   
  (ii) Furnish to the Company appropriate documentation that the person or persons exercising the Option (if other than Optionee) have the
right to exercise this Option.      (iii) Make appropriate arrangements with the Company (or a Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate
employing or retaining Optionee) for the satisfaction of all withholding or other obligations related to Tax-Related Items applicable to the Option grant, vesting, exercise or the sale of Shares, as applicable.   
  (b) As soon as practical after the exercise date, the Company shall issue to or on behalf of Optionee (or any other person or persons
exercising this Option) the purchased Option Shares, (as evidenced by an appropriate entry on the books of the Company or a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company), subject to the appropriate legends and/or stop transfer instructions.
     (c) In no event may this Option be exercised for any fractional Shares.   
  (d) Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan, this Agreement or any other agreement to the contrary, if at the time this Option
is exercised, Optionee is indebted to the Company (or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate) for any reason, the following actions shall be taken, as deemed appropriate by the Committee:   
  (i) any Shares to be issued upon such exercise shall automatically be pledged against Optionee s outstanding indebtedness; and
     (ii) if this Option is exercised in accordance with subparagraph 9(a)(i)(B) above, the after tax proceeds of the sale of
Optionee s Shares shall automatically be applied to the outstanding balance of Optionee s indebtedness.       10. 
  Responsibility for Taxes  .      (a) Optionee authorizes the Company and/or the Optionee s employer (the
 Employer ) or their respective agents, at their discretion, to satisfy any obligations related to Tax-Related Items by one or a combination of the following: (1) withholding all applicable Tax-Related Items from Optionee s wages
or other cash compensation paid to Optionee by the Company and/or the Employer; (2) withholding from proceeds of the sale of Shares acquired upon exercise of the Option either through a voluntary sale (specifically including where this Option
is exercised in accordance with subparagraph 9(a)(i)(B) above) or through a mandatory sale arranged by the Company (on Optionee s behalf pursuant to this authorization); or (3) withholding of Shares that would otherwise be issued upon
exercise of the Option. To avoid financial accounting charges under applicable accounting guidance, the Company may withhold or account for Tax-Related   
     
   5   

Items by considering applicable minimum statutory withholding rates or may take any other action required to avoid financial accounting charges under applicable accounting guidance. Finally,
Optionee must pay to the Company or the Employer any amount of Tax-Related Items that the Company or the Employer may be required to withhold or account for as a result of Optionee s participation in the Plan or Optionee s purchase of
Shares that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described. The Company may refuse to honor the exercise and refuse to issue or deliver the Shares or the proceeds of the sale of the Shares if Optionee fails to comply with Optionee s
obligations in connection with the Tax-Related Items as described in this Paragraph.      (b) Regardless of any action the Company
or the Employer takes with respect to any or all Tax-Related Items, Optionee acknowledges that the ultimate liability for all Tax-Related Items is and remains Optionee s responsibility and may exceed the amount actually withheld by the Company
or the Employer. Optionee further acknowledges that the Company and/or the Employer (1) make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax-Related Items in connection with any aspect of the Option, including the grant,
vesting or exercise of the Option, the subsequent sale of Shares acquired pursuant to such exercise and the receipt of any dividends; and (2) do not commit to and are under no obligation to structure the terms of the grant or any aspect of the
Option to reduce or eliminate Optionee s liability for Tax-Related Items or achieve any particular tax result. Further, if Optionee becomes subject to taxation in more than one jurisdiction between the Grant Date and the date of any relevant
taxable event, Optionee acknowledges that the Company and/or the Employer (or former employer, as applicable) may be required to withhold or account for Tax-Related Items in more than one jurisdiction.   
   11.    Compliance with Laws and Regulations  .   
  (a) The exercise of this Option and the issuance of the Option Shares upon such exercise shall be subject to compliance by the Company and
Optionee with all applicable laws, regulations and rules relating thereto, including all applicable regulations of any stock exchange (or the Nasdaq Global Select Market, if applicable) on which the Shares may be listed for trading at the time of
such exercise and issuance and all applicable foreign laws.      (b) The inability of the Company to obtain approval from any
regulatory body having authority deemed by the Company to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any Shares pursuant to this Option shall relieve the Company of any liability with respect to the non-issuance or sale of the Shares as to
which such approval shall not have been obtained.       12.    Successors and Assigns  . Except to the extent otherwise provided in
Paragraphs 3, 5 and 6, the provisions of this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and be binding upon, the Company and its successors and assigns and Optionee, Optionee s assigns and the legal representatives, heirs and legatees of
Optionee s estate.         
   6   

13.    Notices  . Any notice required or permitted under the terms of this Agreement shall
be in writing and shall be deemed sufficient when delivered personally or sent by confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the mail, as certified or registered mail, with postage prepaid, and
addressed to the Company at the Company s principal corporate offices or to the Optionee at the address maintained for the Optionee in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently modified by written notice to the other party.
      14.    Construction  . The Notice, this Agreement, and the Option evidenced hereby (a) are made and granted pursuant to
the Plan and are in all respects limited by and subject to the terms of the Plan, and (b) constitute the entire agreement between Optionee and the Company on the subject matter hereof and supercede all proposals, written or oral, and all other
communications between the parties related to the subject matter. All decisions of the Committee with respect to any question or issue arising under the Notice, this Agreement or the Plan shall be conclusive and binding on all persons having an
interest in this Option. The provisions of this Agreement are severable and if any one or more provisions are determined to be illegal or otherwise unenforceable, in whole or in part, the remaining provisions shall nevertheless be binding and
enforceable.       15.    Governing Law and Forum  . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws
of the State of California without regard to the conflict of laws principles thereof. For purposes of litigating any dispute that may arise directly or indirectly from this Agreement, the parties hereby submit and consent to litigation in the
exclusive jurisdiction of the State of California and agree that any such litigation shall be conducted only in the courts of California or the federal courts for the United States for the Northern District of California and no other courts.
      16.    Excess Shares  . If the Option Shares covered by this Agreement exceed, as of the Grant Date, the number of Shares
which may without shareholder approval be issued under the Plan, then this Option shall be void with respect to those excess shares, unless shareholder approval of an amendment sufficiently increasing the number of Shares issuable under the Plan is
obtained in accordance with the provisions of the Plan and all applicable laws, regulations and rules.       17.    Leave of
Absence  . Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, to the extent permitted by local law, the following provisions shall apply upon the Optionee s commencement of an authorized leave of absence:   
  (a) The Exercise Schedule in effect under the Notice shall be frozen as of the first day of the authorized leave, and this Option shall
not become exercisable for any additional installments of the Option Shares during the period Optionee remains on such leave.   
  (b) In no event shall this Option become exercisable for any additional Option Shares or otherwise remain outstanding if Optionee does
not resume Service prior to the Expiration Date of the Option term.         
   7   

18.    Further Instruments  . The parties agree to execute such further instruments and to
take such further action as may be reasonably necessary to carry out the purposes and intent of this Agreement.       19. 
  Authorization to Release and Transfer Necessary Personal Information  .        (a) Optionee hereby explicitly and
unambiguously consents to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of Optionee s personal information as described in this Agreement by and among, as applicable, the Employer, and the Company and its Parent, Subsidiaries
and Affiliates for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing Optionee s participation in the Plan.     
    (b) Optionee understands that the Company and the Employer may hold certain personal information about Optionee, including, but not
limited to, Optionee s name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number (or any other social or national identification number), salary, nationality, job title, residency status, any Shares or directorships held
in the Company, details of all options or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding (the  Data ) for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Optionee s
participation in the Plan. Optionee understands that Data may be transferred to the Company or any of its Parent, Subsidiaries or Affiliates, or to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, that
these recipients may be located in Optionee s country or elsewhere, including outside the European Economic Area, and that the recipient s country (e.g., the United States) may have different data privacy laws and protections than
Optionee s country. Optionee understands that Optionee may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting Optionee s local human resources representative. Optionee authorizes the
recipients to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the sole purposes of implementing, administering and managing Optionee s participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such
Data to a broker or other third party assisting with the administration of the Option under the Plan or with whom Shares acquired pursuant to these Options or cash from the sale of such Shares may be deposited. Furthermore, you acknowledge and
understand that the transfer of the Data to the Company or any of its Parent, Subsidiaries or Affiliates, or to any third parties is necessary for your participation in the Plan.     
    (c) Optionee understands that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage Optionee s
participation in the Plan. Optionee understands that Optionee may, at any time, view the Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of the Data, require any necessary amendments to the Data or refuse or withdraw the
consents herein by contacting Optionee s local human resources representative in writing. Optionee further acknowledges that withdrawal of consent may affect Optionee s ability to vest in or realize benefits from the Options, and
Optionee s ability to participate in the Plan. For           
   8   

more information on the consequences of Optionee s refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, Optionee understands that Optionee may contact Optionee s local human resources
representative.         20.    No Entitlement or Claims for Compensation  .   
  (a) Optionee s rights, if any, in respect of or in connection with this Option or any other Award are derived solely from the
discretionary decision of the Company to permit Optionee to participate in the Plan and to benefit from a discretionary Award. The Plan may be amended, suspended or terminated by the Company at any time, unless otherwise provided in the Plan and
this Agreement. By accepting this Option, Optionee expressly acknowledges that there is no obligation on the part of the Company to continue the Plan and/or grant any additional Awards to Optionee or benefits in lieu of Options or any other Awards
even if Options have been granted repeatedly in the past. All decisions with respect to future Option grants, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Committee.   
  (b) This Option and the Shares subject to the Option are not intended to replace any pension rights or compensation and are not to be
considered compensation of a continuing or recurring nature, or part of Optionee s normal or expected compensation, and in no way represent any portion of Optionee s salary, compensation or other remuneration for any purpose, including but
not limited to, calculating any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy, dismissal, end of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits or similar payments, and in no event should be considered as
compensation for, or relating in any way to, past services for the Company, the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate. The value of the Option and the Shares subject to the Option are an extraordinary item that do not constitute
compensation of any kind for services of any kind rendered to the Company, the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate and which are outside the scope of Optionee s written employment agreement (if any).   
  (c) Optionee acknowledges that he or she is voluntarily participating in the Plan.   
  (d) Neither the Plan nor this Option or any other Award granted under the Plan shall be deemed to give Optionee a right to remain an
Employee, Consultant or director of the Company, a Parent, Subsidiary or an Affiliate. The Employer reserves the right to terminate the Service of Optionee at any time, with or without cause, and for any reason, subject to applicable laws, the
Company s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws and a written employment agreement (if any).      (e) The grant of the Option
and Optionee s participation in the Plan will not be interpreted to form an employment contract or relationship with the Company, the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate.   
  (f) The future value of the underlying Shares is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty. If the underlying Shares do not increase
in value, the Option         
   9   

will have no value. If Optionee exercises the Option and obtains Shares, the value of the
Shares acquired upon exercise may increase or decrease in value, even below the Exercise Price. Optionee also understands that neither the Company, nor the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate is responsible for any foreign exchange
fluctuation between the Employer s local currency and the United States Dollar that may affect the value of this Option.   
  (g) In consideration of the grant of the Option, no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages shall arise from forfeiture of the
Option resulting from termination of Optionee s Service by the Company or the Employer (for any reason whatsoever and whether or not in breach of local labor laws) and Optionee irrevocably releases the Company and the Employer from any such
claim that may arise; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to have arisen, Optionee shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived Optionee s entitlement to pursue such claim.   
  (h) Optionee agrees that the Company may require Options granted hereunder be exercised with, and the Option Shares held by, a broker
designated by the Company.      (i) Optionee agrees that his or her rights hereunder (if any) shall be subject to set-off by the
Company for any valid debts the Optionee owes to the Company.      (j) The Option and the benefits under the Plan, if any, will
not automatically transfer to another company in the case of a merger, take-over or transfer of liability.       21.    No Advice
Regarding Grant  . The Company and the Employer have not provided any tax, legal or financial advice, nor has the Company or the Employer made any recommendations regarding Optionee s participation in the Plan, or Optionee s
acquisition or sale of the underlying Shares. Optionee is hereby advised to consult with Optionee s own personal tax, legal and financial advisors regarding Optionee s participation in the Plan before taking any action related to the Plan.
      22.    Electronic Delivery  . The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to
Optionee s current or future participation in the Plan by electronic means or to request Optionee s consent to participate in the Plan by electronic means. Optionee hereby consents to receive such documents by electronic delivery and
agrees to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or a third party designated by the Company.   
   23.    Language  . If this Agreement or any other document related to the Plan is translated into a language other then English and the
meaning of the translated version is different from the English version, the English version will take precedence.       24. 
  Appendix  . Notwithstanding any provisions in this Agreement, the Option shall be subject to any special terms and conditions set forth in any Appendix to this   
     
   10   

Agreement for Optionee s country of residence. Moreover, if Optionee relocates to one of the countries included in the Appendix, the special terms and conditions for such country will apply
to Optionee, to the extent the Company determines that the application of such terms and conditions is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local law or facilitate the administration of the Plan. The Appendix constitutes part of this
Agreement.       25.    Imposition of Other Requirements  . The Company reserves the right to impose other requirements on
Optionee s participation in the Plan, on the Option and on any Shares acquired under the Plan, to the extent the Company determines it is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local law or facilitate the administration of the Plan.
Optionee agrees to sign any additional agreements or undertakings that may be necessary to accomplish the foregoing. Furthermore, Optionee acknowledges that the laws of the country in which Optionee is working at the time of grant, vesting and
exercise of the Option or the sale of Shares received pursuant to this Agreement (including any rules or regulations governing securities, foreign exchange, tax, labor, or other matters) may subject Optionee to additional procedural or regulatory
requirements that Optionee is and will be solely responsible for and must fulfill.         
   11   

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.    
    STOCK GRANT AGREEMENT     
  This Stock Grant Agreement (the  Agreement ) is made and entered into as of the Grant Date (as defined below) by and between Cisco Systems,
Inc., a California corporation (the  Company ), and you pursuant to the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). The material terms of this Stock Grant Award are as follows:   

Employee ID:  

Grant Date:  

Grant Number:  

Restricted Shares:  

First Vest Date:  
      
                        , 20       (the first
annual anniversary of the vesting commencement date)       To the extent any capitalized terms used in this Agreement are not defined,
they shall have the meaning ascribed to them in the Plan. In the event of a conflict between the terms and provisions of the Plan and the terms and provisions of this Agreement, the Plan terms and provisions shall prevail.   
  In consideration of the mutual agreements herein contained and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties agree as follows:   
   1.    Restricted Shares  . Pursuant to the Plan, the Company hereby transfers to you, and you hereby accept from the Company, a Stock
Grant Award consisting of the Restricted Shares, on the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Plan.       2.    Vesting of
Restricted Shares  . So long as your Service continues, the Restricted Shares shall vest in accordance with the following schedule:
                       percent (      %) of the total number of Restricted Shares issued pursuant to this Agreement
shall vest on the First Vest Date and on each annual anniversary thereafter, unless otherwise provided by the Plan or Section 3 below. In the event of the termination of your Service for any reason, all unvested Restricted Shares shall be
immediately forfeited without consideration. For purposes of facilitating the enforcement of the provisions of this Section 2, the Company may issue stop-transfer instructions on the Restricted Shares to the Company s transfer agent, or
otherwise hold the Restricted Shares in escrow, until the Restricted Shares have vested and you have satisfied all applicable obligations with respect to the Restricted Shares, including any applicable tax withholding obligations set forth in
Section 5 below. Any new, substituted or additional securities or other property which is issued or distributed with respect to the unvested Restricted Shares shall be subject to the same terms and conditions as are applicable to the unvested
Restricted Shares under this Agreement and the Plan.       3.    Special Acceleration   .    
  (a) To the extent the Restricted Shares are outstanding at the time of a Corporate Transaction, but not otherwise fully vested, such
Restricted Shares shall automatically accelerate immediately prior to the effective date of the Corporate Transaction and shall become vested in full at that time. No such acceleration, however, shall occur if   

and to the extent: (i) this Stock Grant Agreement is, in connection with the Corporate
Transaction, assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof), or (ii) the Restricted Shares are replaced with a cash incentive program of the successor corporation which preserves the Fair Market Value of the Restricted Shares at the time
of the Corporate Transaction and provides for subsequent pay-out in accordance with the vesting schedule set forth in Section 2 above.   
  (b) Immediately following the effective date of the Corporate Transaction, this Stock Grant Agreement shall terminate and cease to be
outstanding, except to the extent assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) in connection with the Corporate Transaction.   
  (c) If this Stock Grant Agreement is assumed in connection with a Corporate Transaction, then the Committee shall appropriately adjust
the number of shares and the kind of shares or securities covered by this Stock Grant Agreement immediately after such Corporate Transaction.   
  (d) To the extent the Restricted Shares are outstanding at the time of a Change in Control but not otherwise fully vested, such
Restricted Shares shall automatically accelerate immediately prior to the effective date of the Change in Control and shall become vested in full at that time.   
  (e) This Stock Grant Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Company to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change
its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate, sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets.   
   4.    Restriction on Election to Recognize Income in the Year of Grant  . Under Section 83 of the Code, the Fair Market Value of the
Restricted Shares on the date the Restricted Shares vest will be taxable as ordinary income at that time. You understand, acknowledge and agree that, as a condition to the grant of this Award, you may not elect to be taxed at the time the Restricted
Shares are acquired by filing an election under Section 83(b) of the Code with the Internal Revenue Service.       5.    Withholding
Taxes  . You agree to make arrangements satisfactory to the Company for the satisfaction of any applicable withholding tax obligations that arise in connection with the Restricted Shares which, at the sole discretion of the Company, may
include (i) having the Company withhold Shares from the Restricted Shares held in escrow, or (ii) any other arrangement approved by the Company, in any case, equal in value to the amount necessary to satisfy any such withholding tax obligation. Such
Shares shall be valued based on the Fair Market Value as of the day prior to the date that the amount of tax to be withheld is to be determined under applicable law. The Company shall not be required to release the Restricted Shares from the
stop-transfer instructions or escrow unless and until such obligations are satisfied.       6.    Tax Advice  . You represent,
warrant and acknowledge that the Company has made no warranties or representations to you with respect to the income tax consequences of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and you are in no manner relying on the Company or the
Company s representatives for an assessment of such tax consequences.         
   2   

YOU UNDERSTAND THAT THE TAX LAWS AND REGULATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGE. YOU SHOULD CONSULT YOUR OWN TAX
ADVISOR REGARDING ANY STOCK GRANT AWARD. NOTHING STATED HEREIN IS INTENDED OR WRITTEN TO BE USED, AND CANNOT BE USED, FOR THE PURPOSE OF AVOIDING TAXPAYER PENALTIES.   
   7.    Non-Transferability of Restricted Shares  . Restricted Shares which have not vested pursuant to Section 2 above shall not be
anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by the operation of law. However, this Section 7 shall not preclude you from designating a
beneficiary who will receive any vested Restricted Shares in the event of the your death, nor shall it preclude a transfer of vested Restricted Shares by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.   
   8.    Restriction on Transfer  . Regardless of whether the transfer or issuance of the Restricted Shares has been registered under the
Securities Act or has been registered or qualified under the securities laws of any state, the Company may impose additional restrictions upon the sale, pledge, or other transfer of the Restricted Shares (including the placement of appropriate
legends on stock certificates and the issuance of stop-transfer instructions to the Company s transfer agent) if, in the judgment of the Company and the Company s counsel, such restrictions are necessary in order to achieve compliance with
the provisions of the Securities Act, the securities laws of any state, or any other law.       9.    Stock Certificate Restrictive
Legends   .  Stock certificates evidencing the Restricted Shares may bear such restrictive legends as the Company and the Company s counsel deem necessary under applicable law or pursuant to this Agreement.   
   10.    Representations, Warranties, Covenants, and Acknowledgments  . You hereby agree that in the event the Company and the
Company s counsel deem it necessary or advisable in the exercise of their discretion, the transfer or issuance of the Restricted Shares may be conditioned upon you making certain representations, warranties, and acknowledgments relating to
compliance with applicable securities laws.       11.    Voting and Other Rights  . Subject to the terms of this Agreement, you
shall have all the rights and privileges of a shareholder of the Company while the Restricted Shares are subject to stop-transfer instructions, or otherwise held in escrow, including the right to vote and to receive dividends (if any).   
   12.    Authorization to Release Necessary Personal Information  .   
  (a) You hereby authorize and direct your employer to collect, use and transfer in electronic or other form, any personal information (the
 Data ) regarding your employment, the nature and amount of your compensation and the facts and conditions of your participation in the Plan (including, but not limited to, your name, home address, telephone number, date of birth, social
security number (or any other social or national identification number), salary, nationality, job title, number of Shares held and the details of all Awards or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, cancelled, exercised, vested, unvested or
outstanding) for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. You understand that the Data may be transferred to the Company or   
     
   3   

any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, including any requisite transfer to a broker or other third party
assisting with the administration of this Stock Grant Award under the Plan or with whom Shares acquired pursuant to this Stock Grant Award or cash from the sale of such shares may be deposited. You acknowledge that recipients of the Data may be
located in different countries, and those countries may have data privacy laws and protections different from those in the country of your residence. Furthermore, you acknowledge and understand that the transfer of the Data to the Company or any of
its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties is necessary for your participation in the Plan.      (b) You may at any time withdraw
the consents herein by contacting your local human resources representative in writing. You further acknowledge that withdrawal of consent may affect your ability to exercise or realize benefits from this Stock Grant Award, and your ability to
participate in the Plan.       13.    No Entitlement or Claims for Compensation  .   
  (a) Your rights, if any, in respect of or in connection with this Stock Grant Award or any other Award is derived solely from the
discretionary decision of the Company to permit you to participate in the Plan and to benefit from a discretionary Award. By accepting this Stock Grant Award, you expressly acknowledge that there is no obligation on the part of the Company to
continue the Plan and/or grant any additional Awards to you. This Stock Grant Award is not intended to be compensation of a continuing or recurring nature, or part of your normal or expected compensation, and in no way represents any portion of a
your salary, compensation, or other remuneration for purposes of pension benefits, severance, redundancy, resignation or any other purpose.   
  (b) Neither the Plan nor this Stock Grant Award or any other Award granted under the Plan shall be deemed to give you a right to remain
an Employee, Consultant or director of the Company, a Parent, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate. The Company and its Parents and Subsidiaries and Affiliates reserve the right to terminate your Service at any time, with or without cause, and for any
reason, subject to applicable laws, the Company s Articles   of Incorporation   and Bylaws and a written employment agreement (if any), and you shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived any claim to damages or specific performance
for breach of contract or dismissal, compensation for loss of office, tort or otherwise with respect to the Plan, this Stock Grant Award or any outstanding Award that is forfeited and/or is terminated by its terms or to any future Award.   
  (c) You agree that the Company may require that Restricted Shares be held by a broker designated by the Company. In addition, you agree
that your rights hereunder shall be subject to set-off by the Company for any valid debts you owe the Company.       14.    Governing
Law  . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California without regard to the conflict of laws principles thereof.   
   15.    Notices  . Any notice required or permitted under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed sufficient
when delivered personally or sent by         
   4   

confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the U.S. mail, as certified or registered mail, with postage prepaid, and addressed to the Company at the
Company s principal corporate offices or to you at the address maintained for you in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently modified by written notice to the other party.   
   16.    Binding Effect  . Subject to the limitations set forth in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be binding upon, and inure to the
benefit of, the executors, administrators, heirs, legal representatives, successors, and assigns of the parties hereto.       17. 
  Severability  . If any provision of this Agreement is held to be unenforceable for any reason, it shall be adjusted rather than voided, if possible, in order to achieve the intent of the parties to the extent possible. In any event, all
other provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed valid and enforceable to the full extent possible.         
   5   

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.    
    STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT     
  This Stock Unit Agreement (the  Agreement ) is made and entered into as of the Grant Date (as defined below) by and between
Cisco Systems, Inc., a California corporation (the  Company ), and you pursuant to the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). The material terms of this Stock Unit Award are as follows:   

Employee ID:  

Grant Date:  

Grant Number:  

Restricted Stock Units:  

First Vest Date:    

To the extent any capitalized terms used in this Agreement are not defined, they shall have the
meaning ascribed to them in the Plan. In the event of a conflict between the terms and provisions of the Plan and the terms and provisions of this Agreement, the Plan terms and provisions shall prevail.   
  In consideration of the mutual agreements herein contained and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties agree as follows:
     1.   Restricted Stock Units  . Pursuant to the Plan, the Company hereby grants to you, and you hereby accept from
the Company, Restricted Stock Units, each of which is a bookkeeping entry representing the equivalent in value of one (1) Share, on the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Plan.   
  2.   Vesting of Restricted Stock Units  . So long as your Service continues, the Restricted Stock Units shall vest in
accordance with the following schedule:                    (      %) of the total number of Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to
this Agreement shall vest on the First Vest Date and on each            anniversary thereafter, unless otherwise provided by the Plan or Section 4 below. If you take a leave of absence, the Company
may, at its discretion, suspend vesting during the period of leave to the extent permitted under applicable local law. Prior to the time that the Restricted Stock Units are settled, you shall have no rights other than those of a general creditor of
the Company. The Restricted Stock Units represent an unfunded and unsecured obligation of the Company.      3.   Termination
of Service  . In the event of the termination of your Service for any reason (whether or not in breach of local labor laws), all unvested Restricted Stock Units shall be immediately forfeited without consideration. For purposes of the
preceding sentence, your right to vest in the Restricted Stock Units will terminate effective as of the date that you are no longer   

actively providing Service and will not be extended by any notice period mandated under local law ( e.g. , active Service would not include a period of  garden leave  or similar
period pursuant to local law); the Company shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when you are no longer actively providing Service for purposes of the Restricted Stock Units.   
  4.   Special Acceleration  .   
  (a) To the extent the Restricted Stock Units are outstanding at the time of a Corporate Transaction, such Restricted Stock Units shall
automatically become vested in full immediately prior to the effective date of the Corporate Transaction. No such accelerated vesting, however, shall occur if and to the extent: (i) these Restricted Stock Units are, in connection with the
Corporate Transaction, either assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or replaced with comparable restricted stock units of the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or (ii) these Restricted Stock Units are replaced with a
cash incentive program of the successor corporation which complies with Code Section 409A and preserves the fair market value of the Restricted Stock Units at the time of the Corporate Transaction and provides for subsequent pay-out in
accordance with the settlement provisions set forth in Section 5 below. The determination of the comparability of restricted stock units under clause (i) shall be made by the Committee, and such determination shall be final, binding and
conclusive.      (b) Immediately following the effective date of the Corporate Transaction, this Agreement shall terminate and
cease to be outstanding, except as set forth in Section 5 below with respect to the deferred settlement of Restricted Stock Units or to the extent assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) in connection with the Corporate
Transaction.      (c) If this Agreement is assumed in connection with a Corporate Transaction, then the Committee shall
appropriately adjust the number of units and the kind of shares or securities to be issued pursuant to this Agreement immediately after such Corporate Transaction.   
  (d) To the extent the Restricted Stock Units are outstanding at the time of a Change in Control, such Restricted Stock Units shall
automatically accelerate immediately prior to the effective date of the Change in Control and shall become vested in full at that time and settled in accordance with Section 5 below.   
  (e) This Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Company to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital
or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate, sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets.   
  5.   Settlement of Restricted Stock Units  . To the extent you are eligible but have not elected to defer settlement of the
Restricted Stock Units, the Restricted Stock Units shall be automatically settled in Shares upon vesting of such Restricted Stock Units, provided that the Company shall have no obligation to issue Shares pursuant to this Agreement unless and until
you have satisfied any applicable tax and/or other obligations pursuant to Section 6 below and such issuance otherwise complies with all applicable law. To the extent you are eligible but have elected to defer settlement of the Restricted Stock
Units, the vested portion of the Restricted Stock Units shall be settled in Shares upon the earlier of: (a) your separation from service within the meaning of Code Section 409A ( Separation from Service ) and (b) the fixed
payment date elected by you, if any, at the time of such deferral (which shall be the first business day of a year no earlier than five years   
     
   2   

after the year of the Grant Date in accordance with procedures approved by the Committee), provided that the Company shall have no obligation to issue Shares pursuant to this Agreement unless
such issuance complies with all applicable law. Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the extent your Restricted Stock Units would otherwise be settled upon your Separation from Service, such settlement shall instead occur upon the Company s first
business day following the six-month anniversary of your Separation from Service.      6.   Taxes  .   
  (a) Regardless of any action the Company or your employer (the  Employer ) takes with respect to any and all income tax, social
taxes or insurance contributions, payroll tax, payment on account or other tax-related items related to your participation in the Plan and legally applicable to you ( Tax-Related Items ), you acknowledge that the ultimate liability for all
Tax-Related Items with respect to the Restricted Stock Units is and remains your responsibility and may exceed the amount actually withheld by the Company or the Employer. You further acknowledge that the Company and/or the Employer (i) make no
representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax-Related Items in connection with any aspect of the Restricted Stock Units, including the grant, vesting or settlement of the Restricted Stock Units, or the subsequent sale of any
Shares acquired at vesting or the receipt of any dividends with respect to such Shares; and (ii) do not commit to and are under no obligation to structure the terms or any aspect of the Restricted Stock Units to reduce or eliminate your
liability for Tax-Related Items or achieve any particular tax result. Further, if you become subject to taxation in more than one jurisdiction between the Grant Date and the date of any relevant taxable event, you acknowledge that the Company and/or
the Employer (or former employer, as applicable) may be required to withhold or account for Tax-Related Items in more than one jurisdiction.   
  (b) Prior to any relevant tax, withholding or required deduction event, as applicable, you agree to make arrangements satisfactory to the
Company for the satisfaction of any applicable tax, withholding, required deduction and payment on account obligations of the Company and/or the Employer that arise in connection with the Restricted Stock Units. In this regard, you authorize the
Company and/or the Employer, or their respective agents, at their discretion, to satisfy any obligations related to Tax-Related Items by one or a combination of the following: (1) withholding from your wages or other cash compensation payable
to you by the Company or the Employer; (2) withholding from proceeds of the sale of Shares acquired upon settlement of the Restricted Stock Units either through a voluntary sale or through a mandatory sale arranged by the Company (on your
behalf pursuant to this authorization); (3) withholding of Shares that would otherwise be issued upon settlement of the Restricted Stock Units; or (4) requiring you to satisfy the liability for Tax-Related Items by means of any other
arrangement approved by the Company. If the obligation for Tax-Related Items is satisfied by withholding of Shares, for tax purposes, you are deemed to have been issued the full number of Shares subject to the vested Restricted Stock Units,
notwithstanding that a number of the Shares are held back solely for the purpose of paying the Tax-Related Items due as a result of any aspect of your participation in the Plan. To avoid financial accounting charges under applicable accounting
guidance, the Company may withhold or account for Tax-Related Items by considering applicable minimum statutory rates or may take any other action required to avoid financial accounting charges under applicable accounting guidance.   
     
   3   

(c) Finally, you will pay to the Company or the Employer any amount of Tax-Related Items
that the Company or the Employer may be required to withhold or account for as a result of your participation in the Plan or your acquisition of Shares that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described. The Company shall not be required to
issue or deliver Shares pursuant to this Agreement unless and until such obligations are satisfied.      7.   Tax and Legal
Advice  . You represent, warrant and acknowledge that neither the Company nor your Employer have made any warranties or representations to you with respect to any Tax-Related Items, legal or financial consequences of the transactions
contemplated by this Agreement, and you are in no manner relying on the Company, your Employer s or the Company s or the Employer s representatives for an assessment of such consequences. YOU UNDERSTAND THAT THE LAWS GOVERNING THIS
AWARD ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGE. YOU SHOULD CONSULT YOUR OWN PROFESSIONAL TAX, LEGAL AND FINANCIAL ADVISOR REGARDING ANY RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS. YOU UNDERSTAND THAT THE COMPANY AND YOUR EMPLOYER ARE NOT PROVIDING ANY TAX, LEGAL, OR FINANCIAL ADVICE, NOR
IS THE COMPANY OR YOUR EMPLOYER MAKING ANY RECOMMENDATION REGARDING YOUR ACCEPTANCE OF THIS AWARD. NOTHING STATED HEREIN IS INTENDED OR WRITTEN TO BE USED, AND CANNOT BE USED, FOR THE PURPOSE OF AVOIDING TAXPAYER OR OTHER PENALTIES.   
  8.   Non-Transferability of Restricted Stock Units  . Restricted Stock Units shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached,
garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by operation of law.   
  9.   Restriction on Transfer  . Regardless of whether the transfer or issuance of the Shares to be issued pursuant to the
Restricted Stock Units has been registered under the Securities Act or has been registered or qualified under the securities laws of any state, the Company may impose additional restrictions upon the sale, pledge, or other transfer of the Shares
(including the placement of appropriate legends on stock certificates and the issuance of stop-transfer instructions to the Company s transfer agent) if, in the judgment of the Company and the Company s counsel, such restrictions are
necessary in order to achieve compliance with the provisions of the Securities Act, the securities laws of any state, or any other law including all applicable foreign laws.   
  10.   Restrictive Legends and Stop-Transfer Instructions  . Stock certificates evidencing the Shares issued pursuant to the
Restricted Stock Units may bear such restrictive legends and/or appropriate stop-transfer instructions may be issued to the Company s transfer agent as the Company and the Company s counsel deem necessary under applicable law or pursuant
to this Agreement.      11.   Representations, Warranties, Covenants, and Acknowledgments  . You hereby agree that in
the event the Company and the Company s counsel deem it necessary or advisable in the exercise of their discretion, the transfer or issuance of the Shares issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units may be conditioned upon you making certain
representations, warranties, and acknowledgments relating to compliance with applicable laws.         
   4   

12.   Voting and Other Rights  . Subject to the terms of this Agreement, you shall
not have any voting rights or any other rights and privileges of a stockholder of the Company unless and until the Restricted Stock Units are settled in Shares. In addition, you shall not have any rights to dividend equivalent payments with respect
to Restricted Stock Units.      13.   Authorization to Release and Transfer Necessary Personal Information  .
     (a)   You hereby explicitly and unambiguously consent to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of
your personal information as described in this Agreement by and among, as applicable, the Employer, and the Company and its Parent, Subsidiaries and Affiliates for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation
in the Plan.        (b)   You understand that the Company and the Employer may hold certain personal information about
you, including, but not limited to, your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number (or any other social or national identification number), salary, nationality, job title, residency status, any Shares or
directorships held in the Company, details of all Restricted Stock Units or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding (the  Data ) for the purpose of implementing, administering and
managing your participation in the Plan. You understand that Data may be transferred to the Company or any of its Parent, Subsidiaries or Affiliates, or to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan,
that these recipients may be located in your country or elsewhere, including outside the European Economic Area, and that the recipient s country (e.g., the United States) may have different data privacy laws and protections than your country.
You understand that you may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting your local human resources representative. You authorize the recipients to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the
Data, in electronic or other form, for the sole purposes of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data to a broker or other third party assisting with the administration of
these Restricted Stock Units under the Plan or with whom Shares acquired pursuant to these Restricted Stock Units or cash from the sale of such Shares may be deposited. Furthermore, you acknowledge and understand that the transfer of the Data to the
Company or any of its Parent, Subsidiaries or Affiliates, or to any third parties is necessary for your participation in the Plan.     
  (c)   You understand that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage your participation in
the Plan. You understand that you may, at any time, view the Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of the Data, require any necessary amendments to the Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein by contacting your
local human resources representative in writing. You further acknowledge that withdrawal of consent may affect your ability to vest in or realize benefits from these Restricted Stock Units, and your ability to participate in the Plan. For more
information on the consequences of your refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, you understand that you may contact your local human resources representative.     
  14.   No Entitlement or Claims for Compensation  .   
     
   5   

(a) Your rights, if any, in respect of or in connection with these Restricted Stock Units or
any other Award are derived solely from the discretionary decision of the Company to permit you to participate in the Plan and to benefit from a discretionary Award. The Plan may be amended, suspended or terminated by the Company at any time, unless
otherwise provided in the Plan and this Agreement. By accepting these Restricted Stock Units, you expressly acknowledge that there is no obligation on the part of the Company to continue the Plan and/or grant any additional Restricted Stock Units to
you or benefits in lieu of Restricted Stock Units, even if Restricted Stock Units have been granted repeatedly in the past. All decisions with respect to future grants of Restricted Stock Units, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the
Committee.      (b) The Restricted Stock Units and the Shares subject to the Restricted Stock Units are not intended to replace
any pension rights or compensation and are not to be considered compensation of a continuing or recurring nature, or part of your normal or expected compensation, and in no way represent any portion of your salary, compensation or other remuneration
for any purpose, including but not limited to, calculating any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy, dismissal, end of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits or similar payments, and in no event
should be considered as compensation for, or relating in any way to, past services for the Company, the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate. The value of the Restricted Stock Units is an extraordinary item that does not constitute
compensation of any kind for services of any kind rendered to the Company, the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate and which is outside the scope of your written employment agreement (if any).   
  (c) You acknowledge that you are voluntarily participating in the Plan.   
  (d) Neither the Plan nor these Restricted Stock Units or any other Award granted under the Plan shall be deemed to give you a right to
remain an Employee, Consultant or director of the Company, a Parent, Subsidiary or an Affiliate. The Employer reserves the right to terminate your Service at any time, with or without cause, and for any reason, subject to applicable laws, the
Company s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws, and a written employment agreement (if any).      (e) The grant of the
Restricted Stock Units and your participation in the Plan will not be interpreted to form an employment contract or relationship with the Company, the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate.   
  (f) The future value of the underlying Shares is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty and if you vest in the Restricted Stock
Units and are issued Shares, the value of those Shares may increase or decrease. You also understand that neither the Company, nor the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate is responsible for any foreign exchange fluctuation between your
Employer s local currency and the United States Dollar that may affect the value of this Award.      (g) In consideration of
the grant of the Restricted Stock Units, no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages shall arise from forfeiture of the Restricted Stock Units   
     
   6   

resulting from termination of your Service by the Company or the Employer (for any reason whatsoever and whether or not in breach of local labor laws) and you irrevocably release the Company and
the Employer from any such claim that may arise; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to have arisen, you shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived your entitlement to pursue such claim.
     (h) You agree that the Company may require Shares received pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units to be held by a broker
designated by the Company.      (i) You agree that your rights hereunder (if any) shall be subject to set-off by the Company for
any valid debts you owe the Company.      (j) The Restricted Stock Units and the benefits under the Plan, if any, will not
automatically transfer to another company in the case of a merger, take-over or transfer of liability.      15.   Governing
Law and Forum  . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California without regard to the conflict of laws principles thereof. For purposes of litigating any dispute that may arise directly
or indirectly from this Agreement, the parties hereby submit and consent to litigation in the exclusive jurisdiction of the State of California and agree that any such litigation shall be conducted only in the courts of California or the federal
courts for the United States for the Northern District of California and no other courts.      16.   Notices  . Any
notice required or permitted under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed sufficient when delivered personally or sent by confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the
mail, as certified or registered mail, with postage prepaid, and addressed to the Company at the Company s principal corporate offices or to you at the address maintained for you in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently
modified by written notice to the other party.      17.   Binding Effect  . Subject to the limitations set forth in this
Agreement, this Agreement shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the executors, administrators, heirs, legal representatives, successors, and assigns of the parties hereto.   
  18.   Severability  . If any provision of this Agreement is held to be unenforceable for any reason, it shall be adjusted
rather than voided, if possible, in order to achieve the intent of the parties to the extent possible. In any event, all other provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed valid and enforceable to the full extent possible.   
  19.   Electronic Delivery  . The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to your current
or future participation in the Plan by electronic means or to request your consent to participate in the Plan by electronic means. You hereby consent to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agree to participate in the Plan through an
on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or a third party designated by the Company.         
   7   

20.   Language  . If this Agreement or any other document related to the Plan is
translated into a language other than English and the meaning of the translated version is different from the English version, the English version will take precedence.   
  21.   Appendix  . Notwithstanding any provisions in this Agreement, the Restricted Stock Units shall be subject to any special
terms and conditions set forth in any Appendix to this Agreement for your country of residence. Moreover, if you relocate to one of the countries included in the Appendix, the special terms and conditions for such country will apply to you, to the
extent the Company determines that the application of such terms and conditions is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local law or facilitate the administration of the Plan. The Appendix constitutes part of this Agreement.   
  22.   Imposition of Other Requirements  .   The Company reserves the right to impose other requirements on your
participation in the Plan, on the Restricted Stock Units and on any Shares acquired under the Plan, to the extent the Company determines it is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local law or facilitate the administration of the Plan. You
agree to sign any additional agreements or undertakings that may be necessary to accomplish the foregoing. Furthermore, you acknowledge that the laws of the country in which you are working at the time of grant, vesting and settlement of the
Restricted Stock Units or the sale of Shares received pursuant to this Agreement (including any rules or regulations governing securities, foreign exchange, tax, labor, or other matters) may subject you to additional procedural or regulatory
requirements that you are and will be solely responsible for and must fulfill.      23.   Acceptance of Agreement  . You
must expressly accept the terms and conditions of your Restricted Stock Units as set forth in this Agreement by electronically accepting this Agreement within 300 days after the Company sends this Agreement to you. If you do not accept your
Restricted Stock Units in the manner instructed by the Company, your Restricted Stock Units will be subject to cancellation.   
  *    *    *    *   
  You acknowledge that by clicking on the   I agree   button below, you agree to be bound by the terms of this Agreement.
      PLEASE PRINT AND KEEP A COPY FOR YOUR RECORDS    
     
   8   

(For Grants Prior to September 2010)    
   CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.    
    STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT     
  This Stock Unit Agreement (the  Agreement ) is made and entered into as of the Grant Date (as defined below) by and between Cisco Systems,
Inc., a California corporation (the  Company ), and you pursuant to the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). The material terms of this Stock Unit Award are as follows:   

Employee ID:                      

Grant Date:                      

Grant Number:                      

Restricted Stock
Units:                                         

First Vest Date:                    

To the extent any capitalized terms used in this Agreement are not defined, they shall have the meaning ascribed to them
in the Plan. In the event of a conflict between the terms and provisions of the Plan and the terms and provisions of this Agreement, the Plan terms and provisions shall prevail.   
  In consideration of the mutual agreements herein contained and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties agree as follows:   
   1.    Restricted Stock Units  . Pursuant to the Plan, the Company hereby grants to you, and you hereby accept from the Company, Restricted
Stock Units, each of which is a bookkeeping entry representing the equivalent in value of one (1) Share, on the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Plan.   
   2.    Vesting of Restricted Stock Units  . So long as your Service continues, the Restricted Stock Units shall vest in accordance with
the following schedule:                        percent (      %) of the total number of Restricted Stock Units
granted pursuant to this Agreement shall vest on the First Vest Date and on each                        anniversary thereafter, unless otherwise
provided by the Plan or Section 4 below. If you take a leave of absence, the Company may, at its discretion, suspend vesting during the period of leave to the extent permitted under applicable local law. Prior to the time that the Restricted
Stock Units are settled upon vesting, you shall have no rights other than those of a general creditor of the Company. The Restricted Stock Units represent an unfunded and unsecured obligation of the Company.   
   3.    Termination of Service  . In the event of the termination of your Service for any reason (whether or not in breach of local labor
laws), all unvested Restricted Stock Units shall be immediately forfeited without consideration. For purposes of the preceding sentence, your right to vest in the Restricted Stock Units will terminate effective as of the date that you are no longer

actively providing Service and will not be extended by any notice period mandated under local law ( e.g. , active Service would not include a period of  garden leave  or similar
period pursuant to local law); the Company shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when you are no longer actively providing Service for purposes of the Restricted Stock Units.   
   4.    Special Acceleration  .   
  (a) To the extent the Restricted Stock Units are outstanding at the time of a Corporate Transaction, such Restricted Stock Units shall
automatically accelerate immediately prior to the effective date of the Corporate Transaction and shall become vested in full at that time. No such acceleration, however, shall occur if and to the extent: (i) these Restricted Stock Units are,
in connection with the Corporate Transaction, either assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or replaced with comparable restricted stock units of the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or (ii) these Restricted Stock
Units are replaced with a cash incentive program of the successor corporation which preserves the fair market value of the Restricted Stock Units at the time of the Corporate Transaction and provides for subsequent pay-out in accordance with the
vesting schedule set forth in Section 2 above. The determination of the comparability of restricted stock units under clause (i) shall be made by the Committee, and such determination shall be final, binding and conclusive.   
  (b) Immediately following the effective date of the Corporate Transaction, this Agreement shall terminate and cease to be outstanding,
except to the extent assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) in connection with the Corporate Transaction.   
  (c) If this Agreement is assumed in connection with a Corporate Transaction, then the Committee shall appropriately adjust the number of
units and the kind of shares or securities to be issued pursuant to this Agreement immediately after such Corporate Transaction.   
  (d) To the extent the Restricted Stock Units are outstanding at the time of a Change in Control, such Restricted Stock Units shall
automatically accelerate immediately prior to the effective date of the Change in Control and shall become vested in full at that time.   
  (e) This Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Company to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital
or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate, sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets.       5. 
  Settlement of Restricted Stock Units  . Restricted Stock Units shall be automatically settled in Shares upon vesting of such Restricted Stock Units, provided that the Company shall have no obligation to issue Shares pursuant to this
Agreement unless and until you have satisfied any applicable tax and/or other obligations pursuant to Section 6 below and such issuance otherwise complies with all applicable law.   
   6.    Taxes  .   
  (a) Regardless of any action the Company or your employer (the  Employer ) takes with respect to any and all income tax, social
taxes or insurance contributions, payroll tax, payment on account or other tax-related items related to your participation in the Plan and legally   
     
   2   

applicable to you ( Tax-Related Items ), you acknowledge that the ultimate liability for all Tax-Related Items with respect to the Restricted Stock Units is and remains your
responsibility and may exceed the amount actually withheld by the Company or the Employer. You further acknowledge that the Company and/or the Employer (i) make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax-Related Items
in connection with any aspect of the Restricted Stock Units, including the grant, vesting or settlement of the Restricted Stock Units, or the subsequent sale of any Shares acquired at vesting or the receipt of any dividends with respect to such
Shares; and (ii) do not commit to and are under no obligation to structure the terms or any aspect of the Restricted Stock Units to reduce or eliminate your liability for Tax-Related Items or achieve any particular tax result. Further, if you
become subject to taxation in more than one jurisdiction between the Grant Date and the date of any relevant taxable event, you acknowledge that the Company and/or the Employer (or former employer, as applicable) may be required to withhold or
account for Tax-Related Items in more than one jurisdiction.      (b) Prior to any relevant tax, withholding or required deduction
event, as applicable, you agree to make arrangements satisfactory to the Company for the satisfaction of any applicable tax, withholding, required deduction and payment on account obligations of the Company and/or the Employer that arise in
connection with the Restricted Stock Units. In this regard, you authorize the Company and/or the Employer, or their respective agents, at their discretion, to satisfy any obligations related to Tax-Related Items by one or a combination of the
following: (1) withholding from your wages or other cash compensation payable to you by the Company or the Employer; (2) withholding from proceeds of the sale of Shares acquired upon settlement of the Restricted Stock Units either through
a voluntary sale or through a mandatory sale arranged by the Company (on your behalf pursuant to this authorization); (3) withholding of Shares that would otherwise be issued upon settlement of the Restricted Stock Units; or (4) requiring
you to satisfy the liability for Tax-Related Items by means of any other arrangement approved by the Company. If the obligation for Tax-Related Items is satisfied by withholding of Shares, for tax purposes, you are deemed to have been issued the
full number of Shares subject to the vested Restricted Stock Units, notwithstanding that a number of the Shares are held back solely for the purpose of paying the Tax-Related Items due as a result of any aspect of your participation in the Plan. To
avoid financial accounting charges under applicable accounting guidance, the Company may withhold or account for Tax-Related Items by considering applicable minimum statutory rates or may take any other action required to avoid financial accounting
charges under applicable accounting guidance.      (c) Finally, you will pay to the Company or the Employer any amount of
Tax-Related Items that the Company or the Employer may be required to withhold or account for as a result of your participation in the Plan or your acquisition of Shares that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described. The Company shall
not be required to issue or deliver Shares pursuant to this Agreement unless and until such obligations are satisfied.       7.    Tax
and Legal Advice  . You represent, warrant and acknowledge that neither the Company nor your Employer have made any warranties or representations to you with respect to any Tax-Related Items, legal or financial consequences of the transactions
contemplated by this Agreement, and you are in no manner relying on the Company, your Employer s or the Company s or the Employer s representatives for an assessment of such consequences. YOU UNDERSTAND THAT THE LAWS GOVERNING THIS
AWARD ARE SUBJECT TO         
   3   

CHANGE. YOU SHOULD CONSULT YOUR OWN PROFESSIONAL TAX, LEGAL AND FINANCIAL ADVISOR REGARDING ANY RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS. YOU UNDERSTAND THAT THE COMPANY AND YOUR EMPLOYER ARE NOT PROVIDING ANY
TAX, LEGAL, OR FINANCIAL ADVICE, NOR IS THE COMPANY OR YOUR EMPLOYER MAKING ANY RECOMMENDATION REGARDING YOUR ACCEPTANCE OF THIS AWARD. NOTHING STATED HEREIN IS INTENDED OR WRITTEN TO BE USED, AND CANNOT BE USED, FOR THE PURPOSE OF AVOIDING TAXPAYER
OR OTHER PENALTIES.       8.    Non-Transferability of Restricted Stock Units  . Restricted Stock Units shall not be anticipated,
assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by operation of law.   
   9.    Restriction on Transfer  . Regardless of whether the transfer or issuance of the Shares to be issued pursuant to the Restricted
Stock Units has been registered under the Securities Act or has been registered or qualified under the securities laws of any state, the Company may impose additional restrictions upon the sale, pledge, or other transfer of the Shares (including the
placement of appropriate legends on stock certificates and the issuance of stop-transfer instructions to the Company s transfer agent) if, in the judgment of the Company and the Company s counsel, such restrictions are necessary in order
to achieve compliance with the provisions of the Securities Act, the securities laws of any state, or any other law including all applicable foreign laws.   
   10.    Restrictive Legends and Stop-Transfer Instructions  . Stock certificates evidencing the Shares issued pursuant to the Restricted
Stock Units may bear such restrictive legends and/or appropriate stop-transfer instructions may be issued to the Company s transfer agent as the Company and the Company s counsel deem necessary under applicable law or pursuant to this
Agreement.       11.    Representations, Warranties, Covenants, and Acknowledgments  . You hereby agree that in the event the
Company and the Company s counsel deem it necessary or advisable in the exercise of their discretion, the transfer or issuance of the Shares issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units may be conditioned upon you making certain
representations, warranties, and acknowledgments relating to compliance with applicable laws.       12.    Voting and Other
Rights  . Subject to the terms of this Agreement, you shall not have any voting rights or any other rights and privileges of a stockholder of the Company unless and until the Restricted Stock Units are settled upon vesting. In addition, you
shall not have any rights to dividend equivalent payments with respect to unvested Restricted Stock Units.       13.    Authorization to
Release and Transfer Necessary Personal Information  .        (a)     You hereby explicitly and unambiguously
consent to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of your personal information as described in this Agreement by and among, as applicable, the Employer, and the Company and its Parent, Subsidiaries and Affiliates for the
exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan.           
   4   

(b)     You understand that the Company and the Employer may hold certain
personal information about you, including, but not limited to, your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number (or any other social or national identification number), salary, nationality, job title, residency
status, any Shares or directorships held in the Company, details of all Restricted Stock Units or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding (the  Data ) for the purpose of implementing,
administering and managing your participation in the Plan. You understand that Data may be transferred to the Company or any of its Parent, Subsidiaries or Affiliates, or to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and
management of the Plan, that these recipients may be located in your country or elsewhere, including outside the European Economic Area, and that the recipient s country (e.g., the United States) may have different data privacy laws and
protections than your country. You understand that you may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting your local human resources representative. You authorize the recipients to receive, possess,
use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the sole purposes of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data to a broker or other third party
assisting with the administration of these Restricted Stock Units under the Plan or with whom Shares acquired pursuant to these Restricted Stock Units or cash from the sale of such Shares may be deposited. Furthermore, you acknowledge and understand
that the transfer of the Data to the Company or any of its Parent, Subsidiaries or Affiliates, or to any third parties is necessary for your participation in the Plan.     
    (c)     You understand that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage your
participation in the Plan. You understand that you may, at any time, view the Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of the Data, require any necessary amendments to the Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein
by contacting your local human resources representative in writing. You further acknowledge that withdrawal of consent may affect your ability to vest in or realize benefits from these Restricted Stock Units, and your ability to participate in the
Plan. For more information on the consequences of your refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, you understand that you may contact your local human resources representative.     
  14.   No Entitlement or Claims for Compensation  .   
  (a) Your rights, if any, in respect of or in connection with these Restricted Stock Units or any other Award are derived solely from the
discretionary decision of the Company to permit you to participate in the Plan and to benefit from a discretionary Award. The Plan may be amended, suspended or terminated by the Company at any time, unless otherwise provided in the Plan and this
Agreement. By accepting these Restricted Stock Units, you expressly acknowledge that there is no obligation on the part of the Company to continue the Plan and/or grant any additional Restricted Stock Units to you or benefits in lieu of Restricted
Stock Units, even if Restricted Stock Units have been granted repeatedly in the past. All decisions with respect to future grants of Restricted Stock Units, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Committee.   
     
   5   

(b) The Restricted Stock Units and the Shares subject to the Restricted Stock Units are not
intended to replace any pension rights or compensation and are not to be considered compensation of a continuing or recurring nature, or part of your normal or expected compensation, and in no way represent any portion of your salary, compensation
or other remuneration for any purpose, including but not limited to, calculating any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy, dismissal, end of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits or similar
payments, and in no event should be considered as compensation for, or relating in any way to, past services for the Company, the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate. The value of the Restricted Stock Units is an extraordinary item that
does not constitute compensation of any kind for services of any kind rendered to the Company, the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate and which is outside the scope of your written employment agreement (if any).   
  (c) You acknowledge that you are voluntarily participating in the Plan.   
  (d) Neither the Plan nor these Restricted Stock Units or any other Award granted under the Plan shall be deemed to give you a right to
remain an Employee, Consultant or director of the Company, a Parent, Subsidiary or an Affiliate. The Employer reserves the right to terminate your Service at any time, with or without cause, and for any reason, subject to applicable laws, the
Company s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws, and a written employment agreement (if any).      (e) The grant of the
Restricted Stock Units and your participation in the Plan will not be interpreted to form an employment contract or relationship with the Company, the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate.   
  (f) The future value of the underlying Shares is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty and if you vest in the Restricted Stock
Units and are issued Shares, the value of those Shares may increase or decrease. You also understand that neither the Company, nor the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate is responsible for any foreign exchange fluctuation between your
Employer s local currency and the United States Dollar that may affect the value of this Award.      (g) In consideration of
the grant of the Restricted Stock Units, no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages shall arise from forfeiture of the Restricted Stock Units resulting from termination of your Service by the Company or the Employer (for any reason
whatsoever and whether or not in breach of local labor laws) and you irrevocably release the Company and the Employer from any such claim that may arise; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is found by a court of competent jurisdiction
to have arisen, you shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived your entitlement to pursue such claim.      (h) You agree that the
Company may require Shares received pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units to be held by a broker designated by the Company.   
  (i) You agree that your rights hereunder (if any) shall be subject to set-off by the Company for any valid debts you owe the Company.
        
   6   

(j) The Restricted Stock Units and the benefits under the Plan, if any, will not
automatically transfer to another company in the case of a merger, take-over or transfer of liability.       15.    Governing Law and
Forum  . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California without regard to the conflict of laws principles thereof. For purposes of litigating any dispute that may arise directly or
indirectly from this Agreement, the parties hereby submit and consent to litigation in the exclusive jurisdiction of the State of California and agree that any such litigation shall be conducted only in the courts of California or the federal courts
for the United States for the Northern District of California and no other courts.       16.    Notices  . Any notice required or
permitted under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed sufficient when delivered personally or sent by confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the mail, as certified or
registered mail, with postage prepaid, and addressed to the Company at the Company s principal corporate offices or to you at the address maintained for you in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently modified by written
notice to the other party.       17.    Binding Effect  . Subject to the limitations set forth in this Agreement, this Agreement
shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the executors, administrators, heirs, legal representatives, successors, and assigns of the parties hereto.   
   18.    Severability  . If any provision of this Agreement is held to be unenforceable for any reason, it shall be adjusted rather than
voided, if possible, in order to achieve the intent of the parties to the extent possible. In any event, all other provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed valid and enforceable to the full extent possible.   
   19.    Electronic Delivery  . The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to your current or future
participation in the Plan by electronic means or to request your consent to participate in the Plan by electronic means. You hereby consent to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agree to participate in the Plan through an on-line or
electronic system established and maintained by the Company or a third party designated by the Company.       20.    Language  . If
this Agreement or any other document related to the Plan is translated into a language other than English and the meaning of the translated version is different from the English version, the English version will take precedence.   
   21.    Appendix  . Notwithstanding any provisions in this Agreement, the Restricted Stock Units shall be subject to any special terms and
conditions set forth in any Appendix to this Agreement for your country of residence. Moreover, if you relocate to one of the countries included in the Appendix, the special terms and conditions for such country will apply to you, to the extent the
Company determines that the application of such terms and conditions is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local law or facilitate the administration of the Plan. The Appendix constitutes part of this Agreement.   
     
   7   

22.    Imposition of Other Requirements  .   The Company reserves the right to impose
other requirements on your participation in the Plan, on the Restricted Stock Units and on any Shares acquired under the Plan, to the extent the Company determines it is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local law or facilitate the
administration of the Plan. You agree to sign any additional agreements or undertakings that may be necessary to accomplish the foregoing. Furthermore, you acknowledge that the laws of the country in which you are working at the time of grant,
vesting and settlement of the Restricted Stock Units or the sale of Shares received pursuant to this Agreement (including any rules or regulations governing securities, foreign exchange, tax, labor, or other matters) may subject you to additional
procedural or regulatory requirements that you are and will be solely responsible for and must fulfill.       23.    Acceptance of
Agreement  . You must expressly accept the terms and conditions of your Restricted Stock Units as set forth in this Agreement by electronically accepting this Agreement within 300 days after the Company sends this Agreement to you. If you do
not accept your Restricted Stock Units in the manner instructed by the Company, your Restricted Stock Units will be subject to cancellation.   
  *        *        *      
  *      You acknowledge that by clicking on the   I agree   button below, you agree to be bound by the terms
of this Agreement.       PLEASE PRINT AND KEEP A COPY FOR YOUR RECORDS    
     
   8   

(For Grants Prior to September 2008)    
   CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.    
    STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT     
  This Stock Unit Agreement (the  Agreement ) is made and entered into as of the Grant Date (as defined below) by and between Cisco Systems,
Inc., a California corporation (the  Company ), and you pursuant to the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). The material terms of this Stock Unit Award are as follows:   
  Employee ID:

Grant Date:

Grant Number:

Restricted Stock Units:

First Vest Date:
                                          
                                (the first annual anniversary of the vesting commencement date)
     To the extent any capitalized terms used in this Agreement are not defined, they shall have the meaning ascribed to them in the Plan. In the
event of a conflict between the terms and provisions of the Plan and the terms and provisions of this Agreement, the Plan terms and provisions shall prevail.   
  In consideration of the mutual agreements herein contained and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties agree as follows:   
   1.    Restricted Stock Units  . Pursuant to the Plan, the Company hereby grants to you, and you hereby accept from the Company,
Restricted Stock Units, each of which is a bookkeeping entry representing the equivalent in value of one (1) Share, on the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Plan.   
   2.    Vesting of Restricted Stock Units  . So long as your Service continues, the Restricted Stock Units shall vest in accordance with
the following schedule: twenty percent (20%) of the total number of Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to this Agreement shall vest on the First Vest Date and on each annual anniversary thereafter, unless otherwise provided by the Plan or
Section 4 below.       3.    Termination of Service  . In the event of the termination of your Service for any reason, all
unvested Restricted Stock Units shall be immediately forfeited without consideration.       4.    Special Acceleration  .
     (a) To the extent the Restricted Stock Units are outstanding at the time of a Corporate Transaction, such Restricted Stock
Units shall automatically accelerate immediately prior to the effective date of the Corporate Transaction and shall become vested in full at that time. No such acceleration, however, shall occur if and to the extent: (i) these Restricted Stock
Units are, in connection with the Corporate Transaction, either assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or replaced with comparable restricted stock units of the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or (ii) these
Restricted Stock Units are replaced with a cash incentive program of the successor corporation which preserves the fair market value of the Restricted Stock Units at the time of the Corporate Transaction and provides for subsequent pay-out in
accordance with the vesting schedule set forth in Section 2 above. The determination of the comparability of restricted stock units under clause (i) shall be made by the Committee, and such determination shall be final, binding and
conclusive   

(b) Immediately following the effective date of the Corporate Transaction, this Agreement
shall terminate and cease to be outstanding, except to the extent assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) in connection with the Corporate Transaction.   
  (c) If this Agreement is assumed in connection with a Corporate Transaction, then the Committee shall appropriately adjust the number of
units and the kind of shares or securities to be issued pursuant to this Agreement immediately after such Corporate Transaction.   
  (d) To the extent the Restricted Stock Units are outstanding at the time of a Change in Control, such Restricted Stock Units shall
automatically accelerate immediately prior to the effective date of the Change in Control and shall become vested in full at that time.   
  (e) This Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Company to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital
or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate, sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets.       5.
   Settlement of Restricted Stock Units  . Restricted Stock Units shall be automatically settled in Shares upon vesting of such Restricted Stock Units, provided that the Company shall have no obligation to issue Shares pursuant to this
Agreement unless and until you have satisfied any applicable tax withholding obligations pursuant to Section 6 below and such issuance otherwise complies with all applicable law.   
   6.    Withholding Taxes  . You agree to make arrangements satisfactory to the Company for the satisfaction of any applicable withholding
tax obligations that arise in connection with the Restricted Stock Units which, at the sole discretion of the Company, may include (i) having the Company withhold Shares from the settlement of the Restricted Stock Units, or (ii) any other
arrangement approved by the Company, in any case, equal in value to the amount necessary to satisfy any such withholding tax obligations. The Company shall not be required to issue Shares pursuant to this Agreement unless and until such obligations
are satisfied.       7.    Tax Advice  . You represent, warrant and acknowledge that the Company has made no warranties or
representations to you with respect to the income tax consequences of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and you are in no manner relying on the Company or the Company s representatives for an assessment of such tax consequences.
YOU UNDERSTAND THAT THE TAX LAWS AND REGULATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGE. YOU SHOULD CONSULT YOUR OWN TAX ADVISOR REGARDING ANY RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS. NOTHING STATED HEREIN IS INTENDED OR WRITTEN TO BE USED, AND CANNOT BE USED, FOR THE PURPOSE OF
AVOIDING TAXPAYER PENALTIES.       8.    Non-Transferability of Restricted Stock Units  . Restricted Stock Units shall not be
anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by operation of law.   
   9.    Restriction on Transfer  . Regardless of whether the transfer or issuance of the Shares to be issued pursuant to the Restricted
Stock Units has been registered under the Securities Act or has been registered or qualified under the securities laws of any state, the Company may impose additional restrictions upon the sale, pledge, or other transfer of the Shares
        
   2   

(including the placement of appropriate legends on stock certificates and the issuance of stop-transfer instructions to the Company s transfer agent) if, in the judgment of the Company and
the Company s counsel, such restrictions are necessary in order to achieve compliance with the provisions of the Securities Act, the securities laws of any state, or any other law.   
   10.    Stock Certificate Restrictive Legends .  Stock certificates evidencing the Shares issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units
may bear such restrictive legends as the Company and the Company s counsel deem necessary under applicable law or pursuant to this Agreement.   
   11.    Representations, Warranties, Covenants, and Acknowledgments  . You hereby agree that in the event the Company and the
Company s counsel deem it necessary or advisable in the exercise of their discretion, the transfer or issuance of the Shares issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units may be conditioned upon you making certain representations, warranties,
and acknowledgments relating to compliance with applicable securities laws.       12.    Voting and Other Rights  . Subject to the
terms of this Agreement, you shall not have any voting rights or any other rights and privileges of a stockholder of the Company unless and until the Restricted Stock Units are settled upon vesting.   
   13.    Authorization to Release Necessary Personal Information  .   
  (a) You hereby authorize and direct your employer to collect, use and transfer in electronic or other form, any personal information (the
 Data ) regarding your employment, the nature and amount of your compensation and the facts and conditions of your participation in the Plan (including, but not limited to, your name, home address, telephone number, date of birth, social
security number (or any other social or national identification number), salary, nationality, job title, number of Shares held and the details of all Awards or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, cancelled, exercised, vested, unvested or
outstanding) for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. You understand that the Data may be transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties assisting in the
implementation, administration and management of the Plan, including any requisite transfer to a broker or other third party assisting with the administration of these Restricted Stock Units under the Plan or with whom Shares acquired pursuant to
these Restricted Stock Units or cash from the sale of such shares may be deposited. You acknowledge that recipients of the Data may be located in different countries, and those countries may have data privacy laws and protections different from
those in the country of your residence. Furthermore, you acknowledge and understand that the transfer of the Data to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties is necessary for your participation in the Plan.   
  (b) Prior to the time that the Restricted Stock Units are settled upon vesting, you shall have no rights other than those of a general
creditor of the Company. The Restricted Stock Units represent an unfunded and unsecured obligation of the Company.      (c) You
may at any time withdraw the consents herein by contacting your local human resources representative in writing. You further acknowledge that withdrawal of consent may affect your ability to exercise or realize benefits from these Restricted Stock
Units, and your ability to participate in the Plan.       14.    No Entitlement or Claims for Compensation  .   
  (a) Your rights, if any, in respect of or in connection with these Restricted Stock Units or any other Award are derived solely from the
discretionary decision of the         
   3   

Company to permit you to participate in the Plan and to benefit from a discretionary Award. By accepting these Restricted Stock Units, you expressly acknowledge that there is no obligation on the
part of the Company to continue the Plan and/or grant any additional Awards to you. These Restricted Stock Units are not intended to be compensation of a continuing or recurring nature, or part of your normal or expected compensation, and in no way
represents any portion of a your salary, compensation, or other remuneration for purposes of pension benefits, severance, redundancy, resignation or any other purpose.   
  (b) Neither the Plan nor these Restricted Stock Units or any other Award granted under the Plan shall be deemed to give you a right to
remain an Employee, Consultant or director of the Company, a Parent, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate. The Company and its Parents and Subsidiaries and Affiliates reserve the right to terminate your Service at any time, with or without cause, and for
any reason, subject to applicable laws, the Company s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws and a written employment agreement (if any), and you shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived any claim to damages or specific performance for breach
of contract or dismissal, compensation for loss of office, tort or otherwise with respect to the Plan, these Restricted Stock Units or any outstanding Award that is forfeited and/or is terminated by its terms or to any future Award.   
  (c) You agree that your rights hereunder shall be subject to set-off by the Company for any valid debts you owe the Company.   
   15.    Governing Law  . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California without
regard to the conflict of laws principles thereof.       16.    Notices  . Any notice required or permitted under the terms of this
Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed sufficient when delivered personally or sent by confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the U.S. mail, as certified or registered mail, with postage
prepaid, and addressed to the Company at the Company s principal corporate offices or to you at the address maintained for you in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently modified by written notice to the other party.
      17.    Binding Effect  . Subject to the limitations set forth in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be binding upon, and
inure to the benefit of, the executors, administrators, heirs, legal representatives, successors, and assigns of the parties hereto.   
   18.    Severability  . If any provision of this Agreement is held to be unenforceable for any reason, it shall be adjusted rather than
voided, if possible, in order to achieve the intent of the parties to the extent possible. In any event, all other provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed valid and enforceable to the full extent possible.   
     
   4   

PERFORMANCE RSU LETTER   
  [Date]      [Name]   
  [Address]      [Address]   
  Dear
                          :   
  [introductory text]      Your leadership team has
recommended that you receive a performance-based restricted stock unit (PRSU) right with a target of [                      ]. RSUs will be
granted after the end of FY[      ] based upon the satisfaction of an FY[      ] performance condition.   
  The right to receive a grant of a restricted stock unit depends on Cisco s satisfaction of certain
[                      ] targets for FY[      ]. Assuming those targets are met or exceeded, the restricted stock units
that you are granted will vest [                      ] percent on the date of grant and
[                      ] percent on each of the next [              ]
anniversaries of the date of grant thereafter, subject to your continued employment with Cisco or an affiliate on the applicable vesting date. On each vesting date, the vested units will be settled in Cisco common stock. In addition, in the unlikely
event that a corporate transaction or change in control (each as defined in Cisco s 2005 Stock Incentive Plan) is consummated during FY[      ] or prior to the Compensation and Management Development Committee s
Certification regarding satisfaction of the FY[      ] performance conditions, the performance-based restricted stock unit right will be deemed fully earned at target (100%) immediately prior to the effective date of
the corporate transaction or the change in control, as the case may be, and will be settled in fully vested Cisco common stock at that time.   
  Lastly, please note that, if you are employed outside the United States, the Compensation and Management Development Committee can grant the PRSU Right
to you, in its sole discretion, only if and as long as it is permitted and feasible to grant restricted stock units under the laws of the country in which you are employed. If local laws make the grant of restricted stock units illegal or
impractical, Cisco will let you know as soon as possible. You are under no obligation to accept the PRSU Right or any restricted stock units that may subsequently be granted to you.   

[concluding text]    

Sincerely,    

PERFORMANCE RSU LETTER   FISCAL 2008   
  [Date]      [Name]   
  [Address]      [Address]   
  Dear
                               :   
  [introductory text]      As an indicator of our
confidence in you as a leader, recognizing your current high level of performance as well as your future contributions, I want to tell you about the restricted stock unit component of our FY08 ongoing stock program. This component represents the
right to receive a future grant of  restricted stock units  (after the end of FY08) if an FY08 performance condition is satisfied. This right is referred to in this letter as the   performance-based   restricted stock unit
right   (PRSU Right) .       I want to be the first to congratulate you on your leadership team recommending you for a
 performance-based     restricted stock unit right  having a target of  XX restricted stock units , which will be granted after the end of FY08 based upon the satisfaction of an FY08 performance condition, contingent on
shareholder approval as described below. Since you may be eligible to receive a grant of restricted stock units for the first time, I would like to review briefly the details of this program.   
  The right to receive a grant of a restricted stock unit depends on Cisco s satisfaction of certain operating income growth targets for FY08.
Assuming those targets are met or exceeded, the  restricted stock units  that you are granted will vest twenty percent on the date of grant and twenty percent on each of the next four anniversaries of the date of grant thereafter, subject to
your continued employment with Cisco or an affiliate on the applicable vesting date. Unlike stock options, there is no monthly vesting for restricted stock units. On each vesting date, the vested units will be settled in Cisco common stock. In
addition, in the unlikely event that a corporate transaction or change in control (each as defined in Cisco s 2005 Stock Incentive Plan) is consummated during FY08, the performance-based restricted stock unit right will be deemed fully earned
at target (100%) immediately prior to the effective date of the corporate transaction or the change in control, as the case may be, and will be settled in fully vested Cisco common stock at that time.   
  The PRSU Right and the right to receive restricted stock units depends on our shareholders approving the amendment and extension of Cisco s 2005
Stock Incentive Plan at the 2007 annual meeting. In the unlikely event that our shareholders do not approve the amendment and extension of the 2005 Stock Incentive Plan, you will not be eligible to receive any restricted stock units. However, at
such time as the shareholders do approve a plan, the Compensation and Management Development Committee may make an equitable substitute stock award to you.   
  Lastly, please note that, if you are employed outside the United States, the Compensation and Management Development Committee can grant the PRSU Right
to you, in its sole discretion, only if and as long as it is permitted and feasible to grant restricted stock units under the laws of the country in which you are employed. If local laws make the grant of restricted stock units illegal or
impractical, Cisco will let you know as soon as possible. You are under no obligation to accept the PRSU Right or any restricted stock units that may subsequently be granted to you.   
  [concluding text]       

Sincerely,   

John Chambers   
 
  Chairman   CEO, Cisco Systems    

DEFERRAL ELECTION UNDER THE    
   CISCO SYSTEMS, INC. 2005 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN    
   ANNUAL EQUITY AWARD    
  I, 
                                     , being an employee of Cisco
Systems, Inc. (the  Company ) hereby elect to defer the settlement of           % (insert 25%, 50%, 75% or 100%) of my annual restricted stock unit award anticipated to be granted under the 2005
Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ) on                       , 20           (subject to my
continued employment with the Company) to be settled pursuant to the elections below (check and complete  either  (a) or (b) below):   
  (a)            I elect to defer the settlement of the above-mentioned portion of my annual
restricted stock unit grant such that any vested portion of the deferred piece of my restricted stock unit grant will be settled in shares of the Company s common stock upon my Separation from Service (within the meaning of Section 409A of
the Internal Revenue Code ( Section 409A       (b)            I elect to
defer the settlement of the above-mentioned portion of my annual restricted stock unit grant such that any vested portion of the deferred piece of my restricted stock unit grant will be settled in shares of the Company s common stock upon the
earlier of (i) my Separation from Service; or (ii) the first business day of 20__ (insert a year  no earlier than  5 years after the year of grant and  no later than  15 years after the year of grant).   
  I understand that this election will be effective only if received by
                                       ([Email] or [Fax number]
(fax)) on or before [December 31, [PRECEDING YEAR]].      I understand that to the extent I do not elect to defer the settlement of my restricted
stock unit grant, such portion of the restricted stock unit grant will be automatically settled in shares of the Company s common stock upon the vesting of the restricted stock unit grant (subject to acceleration in certain cases), as more
fully set forth in the Stock Unit Agreement.      I understand that any vested portion of the deferred piece of my restricted stock unit grant
will not be settled in shares of the Company s common stock upon its vesting date as provided in my grant agreement, but instead will be settled in shares of the Company s common stock as selected by me above. If my Separation from Service
occurs before my restricted stock unit grant vests, the grant will be forfeited.      I understand that any employment taxes due upon the vesting
of my restricted stock unit grant (including the deferred portion of my grant) shall be deducted at the time of vesting from shares not deferred. If I elect to defer the settlement of 100% of my annual restricted stock unit award, any employment
taxes due upon the vesting of my restricted stock unit grant shall be deducted at the time of vesting from the deferred shares.      I understand
that my receipt of shares of the Company s common stock pursuant to any stock unit grant will be taxed as ordinary income to me based on the value of the shares on the date the stock unit grant is settled and I receive shares of the
Company s common stock.      I understand that the settlement of the deferred portion of my annual restricted stock unit grant upon my
Separation from Service will be delayed for 6 months.       

Signature of Employee  

Date        * Because individual circumstances vary, Cisco
Systems, Inc. can not provide tax advice and you should consult with your own tax advisor regarding the income tax consequences of your potential elections.    

(Beginning Fiscal 2009)    
   NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR INITIAL RSU GRANT    
   CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.    
    STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT     
  This Stock Unit Agreement (the  Agreement ) is made and entered into as of the Grant Date (as defined below) by and between Cisco Systems,
Inc., a California corporation (the  Company ), and you pursuant to the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). The material terms of this Stock Unit Award are as follows:   
  Grantee:

Grant Date:

Grant Number:

Restricted Stock Units:

First Vest Date:  

(the date of completion of the first year of service as a member of the Board measured from the initial election or appointment
date)       To the extent any capitalized terms used in this Agreement are not defined, they shall have the meaning ascribed to them
in the Plan. In the event of a conflict between the terms and provisions of the Plan and the terms and provisions of this Agreement, the Plan terms and provisions shall prevail.   
  In consideration of the mutual agreements herein contained and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties agree as follows:   
   1.    Restricted Stock Units  . Pursuant to the Plan, the Company hereby grants to you, and you hereby accept from the Company,
Restricted Stock Units, each of which is a bookkeeping entry representing the equivalent in value of one (1) Share, on the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Plan.   
   2.    Vesting of Restricted Stock Units  . So long as your service on the Board continues, the Restricted Stock Units shall vest in
accordance with the following schedule: fifty percent (50%) of the total number of Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to this Agreement shall vest on the First Vest Date and upon your completion of each year of service as a member of the
Board thereafter, unless otherwise provided by the Plan or Section 4 below.       3.    Termination of Service  . Except as
provided in Section 4 below, in the event of the termination of your Board service for any reason, all unvested Restricted Stock Units shall be immediately forfeited without consideration.   
   4.    Special Acceleration  .   
  (a) To the extent the Restricted Stock Units are outstanding at the time of a Corporate Transaction or a Change in Control, such
Restricted Stock Units shall automatically accelerate immediately prior to the effective date of the Corporate Transaction or the Change in Control, as the case may be, and shall become vested in full at that time.   

(b) If your service on the Board ceases as a result of your death or Disability, to the
extent the Restricted Stock Units are outstanding, such Restricted Stock Units shall automatically accelerate and shall become vested in full at that time.   
  (c) This Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Company to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital
or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate, sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets.       5. 
  Settlement of Restricted Stock Units  . To the extent you have not elected to defer settlement of the Restricted Stock Units, the Restricted Stock Units shall be automatically settled in Shares upon vesting of such Restricted Stock
Units, provided that the Company shall have no obligation to issue Shares pursuant to this Agreement unless such issuance complies with all applicable law. To the extent you have elected to defer settlement of the Restricted Stock Units, the vested
portion of the Restricted Stock Units shall be settled in Shares upon your separation from service within the meaning of Code Section 409A ( Separation from Service ), provided that the Company shall have no obligation to issue Shares
pursuant to this Agreement unless such issuance complies with all applicable law.       6.    Tax Advice  . You represent, warrant
and acknowledge that the Company has made no warranties or representations to you with respect to the income tax consequences of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and you are in no manner relying on the Company or the Company s
representatives for an assessment of such tax consequences. YOU UNDERSTAND THAT THE TAX LAWS AND REGULATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGE. YOU SHOULD CONSULT YOUR OWN TAX ADVISOR REGARDING ANY RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS. NOTHING STATED HEREIN IS INTENDED OR
WRITTEN TO BE USED, AND CANNOT BE USED, FOR THE PURPOSE OF AVOIDING TAXPAYER PENALTIES.       7.    Non-Transferability of Restricted
Stock Units  . Restricted Stock Units shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by operation of law.   
   8.    Restriction on Transfer  . Regardless of whether the transfer or issuance of the Shares to be issued pursuant to the Restricted
Stock Units has been registered under the Securities Act or has been registered or qualified under the securities laws of any state, the Company may impose additional restrictions upon the sale, pledge, or other transfer of the Shares (including the
placement of appropriate legends on stock certificates and the issuance of stop-transfer instructions to the Company s transfer agent) if, in the judgment of the Company and the Company s counsel, such restrictions are necessary in order
to achieve compliance with the provisions of the Securities Act, the securities laws of any state, or any other law.         
   2   

9.    Stock Certificate Restrictive Legends .  Stock certificates evidencing the Shares
issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units may bear such restrictive legends as the Company and the Company s counsel deem necessary under applicable law or pursuant to this Agreement.   
   10.    Representations, Warranties, Covenants, and Acknowledgments  . You hereby agree that in the event the Company and the
Company s counsel deem it necessary or advisable in the exercise of their discretion, the transfer or issuance of the Shares issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units may be conditioned upon you making certain representations, warranties,
and acknowledgments relating to compliance with applicable securities laws.       11.    Voting and Other Rights  . Subject to the
terms of this Agreement, you shall not have any voting rights or any other rights and privileges of a shareholder of the Company unless and until the Restricted Stock Units are settled upon vesting.   
   12.    Authorization to Release Necessary Personal Information  .   
  (a) You hereby authorize and direct the Company to collect, use and transfer in electronic or other form, any personal information (the
 Data ) regarding your service, the nature and amount of your compensation and the facts and conditions of your participation in the Plan (including, but not limited to, your name, home address, telephone number, date of birth, social
security number (or any other social or national identification number), compensation, nationality, job title, number of Shares held and the details of all Awards or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, cancelled, exercised, vested, unvested or
outstanding) for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. You understand that the Data may be transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties assisting in the
implementation, administration and management of the Plan, including any requisite transfer to a broker or other third party assisting with the administration of these Restricted Stock Units under the Plan or with whom Shares acquired pursuant to
these Restricted Stock Units or cash from the sale of such shares may be deposited. You acknowledge that recipients of the Data may be located in different countries, and those countries may have data privacy laws and protections different from
those in the country of your residence. Furthermore, you acknowledge and understand that the transfer of the Data to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties is necessary for your participation in the Plan.   
  (b) Prior to the time that the Restricted Stock Units are settled upon vesting, you shall have no rights other than those of a general
creditor of the Company. The Restricted Stock Units represent an unfunded and unsecured obligation of the Company.      (c) You
may at any time withdraw the consents herein by contacting the Company s local human resources representative in writing. You further acknowledge that withdrawal of consent may affect your ability to exercise or realize benefits from these
Restricted Stock Units, and your ability to participate in the Plan.         
   3   

13.    No Entitlement or Claims for Compensation  .   
  (a) Your rights, if any, in respect of or in connection with these Restricted Stock Units or any other Award are derived solely from the
discretionary decision of the Company to permit you to participate in the Plan and to benefit from a discretionary Award. By accepting these Restricted Stock Units, you expressly acknowledge that there is no obligation on the part of the Company to
continue the Plan and/or grant any additional Awards to you. These Restricted Stock Units are not intended to be compensation of a continuing or recurring nature, or part of your normal or expected compensation, and in no way represents any portion
of a your compensation or other remuneration for purposes of pension benefits, severance, redundancy, resignation or any other purpose.   
  (b) Neither the Plan nor these Restricted Stock Units or any other Award granted under the Plan shall be deemed to give you a right to
continue to serve on the Board of the Company for any period of specific duration or interfere with or otherwise restrict in any way the rights of the Company or the Company s shareholders, which rights are hereby expressly reserved by each, to
terminate your service on the Board at any time, for any reason, with or without cause, in accordance with the provisions of applicable law, the Company s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws. You shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived any
claim to damages or specific performance for breach of contract or dismissal, compensation for loss of office, tort or otherwise with respect to the Plan, these Restricted Stock Units or any outstanding Award that is forfeited and/or is terminated
by its terms or to any future Award.      (c) You agree that your rights hereunder shall be subject to set-off by the Company for
any valid debts you owe the Company.       14.    Governing Law  . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance
with the laws of the State of California without regard to the conflict of laws principles thereof.       15.    Notices  . Any
notice required or permitted under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed sufficient when delivered personally or sent by confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the U.S.
mail, as certified or registered mail, with postage prepaid, and addressed to the Company at the Company s principal corporate offices or to you at the address maintained for you in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently
modified by written notice to the other party.       16.    Binding Effect  . Subject to the limitations set forth in this
Agreement, this Agreement shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the executors, administrators, heirs, legal representatives, successors, and assigns of the parties hereto.   
   17.    Severability  . If any provision of this Agreement is held to be unenforceable for any reason, it shall be adjusted rather than
voided, if possible, in order to achieve the intent of the parties to the extent possible. In any event, all other provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed valid and enforceable to the full extent possible.   
     
   4   

(Beginning Fiscal 2009)    
   NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR ANNUAL RSU GRANT    
   CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.    
    STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT     
  This Stock Unit Agreement (the  Agreement ) is made and entered into as of the Grant Date (as defined below) by and between Cisco Systems,
Inc., a California corporation (the  Company ), and you pursuant to the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). The material terms of this Stock Unit Award are as follows:   
  Grantee:

Grant Date:

Grant Number:

Restricted
Stock Units:

Vest Date: The completion of one (1) year of Board service measured from the Grant Date.   
  To the extent any capitalized terms used in this Agreement are not defined, they shall have the meaning ascribed to them in the Plan. In the event of a
conflict between the terms and provisions of the Plan and the terms and provisions of this Agreement, the Plan terms and provisions shall prevail.   
  In consideration of the mutual agreements herein contained and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties agree as follows:   
   1.    Restricted Stock Units  . Pursuant to the Plan, the Company hereby grants to you, and you hereby accept from the Company,
Restricted Stock Units, each of which is a bookkeeping entry representing the equivalent in value of one (1) Share, on the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Plan.   
   2.    Vesting of Restricted Stock Units  . So long as your service on the Board continues, the Restricted Stock Units shall vest in
accordance with the following schedule: one-hundred percent (100%) of the total number of Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to this Agreement shall vest on the Vest Date, unless otherwise provided by the Plan or Section 4 below.
      3.    Termination of Service  . Except as provided in Section 4 below, in the event of the termination of your Board
service for any reason, all unvested Restricted Stock Units shall be immediately forfeited without consideration.       4.    Special
Acceleration  .      (a) To the extent the Restricted Stock Units are outstanding at the time of a Corporate Transaction or a
Change in Control, such Restricted Stock Units shall automatically accelerate immediately prior to the effective date of the Corporate Transaction or the Change in Control, as the case may be, and shall become vested in full at that time.

(b) If your service on the Board ceases as a result of your death or Disability, to the
extent the Restricted Stock Units are outstanding, such Restricted Stock Units shall automatically accelerate and shall become vested in full at that time.   
  (c) This Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Company to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital
or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate, sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets.       5. 
  Settlement of Restricted Stock Units  . To the extent you have not elected to defer settlement of the Restricted Stock Units, the Restricted Stock Units shall be automatically settled in Shares upon vesting of such Restricted Stock
Units, provided that the Company shall have no obligation to issue Shares pursuant to this Agreement unless such issuance complies with all applicable law. To the extent you have elected to defer settlement of the Restricted Stock Units, the vested
portion of the Restricted Stock Units shall be settled in Shares upon your separation from service within the meaning of Code Section 409A ( Separation from Service ), provided that the Company shall have no obligation to issue Shares
pursuant to this Agreement unless such issuance complies with all applicable law.       6.    Tax Advice  . You represent, warrant
and acknowledge that the Company has made no warranties or representations to you with respect to the income tax consequences of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and you are in no manner relying on the Company or the Company s
representatives for an assessment of such tax consequences. YOU UNDERSTAND THAT THE TAX LAWS AND REGULATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGE. YOU SHOULD CONSULT YOUR OWN TAX ADVISOR REGARDING ANY RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS. NOTHING STATED HEREIN IS INTENDED OR
WRITTEN TO BE USED, AND CANNOT BE USED, FOR THE PURPOSE OF AVOIDING TAXPAYER PENALTIES.       7.    Non-Transferability of Restricted
Stock Units  . Restricted Stock Units shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by operation of law.   
   8.    Restriction on Transfer  . Regardless of whether the transfer or issuance of the Shares to be issued pursuant to the Restricted
Stock Units has been registered under the Securities Act or has been registered or qualified under the securities laws of any state, the Company may impose additional restrictions upon the sale, pledge, or other transfer of the Shares (including the
placement of appropriate legends on stock certificates and the issuance of stop-transfer instructions to the Company s transfer agent) if, in the judgment of the Company and the Company s counsel, such restrictions are necessary in order
to achieve compliance with the provisions of the Securities Act, the securities laws of any state, or any other law.         
   2   

9.    Stock Certificate Restrictive Legends .  Stock certificates evidencing the Shares
issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units may bear such restrictive legends as the Company and the Company s counsel deem necessary under applicable law or pursuant to this Agreement.   
   10.    Representations, Warranties, Covenants, and Acknowledgments  . You hereby agree that in the event the Company and the
Company s counsel deem it necessary or advisable in the exercise of their discretion, the transfer or issuance of the Shares issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units may be conditioned upon you making certain representations, warranties,
and acknowledgments relating to compliance with applicable securities laws.       11.    Voting and Other Rights  . Subject to the
terms of this Agreement, you shall not have any voting rights or any other rights and privileges of a shareholder of the Company unless and until the Restricted Stock Units are settled upon vesting.   
   12.    Authorization to Release Necessary Personal Information  .   
  (a) You hereby authorize and direct the Company to collect, use and transfer in electronic or other form, any personal information (the
 Data ) regarding your service, the nature and amount of your compensation and the facts and conditions of your participation in the Plan (including, but not limited to, your name, home address, telephone number, date of birth, social
security number (or any other social or national identification number), compensation, nationality, job title, number of Shares held and the details of all Awards or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, cancelled, exercised, vested, unvested or
outstanding) for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. You understand that the Data may be transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties assisting in the
implementation, administration and management of the Plan, including any requisite transfer to a broker or other third party assisting with the administration of these Restricted Stock Units under the Plan or with whom Shares acquired pursuant to
these Restricted Stock Units or cash from the sale of such shares may be deposited. You acknowledge that recipients of the Data may be located in different countries, and those countries may have data privacy laws and protections different from
those in the country of your residence. Furthermore, you acknowledge and understand that the transfer of the Data to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties is necessary for your participation in the Plan.   
  (b) Prior to the time that the Restricted Stock Units are settled upon vesting, you shall have no rights other than those of a general
creditor of the Company. The Restricted Stock Units represent an unfunded and unsecured obligation of the Company.      (c) You
may at any time withdraw the consents herein by contacting the Company s local human resources representative in writing. You further acknowledge that withdrawal of consent may affect your ability to exercise or realize benefits from these
Restricted Stock Units, and your ability to participate in the Plan.         
   3   

13.    No Entitlement or Claims for Compensation  .   
  (a) Your rights, if any, in respect of or in connection with these Restricted Stock Units or any other Award are derived solely from the
discretionary decision of the Company to permit you to participate in the Plan and to benefit from a discretionary Award. By accepting these Restricted Stock Units, you expressly acknowledge that there is no obligation on the part of the Company to
continue the Plan and/or grant any additional Awards to you. These Restricted Stock Units are not intended to be compensation of a continuing or recurring nature, or part of your normal or expected compensation, and in no way represents any portion
of a your compensation or other remuneration for purposes of pension benefits, severance, redundancy, resignation or any other purpose.   
  (b) Neither the Plan nor these Restricted Stock Units or any other Award granted under the Plan shall be deemed to give you a right to
continue to serve on the Board of the Company for any period of specific duration or interfere with or otherwise restrict in any way the rights of the Company or the Company s shareholders, which rights are hereby expressly reserved by each, to
terminate your service on the Board at any time, for any reason, with or without cause, in accordance with the provisions of applicable law, the Company s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws. You shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived any
claim to damages or specific performance for breach of contract or dismissal, compensation for loss of office, tort or otherwise with respect to the Plan, these Restricted Stock Units or any outstanding Award that is forfeited and/or is terminated
by its terms or to any future Award.      (c) You agree that your rights hereunder shall be subject to set-off by the Company for
any valid debts you owe the Company.       14.    Governing Law  . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance
with the laws of the State of California without regard to the conflict of laws principles thereof.       15.    Notices  . Any
notice required or permitted under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed sufficient when delivered personally or sent by confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the U.S.
mail, as certified or registered mail, with postage prepaid, and addressed to the Company at the Company s principal corporate offices or to you at the address maintained for you in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently
modified by written notice to the other party.       16.    Binding Effect  . Subject to the limitations set forth in this
Agreement, this Agreement shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the executors, administrators, heirs, legal representatives, successors, and assigns of the parties hereto.   
   17.    Severability  . If any provision of this Agreement is held to be unenforceable for any reason, it shall be adjusted rather than
voided, if possible, in order to achieve the intent of the parties to the extent possible. In any event, all other provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed valid and enforceable to the full extent possible.   
     
   4   

(Prior to Fiscal 2009)    
   NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR INITIAL GRANT    
   CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.    
    NOTICE OF GRANT OF STOCK OPTION     
  Notice is hereby given of the following option grant (the  Option ) made to purchase shares of Cisco Systems, Inc. (the  Company )
common stock:      Optionee:

Grant Date:

Type of Option: Nonstatutory Stock Option      Grant
Number:

Number of Option Shares:

shares   
  Exercise Price: $               per share   
  Expiration Date:

Date Exercisable: Immediately Exercisable   
    Vesting Schedule        The Option
Shares shall initially be unvested and subject to repurchase by the Company at the Exercise Price paid per share. Optionee shall acquire a vested interest in, and the Company s repurchase right shall accordingly lapse, with respect to, the
Option Shares in a series of four (4) successive equal annual installments upon Optionee s completion of each year of service as a member of the Board over the four (4) year period measured from the Grant Date. In no event shall any
additional Option Shares vest after Optionee s cessation of Board service.        REPURCHASE RIGHT . OPTIONEE HEREBY AGREES THAT ALL
UNVESTED OPTION SHARES ACQUIRED UPON THE EXERCISE OF THE OPTION SHALL NOT BE TRANSFERABLE AND SHALL BE SUBJECT TO REPURCHASE BY THE COMPANY, AT THE EXERCISE PRICE PAID PER SHARE, UPON OPTIONEE S TERMINATION OF SERVICE AS A MEMBER OF THE BOARD
PRIOR TO VESTING IN THOSE SHARES. THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF SUCH REPURCHASE RIGHT SHALL BE SPECIFIED IN A STOCK PURCHASE AGREEMENT, IN FORM AND SUBSTANCE SATISFACTORY TO THE COMPANY, EXECUTED BY OPTIONEE AT THE TIME OF THE OPTION EXERCISE.  
     Optionee understands and agrees that the Option is offered subject to and in accordance with the terms of the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock
Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). Optionee further agrees to be bound by the terms of the Plan and the terms of the Option as set forth in the Stock Option Agreement attached hereto.   
    No Service Contract  . Nothing in this Notice or in the attached Stock Option Agreement or in the Plan shall confer upon Optionee any right
to continue to serve on the Board for any period of specific duration or interfere with or otherwise restrict in any way the rights of the Company or the Company s shareholders, which rights are hereby expressly reserved by each, to terminate
Optionee s service on the Board at any time, for any reason, with or without cause, and in accordance with the provisions of applicable law.   

Definitions .  All capitalized terms in this Notice shall have the meaning assigned to them in
this Notice, the attached Stock Option Agreement or the Plan.       DATED: 
                          ,              

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.    

By:   

Title:   

OPTIONEE      
      
   2   

STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT     
    Recitals        A. The Board has
adopted the Plan for the purpose of retaining the services of selected Employees, non-employee members of the Board or of the board of directors of any Parent or Subsidiary and Consultants and other independent advisors who provide services to the
Company (or any Parent or Subsidiary).      B. Optionee is to render valuable services to the Company (or a Parent or Subsidiary), and this
Agreement is executed pursuant to, and is intended to carry out the purposes of, the Plan in connection with the Company s grant of an option to Optionee.   
  C. All capitalized terms in this Agreement shall have the meaning assigned to them in this Agreement, the attached Notice of Grant of Stock Option (the
  Notice ), or the Plan.       NOW, THEREFORE , it is hereby agreed as follows:   
   1.    Grant of Option  . The Company hereby grants to Optionee, as of the Grant Date, a Nonstatutory Stock Option to purchase up to the
number of Option Shares specified in the Notice. The Option Shares shall be purchasable from time to time during the Option term specified in Paragraph 2 at the Exercise Price specified in the Notice.   
   2.    Option Term  . This Option shall have a maximum term of nine (9) years measured from the Grant Date and shall accordingly
expire at the close of business on the Expiration Date, unless sooner terminated in accordance with Paragraph 4, 5, 6 or 7.       3. 
  Non-Transferability   .  This Option shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by operation of law.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, should the Optionee die while holding this Option, then this Option shall be transferred in accordance with Optionee s will or the laws of descent and distribution.   
   4.    Exercisability/Vesting  .   
  (a) This Option shall be immediately exercisable for any or all of the Option Shares, whether or not the Option Shares are vested in
accordance with the Vesting Schedule set forth in the Notice, and shall remain so exercisable until the Expiration Date or the sooner termination of the Option term under this Paragraph 4 or Paragraph 5, 6 or 7.   
  (b) Optionee shall, in accordance with the Vesting Schedule set forth in the Notice, vest in the Option Shares in a series of
installments over his or her period of Board service. Vesting in the Option Shares may be accelerated pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph 5, 6 or 7. In no event, however, shall any additional Option Shares vest following Optionee s
cessation of service as a Board member.      (c) As an administrative matter, the exercisable portion of this Option may only be
exercised until the close of the Nasdaq Global Select Market on the Expiration Date or   

the earlier termination date under Paragraph 5, 6 or 7 or, if such date is not a trading day
on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, the last trading day before such date. Any later attempt to exercise this Option will not be honored. For example, if Optionee ceases to remain in service as provided in Paragraph 5(a) and the date twelve
(12) months from the date of cessation is Monday, July 4 (a holiday on which the Nasdaq Global Select Market is closed), Optionee must exercise the exercisable portion of this Option by 4 pm Eastern Daylight Time on Friday, July 1.
      5.    Cessation of Board Service .  Should Optionee s service as a Board member cease while this Option remains
outstanding, then the Option term specified in Paragraph 2 shall terminate (and this Option shall cease to be outstanding) prior to the Expiration Date in accordance with the following provisions:   
  (a) Should Optionee cease to serve as a Board member for any reason (other than death or Disability) while this Option is outstanding,
then the period for exercising this Option shall be reduced to a twelve (12)-month period commencing with the date of such cessation of Board service, but in no event shall this Option be exercisable at any time after the Expiration Date. During
such limited period of exercisability, this Option may not be exercised in the aggregate for more than the number of Option Shares (if any) in which Optionee is vested on the date of his or her cessation of Board service. Upon the  earlier  of
(i) the expiration of such twelve (12)-month period or (ii) the specified Expiration Date, the Option shall terminate and cease to be exercisable with respect to any vested Option Shares for which the Option has not been exercised.
     (b) Should Optionee die during the twelve (12)-month period following his or her cessation of Board service and hold this
Option at the time of his or her death, then the personal representative of Optionee s estate or the person or persons to whom the Option is transferred pursuant to Optionee s will or in accordance with the laws of descent and distribution
shall have the right to exercise this Option for any or all of the Option Shares in which Optionee is vested at the time of Optionee s cessation of Board service (less any Option Shares purchased by Optionee after such cessation of Board
service but prior to death). Such right of exercise shall terminate, and this Option shall accordingly cease to be exercisable for such vested Option Shares, upon the  earlier  of (i) the expiration of the twelve (12)-month period measured
from the date of Optionee s cessation of Board service or (ii) the specified Expiration Date.      (c) Should Optionee
cease service as a Board member by reason of death or Disability, then all Option Shares at the time subject to this Option but not otherwise vested shall immediately vest in full so that Optionee (or the personal representative of Optionee s
estate or the person or persons to whom the Option is transferred upon Optionee s death) shall have the right to exercise this Option for any or all of the Option Shares as fully-vested shares of Common Stock at any time prior to the
 earlier  of (i) the expiration of the twelve (12)-month period measured from the date of Optionee s cessation of Board service or (ii) the specified Expiration Date.   
  (d) Upon Optionee s cessation of Board service for any reason other than death or Disability, this Option shall immediately
terminate and cease to be         
   2   

outstanding with respect to any and all Option Shares in which Optionee is not otherwise at
that time vested in accordance with the normal Vesting Schedule set forth in the Notice or the special vesting acceleration provisions of Paragraph 6 or 7 below.   
   6.    Corporate Transaction .    
  (a) In the event of a Corporate Transaction, all Option Shares at the time subject to this Option but not otherwise vested shall
automatically vest so that this Option shall, immediately prior to the specified effective date for the Corporate Transaction, become fully exercisable for all of the Option Shares at the time subject to this Option and may be exercised for all or
any portion of such shares as fully-vested shares of Common Stock. Immediately following the consummation of the Corporate Transaction, this Option shall terminate and cease to be outstanding, except to the extent assumed by the successor
corporation or its parent company.      (b) If this Option is assumed in connection with a Corporate Transaction, then this Option
shall be appropriately adjusted, immediately after such Corporate Transaction, to apply to the number and class of securities which would have been issuable to Optionee in consummation of such Corporate Transaction had the Option been exercised
immediately prior to such Corporate Transaction, and appropriate adjustments shall also be made to the Exercise Price,  provided  the aggregate Exercise Price shall remain the same.   
   7.    Change In Control/Hostile Take-Over .    
  (a) All Option Shares subject to this Option at the time of a Change In Control but not otherwise vested shall automatically vest so that
this Option shall, immediately prior to the effective date of such Change In Control, become fully exercisable for all of the Option Shares at the time subject to this Option and may be exercised for all or any portion of such shares as fully-vested
shares of Common Stock. This Option shall remain exercisable for such fully-vested Option Shares until the  earliest  to occur of (i) the specified Expiration Date, (ii) the sooner termination of this Option in accordance with
Paragraph 4, 5 or 6 or (iii) the surrender of this Option under Paragraph 7(b).      (b) Optionee shall have an unconditional
right (exercisable during the thirty (30)-day period immediately following the consummation of a  Hostile Take-Over  (as defined below)) to surrender this Option to the Company in exchange for a cash distribution from the Company in an
amount equal to the excess of (i) the  Take-Over Price  (as defined below) of the Option Shares at the time subject to the surrendered Option (whether or not those Option Shares are otherwise at the time vested) over (ii) the
aggregate Exercise Price payable for such shares. This Paragraph 7(b) limited stock appreciation right shall in all events terminate upon the expiration or sooner termination of the Option term and may not be assigned or transferred by Optionee. For
purposes of this Option,  Hostile Take-Over  shall mean the acquisition, directly or indirectly, by any person or related group of persons (other than the Company or a person that directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is
under common control with, the Company) of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the Exchange Act) of securities possessing more than thirty five percent (35%) of the total combined voting power of the Company s
outstanding securities pursuant to a tender or exchange offer made directly to the         
   3   

Company s shareholders which the Board does not recommend such shareholders to accept.
Further, for purposes of this Option,  Take-Over Price  shall mean the greater of (i) the Fair Market Value on the date the Option is surrendered to the Company in connection with a Hostile Take-Over, or (ii) the highest reported
price per share of Common Stock paid by the tender offeror in effecting the Hostile Take-Over.      (c) To exercise the Paragraph
7(b) limited stock appreciation right, Optionee must, during the applicable thirty (30)-day exercise period, provide the Company with written notice of the option surrender in which there is specified the number of Option Shares as to which the
Option is being surrendered. Such notice must be accompanied by the return of Optionee s copy of this Agreement, together with any written amendments to such Agreement. The cash distribution shall be paid to Optionee within five
(5) business days following such delivery date. Upon receipt of such cash distribution, this Option shall be cancelled with respect to the shares subject to the surrendered Option (or the surrendered portion), and Optionee shall cease to have
any further right to acquire those Option Shares under this Agreement. The Option shall, however, remain outstanding for the balance of the Option Shares (if any) in accordance with the terms and provisions of this Agreement, and the Company shall
accordingly issue a new stock option agreement (substantially in the same form as this Agreement) for those remaining Option Shares.   
   8.    Adjustment in Option Shares  . In the event of a subdivision of the outstanding Shares, a declaration of a dividend payable in
Shares, a declaration of a dividend payable in a form other than Shares in an amount that has a material effect on the price of Shares, a combination or consolidation of the outstanding Shares (by reclassification or otherwise) into a lesser number
of Shares, a recapitalization, a spin-off or a similar occurrence, appropriate adjustments shall be made to (i) the total number and/or kind of shares or securities subject to this Option and (ii) the Exercise Price in order to reflect
such change and thereby preclude a dilution or enlargement of benefits hereunder.       9.    Shareholder Rights  . The holder of
this Option shall not have any shareholder rights with respect to the Option Shares until such person shall have exercised the Option, paid the Exercise Price and become a holder of record of the purchased Shares.   
   10.    Manner of Exercising Option  .   
  (a) In order to exercise this Option with respect to all or any part of the Option Shares for which this Option is at the time
exercisable, Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising the Option) must take the following actions:      (i) Pay the
aggregate Exercise Price for the purchased Shares in one or more of the following forms:      (A) cash or check which, in the
Company s sole discretion, shall be made payable to a Company-designated brokerage firm or the Company; and      (B) as
permitted by applicable law, through a special sale and remittance procedure pursuant to which Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising the Option) shall concurrently provide irrevocable written instructions (I) to a
Company-designated         
   4   

brokerage firm (or in the case of an executive officer or Board member of the Company, an
Optionee-designated brokerage firm) to effect the immediate sale of the purchased Shares and remit to the Company, out of the sale proceeds available on the settlement date, sufficient funds to cover the aggregate Exercise Price payable for the
purchased Shares plus, if applicable, the amount necessary to satisfy the Company s withholding obligations at the minimum statutory withholding rates and (II) to the Company to deliver the certificates for the purchased Shares directly to such
brokerage firm in order to complete the sale transaction.      (ii) Furnish to the Company appropriate documentation that the
person or persons exercising the Option (if other than Optionee) have the right to exercise this Option.      (iii) Make
appropriate arrangements with the Company (or Parent or Subsidiary employing or retaining Optionee) for the satisfaction of all tax withholding requirements applicable to the Option exercise.   
  (iv) To the extent that the option is exercised for one or more unvested Option Shares, Optionee (or other person exercising the option)
shall deliver to the Secretary of the Company a purchase agreement for those unvested Option Shares.      (b) As soon as practical
after the exercise date, the Company shall issue to or on behalf of Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising this Option) the purchased Option Shares (as evidenced by an appropriate entry on the books of the Company or a duly authorized
transfer agent of the Company), subject to the appropriate legends and/or stop transfer instructions.      (c) In no event may
this Option be exercised for any fractional Shares.       11.    No Impairment of Rights  . This Agreement shall not in any way
affect the right of the Company to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise make changes in its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate or sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets. In
addition, nothing in this Agreement shall in any way be construed or interpreted so as to affect adversely or otherwise impair the right of the Company or the shareholders to remove Optionee from the Board at any time in accordance with the
provisions of applicable law.       12.    Compliance with Laws and Regulations  .   
  (a) The exercise of this Option and the issuance of the Option Shares upon such exercise shall be subject to compliance by the Company and
Optionee with all applicable laws, regulations and rules relating thereto, including all applicable regulations of any stock exchange (or the Nasdaq Global Select Market, if applicable) on which the Shares may be listed for trading at the time of
such exercise and issuance.      (b) The inability of the Company to obtain approval from any regulatory body having authority
deemed by the Company to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any Shares pursuant to this Option shall relieve the Company of any liability with respect to the non-issuance or sale of the Shares as to which such approval shall not have
been obtained. The Company, however, shall use its best efforts to obtain all such approvals.         
   5   

13.    Successors and Assigns  . Except to the extent otherwise provided in Paragraphs 3, 5,
6 and 7, the provisions of this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and be binding upon, the Company and its successors and assigns and Optionee, Optionee s assigns and the legal representatives, heirs and legatees of Optionee s
estate.       14.    Notices  . Any notice required or permitted under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be
deemed sufficient when delivered personally or sent by confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the U.S. mail, as certified or registered mail, with postage prepaid, and addressed to the Company at
the Company s principal corporate offices or to the Optionee at the address maintained for the Optionee in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently modified by written notice to the other party.   
   15.    Construction  . The Notice, this Agreement, and the Option evidenced hereby (a) are made and granted pursuant to the Plan and
are in all respects limited by and subject to the terms of the Plan, and (b) constitute the entire agreement between Optionee and the Company on the subject matter hereof and supercede all proposals, written or oral, and all other
communications between the parties related to the subject matter. All decisions of the Committee with respect to any question or issue arising under the Notice, this Agreement or the Plan shall be conclusive and binding on all persons having an
interest in this Option.       16.    Governing Law  . The interpretation, performance and enforcement of this Agreement shall be
governed by the laws of the State of California without resort to the conflict of laws principles thereof.       17.    Excess
Shares  . If the Option Shares covered by this Agreement exceed, as of the Grant Date, the number of Shares which may without shareholder approval be issued under the Plan, then this Option shall be void with respect to those excess shares,
unless shareholder approval of an amendment sufficiently increasing the number of Shares issuable under the Plan is obtained in accordance with the provisions of the Plan and all applicable laws, regulations and rules.   
   18.    Further Instruments  . The parties agree to execute such further instruments and to take such further action as may be reasonably
necessary to carry out the purposes and intent of this Agreement.         
   6   

(Prior to Fiscal 2009)    
   NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR ANNUAL GRANT    
   CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.    
    NOTICE OF GRANT OF STOCK OPTION     
  Notice is hereby given of the following option grant (the  Option ) made to purchase shares of Cisco Systems, Inc. (the  Company )
common stock:      Optionee:

Grant Date:

Type of Option: Nonstatutory Stock Option       

Grant  
  Number:

Number of Option Shares:

shares   
  Exercise Price: $               per share   
  Expiration Date:

Date Exercisable: Immediately Exercisable   
    Vesting Schedule        The Option
Shares shall initially be unvested and subject to repurchase by the Company at the Exercise Price paid per share. Optionee shall acquire a vested interest in, and the Company s repurchase right shall accordingly lapse, with respect to, the
Option Shares in a series of two (2) successive equal annual installments upon Optionee s completion of each year of service as a member of the Board over the two (2) year period measured from the Grant Date. In no event shall any
additional Option Shares vest after Optionee s cessation of Board service.        REPURCHASE RIGHT . OPTIONEE HEREBY AGREES THAT ALL
UNVESTED OPTION SHARES ACQUIRED UPON THE EXERCISE OF THE OPTION SHALL NOT BE TRANSFERABLE AND SHALL BE SUBJECT TO REPURCHASE BY THE COMPANY, AT THE EXERCISE PRICE PAID PER SHARE, UPON OPTIONEE S TERMINATION OF SERVICE AS A MEMBER OF THE BOARD
PRIOR TO VESTING IN THOSE SHARES. THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF SUCH REPURCHASE RIGHT SHALL BE SPECIFIED IN A STOCK PURCHASE AGREEMENT, IN FORM AND SUBSTANCE SATISFACTORY TO THE COMPANY, EXECUTED BY OPTIONEE AT THE TIME OF THE OPTION EXERCISE.  
     Optionee understands and agrees that the Option is offered subject to and in accordance with the terms of the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock
Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). Optionee further agrees to be bound by the terms of the Plan and the terms of the Option as set forth in the Stock Option Agreement attached hereto.   
    No Service Contract  . Nothing in this Notice or in the attached Stock Option Agreement or in the Plan shall confer upon Optionee any right
to continue to serve on the Board for any period of specific duration or interfere with or otherwise restrict in any way the rights of the Company or the Company s shareholders, which rights are hereby expressly reserved by each, to terminate
Optionee s service on the Board at any time, for any reason, with or without cause, and in accordance with the provisions of applicable law.   

Definitions .  All capitalized terms in this Notice shall have the meaning assigned to them in
this Notice, the attached Stock Option Agreement or the Plan.       DATED: 
                          ,              

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.    

By:  

Title:  

OPTIONEE      
      
   2   

STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT     
    Recitals        A. The Board has
adopted the Plan for the purpose of retaining the services of selected Employees, non-employee members of the Board or of the board of directors of any Parent or Subsidiary and Consultants and other independent advisors who provide services to the
Company (or any Parent or Subsidiary).      B. Optionee is to render valuable services to the Company (or a Parent or Subsidiary), and this
Agreement is executed pursuant to, and is intended to carry out the purposes of, the Plan in connection with the Company s grant of an option to Optionee.   
  C. All capitalized terms in this Agreement shall have the meaning assigned to them in this Agreement, the attached Notice of Grant of Stock Option (the
  Notice ), or the Plan.       NOW, THEREFORE , it is hereby agreed as follows:   
   1.    Grant of Option  . The Company hereby grants to Optionee, as of the Grant Date, a Nonstatutory Stock Option to purchase up to the
number of Option Shares specified in the Notice. The Option Shares shall be purchasable from time to time during the Option term specified in Paragraph 2 at the Exercise Price specified in the Notice.   
   2.    Option Term  . This Option shall have a maximum term of nine (9) years measured from the Grant Date and shall accordingly
expire at the close of business on the Expiration Date, unless sooner terminated in accordance with Paragraph 4, 5, 6 or 7.       3. 
  Non-Transferability  . This Option shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by operation of law.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, should the Optionee die while holding this Option, then this Option shall be transferred in accordance with Optionee s will or the laws of descent and distribution.   
   4.    Exercisability/Vesting  .   
  (a) This Option shall be immediately exercisable for any or all of the Option Shares, whether or not the Option Shares are vested in
accordance with the Vesting Schedule set forth in the Notice, and shall remain so exercisable until the Expiration Date or the sooner termination of the Option term under this Paragraph 4 or Paragraph 5, 6 or 7.   
  (b) Optionee shall, in accordance with the Vesting Schedule set forth in the Notice, vest in the Option Shares in a series of
installments over his or her period of Board service. Vesting in the Option Shares may be accelerated pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph 5, 6 or 7. In no event, however, shall any additional Option Shares vest following Optionee s
cessation of service as a Board member.      (c) As an administrative matter, the exercisable portion of this Option may only be
exercised until the close of the Nasdaq Global Select Market on the Expiration Date or   

the earlier termination date under Paragraph 5, 6 or 7 or, if such date is not a trading day
on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, the last trading day before such date. Any later attempt to exercise this Option will not be honored. For example, if Optionee ceases to remain in service as provided in Paragraph 5(a) and the date twelve
(12) months from the date of cessation is Monday, July 4 (a holiday on which the Nasdaq Global Select Market is closed), Optionee must exercise the exercisable portion of this Option by 4 pm Eastern Daylight Time on Friday, July 1.
      5.    Cessation of Board Service  . Should Optionee s service as a Board member cease while this Option remains
outstanding, then the Option term specified in Paragraph 2 shall terminate (and this Option shall cease to be outstanding) prior to the Expiration Date in accordance with the following provisions:   
  (a) Should Optionee cease to serve as a Board member for any reason (other than death or Disability) while this Option is outstanding,
then the period for exercising this Option shall be reduced to a twelve (12)-month period commencing with the date of such cessation of Board service, but in no event shall this Option be exercisable at any time after the Expiration Date. During
such limited period of exercisability, this Option may not be exercised in the aggregate for more than the number of Option Shares (if any) in which Optionee is vested on the date of his or her cessation of Board service. Upon the  earlier  of
(i) the expiration of such twelve (12)-month period or (ii) the specified Expiration Date, the Option shall terminate and cease to be exercisable with respect to any vested Option Shares for which the Option has not been exercised.
     (b) Should Optionee die during the twelve (12)-month period following his or her cessation of Board service and hold this
Option at the time of his or her death, then the personal representative of Optionee s estate or the person or persons to whom the Option is transferred pursuant to Optionee s will or in accordance with the laws of descent and distribution
shall have the right to exercise this Option for any or all of the Option Shares in which Optionee is vested at the time of Optionee s cessation of Board service (less any Option Shares purchased by Optionee after such cessation of Board
service but prior to death). Such right of exercise shall terminate, and this Option shall accordingly cease to be exercisable for such vested Option Shares, upon the  earlier  of (i) the expiration of the twelve (12)-month period measured
from the date of Optionee s cessation of Board service or (ii) the specified Expiration Date.      (c) Should Optionee
cease service as a Board member by reason of death or Disability, then all Option Shares at the time subject to this Option but not otherwise vested shall immediately vest in full so that Optionee (or the personal representative of Optionee s
estate or the person or persons to whom the Option is transferred upon Optionee s death) shall have the right to exercise this Option for any or all of the Option Shares as fully-vested shares of Common Stock at any time prior to the
 earlier  of (i) the expiration of the twelve (12)-month period measured from the date of Optionee s cessation of Board service or (ii) the specified Expiration Date.   
  (d) Upon Optionee s cessation of Board service for any reason other than death or Disability, this Option shall immediately
terminate and cease to be         
   2   

outstanding with respect to any and all Option Shares in which Optionee is not otherwise at
that time vested in accordance with the normal Vesting Schedule set forth in the Notice or the special vesting acceleration provisions of Paragraph 6 or 7 below.   
   6.    Corporate Transaction  .   
  (a) In the event of a Corporate Transaction, all Option Shares at the time subject to this Option but not otherwise vested shall
automatically vest so that this Option shall, immediately prior to the specified effective date for the Corporate Transaction, become fully exercisable for all of the Option Shares at the time subject to this Option and may be exercised for all or
any portion of such shares as fully-vested shares of Common Stock. Immediately following the consummation of the Corporate Transaction, this Option shall terminate and cease to be outstanding, except to the extent assumed by the successor
corporation or its parent company.      (b) If this Option is assumed in connection with a Corporate Transaction, then this Option
shall be appropriately adjusted, immediately after such Corporate Transaction, to apply to the number and class of securities which would have been issuable to Optionee in consummation of such Corporate Transaction had the Option been exercised
immediately prior to such Corporate Transaction, and appropriate adjustments shall also be made to the Exercise Price,  provided  the aggregate Exercise Price shall remain the same.   
   7.    Change In Control/Hostile Take-Over  .   
  (a) All Option Shares subject to this Option at the time of a Change In Control but not otherwise vested shall automatically vest so that
this Option shall, immediately prior to the effective date of such Change In Control, become fully exercisable for all of the Option Shares at the time subject to this Option and may be exercised for all or any portion of such shares as fully-vested
shares of Common Stock. This Option shall remain exercisable for such fully-vested Option Shares until the  earliest  to occur of (i) the specified Expiration Date, (ii) the sooner termination of this Option in accordance with
Paragraph 4, 5 or 6 or (iii) the surrender of this Option under Paragraph 7(b).      (b) Optionee shall have an unconditional
right (exercisable during the thirty (30)-day period immediately following the consummation of a  Hostile Take-Over  (as defined below)) to surrender this Option to the Company in exchange for a cash distribution from the Company in an
amount equal to the excess of (i) the  Take-Over Price  (as defined below) of the Option Shares at the time subject to the surrendered Option (whether or not those Option Shares are otherwise at the time vested) over (ii) the
aggregate Exercise Price payable for such shares. This Paragraph 7(b) limited stock appreciation right shall in all events terminate upon the expiration or sooner termination of the Option term and may not be assigned or transferred by Optionee. For
purposes of this Option,  Hostile Take-Over  shall mean the acquisition, directly or indirectly, by any person or related group of persons (other than the Company or a person that directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is
under common control with, the Company) of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the Exchange Act) of securities possessing more than thirty five percent (35%) of the total combined voting power of the Company s
outstanding securities pursuant to a tender or exchange offer made directly to the         
   3   

Company s shareholders which the Board does not recommend such shareholders to accept.
Further, for purposes of this Option,  Take-Over Price  shall mean the greater of (i) the Fair Market Value on the date the Option is surrendered to the Company in connection with a Hostile Take-Over, or (ii) the highest reported
price per share of Common Stock paid by the tender offeror in effecting the Hostile Take-Over.      (c) To exercise the Paragraph
7(b) limited stock appreciation right, Optionee must, during the applicable thirty (30)-day exercise period, provide the Company with written notice of the option surrender in which there is specified the number of Option Shares as to which the
Option is being surrendered. Such notice must be accompanied by the return of Optionee s copy of this Agreement, together with any written amendments to such Agreement. The cash distribution shall be paid to Optionee within five
(5) business days following such delivery date. Upon receipt of such cash distribution, this Option shall be cancelled with respect to the shares subject to the surrendered Option (or the surrendered portion), and Optionee shall cease to have
any further right to acquire those Option Shares under this Agreement. The Option shall, however, remain outstanding for the balance of the Option Shares (if any) in accordance with the terms and provisions of this Agreement, and the Company shall
accordingly issue a new stock option agreement (substantially in the same form as this Agreement) for those remaining Option Shares.   
   8.    Adjustment in Option Shares  . In the event of a subdivision of the outstanding Shares, a declaration of a dividend payable in
Shares, a declaration of a dividend payable in a form other than Shares in an amount that has a material effect on the price of Shares, a combination or consolidation of the outstanding Shares (by reclassification or otherwise) into a lesser number
of Shares, a recapitalization, a spin-off or a similar occurrence, appropriate adjustments shall be made to (i) the total number and/or kind of shares or securities subject to this Option and (ii) the Exercise Price in order to reflect
such change and thereby preclude a dilution or enlargement of benefits hereunder.       9.    Shareholder Rights  . The holder of
this Option shall not have any shareholder rights with respect to the Option Shares until such person shall have exercised the Option, paid the Exercise Price and become a holder of record of the purchased Shares.   
   10.    Manner of Exercising Option  .   
  (a) In order to exercise this Option with respect to all or any part of the Option Shares for which this Option is at the time
exercisable, Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising the Option) must take the following actions:      (i) Pay the
aggregate Exercise Price for the purchased Shares in one or more of the following forms:      (A) cash or check which, in the
Company s sole discretion, shall be made payable to a Company-designated brokerage firm or the Company; and      (B) as
permitted by applicable law, through a special sale and remittance procedure pursuant to which Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising the Option) shall concurrently provide irrevocable written instructions (I) to a
Company-designated         
   4   

brokerage firm (or in the case of an executive officer or Board member of the Company, an
Optionee-designated brokerage firm) to effect the immediate sale of the purchased Shares and remit to the Company, out of the sale proceeds available on the settlement date, sufficient funds to cover the aggregate Exercise Price payable for the
purchased Shares plus, if applicable, the amount necessary to satisfy the Company s withholding obligations at the minimum statutory withholding rates and (II) to the Company to deliver the certificates for the purchased Shares directly to such
brokerage firm in order to complete the sale transaction.      (ii) Furnish to the Company appropriate documentation that the
person or persons exercising the Option (if other than Optionee) have the right to exercise this Option.      (iii) Make
appropriate arrangements with the Company (or Parent or Subsidiary employing or retaining Optionee) for the satisfaction of all tax withholding requirements applicable to the Option exercise.   
  (iv) To the extent that the option is exercised for one or more unvested Option Shares, Optionee (or other person exercising the option)
shall deliver to the Secretary of the Company a purchase agreement for those unvested Option Shares.      (b) As soon as practical
after the exercise date, the Company shall issue to or on behalf of Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising this Option) the purchased Option Shares (as evidenced by an appropriate entry on the books of the Company or a duly authorized
transfer agent of the Company), subject to the appropriate legends and/or stop transfer instructions.      (c) In no event may
this Option be exercised for any fractional Shares.       11.    No Impairment of Rights  . This Agreement shall not in any way
affect the right of the Company to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise make changes in its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate or sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets. In
addition, nothing in this Agreement shall in any way be construed or interpreted so as to affect adversely or otherwise impair the right of the Company or the shareholders to remove Optionee from the Board at any time in accordance with the
provisions of applicable law.       12.    Compliance with Laws and Regulations  .   
  (a) The exercise of this Option and the issuance of the Option Shares upon such exercise shall be subject to compliance by the Company and
Optionee with all applicable laws, regulations and rules relating thereto, including all applicable regulations of any stock exchange (or the Nasdaq Global Select Market, if applicable) on which the Shares may be listed for trading at the time of
such exercise and issuance.      (b) The inability of the Company to obtain approval from any regulatory body having authority
deemed by the Company to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any Shares pursuant to this Option shall relieve the Company of any liability with respect to the non-issuance or sale of the Shares as to which such approval shall not have
been obtained. The Company, however, shall use its best efforts to obtain all such approvals.         
   5   

13.    Successors and Assigns  . Except to the extent otherwise provided in Paragraphs 3, 5,
6 and 7, the provisions of this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and be binding upon, the Company and its successors and assigns and Optionee, Optionee s assigns and the legal representatives, heirs and legatees of Optionee s
estate.       14.    Notices  . Any notice required or permitted under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be
deemed sufficient when delivered personally or sent by confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the U.S. mail, as certified or registered mail, with postage prepaid, and addressed to the Company at
the Company s principal corporate offices or to the Optionee at the address maintained for the Optionee in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently modified by written notice to the other party.   
   15.    Construction  . The Notice, this Agreement, and the Option evidenced hereby (a) are made and granted pursuant to the Plan and
are in all respects limited by and subject to the terms of the Plan, and (b) constitute the entire agreement between Optionee and the Company on the subject matter hereof and supercede all proposals, written or oral, and all other
communications between the parties related to the subject matter. All decisions of the Committee with respect to any question or issue arising under the Notice, this Agreement or the Plan shall be conclusive and binding on all persons having an
interest in this Option.       16.    Governing Law  . The interpretation, performance and enforcement of this Agreement shall be
governed by the laws of the State of California without resort to the conflict of laws principles thereof.       17.    Excess
Shares  . If the Option Shares covered by this Agreement exceed, as of the Grant Date, the number of Shares which may without shareholder approval be issued under the Plan, then this Option shall be void with respect to those excess shares,
unless shareholder approval of an amendment sufficiently increasing the number of Shares issuable under the Plan is obtained in accordance with the provisions of the Plan and all applicable laws, regulations and rules.   
   18.    Further Instruments  . The parties agree to execute such further instruments and to take such further action as may be reasonably
necessary to carry out the purposes and intent of this Agreement.         
   6   

NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR STOCK GRANT    
   CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.    
    STOCK GRANT AGREEMENT     
  This Stock Grant Agreement (the  Agreement ) is made and entered into as of the Grant Date (as defined below) by and between Cisco Systems,
Inc., a California corporation (the  Company ), and you pursuant to the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). The material terms of this Stock Grant Award are as follows:   

Grantee:  

Grant Date:  

Grant Number:  

Restricted Shares:    

Vest Date:  
     
  The completion of one (1) year of Board service measured from the Grant Date.    
  To the extent any capitalized terms used in this Agreement are not defined, they shall have the meaning ascribed to them in the Plan. In the event of a
conflict between the terms and provisions of the Plan and the terms and provisions of this Agreement, the Plan terms and provisions shall prevail.   
  In consideration of the mutual agreements herein contained and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties agree as follows:   
   1.    Restricted Shares  . Pursuant to the Plan, the Company hereby transfers to you, and you hereby accept from the Company, a Stock
Grant Award consisting of the Restricted Shares, on the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Plan.       2.    Vesting of
Restricted Shares  . So long as your service on the Board continues, the Restricted Shares shall vest in accordance with the following schedule: one-hundred percent (100%) of the total number of Restricted Shares issued pursuant to this
Agreement shall vest on the Vest Date, unless otherwise provided by the Plan or Section 3 below. Except as provided in Section 3 below, in the event of the termination of your Board service for any reason, all unvested Restricted Shares
shall be immediately forfeited without consideration. For purposes of facilitating the enforcement of the provisions of this Section 2, the Company may issue stop-transfer instructions on the Restricted Shares to the Company s transfer
agent, or otherwise hold the Restricted Shares in escrow, until the Restricted Shares have vested and you have satisfied all applicable obligations with respect to the Restricted Shares, including any applicable tax withholding obligations set forth
in Section 5 below. Any new, substituted or additional securities or other property which is issued or distributed with respect to the unvested Restricted Shares shall be subject to the same terms and conditions as are applicable to the
unvested Restricted Shares under this Agreement and the Plan.   

3.      Special Acceleration .    
  (a) To the extent the Restricted Shares are outstanding at the time of a Corporate Transaction or a Change in Control, but not otherwise
fully vested, such Restricted Shares shall automatically accelerate immediately prior to the effective date of the Corporate Transaction or the Change in Control, as the case may be, and shall become vested in full at that time.   
  (b) If your service on the Board ceases as a result of your death or Disability then, to the extent the Restricted Shares are
outstanding, but not otherwise fully vested, such Restricted Shares shall automatically accelerate and shall become vested in full at that time.   
  (c) This Stock Grant Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Company to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change
its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate, sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets.   
   4.    Restriction on Election to Recognize Income in the Year of Grant  . Under Section 83 of the Code, the Fair Market Value of the
Restricted Shares on the date the Restricted Shares vest will be taxable as ordinary income at that time. You understand, acknowledge and agree that, as a condition to the grant of this Award, you may not elect to be taxed at the time the Restricted
Shares are acquired by filing an election under Section 83(b) of the Code with the Internal Revenue Service.       5.    Withholding
Taxes  . You agree to make arrangements satisfactory to the Company for the satisfaction of any applicable withholding tax obligations that arise in connection with the Restricted Shares which, at the sole discretion of the Company, may
include (i) having the Company withhold Shares from the Restricted Shares held in escrow, or (ii) any other arrangement approved by the Company, in any case, equal in value to the amount necessary to satisfy any such withholding tax
obligation. Such Shares shall be valued based on the Fair Market Value as of the day prior to the date that the amount of tax to be withheld is to be determined under applicable law. The Company shall not be required to release the Restricted Shares
from the stop-transfer instructions or escrow unless and until such obligations are satisfied.       6.    Tax Advice  . You
represent, warrant and acknowledge that the Company has made no warranties or representations to you with respect to the income tax consequences of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and you are in no manner relying on the Company or
the Company s representatives for an assessment of such tax consequences. YOU UNDERSTAND THAT THE TAX LAWS AND REGULATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGE. YOU SHOULD CONSULT YOUR OWN TAX ADVISOR REGARDING ANY STOCK GRANT AWARD. NOTHING STATED HEREIN IS
INTENDED OR WRITTEN TO BE USED, AND CANNOT BE USED, FOR THE PURPOSE OF AVOIDING TAXPAYER PENALTIES.       7.    Non-Transferability of
Restricted Shares  . Restricted Shares which have not vested pursuant to Section 2 above shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily or
involuntarily or by the operation of law. However, this Section 7 shall not         
   2   

preclude you from designating a beneficiary who will receive any vested Restricted Shares in the event of
the your death, nor shall it preclude a transfer of vested Restricted Shares by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.       8. 
  Restriction on Transfer  . Regardless of whether the transfer or issuance of the Restricted Shares has been registered under the Securities Act or has been registered or qualified under the securities laws of any state, the Company may
impose additional restrictions upon the sale, pledge, or other transfer of the Restricted Shares (including the placement of appropriate legends on stock certificates and the issuance of stop-transfer instructions to the Company s transfer
agent) if, in the judgment of the Company and the Company s counsel, such restrictions are necessary in order to achieve compliance with the provisions of the Securities Act, the securities laws of any state, or any other law.   
   9.    Stock Certificate Restrictive Legends  . Stock certificates evidencing the Restricted Shares may bear such restrictive legends as
the Company and the Company s counsel deem necessary under applicable law or pursuant to this Agreement.       10. 
  Representations, Warranties, Covenants, and Acknowledgments  . You hereby agree that in the event the Company and the Company s counsel deem it necessary or advisable in the exercise of their discretion, the transfer or issuance of
the Restricted Shares may be conditioned upon you making certain representations, warranties, and acknowledgments relating to compliance with applicable securities laws.   
   11.    Voting and Other Rights  . Subject to the terms of this Agreement, you shall have all the rights and privileges of a shareholder
of the Company while the Restricted Shares are subject to stop-transfer instructions, or otherwise held in escrow, including the right to vote and to receive dividends (if any).   
   12.    Authorization to Release Necessary Personal Information  .   
  (a) You hereby authorize and direct the Company to collect, use and transfer in electronic or other form, any personal information (the
 Data ) regarding your service, the nature and amount of your compensation and the facts and conditions of your participation in the Plan (including, but not limited to, your name, home address, telephone number, date of birth, social
security number (or any other social or national identification number), compensation, nationality, job title, number of Shares held and the details of all Awards or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, cancelled, exercised, vested, unvested or
outstanding) for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. You understand that the Data may be transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties assisting in the
implementation, administration and management of the Plan, including any requisite transfer to a broker or other third party assisting with the administration of this Stock Grant Award under the Plan or with whom Shares acquired pursuant to this
Stock Grant Award or cash from the sale of such shares may be deposited. You acknowledge that recipients of the Data may be located in different countries, and those countries may have data privacy laws and protections different from those in the
country of your residence. Furthermore, you acknowledge and understand that the transfer of the Data to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties is necessary for your participation in the Plan.   
     
   3   

(b) You may at any time withdraw the consents herein by contacting your local human
resources representative in writing. You further acknowledge that withdrawal of consent may affect your ability to exercise or realize benefits from this Stock Grant Award, and your ability to participate in the Plan.   
   13.    No Entitlement or Claims for Compensation  .   
  (a) Your rights, if any, in respect of or in connection with this Stock Grant Award or any other Award is derived solely from the
discretionary decision of the Company to permit you to participate in the Plan and to benefit from a discretionary Award. By accepting this Stock Grant Award, you expressly acknowledge that there is no obligation on the part of the Company to
continue the Plan and/or grant any additional Awards to you. This Stock Grant Award is not intended to be compensation of a continuing or recurring nature, or part of your normal or expected compensation, and in no way represents any portion of a
your salary, compensation, or other remuneration for purposes of pension benefits, severance, redundancy, resignation or any other purpose.   
  (b) Neither the Plan nor this Stock Grant Award or any other Award granted under the Plan shall be deemed to give you a right to remain
an Employee, Consultant or director of the Company, a Parent, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate. The Company and its Parents and Subsidiaries and Affiliates reserve the right to terminate your Service at any time, with or without cause, and for any
reason, subject to applicable laws, the Company s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws and a written employment agreement (if any), and you shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived any claim to damages or specific performance for breach of
contract or dismissal, compensation for loss of office, tort or otherwise with respect to the Plan, this Stock Grant Award or any outstanding Award that is forfeited and/or is terminated by its terms or to any future Award.   
  (c) You agree that the Company may require that Restricted Shares be held by a broker designated by the Company. In addition, you agree
that your rights hereunder shall be subject to set-off by the Company for any valid debts you owe the Company.       14.    Governing
Law  . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California without regard to the conflict of laws principles thereof.   
   15.    Notices  . Any notice required or permitted under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed sufficient
when delivered personally or sent by confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the U.S. mail, as certified or registered mail, with postage prepaid, and addressed to the Company at the Company s
principal corporate offices or to you at the address maintained for you in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently modified by written notice to the other party.   
   16.    Binding Effect  . Subject to the limitations set forth in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be binding upon, and inure to the
benefit of, the executors, administrators, heirs, legal representatives, successors, and assigns of the parties hereto.       17. 
  Severability  . If any provision of this Agreement is held to be unenforceable for any reason, it shall be adjusted rather than voided, if possible, in order to achieve the intent of the parties to the extent possible. In any event, all
other provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed valid and enforceable to the full extent possible.         
   4   

DATED:
                          ,              

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.    

By:  

Title:  

GRANTEE      
      
   5   

NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR STOCK UNIT    
   IN LIEU OF ANNUAL RETAINER    
   CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.    
    STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT     
  This Stock Unit Agreement (the  Agreement ) is made and entered into as of the Grant Date (as defined below) by and between Cisco Systems,
Inc., a California corporation (the  Company ), and you pursuant to the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). The material terms of this Stock Unit Award are as follows:   

Grantee:  

Grant Date:  

Grant Number:  

Restricted Stock Units:  

To the extent any capitalized terms used in this Agreement are not defined, they shall have the meaning ascribed
to them in the Plan. In the event of a conflict between the terms and provisions of the Plan and the terms and provisions of this Agreement, the Plan terms and provisions shall prevail.   
  In consideration of the mutual agreements herein contained and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties agree as follows:   
   1.    Restricted Stock Units  . Pursuant to the Plan, the Company hereby grants to you, and you hereby accept from the Company, Restricted
Stock Units, each of which is a bookkeeping entry representing the equivalent in value of one (1) Share, on the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Plan.   
   2.    Vesting of Restricted Stock Units  . One-hundred percent (100%) of the total number of Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to
this Agreement shall vest on the Grant Date.       3.    Settlement of Restricted Stock Units  . Restricted Stock Units shall be
automatically settled in Shares upon your separation from service within the meaning of Code Section 409A ( Separation from Service ), provided that the Company shall have no obligation to issue Shares pursuant to this Agreement unless and
until you have satisfied any applicable tax withholding obligations and such issuance otherwise complies with all applicable law.       4. 
  Tax Advice  . You represent, warrant and acknowledge that the Company has made no warranties or representations to you with respect to the income tax consequences of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and you are in no
manner relying on the Company or the Company s representatives for an assessment of such tax consequences. YOU UNDERSTAND THAT THE TAX LAWS AND REGULATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGE. YOU SHOULD CONSULT YOUR OWN TAX ADVISOR REGARDING ANY RESTRICTED
STOCK UNITS. NOTHING STATED HEREIN IS INTENDED OR WRITTEN TO BE USED, AND CANNOT BE USED, FOR THE PURPOSE OF AVOIDING TAXPAYER PENALTIES.   

5.    Non-Transferability of Restricted Stock Units  . Restricted Stock Units shall not be
anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by operation of law. However, this Section 5 shall not preclude you from designating a
beneficiary who will receive vested Shares pursuant to this award in the event of your death, nor shall it preclude a transfer of vested Shares pursuant to this award by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.   
   6.    Restriction on Transfer  . Regardless of whether the transfer or issuance of the Shares to be issued pursuant to the Restricted
Stock Units has been registered under the Securities Act or has been registered or qualified under the securities laws of any state, the Company may impose additional restrictions upon the sale, pledge, or other transfer of the Shares (including the
placement of appropriate legends on stock certificates and the issuance of stop-transfer instructions to the Company s transfer agent) if, in the judgment of the Company and the Company s counsel, such restrictions are necessary in order
to achieve compliance with the provisions of the Securities Act, the securities laws of any state, or any other law.       7.    Stock
Certificate Restrictive Legends   .  Stock certificates evidencing the Shares issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units may bear such restrictive legends as the Company and the Company s counsel deem necessary under applicable
law or pursuant to this Agreement.       8.    Representations, Warranties, Covenants, and Acknowledgments  . You hereby agree that
in the event the Company and the Company s counsel deem it necessary or advisable in the exercise of their discretion, the transfer or issuance of the Shares issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units may be conditioned upon you making
certain representations, warranties, and acknowledgments relating to compliance with applicable securities laws.       9.    Voting and
Other Rights  . Subject to the terms of this Agreement, you shall not have any voting rights or any other rights and privileges of a shareholder of the Company unless and until the Restricted Stock Units are settled in Shares upon your
Separation from Service.       10.    Authorization to Release Necessary Personal Information  .   
  (a) You hereby authorize and direct the Company to collect, use and transfer in electronic or other form, any personal information (the
 Data ) regarding your service, the nature and amount of your compensation and the facts and conditions of your participation in the Plan (including, but not limited to, your name, home address, telephone number, date of birth, social
security number (or any other social or national identification number), compensation, nationality, job title, number of Shares held and the details of all Awards or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, cancelled, exercised, vested, unvested or
outstanding) for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. You understand that the Data may be transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties assisting in the
implementation, administration and management of the Plan, including any requisite transfer to a broker or other third party assisting with the administration of these Restricted Stock Units under the Plan or with whom Shares acquired pursuant to
these Restricted Stock Units or cash from the sale of such shares may be deposited. You acknowledge that recipients of the Data may be located in different countries, and those countries may have data privacy laws and protections different from
those in the country of your residence. Furthermore, you acknowledge and understand that the transfer of the Data to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties is necessary for your participation in the Plan.   
     
   2   

(b) Prior to the time that the Restricted Stock Units are settled in Shares upon your
Separation from Service, you shall have no rights other than those of a general creditor of the Company. The Restricted Stock Units represent an unfunded and unsecured obligation of the Company.   
  (c) You may at any time withdraw the consents herein by contacting the Company s local human resources representative in writing.
You further acknowledge that withdrawal of consent may affect your ability to exercise or realize benefits from these Restricted Stock Units, and your ability to participate in the Plan.   
   11.    Governing Law  . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California without
regard to the conflict of laws principles thereof.       12.    N otices . Any notice required or permitted under the terms of this
Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed sufficient when delivered personally or sent by confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the U.S. mail, as certified or registered mail, with postage
prepaid, and addressed to the Company at the Company s principal corporate offices or to you at the address maintained for you in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently modified by written notice to the other party.
      13.    Binding Effect  . Subject to the limitations set forth in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be binding upon, and
inure to the benefit of, the executors, administrators, heirs, legal representatives, successors, and assigns of the parties hereto.   
   14.    Severability  . If any provision of this Agreement is held to be unenforceable for any reason, it shall be adjusted rather than
voided, if possible, in order to achieve the intent of the parties to the extent possible. In any event, all other provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed valid and enforceable to the full extent possible.   

DATED:  

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.   

By:  

Title:  

GRANTEE    
      
   3   

NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR ELECTION UNDER THE    
   CISCO SYSTEMS, INC. 2005 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN    
   INITIAL EQUITY AWARD       I,
                                          
                , being a prospective newly elected or appointed non-employee member of the Board of Directors of Cisco Systems, Inc. (the  Company ) hereby elect
to defer the settlement of my total initial restricted stock unit award anticipated to be granted under the 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ) on
                           in connection with my initial election or appointment as a non-employee member of the Board of
Directors of the Company.      This election will be effective only if received by
                                          
                 on or before
                                          
                 [the date of the non-employee director s election or appointment].   
  If I do not elect to defer the settlement of my initial restricted stock unit grant, the restricted stock unit grant will be automatically settled in
shares of the Company s common stock on, or as soon as practicable after, the below described vesting dates of the restricted stock unit grant.   
  Fifty percent (50%) of my initial restricted stock unit grant will vest upon the completion of one year of Board service measured from my initial
appointment or election date and the remaining fifty percent (50%) will vest upon my completion of one year of Board service thereafter (subject to acceleration in certain cases), as more fully set forth in the Stock Unit Agreement. I
understand that if my  separation from service  within the meaning of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code ( Separation from Service ) occurs before my restricted stock unit grant vests, any unvested portion will be
forfeited.      I understand that if I elect to defer the settlement of my initial restricted stock unit grant, any vested portion of my stock
unit grant will not be settled in shares of the Company s common stock upon the above mentioned vesting dates, but instead will be settled in shares of the Company s common stock on, or as soon as practicable after, my Separation from
Service (which generally will be the date my service as a member of the Board of Directors of the Company terminates).      I understand that my
receipt of shares of the Company s common stock pursuant to any stock unit grant will be taxed as ordinary income to me based on the value of the shares on the date the stock unit grant is settled and I receive shares of the Company s
common stock.       

Signature of Non-Employee Director  

Date        * Because individual circumstances vary, Cisco
Systems, Inc. can not provide tax advice and you should consult with your own tax advisor regarding the income tax consequences of your potential elections.    

NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR ELECTION UNDER THE    
   CISCO SYSTEMS, INC. 2005 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN    
   ANNUAL RETAINER   EQUITY AWARD    
    ANNUAL RETAINER        I,
                                          
                , being a non-employee member of the Board of Directors of Cisco Systems, Inc. (the  Company ) hereby elect to receive (complete  either 
(a) or (b) below):       

(a)  
            % (insert 0%  OR  a percentage between 25% and 100%) of my total annual retainer for the next year of Board
service commencing at the next annual meeting of shareholders;         

(b)  
  $               (insert $0  OR  a dollar amount between $18,750 and $75,000) of my total annual
retainer for the next year of Board service commencing at the next annual meeting of shareholders;        in the form of (check either
(i) or (ii) below):      (i)                a fully
vested deferred stock unit grant which will be granted under the 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ) on November       , 200     based on the closing value of the Company s common stock
on that date;      (ii)                a fully vested stock grant
which will be granted under the Plan on November       , 200     based on the closing value of the Company s common stock on that date.   
  I understand that this election will be effective only if received by
                                       on or before
                       [December 31, [PRECEDING YEAR]].   
  I further understand that I will receive my annual retainer in the form of cash to the extent that I do not elect to receive it in the form of a stock
unit grant or stock grant under the Plan on, or as soon as practicable after, the date of the annual meeting of shareholders on
                      , 20      .   
  I understand that, if I elect to receive a stock unit grant, any such stock unit grant will be settled in shares of the Company s common stock on,
or as soon as practicable after, my  separation from service  within the meaning of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code (which generally will be the date my service as a member of the Board of Directors of the Company
terminates).      I further understand that my receipt of shares of the Company s common stock pursuant to any stock unit grant will be taxed
as ordinary income to me based on the value of the shares on the date the stock unit grant is settled and I receive shares of the Company s common stock.   
  I understand that, if I elect to receive a stock grant, I will receive the shares representing any such stock grant on, or as soon as practicable after,
the date of the annual shareholder meeting and that my receipt of a stock grant will be taxed as ordinary income to me based on the value of the shares on the date of grant.   

ANNUAL EQUITY AWARD     
  I further (check one) (i)             ELECT  or
(ii)             DO NOT ELECT  to defer the settlement of my total annual restricted stock unit award anticipated to be granted under the 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ) on
                      , 20       immediately following the Company s 20       Annual
Meeting of Shareholders.      I understand that this election will be effective only if received by
                                       on or before
                       [December 31, [PRECEDING YEAR]].   
  If I do not elect to defer the settlement of my annual restricted stock unit grant, the above-mentioned restricted stock unit grant will be automatically
settled in shares of the Company s common stock on, or as soon as practicable after, the vesting of the restricted stock unit grant upon the completion of one year of Board service following the date of grant (subject to acceleration in certain
cases), as more fully set forth in the Stock Unit Agreement. I understand that if my  separation from service  within the meaning of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code ( Separation from Service ) occurs before my
restricted stock unit grant vests, the grant will be forfeited.      I understand that if I elect to defer the settlement of the above-mentioned
annual restricted stock unit grant, any vested portion of my restricted stock unit grant will not be settled in shares of the Company s common stock upon the above-described vesting date, but instead will be settled in shares of the
Company s common stock on, or as soon as practicable after, my Separation from Service (which generally will be the date my service as a member of the Board of Directors of the Company terminates).   
  I understand that my receipt of shares of the Company s common stock pursuant to any stock unit grant will be taxed as ordinary income to me based
on the value of the shares on the date the stock unit grant is settled and I receive shares of the Company s common stock.       

Signature of Non-Employee Director  

Date        * Because individual circumstances vary, Cisco
Systems, Inc. can not provide tax advice and you should consult with your own tax advisor regarding the income tax consequences of your potential elections.    

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.    
   VESTING ACCELERATION POLICY    
   FOR    
   DEATH AND TERMINAL ILLNESS    
   AS    
   AMENDED JANUARY 16, 2008    
  Unless and until the Compensation   Management Development Committee of the Board of Directors of Cisco Systems, Inc. determines otherwise, the
following policy shall be applied to all equity awards issued under any equity plan maintained Cisco or any Cisco subsidiary, including equity awards and/or equity plans assumed by Cisco in connection with its acquisition of companies, and held by
any employee of Cisco or any Cisco subsidiary (each such award shall be referred to herein as an  equity award ), except to the extent that the application of such policy would be prohibited by the applicable equity plan, equity award
agreement or any applicable law, rule or regulation.      For purposes of this policy:   

the value of stock options and stock appreciation rights is based on the difference between the exercise price of the equity awards and the closing
price of Cisco s stock on the date of the employee s death or terminal illness, as applicable, or if such day is not a trading day, the last trading day prior to the date of death or terminal illness, as applicable; and

the value of stock grants, stock units, and unvested shares previously acquired pursuant to equity awards (such shares are referred to herein as
 unvested equity award shares ) is based on the difference between the purchase price, if any, and the closing price of Cisco s stock on the date of the employee s death or terminal illness, as applicable, or if such day is not a
trading day, the last trading day prior to the date of death or terminal illness, as applicable.          ACCELERATION UPON DEATH
OF EMPLOYEE       Upon the death of an employee, Cisco will accelerate the vesting of the employee s outstanding equity awards and any
unvested equity award shares up to a specified limit based on the value of the equity awards and/or shares on the date of death. The limit on the amount of accelerated vesting is the greater of: (a) one-hundred percent (100%) of the unvested equity
awards and/or unvested equity award shares up to a total value of $10 million; or (b) up to one year of vesting from the date of death as to all unvested equity awards and/or unvested equity award shares. For example, if an employee held unvested
options for 100,000 shares with an exercise price of $1 which would vest in four annual installments of 25,000 shares, and the closing price of Cisco s stock on the date of the employee s death was $101, all 100,000 of the shares would
become vested (100,000 shares x $100 (the difference between $101 and $1) = $10,000,000).       ACCELERATION UPON TERMINAL ILLNESS OF EMPLOYEE
      Upon the terminal illness of an employee, Cisco will accelerate the vesting of the employee s outstanding equity awards and any
unvested equity award shares up to a specified limit based on the value of the equity awards and/or shares on the date of the terminal illness. An employee will be considered terminally ill upon the approval by Cisco s employee life insurance
provider of the accelerated life insurance benefit which indicates 12 months or less to live. When a request is made to accelerate the vesting of an employee s outstanding equity awards and early life insurance payouts are not also requested,
an employee will be considered terminally ill upon the approval by Cisco s external, independent medical review vendor (which may include Cisco s employee life insurance provider). The date of terminal illness will be the date the
determination is made by Cisco s employee life insurance provider or Cisco s external, independent medical review vendor. The limit on the amount of accelerated vesting is the greater of: (a) one-hundred percent (100%) of the unvested
equity awards and/or unvested equity award shares up to a total value of $10 million; or (b) up to one year of vesting from the date of the terminal illness as to all unvested equity awards and/or unvested equity award shares. For example, if an
employee holds unvested options for 100,000 shares with an exercise price of $1 which would vest in four annual installments of 25,000 shares, and the closing price of Cisco s stock on the date that the employee is determined to be terminally
ill was $101, all 100,000 of the shares would become vested (100,000 shares x $100 (the difference between $101 and $1) = $10,000,000).   

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.    
   VESTING POLICY    
   FOR    
   LEAVES OF ABSENCE       Unless
and until the Compensation   Management Development Committee of the Board of Directors of Cisco Systems, Inc. determines otherwise, the following policy shall be applied to all equity awards issued under any equity plan maintained Cisco or any
Cisco subsidiary, including equity awards and/or equity plans assumed by Cisco in connection with its acquisition of companies, and held by any employee of Cisco or any Cisco subsidiary (each such award shall be referred to herein as an  equity
award ), except to the extent that the application of such policy would be prohibited by the applicable equity plan, equity award agreement or any applicable law, rule or regulation.   
   (Effective until approximately November 2008)    
   SUSPENSION OF VESTING UPON AUTHORIZED LEAVE OF ABSENCE    
  The exercise or vesting schedule in effect for any outstanding equity award and any unvested shares previously acquired pursuant to any equity award (such
shares referred to herein as  unvested equity award shares ) held by an employee at the time of the employee s commencement of an authorized leave of absence shall be suspended as of the first day of the authorized leave of absence,
and the equity award and any unvested equity shares shall not vest and/or become exercisable for any additional shares during the period the employee remains on such leave of absence.   
   (Effective in or around November 2008)    
   90 DAYS CONTINUED VESTING ON AUTHORIZED LEAVES OF ABSENCE    
  The exercise or vesting schedule in effect for any outstanding equity award and any unvested shares previously acquired pursuant to any equity award (such
shares referred to herein as  unvested equity award shares ) held by an employee at the time of the employee s commencement of an authorized leave of absence shall continue to vest and/or become exercisable in accordance with the
vesting schedule set forth in the applicable equity award agreement during the period the employee remains on such authorized leave of absence; provided that, in no event shall any employee be entitled to vest for more than 90 days of authorized
leaves of absence during any rolling 12-month period (the  LOA Limit ).      If an employee exceeds the LOA Limit during any rolling
12-month period, the unvested equity award shares held by such an employee shall be suspended immediately following the expiration of the LOA Limit and the equity award and any unvested equity shares shall not vest and/or become exercisable for any
additional shares during the remainder of the rolling 12-month period.   

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.    
   TRANSFER POLICY    
   FOR    
   DIVORCE       Unless and until
the Compensation   Management Development Committee of the Board of Directors of Cisco Systems, Inc. determines otherwise, the following policy shall be applied to all equity awards issued under any equity plan maintained Cisco or any Cisco
subsidiary, including equity awards and/or equity plans assumed by Cisco in connection with its acquisition of companies, and held by any employee of Cisco or any Cisco subsidiary (each such award shall be referred to herein as an  equity
award ), except to the extent that the application of such policy would be prohibited by the applicable equity plan, equity award agreement or any applicable law, rule or regulation.   
   PROHIBITION ON TRANSFER OF EQUITY AWARDS UPON DIVORCE    
  Except as provided below, equity awards and any unvested shares acquired pursuant to equity awards shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached,
garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process in connection with the divorce of the holder of such equity award or shares. Equity awards and any unvested shares acquired pursuant to equity awards may be transferred
by an executive officer of Cisco only to the extent required by a domestic relations order, as defined by the Internal Revenue Code or Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, or the rules thereunder, in settlement of marital property
rights by any court of competent jurisdiction.   

</EX-10.1>

<EX-10.2>
 3
 dex102.htm
 CISCO SYSTEMS, INC. AMENDED AND RESTATED 1996 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN

Cisco Systems, Inc. Amended and Restated 1996 Stock Incentive Plan 

Exhibit 10.2    
         CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.    
   1996 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN          
   As Amended and Restated Effective March 18, 2003    
         ARTICLE ONE    
          GENERAL PROVISIONS     
         I. PURPOSE OF THE PLAN    
        This 1996 Stock Incentive Plan is intended to promote the
interests of Cisco Systems, Inc., a California corporation, by providing eligible persons with the opportunity to acquire a proprietary interest, or otherwise increase their proprietary interest, in the Corporation as an incentive for them to remain
in the service of the Corporation.            Capitalized
terms shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the attached Appendix.         
  All share numbers in this March 18, 2003 restatement reflect all splits of the Common Stock effected through March 22, 2000, including (i)
the three (3)-for-two (2) split of Common Stock effected on December 16, 1997, (ii) the three (3)-for-two (2) split of Common Stock effected on September 15, 1998, (iii) the two (2)-for-one (1) spilt of Common Stock effected on June 21, 1999, and
(iv) the two (2)-for-one (1) split of Common Stock effected on March 22, 2000.         
   II. STRUCTURE OF THE PLAN          
  A. The Plan shall be divided into three separate equity programs:   
        (i) the Discretionary Option Grant Program
under which eligible persons may, at the discretion of the Plan Administrator, be granted options to purchase shares of Common Stock,         
  (ii) the Automatic Option Grant Program under which eligible non-employee Board members shall automatically receive option
grants at periodic intervals to purchase shares of Common Stock, and         
  (iii) the Stock Issuance Program under which eligible persons may, at the discretion of the Plan Administrator, be issued
shares of Common Stock directly, either through the immediate purchase of such shares or as a bonus for services rendered the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary) or the attainment of designated performance goals.   

B. The provisions of Articles One and Five shall apply to all equity programs under the Plan
and shall govern the interests of all persons under the Plan.         
   III. ADMINISTRATION OF THE PLAN          
  A. The Primary Committee shall have sole and exclusive authority to administer the Discretionary Option Grant Program with respect to
Section 16 Insiders.            B. Administration of the
Discretionary Option Grant Program with respect to all other persons eligible to participate in that program may, at the Board s discretion, be vested in the Primary Committee or a Secondary Committee, or the Board may retain the power to
administer that program with respect to all such persons. The members of the Secondary Committee may be Board members who are Employees eligible to receive discretionary option grants under the Plan or any other stock option, stock appreciation,
stock bonus or other stock plan of the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary). Administration of the Stock Issuance Program shall be vested in the Primary Committee, except to the extent the Board delegates administrative authority under the
Stock Issuance Program to a Secondary Committee or retains such authority for itself.         
  C. Members of the Primary Committee or any Secondary Committee shall serve for such period of time as the Board may determine and may be
removed by the Board at any time. The Board may also at any time terminate the functions of any Secondary Committee and reassume all powers and authority previously delegated to such committee.   
        D. Each Plan Administrator shall, within the scope of its
administrative functions under the Plan, have full power and authority (subject to the provisions of the Plan) to establish such rules and regulations as it may deem appropriate for proper administration of the Discretionary Option Grant and Stock
Issuance Programs and to make such determinations under, and issue such interpretations of, the provisions of such programs and any outstanding options or stock issuances thereunder as it may deem necessary or advisable. Decisions of the Plan
Administrator within the scope of its administrative functions under the Plan shall be final and binding on all parties who have an interest in the Discretionary Option Grant or Stock Issuance Program under its jurisdiction or any option or stock
issuance thereunder.            E. Service on the Primary
Committee or the Secondary Committee shall constitute service as a Board member, and members of each such committee shall accordingly be entitled to full indemnification and reimbursement as Board members for their service on such committee. No
member of the Primary Committee or the Secondary Committee shall be liable for any act or omission made in good faith with respect to the Plan or any option grants under the Plan.   
        F. Administration of the Automatic Option Grant Program shall
be self-executing in accordance with the terms of that program, and no Plan Administrator shall exercise any discretionary functions with respect to any option grants made under that program.   
     
   2.   

IV. ELIGIBILITY    
        A. The persons eligible to participate in the Discretionary
Option Grant Program are as follows:         
  (i) Employees,         
  (ii) non-employee members of the Board or the board of directors of any Parent or Subsidiary, and   
        (iii) consultants and other independent
advisors who provide services to the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary).         
  B. The persons eligible to participate in the Stock Issuance Program shall be limited to those individuals who render services to the
Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary) in the capacity of independent, non-employee consultants and who are not otherwise Section 16 Insiders at the time of issuance.       
     C. Each Plan Administrator shall, within the scope of its administrative jurisdiction under the Plan, have full authority to
determine (i) with respect to the Discretionary Option Grant Program, which eligible persons are to receive option grants, the time or times when such option grants are to be made, the number of shares to be covered by each such grant, the status of
the granted option as either an Incentive Option or a Non-Statutory Option, the time or times when each option is to become exercisable, the vesting schedule (if any) applicable to the option shares and the maximum term for which the option is to
remain outstanding and (ii) with respect to stock issuances under the Stock Issuance Program, which eligible persons are to receive stock issuances, the time or times when such issuances are to be made, the number of shares to be issued to each
Participant, the vesting schedule (if any) applicable to the issued shares and the consideration for such shares.         
  D. The individuals who shall be eligible to participate in the Automatic Option Grant Program shall be limited to (i) those individuals
serving as non-employee Board members on the Plan Effective Date, (ii) those individuals who first become non-employee Board members on or after the Plan Effective Date, whether through appointment by the Board or election by the Corporation s
shareholders, and (iii) those individuals who continue to serve as non-employee Board members at one or more Annual Shareholders Meetings held after the Plan Effective Date. A non-employee Board member who has previously been in the employ of the
Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary) shall not be eligible to receive an option grant under the Automatic Option Grant Program at the time he or she first becomes a non-employee Board member, but shall be eligible to receive periodic option
grants under the Automatic Option Grant Program while he or she continues to serve as a non-employee Board member.            
   3.   

V. STOCK SUBJECT TO THE PLAN    
        A. The stock issuable under the Plan shall be shares of
authorized but unissued or reacquired Common Stock, including shares repurchased by the Corporation on the open market. The maximum number of shares of Common Stock reserved for issuance over the term of the Plan shall not exceed 2,504,006,600
shares, subject to the automatic share increases described in Paragraph V.B. below. Such share reserve consists of the number of shares of Common Stock transferred from the Predecessor Plan, as of the Plan Effective Date (619,524,900), plus the
number of shares added to the reserve pursuant to the automatic share increases effected in December 1996, December 1997, December 1998, December 1999, December 2000 and December 2001 (1,884,481,700 shares in the aggregate).   
        B. The number of shares of Common Stock available for
issuance under the Plan shall automatically increase on the first trading day of fiscal December each calendar year, beginning with fiscal December in calendar year 1996 and continuing through fiscal December in calendar year 2001, by a number of
shares equal to four and three-quarters percent (4.75%) of the total number of shares of Common Stock outstanding on the last trading day in the immediately preceding fiscal November, but in no event shall any such annual increase exceed 480,000,000
shares.            C. No one person participating in the
Plan may receive stock options, separately exercisable stock appreciation rights or direct stock issuances for more than 18,000,000 shares of Common Stock in the aggregate per calendar year.   
        D. Shares of Common Stock subject to outstanding options
(including options incorporated into this Plan from the Predecessor Plan) shall be available for subsequent issuance under the Plan to the extent those options expire or terminate for any reason prior to exercise in full. Unvested shares issued
under the Plan and subsequently cancelled or repurchased by the Corporation, at the original issue price paid per share, pursuant to the Corporation s repurchase rights under the Plan shall be added back to the number of shares of Common Stock
reserved for issuance under the Plan and shall accordingly be available for reissuance through one or more subsequent option grants under the Plan. However, should the exercise price of an option under the Plan be paid with shares of Common Stock or
should shares of Common Stock otherwise issuable under the Plan be withheld by the Corporation in satisfaction of the withholding taxes incurred in connection with the exercise of an option or the vesting of a stock issuance under the Plan, then the
number of shares of Common Stock available for issuance under the Plan shall be reduced by the gross number of shares for which the option is exercised or which vest under the stock issuance, and not by the net number of shares of Common Stock
issued to the holder of such option or stock issuance. Shares of Common Stock underlying one or more stock appreciation rights exercised under Section IV of Article Two of the Plan shall  not  be available for subsequent issuance under the
Plan.            E. If any change is made to the Common
Stock by reason of any stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization, combination of shares, exchange of shares or other change affecting the outstanding Common Stock as a class without the Corporation s receipt of consideration, appropriate
adjustments shall be made to (i) the maximum number and/or class of         
   4.   

securities issuable under the Plan, (ii) the maximum number and/or class of securities for which any one person may be granted stock options, separately exercisable stock appreciation rights and
direct stock issuances in the aggregate under the Plan per calendar year, (iii) the maximum number and/or class of securities issuable under the Stock Issuance Program, (iv) the number and/or class of securities for which grants are subsequently to
be made under the Automatic Option Grant Program to new and continuing non-employee Board members, unless the Plan Administrator determines otherwise, (v) the number and/or class of securities and the exercise price per share in effect under each
outstanding option under the Plan and (vi) the number and/or class of securities and price per share in effect under each outstanding option incorporated into this Plan from the Predecessor Plan. Such adjustments to the outstanding options are to be
effected in a manner which shall preclude the enlargement or dilution of rights and benefits under such options. The adjustments determined by the Plan Administrator shall be final, binding and conclusive.   
     
   5.   

ARTICLE TWO    
          DISCRETIONARY OPTION GRANT PROGRAM     
         I. OPTION TERMS    
        Each option shall be evidenced by one or more documents in
the form approved by the Plan Administrator;  provided , however, that each such document shall comply with the terms specified below. Each document evidencing an Incentive Option shall, in addition, be subject to the provisions of the Plan
applicable to such options.            A.   Exercise
Price  .            1. The exercise price per share
shall be fixed by the Plan Administrator but shall not be less than one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value per share of Common Stock on the option grant date.       
     2. The exercise price shall become immediately due upon exercise of the option and shall, subject to the provisions of
Section I of Article Four and the documents evidencing the option, be payable in one or more of the forms specified below:         
  (i) cash or check made payable to the Corporation,   
        (ii) shares of Common Stock held for the
requisite period necessary to avoid a charge to the Corporation s earnings for financial reporting purposes and valued at Fair Market Value on the Exercise Date, or       
     (iii) to the extent the option is exercised for vested shares, through a special sale and remittance
procedure pursuant to which the Optionee shall concurrently provide irrevocable instructions to (a) a brokerage firm (reasonably acceptable to the Corporation for purposes of administering such procedure in compliance with the Corporation s
pre-notification policy for sales of Common Stock) to effect the immediate sale of the purchased shares and remit to the Corporation, out of the sale proceeds available on the settlement date, sufficient funds to cover the aggregate exercise price
payable for the purchased shares plus all applicable Federal, state and local income and employment taxes required to be withheld by the Corporation by reason of such exercise and (b) the Corporation to deliver the certificates for the purchased
shares directly to such brokerage firm in order to complete the sale.         
  Except to the extent such sale and remittance procedure is utilized, payment of the exercise price for the purchased shares must be made
on the Exercise Date.         
   6.   

B.   Exercise and Term of Options .  Each option shall be exercisable at such time
or times, during such period and for such number of shares as shall be determined by the Plan Administrator and set forth in the documents evidencing the option. However, no option shall have a term in excess of nine (9) years measured from the
option grant date.            C.   Effect of Termination
of Service .             1. The following provisions
shall govern the exercise of any options held by the Optionee at the time of cessation of Service or death:         
  (i) Any option outstanding at the time of the Optionee s cessation of Service for any reason shall remain
exercisable for such period of time thereafter as shall be determined by the Plan Administrator and set forth in the documents evidencing the option, but no such option shall be exercisable after the expiration of the option term.   
        (ii) Any option exercisable in whole or in
part by the Optionee at the time of death may be subsequently exercised by the personal representative of the Optionee s estate or by the person or persons to whom the option is transferred pursuant to the Optionee s will or in accordance
with the laws of descent and distribution.         
  (iii) Should the Optionee s Service be terminated for Misconduct, then all outstanding options held by the Optionee
shall terminate immediately and cease to be outstanding.         
  (iv) During the applicable post-Service exercise period, the option may not be exercised in the aggregate for more than
the number of vested shares for which the option is exercisable on the date of the Optionee s cessation of Service. Upon the expiration of the applicable exercise period or (if earlier) upon the expiration of the option term, the option shall
terminate and cease to be outstanding for any vested shares for which the option has not been exercised. However, the option shall, immediately upon the Optionee s cessation of Service, terminate and cease to be outstanding to the extent the
option is not otherwise at that time exercisable for vested shares.         
  D. The Plan Administrator shall have complete discretion, exercisable either at the time an option is granted or at any time while the
option remains outstanding, to:         
  (i) extend the period of time for which the option is to remain exercisable following the Optionee s cessation of
Service from the limited exercise period otherwise in effect for that option to such greater period of time as the Plan Administrator shall deem appropriate, but in no event beyond the expiration of the option term, and/or   
     
   7.   

(ii) permit the option to be exercised, during the applicable post-Service
exercise period, not only with respect to the number of vested shares of Common Stock for which such option is exercisable at the time of the Optionee s cessation of Service but also with respect to one or more additional installments in which
the Optionee would have vested had the Optionee continued in Service.         
  E.   Shareholder Rights .  The holder of an option shall have no shareholder rights with respect to the shares subject to the
option until such person shall have exercised the option, paid the exercise price and become a holder of record of the purchased shares.         
  F.   Repurchase Rights .  The Plan Administrator shall have the discretion to grant options which are exercisable for unvested
shares of Common Stock. Should the Optionee cease Service while holding such unvested shares, the Corporation shall have the right to repurchase, at the exercise price paid per share, any or all of those unvested shares. The terms upon which such
repurchase right shall be exercisable (including the period and procedure for exercise and the appropriate vesting schedule for the purchased shares) shall be established by the Plan Administrator and set forth in the document evidencing such
repurchase right.            G.   Limited
Transferability of Options  . During the lifetime of the Optionee, Incentive Options shall be exercisable only by the Optionee and shall not be assignable or transferable other than by will or by the laws of inheritance following the
Optionee s death. However, a Non-Statutory Option may be assigned in whole or in part during the Optionee s lifetime to one or more members of the Optionee s immediate family or to a trust established exclusively for one or more such
family members or to one or more individuals, to the extent such assignment is in connection with the Optionee s estate plan or pursuant to a domestic relations order. The assigned portion may only be exercised by the person or persons who
acquire a proprietary interest in the option pursuant to the assignment. The terms applicable to the assigned portion shall be the same as those in effect for the option immediately prior to such assignment and shall be set forth in such documents
issued to the assignee as the Plan Administrator may deem appropriate.         
   II. INCENTIVE OPTIONS          
  The terms specified below shall be applicable to all Incentive Options. Except as modified by the provisions of this Section II, all the
provisions of Articles One, Two and Four shall be applicable to Incentive Options. Options designated as Non-Statutory Options when issued under the Plan shall  not  be subject to the terms of this Section II.   
        A.   Eligibility .  Incentive Options may only be
granted to Employees.         
   8.   

B.   Dollar Limitation   .  The aggregate Fair Market Value of the shares of
Common Stock (determined as of the respective date or dates of grant) for which one or more options granted to any Employee under the Plan (or any other option plan of the Corporation or any Parent or Subsidiary) may for the first time become
exercisable as Incentive Options during any one calendar year shall not exceed the sum of One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000). To the extent the Employee holds two (2) or more such options which become exercisable for the first time in the same
calendar year, the foregoing limitation on the exercisability of such options as Incentive Options shall be applied on the basis of the order in which such options are granted.   
        C.   10% Shareholder .  If any Employee to whom an
Incentive Option is granted is a 10% Shareholder, then the exercise price per share shall not be less than one hundred ten percent (110%) of the Fair Market Value per share of Common Stock on the option grant date, and the option term shall not
exceed five (5) years measured from the option grant date.         
   III. CORPORATE TRANSACTION/CHANGE IN CONTROL    
        A. In the event of any Corporate Transaction, each
outstanding option shall automatically accelerate so that each such option shall, immediately prior to the effective date of the Corporate Transaction, become exercisable for all of the shares of Common Stock at the time subject to such option and
may be exercised for any or all of those shares as fully-vested shares of Common Stock. However, an outstanding option shall not so accelerate if and to the extent: (i) such option is, in connection with the Corporate Transaction, either to be
assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or to be replaced with a comparable option to purchase shares of the capital stock of the successor corporation (or parent thereof), (ii) such option is to be replaced with a cash incentive
program of the successor corporation which preserves the spread existing on the unvested option shares at the time of the Corporate Transaction and provides for subsequent payout in accordance with the same vesting schedule applicable to those
option shares or (iii) the acceleration of such option is subject to other limitations imposed by the Plan Administrator at the time of the option grant. The determination of option comparability under clause (i) above shall be made by the Plan
Administrator, and its determination shall be final, binding and conclusive.         
  B. All outstanding repurchase rights shall also terminate automatically, and the shares of Common Stock subject to those terminated rights
shall immediately vest in full, in the event of any Corporate Transaction, except to the extent: (i) those repurchase rights are to be assigned to the successor corporation (or parent thereof) in connection with such Corporate Transaction or (ii)
such accelerated vesting is precluded by other limitations imposed by the Plan Administrator at the time the repurchase right is issued.         
  C. Immediately following the consummation of the Corporate Transaction, all outstanding options shall terminate and cease to be
outstanding, except to the extent assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof).         
   9.   

D. Each option which is assumed in connection with a Corporate Transaction shall be
appropriately adjusted, immediately after such Corporate Transaction, to apply to the number and class of securities which would have been issuable to the Optionee in consummation of such Corporate Transaction had the option been exercised
immediately prior to such Corporate Transaction. Appropriate adjustments to reflect such Corporate Transaction shall also be made to (i) the exercise price payable per share under each outstanding option,  provided  the aggregate exercise price
payable for such securities shall remain the same, (ii) the maximum number and/or class of securities available for issuance over the remaining term of the Plan, (iii) the maximum number and/or class of securities for which any one person may be
granted stock options, separately exercisable stock appreciation rights and direct stock issuances under the Plan per calendar year and (iv) . the maximum number and/or class of securities available for issuance under the Stock Issuance Program.
           E. The Plan Administrator shall have full power
and authority to grant options under the Discretionary Option Grant Program which will automatically accelerate in the event the Optionee s Service subsequently terminates by reason of an Involuntary Termination within a designated period (not
to exceed eighteen (18) months) following the effective date of any Corporate Transaction in which those options are assumed or replaced and do not otherwise accelerate. Any options so accelerated shall remain exercisable for fully-vested shares
until the expiration or sooner termination of the option term. In addition, the Plan Administrator may provide that one or more of the Corporation s outstanding repurchase rights with respect to shares held by the Optionee at the time of such
Involuntary Termination shall immediately terminate, and the shares subject to those terminated repurchase rights shall accordingly vest in full.         
  F. The Plan Administrator shall have full power and authority to grant options under the Discretionary Option Grant Program which will
automatically accelerate in the event the Optionee s Service subsequently terminates by reason of an Involuntary Termination within a designated period (not to exceed eighteen (18) months) following the effective date of any Change in Control.
Each option so accelerated shall remain exercisable for fully-vested shares until the expiration or sooner termination of the option term. In addition, the Plan Administrator may provide that one or more of the Corporation s outstanding
repurchase rights with respect to shares held by the Optionee at the time of such Involuntary Termination shall immediately terminate, and the shares subject to those terminated repurchase rights shall accordingly vest in full.   
        G. The portion of any Incentive Option accelerated in
connection with a Corporate Transaction or Change in Control shall remain exercisable as an Incentive Option only to the extent the applicable One Hundred Thousand Dollar limitation is not exceeded. To the extent such dollar limitation is exceeded,
the accelerated portion of such option shall be exercisable as a Non-Statutory Option under the Federal tax laws.         
   10.   

H. The outstanding options shall in no way affect the right of the Corporation to adjust,
reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate or sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets.   
         IV. STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS    
        A. The Plan Administrator shall have full power and
authority, exercisable in its sole discretion, to grant to selected Optionees or other individuals eligible to receive option grants under the Discretionary Option Grant Program stock appreciation rights.   
        B. Three types of stock appreciation rights shall be
authorized for issuance under the Plan: (i) tandem stock appreciation rights ( Tandem Rights ), (ii) stand-alone stock appreciation rights ( Stand-alone Rights ) and (iii) limited stock appreciation rights ( Limited
Rights ).            C. The following terms and
conditions shall govern the grant and exercise of Tandem Rights under this Article Two.         
  1. One or more Optionees may be granted a Tandem Right, exercisable upon such terms and conditions as the Plan Administrator may
establish, to elect between the exercise of the underlying Article Two stock option for shares of Common Stock or the surrender of that option in exchange for a distribution from the Corporation in an amount equal to the excess of (i) the Fair
Market Value (on the option surrender date) of the number of shares in which the Optionee is at the time vested under the surrendered option (or surrendered portion thereof) over (ii) the aggregate exercise price payable for such vested shares.
           2. No such option surrender shall be effective
unless it is approved by the Plan Administrator, either at the time of the actual option surrender or at any earlier time. If the surrender is so approved, then the distribution to which the Optionee shall accordingly become entitled under this
Section V may be made in shares of Common Stock valued at Fair Market Value on the option surrender date, in cash, or partly in shares and partly in cash, as the Plan Administrator shall in its sole discretion deem appropriate.   
        3. If the surrender of an option is not approved by the Plan
Administrator, then the Optionee shall retain whatever rights the Optionee had under the surrendered option (or surrendered portion thereof) on the option surrender date and may exercise such rights at any time prior to the  later  of (i) five
(5) business days after the receipt of the rejection notice or (ii) the last day on which the option is otherwise exercisable in accordance with the terms of the instrument evidencing such option, but in no event may such rights be exercised more
than nine (9) years after the date of the option grant.         
  D. The following terms and conditions shall govern the grant and exercise of Stand-alone Rights under this Article Two:   
     
   11.   

1. One or more individuals eligible to participate in the Discretionary Option Grant
Program may be granted a Stand-alone Right not tied to any underlying option under this Discretionary Option Grant Program. The Stand-alone Right shall cover a specified number of underlying shares of Common Stock and shall be exercisable upon such
terms and conditions as the Plan Administrator may establish. Upon exercise of the Stand-alone Right, the holder shall be entitled to receive a distribution from the Corporation in an amount equal to the excess of (i) the aggregate Fair Market Value
(on the exercise date) of the shares of Common Stock underlying the exercised right over (ii) the aggregate base price in effect for those shares.         
  2. The number of shares of Common Stock underlying each Stand-alone Right and the base price in effect for those shares shall be
determined by the Plan Administrator in its sole discretion at the time the Stand-alone Right is granted. In no event, however, may the base price per share be less than the Fair Market Value per underlying share of Common Stock on the grant date.
           3. The distribution with respect to an exercised
Stand-alone Right may be made in shares of Common Stock valued at Fair Market Value on the exercise date, in cash, or partly in shares and partly in cash, as the Plan Administrator shall in its sole discretion deem appropriate.   
        E. The following terms and conditions shall govern the grant
and exercise of Limited Rights under this Article Two:         
  1. One or more Section 16 Insiders may, in the Plan Administrator s sole discretion, be granted Limited Rights with respect to their
outstanding options under this Article Two.            2.
Upon the occurrence of a Hostile Take-Over, the Section 16 Insider shall have the unconditional right (exercisable for a thirty (30)-day period following such Hostile Take-Over) to surrender each option with such a Limited Right to the Corporation,
to the extent the option is at the time exercisable for fully vested shares of Common Stock. The Section 16 Insider shall in return be entitled to a cash distribution from the Corporation in an amount equal to the excess of (i) the Take-Over Price
of the vested shares of Common Stock at the time subject to each surrendered option (or surrendered portion of such option) over (ii) the aggregate exercise price payable for such vested shares. Such cash distribution shall be made within five (5)
days following the option surrender date.            3. The
Plan Administrator shall pre-approve, at the time such Limited Right is granted, the subsequent exercise of that right in accordance with the terms of the grant and the provisions of this Section IV. No additional approval of the Plan Administrator
or the Board shall be required at the time of the actual option surrender and cash distribution. Any unsurrendered portion of the option shall continue to remain outstanding and become exercisable in accordance with the terms of the instrument
evidencing such grant.            F. The shares of Common
Stock underlying any stock appreciation rights exercised under this Section IV shall  not  be available for subsequent issuance under the Plan.         
   12.   

ARTICLE THREE    
          AUTOMATIC OPTION GRANT PROGRAM     
        The following terms and provisions reflect the amendment to
the Automatic Option Grant Program authorized by the Board on July 8, 1999 and approved by the shareholders at the 1999 Annual Shareholder Meeting on November 10, 1999.       
      I. OPTION TERMS          
  A.   Grant Dates .  Option grants under this Article Three shall be made on the dates specified below:   
        1. Each individual who is first elected
or appointed as a non-employee Board member on or after November 10, 1999 shall automatically be granted, on the date of such initial election or appointment, a Non-Statutory Option to purchase 30,000 shares of Common
Stock,     1  
    provided that individual has not previously been in the employ of the Corporation or any Parent or Subsidiary.   
        2. On the date of each Annual
Shareholders Meeting, beginning with the 1999 Annual Shareholders Meeting, each individual who is re-elected to serve as an Eligible Director shall automatically be granted a Non-Statutory Option to purchase 15,000 shares of Common
Stock   2   , provided such individual has served as a
non-employee Board member for at least six (6) months. There shall be no limit on the number of such 15,000-share option grants any one Eligible Director may receive over his or her period of Board service, and non-employee Board members who have
previously been in the employ of the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary) shall be eligible to receive one or more such annual option grants over their period of continued Board service.   
        B.   Exercise Price   .    
        1. The exercise price per share shall be equal to one
hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value per share of Common Stock on the option grant date.    

1   
  
    Prior to the July 8, 1999 restatement, the number of shares of Common Stock for which an initial option grant was to be made to each newly elected or
appointed non-employee Board member was set at 20,000 shares (before taking into account any splits of the Common Stock effected after that date).      

2   
  
    Prior to the July 8, 1999 restatement, the number of shares of Common Stock for which a continuing non-employee Board member was to be granted an
option at each annual shareholders meeting at which he or she was re-elected to the Board was set at 10,000 shares (before taking into account any splits of the Common Stock effected after that date).      
     
   13.   

2. The exercise price shall be payable in one or more of the alternative forms authorized
under the Discretionary Option Grant Program. Except to the extent the sale and remittance procedure specified thereunder is utilized, payment of the exercise price for the purchased shares must be made on the Exercise Date.   
        C.   Option Term .  Each option shall have a
maximum term equal to the  lesser  of (i) nine (9) years measured from the option grant date or (ii) twelve (12) months following termination of Board service.   
        D.   Exercise and Vesting of Options .  Each option
shall be immediately exercisable for any or all of the option shares. However, any shares purchased under the option shall be subject to repurchase by the Corporation, at the exercise price paid per share, upon the Optionee s cessation of Board
service prior to vesting in those shares. Each initial 30,000-share grant shall vest, and the Corporation s repurchase right with respect to those shares shall lapse, in four (4) successive equal annual installments over the Optionee s
period of Board service, with the first such installment to vest upon the completion of one (1) year of Board service measured from the automatic grant date. Each annual 15,000-share grant shall vest, and the Corporation s repurchase right with
respect to those shares shall lapse, in two (2) successive equal annual installments over the optionee s period of Board service measured from the automatic grant date.   
        E.   Termination of Board Service .  The following
provisions shall govern the exercise of any options held by the Optionee upon his or her cessation of Board service:         
  (i) The Optionee (or, in the event of Optionee s death, the personal representative of the Optionee s estate or
the person or persons to whom the option is transferred pursuant to the Optionee s will or the laws of inheritance) shall have a twelve (12)-month period following the date of such cessation of Board service in which to exercise each such
option.            (ii) During the twelve
(12)-month exercise period, the option may not be exercised in the aggregate for more than the number of vested shares of Common Stock for which the option is exercisable at the time of the Optionee s cessation of Board service.   
        (iii) Should the Optionee cease to serve as
a Board member by reason of death or Permanent Disability, then all shares at the time subject to the option shall immediately vest so that such option may, during the twelve (12)-month exercise period following such cessation of Board service, be
exercised for all or any portion of those shares as fully-vested shares of Common Stock.         
  (iv) In no event shall the option remain exercisable after the expiration of the option term. Upon the expiration of the
twelve (12)-month exercise period or (if earlier) upon the expiration of the option term, the option shall terminate and cease to be outstanding for any vested shares for which the option has not been exercised. However, the option shall,
immediately upon the         
   14.   

Optionee s cessation of Board service for any reason other than death or Permanent Disability, terminate and cease to be outstanding to the extent the option is not otherwise at that time
exercisable for vested shares.             II. CORPORATE
TRANSACTION/CHANGE IN CONTROL/HOSTILE TAKE-OVER          
  A. In the event of any Corporate Transaction, the shares of Common Stock at the time subject to each outstanding option but not otherwise
vested shall automatically vest in full so that each such option shall, immediately prior to the effective date of the Corporate Transaction, become exercisable for all of the shares of Common Stock at the time subject to such option and may be
exercised for any or all of those shares as fully-vested shares of Common Stock. Immediately following the consummation of the Corporate Transaction, each automatic option grant shall terminate and cease to be outstanding, except to the extent
assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof).         
  B. In connection with any Change in Control, the shares of Common Stock at the time subject to each outstanding option but not otherwise
vested shall automatically vest in full so that each such option shall, immediately prior to the effective date of the Change in Control, become exercisable for all of the shares of Common Stock at the time subject to such option and may be
exercised for any or all of those shares as fully-vested shares of Common Stock. Each such option shall remain exercisable for such fully-vested option shares until the expiration or sooner termination of the option term or the surrender of the
option in connection with a Hostile Take-Over.            C.
Upon the occurrence of a Hostile Take-Over, the Optionee shall have a thirty (30)-day period in which to surrender to the Corporation each of his or her outstanding automatic option grants. The Optionee shall in return be entitled to a cash
distribution from the Corporation in an amount equal to the excess of (i) the Take-Over Price of the shares of Common Stock at the time subject to each surrendered option (whether or not the Optionee is otherwise at the time vested in those shares)
over (ii) the aggregate exercise price payable for such shares. Such cash distribution shall be paid within five (5) days following the surrender of the option to the Corporation. At the 1999 Annual Meeting on November 10, 1999, shareholder approval
of a proposal amending the 1996 Stock Incentive Plan created an automatic pre-approval of each option grant with such a cash surrender right made under the Automatic Option Grant Program on or after this date and the subsequent exercise of that
right in accordance with the provisions of this Section II.C, and no additional approval of the Board or any Plan Administrator shall accordingly be required at the time of the actual option surrender and cash distribution.   
        D. Each option which is assumed in connection with a
Corporate Transaction shall be appropriately adjusted, immediately after such Corporate Transaction, to apply to the number and class of securities which would have been issuable to the Optionee in consummation
        
   15.   

of such Corporate Transaction had the option been exercised immediately prior to such Corporate Transaction. Appropriate adjustments shall also be made to the exercise price payable per share
under each outstanding option,  provided  the aggregate exercise price payable for such securities shall remain the same.         
  E. The grant of options under the Automatic Option Grant Program shall in no way affect the right of the Corporation to adjust,
reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate or sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets.   
         III. REMAINING TERMS    
        The remaining terms of each option granted under the
Automatic Option Grant Program shall be the same as the terms in effect for option grants made under the Discretionary Option Grant Program.         
   16.   

ARTICLE FOUR    
          STOCK ISSUANCE PROGRAM     
        Shares of Common Stock reserved for issuance under the Plan
may be issued under the Stock Issuance Program through direct and immediate issuances without any intervening option grants. Only person who render services to the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary) in the capacity of an independent,
non-employee consultant and who are not otherwise Section 16 Insiders at the time of issuance may receive a stock issuance under the Program. Each such stock issuance shall be evidenced by a Stock Issuance Agreement which complies with the terms
specified below. Shares of Common Stock may also be issued under the Stock Issuance Program pursuant to share right awards which entitle the recipients to receive those shares upon the attainment of designated performance goals. In no event may more
than One Million (1,000,000) shares of Common Stock reserved for issuance under the Plan be issued pursuant to the provisions of the Stock Issuance Program.         
  A.   Purchase Price .          
  1. The purchase price per share of Common Stock subject to direct issuance shall be fixed by the Plan Administrator, but shall not be
less than one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value per share of Common Stock on the issuance date.         
  2. Shares of Common Stock may be issued under the Stock Issuance Program for any of the following items of consideration which the Plan
Administrator may deem appropriate in each individual instance:         
  (i) cash or check made payable to the Corporation, or   
        (ii) past services rendered to the
Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary).            B.
  Vesting/Issuance Provisions .             1.
Shares of Common Stock issued under the Stock Issuance Program may, in the discretion of the Plan Administrator, be fully and immediately vested upon issuance or may vest in one or more installments over the Participant s period of Service or
upon attainment of specified performance objectives. Alternatively, the Plan Administrator may issue share right awards under the Stock Issuance Program which shall entitle the recipient to receive a specified number of shares of Common Stock upon
the attainment of one or more performance goals established by the Plan Administrator or the completion of a specified period of Service designated by the Plan Administrator. Upon the attainment of such performance goals or the completion of such
Service requirement, fully-vested shares of Common Stock shall be issued in satisfaction of those share right awards.         
   17.   

2. Any new, substituted or additional securities or other property (including money paid
other than as a regular cash dividend) which the Participant may have the right to receive with respect to his or her unvested shares of Common Stock by reason of any stock dividend, stock split, recapitalization, combination of shares, exchange of
shares or other change affecting the outstanding Common Stock as a class without the Corporation s receipt of consideration shall be issued subject to (i) the same vesting requirements applicable to the Participant s unvested shares of
Common Stock and (ii) such escrow arrangements as the Plan Administrator shall deem appropriate.         
  3. The Participant shall have full stockholder rights with respect to any shares of Common Stock issued to the Participant under the
Stock Issuance Program, whether or not the Participant s interest in those shares is vested. Accordingly, the Participant shall have the right to vote such shares and to receive any regular cash dividends paid on such shares.   
        4. Should the Participant cease to remain in Service while
holding one or more unvested shares of Common Stock issued under the Stock Issuance Program or should the performance objectives not be attained with respect to one or more such unvested shares of Common Stock, then those shares shall be immediately
surrendered to the Corporation for cancellation, and the Participant shall have no further stockholder rights with respect to those shares. To the extent the surrendered shares were previously issued to the Participant for cash consideration, the
Corporation shall repay that consideration to the Participant at the time the shares are surrendered.         
  5. The Plan Administrator may in its discretion waive the surrender and cancellation of one or more unvested shares of Common Stock (or
other assets attributable thereto) which would otherwise occur upon the cessation of the Participant s Service or the non-attainment of the performance objectives applicable to those shares. Such waiver shall result in the immediate vesting of
the Participant s interest in the shares of Common Stock as to which the waiver applies. Such waiver may be effected at any time, whether before or after the Participant s cessation of Service or the attainment or non-attainment of the
applicable performance objectives.            6.
Outstanding share right awards under the Stock Issuance Program shall automatically terminate, and no shares of Common Stock shall actually be issued in satisfaction of those awards, if the performance goals or Service requirement established for
such awards are not attained. The Plan Administrator, however, shall have the discretionary authority to issue shares of Common Stock under one or more outstanding share right awards as to which the designated performance goals or Service
requirement have not been attained.         
   18.   

II. CORPORATE TRANSACTION/CHANGE IN CONTROL    
        A. All of the Corporation s outstanding repurchase
rights under the Stock Issuance Program shall terminate automatically, and all the shares of Common Stock subject to those terminated rights shall immediately vest in full, in the event of any Corporate Transaction, except to the extent those
repurchase rights are to be assigned to the successor corporation (or parent thereof) in connection with such Corporate Transaction.         
  B. The Plan Administrator shall have the discretionary authority, exercisable either at the time the unvested shares are issued or any
time while the Corporation s repurchase rights remain outstanding under the Stock Issuance Program, to provide that those rights shall automatically terminate in whole or in part, and the shares of Common Stock subject to those terminated
rights shall immediately vest, in the event the Participant s Service should subsequently terminate by reason of an Involuntary Termination within a designated period (not to exceed eighteen (18) months) following the effective date of any
Corporate Transaction in which those repurchase rights are assigned to the successor corporation (or parent thereof).         
  C. The Plan Administrator shall have the discretionary authority, exercisable either at the time the unvested shares are issued or any
time while the Corporation s repurchase rights remain outstanding under the Stock Issuance Program, to provide that those rights shall automatically terminate in whole or in part, and the shares of Common Stock subject to those terminated
rights shall immediately vest, in the event the Participant s Service should subsequently terminate by reason of an Involuntary Termination within a designated period (not to exceed eighteen (18) months) following the effective date of any
Change in Control.             III. SHARE ESCROW/LEGENDS
            Unvested shares may, in the Plan
Administrator s discretion, be held in escrow by the Corporation until the Participant s interest in such shares vests or may be issued directly to the Participant with restrictive legends on the certificates evidencing those unvested
shares.               
   19.   

ARTICLE FIVE    
          MISCELLANEOUS     
         I. FINANCING    
        The Plan Administrator may permit any Optionee (other than a
Section 16 Insider) to pay the option exercise price under the Discretionary Option Grant Program by delivering a full-recourse, interest bearing promissory note payable in one or more installments. The terms of any such promissory note (including
the interest rate and the terms of repayment) shall be established by the Plan Administrator in its sole discretion. In no event may the maximum credit available to the Optionee exceed the sum of (i) the aggregate option exercise price payable for
the purchased shares plus (ii) any Federal, state and local income and employment tax liability incurred by the Optionee in connection with the option exercise or share purchase.   
         II. TAX WITHHOLDING    
        A. The Corporation s obligation to deliver shares of
Common Stock upon the exercise of options under the Plan shall be subject to the satisfaction of all applicable Federal, state and local income and employment tax withholding requirements.   
        B. The Plan Administrator may, in its discretion, provide any
or all holders of Non-Statutory Options under the Discretionary Option Grant Program or unvested shares of Common Stock under the Stock Issuance Program with the right to use shares of Common Stock in satisfaction of all or part of the Withholding
Taxes to which such holders may become subject in connection with the exercise of their options or the vesting of their shares. Such right may be provided to any such holder in either or both of the following formats:   
         Stock Withholding : The election to
have the Corporation withhold, from the shares of Common Stock otherwise issuable upon the exercise of such Non-Statutory Option or the vesting of such shares, a portion of those shares with an aggregate Fair Market Value equal to the percentage of
the Withholding Taxes (not to exceed one hundred percent (100%)) designated by the holder.         
   Stock Delivery : The election to deliver to the Corporation, at the time the Non-Statutory Option is exercised or
the issued shares vest, one or more shares of Common Stock previously acquired by such holder (other than in connection with the option exercise or stock vesting which triggers the Withholding Taxes) with an aggregate Fair Market Value equal to the
percentage of the Withholding Taxes (not to exceed one hundred percent (100%)) designated by the holder.         
   20.   

III. EFFECTIVE DATE AND TERM OF THE PLAN    
        A. The Plan and each of the equity incentive programs
thereunder shall become effective immediately upon the approval of the Corporation s shareholders at the 1996 Annual Meeting. Options may be granted under the Plan at any time on or after the date of such shareholder approval. If such
shareholder approval is not obtained, then this Plan shall not become effective, and no options shall be granted and no shares shall be issued under the Plan.         
  B. The Plan shall serve as the successor to the Predecessor Plan, and no further option grants shall be made under the Predecessor Plan
after this Plan is approved by the shareholders at the 1996 Annual Meeting. All options outstanding under the Predecessor Plan at the time of such shareholder approval shall be incorporated into the Plan at that time and shall be treated as
outstanding options under the Plan. However, each outstanding option so incorporated shall continue to be governed solely by the terms of the documents evidencing such option, and no provision of the Plan shall be deemed to affect or otherwise
modify the rights or obligations of the holders of such incorporated options with respect to their acquisition of shares of Common Stock.         
  C. One or more provisions of the Plan, including (without limitation) the option/vesting acceleration provisions of Article Two relating
to Corporate Transactions and Changes in Control, may, in the Plan Administrator s discretion, be extended to one or more options incorporated from the Predecessor Plan which do not otherwise contain such provisions.   
        D. The Plan shall terminate upon the  earliest  of (i)
December 31, 2006, (ii) the date on which all shares available for issuance under the Plan shall have been issued as fully-vested shares or (iii) the termination of all outstanding options in connection with a Corporate Transaction. Upon such plan
termination, all outstanding option grants shall thereafter continue to have force and effect in accordance with the provisions of the documents evidencing such grants.       
      IV. AMENDMENT OF THE PLAN          
  A. The Board shall have complete power and authority to amend or modify the Plan in any or all respects but may delegate such authority in
whole or in part to the Primary Committee, as the Board deems appropriate. However, no such amendment or modification shall adversely affect the rights and obligations with respect to stock options at the time outstanding under the Plan unless the
Optionee consents to such amendment or modification. In addition, certain amendments may require shareholder approval in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.       
     B. The Plan was amended by the Board on July 29, 1998 and approved by the Shareholders at the 1998 Annual Shareholders
Meeting, in order to extend the automatic share increase provisions of the Plan for an additional three (3)-year through fiscal December in calendar year 2001. The Automatic Option Grant Program in effect under the Plan was amended by the Board on
July 8, 1999 and approved by the shareholders at the 1999 Annual Shareholder Meeting, in order to increase the number of shares of Common Stock for which newly elected or   
     
   21.   

appointed non-employee Board members and continuing non-employee Board members may be granted stock options under such program. The Plan was amended on January 9, 2001 to allow the Board to
delegate, in whole or in part, its authority to amend the Plan to the Primary Committee as it deems appropriate. The Plan was amended on March 18, 2003 to implement the Stock Issuance Program pursuant to which up to One Million (1,000,000) shares of
Common Stock reserved for issuance under the Plan may be issued pursuant to direct stock issuances under the Stock Issuance Program.         
  C. Options to purchase shares of Common Stock may be granted under the Discretionary Option Grant Program that are in excess of the number
of shares then available for issuance under the Plan, provided any excess shares actually issued under that program shall be held in escrow until there is obtained shareholder approval of an amendment sufficiently increasing the number of shares of
Common Stock available for issuance under the Plan. If such shareholder approval is not obtained within twelve (12) months after the date the first such excess issuances are made, then (i) any unexercised options granted on the basis of such excess
shares shall terminate and cease to be outstanding and (ii) the Corporation shall promptly refund to the Optionees the exercise or purchase price paid for any excess shares issued under the Plan and held in escrow, together with interest (at the
applicable Short Term Federal Rate) for the period the shares were held in escrow, and such shares shall thereupon be automatically cancelled and cease to be outstanding.       
      V. USE OF PROCEEDS          
  Any cash proceeds received by the Corporation from the sale of shares of Common Stock under the Plan shall be used for general corporate
purposes.             VI. REGULATORY APPROVALS
            A. The implementation of the Plan, the
granting of any stock option under the Plan and the issuance of any shares of Common Stock under the Plan shall be subject to the Corporation s procurement of all approvals and permits required by regulatory authorities having jurisdiction over
the Plan, the stock options granted under it and the shares of Common Stock issued pursuant to it.         
  B. No shares of Common Stock or other assets shall be issued or delivered under the Plan unless and until there shall have been compliance
with all applicable requirements of Federal and state securities laws, including the filing and effectiveness of the Form S-8 registration statement for the shares of Common Stock issuable under the Plan, and all applicable listing requirements of
any stock exchange (or the Nasdaq National Market, if applicable) on which Common Stock is then listed for trading.         
   22.   

VII. NO EMPLOYMENT/SERVICE RIGHTS    
        Nothing in the Plan shall confer upon the Optionee any right
to continue in Service for any period of specific duration or interfere with or otherwise restrict in any way the rights of the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary employing or retaining such person) or of the Optionee, which rights are hereby
expressly reserved by each, to terminate such person s Service at any time for any reason, with or without cause.         
   23.   

APPENDIX     
        The following definitions shall be in effect under the Plan:
           A.   Automatic Option Grant Program  
shall mean the automatic option grant program in effect under Article Three of the Plan.         
  B.   Board   shall mean the Corporation s Board of Directors.   
        C.   Change in Control   shall mean a change in
ownership or control of the Corporation effected through either of the following transactions:         
  (i) the acquisition, directly or indirectly by any person or related group of persons (other than the Corporation or a
person that directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, the Corporation), of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the 1934 Act) of securities possessing more than thirty-five percent (35%)
of the total combined voting power of the Corporation s outstanding securities pursuant to a tender or exchange offer made directly to the Corporation s shareholders which the Board does not recommend such shareholders to accept, or
           (ii) a change in the composition
of the Board over a period of thirty-six (36) consecutive months or less such that a majority of the Board members ceases, by reason of one or more contested elections for Board membership, to be comprised of individuals who either (A) have been
Board members continuously since the beginning of such period or (B) have been elected or nominated for election as Board members during such period by at least a majority of the Board members described in clause (A) who were still in office at the
time the Board approved such election or nomination.         
  D.   Code   shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.   
        E.   Common Stock   shall mean the
Corporation s common stock.            F.
  Corporate Transaction   shall mean either of the following shareholder-approved transactions to which the Corporation is a party:         
  (i) a merger or consolidation in which securities possessing more than fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting
power of the Corporation s outstanding securities are transferred to a person or persons different from the persons holding those securities immediately prior to such transaction, or   
        (ii) the sale, transfer or other disposition
of all or substantially all of the Corporation s assets in complete liquidation or dissolution of the Corporation.         
   A-1.   

G.   Corporation   shall mean Cisco Systems, Inc., a California corporation, and
its successors.            H.   Discretionary Option
Grant Program   shall mean the discretionary option grant program in effect under Article Two of the Plan.         
  I.   Eligible Director   shall mean a non-employee Board member eligible to participate in the Automatic Option Grant Program in
accordance with the eligibility provisions of Article One.         
  J.   Employee   shall mean an individual who is in the employ of the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary), subject to the
control and direction of the employer entity as to both the work to be performed and the manner and method of performance.         
  K.   Exercise Date   shall mean the date on which the Corporation shall have received written notice of the option exercise.
           L.   Fair Market Value   per share of
Common Stock on any relevant date shall be determined in accordance with the following provisions:         
  (i) If the Common Stock is at the time traded on the Nasdaq National Market, then the Fair Market Value shall be deemed
equal to the closing selling price per share of Common Stock on the date in question, as such price is reported on the Nasdaq National Market. If there is no closing selling price for the Common Stock on the date in question, then the Fair Market
Value shall be the closing selling price on the last preceding date for which such quotation exists.         
  (ii) If the Common Stock is at the time listed on any Stock Exchange, then the Fair Market Value shall be deemed equal to
the closing selling price per share of Common Stock on the date in question on the Stock Exchange determined by the Plan Administrator to be the primary market for the Common Stock, as such price is officially quoted in the composite tape of
transactions on such exchange. If there is no closing selling price for the Common Stock on the date in question, then the Fair Market Value shall be the closing selling price on the last preceding date for which such quotation exists.   
        M.   Hostile Take-Over   shall mean the
acquisition, directly or indirectly, by any person or related group of persons (other than the Corporation or a person that directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, the Corporation) of beneficial ownership
(within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the 1934 Act) of securities possessing more than thirty-five percent (35%) of the total combined voting power of the Corporation s outstanding securities pursuant to a tender or exchange offer made directly
to the Corporation s shareholders which the Board does not recommend such shareholders to accept.         
   A-2.   

N.   Incentive Option   shall mean an option which satisfies the requirements of
Code Section 422.            O.   Involuntary
Termination   shall mean the termination of the Service of any individual which occurs by reason of:         
  (i) such individual s involuntary dismissal or discharge by the Corporation for reasons other than Misconduct, or
           (ii) such individual s
voluntary resignation following (A) a change in his or her position with the Corporation which materially reduces his or her level of responsibility, (B) a reduction in his or her level of compensation (including base salary, fringe benefits and
target bonuses under any corporate-performance based bonus or incentive programs) by more than fifteen percent (15%) or (C) a relocation of such individual s place of employment by more than fifty (50) miles, provided and only if such change,
reduction or relocation is effected without the individual s consent.         
  P.   Misconduct   shall mean the commission of any act of fraud, embezzlement or dishonesty by the Optionee, any unauthorized
use or disclosure by such person of confidential information or trade secrets of the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary), or any other intentional misconduct by such person adversely affecting the business or affairs of the Corporation (or any
Parent or Subsidiary) in a material manner. The foregoing definition shall not be deemed to be inclusive of all the acts or omissions which the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary) may consider as grounds for the dismissal or discharge of any
Optionee or other person in the Service of the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary).         
  Q.   1934 Act   shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.   
        R.   Non-Statutory Option   shall mean an option
not intended to satisfy the requirements of Code Section 422.         
  S.   Optionee   shall mean any person to whom an option is granted under the Discretionary Option Grant or Automatic Option
Grant Program.            T.   Parent   shall mean
any corporation (other than the Corporation) in an unbroken chain of corporations ending with the Corporation, provided each corporation in the unbroken chain (other than the Corporation) owns, at the time of the determination, stock possessing
fifty percent (50%) or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of the other corporations in such chain.         
  U.   Participant   shall mean any person who is issued shares of Common Stock under the Stock Issuance Program.   
     
   A-3.   

V.   Permanent Disability or Permanently Disabled   shall mean the inability of
the Optionee to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment expected to result in death or to be of continuous duration of twelve (12) months or more. However, solely for purposes
of the Automatic Option Grant Program, Permanent Disability or Permanently Disabled shall mean the inability of the non-employee Board member to perform his or her usual duties as a Board member by reason of any medically determinable physical or
mental impairment expected to result in death or to be of continuous duration of twelve (12) months or more.         
  W.   Plan   shall mean the Corporation s 1996 Stock Incentive Plan, as set forth in this document.   
        X.   Plan Administrator   shall mean the particular
entity, whether the Primary Committee, the Board or the Secondary Committee, which is authorized to administer the Discretionary Option Grant Program with respect to one or more classes of eligible persons, to the extent such entity is carrying out
its administrative functions under those programs with respect to the persons under its jurisdiction.         
  Y.   Predecessor Plan   shall mean the Corporation s pre-existing 1987 Stock Option Plan in effect immediately prior to the
Plan Effective Date hereunder.            Z.   Primary
Committee   shall mean the committee of two (2) or more non-employee Board members appointed by the Board to administer the Discretionary Option Grant Program with respect to Section 16 Insiders.   
        AA.   Secondary Committee   shall mean a committee
of two (2) or more Board members appointed by the Board to administer the Discretionary Option Grant Program with respect to eligible persons other than Section 16 Insiders.   
        BB.   Section 16 Insider   shall mean an officer or
director of the Corporation subject to the short-swing profit liabilities of Section 16 of the 1934 Act.         
  CC.   Service   shall mean the performance of services for the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary) by a person in the
capacity of an Employee, a non-employee member of the board of directors or a consultant or independent advisor, except to the extent otherwise specifically provided in the documents evidencing the option grant or stock issuance.   
        DD.   Stock Exchange   shall mean either the
American Stock Exchange or the New York Stock Exchange.         
  EE.   Stock Issuance Agreement   shall mean the agreement entered into by the Corporation and the Participant at the time of
issuance of shares to such person under the Stock Issuance Program.         
  FF.   Stock Issuance Program   shall mean the stock issuance program in effect under Article Four of the Plan.   
     
   A-4.   

GG.   Subsidiary   shall mean any corporation (other than the Corporation) in an
unbroken chain of corporations beginning with the Corporation, provided each corporation (other than the last corporation) in the unbroken chain owns, at the time of the determination, stock possessing fifty percent (50%) or more of the total
combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of the other corporations in such chain.         
  HH.   Take-Over Price   shall mean the  greater  of (i) the Fair Market Value per share of Common Stock on the date the
option is surrendered to the Corporation in connection with a Hostile Take-Over or (ii) the highest reported price per share of Common Stock paid by the tender offeror in effecting such Hostile Take-Over. However, if the surrendered option is an
Incentive Option, the Take-Over Price shall not exceed the clause (i) price per share.         
  II.   10% Shareholder   shall mean the owner of stock (as determined under Code Section 424(d)) possessing more than ten percent
(10%) of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary).         
  JJ.   Withholding Taxes   shall mean the Federal, state and local income and employment withholding taxes to which the holder of
Non-Statutory Options or unvested shares of Common Stock may become subject in connection with the exercise of those options or the vesting of those shares.         
   A-5.   

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.     
          NOTICE OF GRANT OF STOCK OPTION     
        Notice is hereby given of the following option grant (the
 Option ) made to purchase shares of Cisco Systems, Inc. (the  Company ) common stock (the  Common Stock ):         
  Optionee:

Grant Date:

Type of
Option:                                        Incentive Stock
Option   

Non-Statutory Stock Option      Grant Number:

Number of Option Shares:
                                          
        shares      Exercise Price:
$                                          
                             per share   
  Vesting Commencement Date:

Expiration Date:

Exercise
Schedule              The Option shall become
exercisable with respect to (i) twenty percent (20%) of the Option Shares upon Optionee s completion of one (1) year of Service measured from the Vesting Commencement Date and (ii) the balance of the Option Shares in a series of forty-eight
(48) successive equal monthly installments upon Optionee s completion of each additional month of Service over the forty-eight (48)-month period measured from the first anniversary of the Vesting Commencement Date. In no event shall the Option
become exercisable for any additional Option Shares after Optionee s cessation of Service.         
  Should Optionee request a reduction to his or her work commitment to less than thirty (30) hours per week, then the Plan Administrator
shall have the right, exercisable in connection with the approval of that reduction, to extend the period over which the Option shall thereafter vest and become exercisable for the Option Shares during the remainder of the option term. The decision
whether or not to approve Optionee s request for such reduced work commitment shall be at the sole discretion of the Plan Administrator. In no event shall any extension of the Exercise Schedule for the Option Shares result in the extension of
the Expiration Date of the Option.            Optionee
understands and agrees that the Option is offered subject to and in accordance with the terms of the Cisco Systems, Inc. 1996 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). Optionee further agrees to be bound by the terms of the Plan and the terms of
the Option as set forth in the Stock Option Agreement attached hereto.         
    No Employment or Service Contract  . Nothing in this Notice or in the attached Stock Option Agreement or in the Plan shall confer upon
Optionee any right to continue in Service for any period of specific duration or interfere with or otherwise restrict in any way the rights of the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary employing or retaining Optionee) or of Optionee, which rights
are hereby expressly reserved by each, to terminate Optionee s Service at any time for any reason, with or without cause.         
    Definitions  . All capitalized terms in this Notice shall have the meaning assigned to them in this Notice or in the attached Stock Option
Agreement.   

STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT     
          Recitals     
        A. The Board has adopted the Plan for the purpose of
retaining the services of selected Employees, non-employee members of the Board or of the board of directors of any Parent or Subsidiary and consultants and other independent advisors who provide services to the Corporation (or any Parent or
Subsidiary).            B. Optionee is to render valuable
services to the Corporation (or a Parent or Subsidiary), and this Agreement is executed pursuant to, and is intended to carry out the purposes of, the Plan in connection with the Corporation s grant of an option to Optionee.   
        C. All capitalized terms in this Agreement shall have the
meaning assigned to them in the attached Appendix.         
   NOW, THEREFORE , it is hereby agreed as follows:   
        1.   Grant of Option  . The Corporation hereby
grants to Optionee, as of the Grant Date, an option to purchase up to the number of Option Shares specified in the Grant Notice. The Option Shares shall be purchasable from time to time during the option term specified in Paragraph 2 at the Exercise
Price.            2.   Option Term  . This option
shall have a maximum term of nine (9) years measured from the Grant Date and shall accordingly expire at the close of business on the Expiration Date, unless sooner terminated in accordance with Paragraph 5 or 6.   
        3.   Limited Transferability  . This option may, in
connection with the Optionee s estate plan, be assigned in whole or in part during Optionee s lifetime to one or more members of the Optionee s immediate family or to a trust established for the exclusive benefit of one or more such
family members. The assigned portion shall be exercisable only by the person or persons who acquire a proprietary interest in the option pursuant to such assignment. The terms applicable to the assigned portion shall be the same as those in effect
for this option immediately prior to such assignment and shall be set forth in such documents issued to the assignee as the Corporation may deem appropriate. Should the Optionee die while holding this option, then this option shall be transferred in
accordance with Optionee s will or the laws of descent and distribution.         
  4.   Dates of Exercise  . This option shall become exercisable for the Option Shares in one or more installments as specified in
the Grant Notice. As the option becomes exercisable for such installments, those installments shall accumulate and the option shall remain exercisable for the accumulated installments until the Expiration Date or sooner termination of the option
term under Paragraph 5 or 6. As an administrative matter, the exercisable portion of this option may only be exercised until the close of the Nasdaq National Market on the last trading day before the Expiration Date or earlier date of termination of
the option term under   

Paragraph 5. Any later attempt to exercise this option will not be honored. For example, if Optionee ceases to remain in Service as provided in Paragraph 5(i) and the date three (3) months from
the date of cessation is Monday, July 4 (a holiday on which the Nasdaq National Market is closed), Optionee must exercise the exercisable portion of this option by 4 pm Eastern Daylight Time on Friday, July 1.   
        5.   Cessation of Service  . The option term
specified in Paragraph 2 shall terminate (and this option shall cease to be outstanding) prior to the Expiration Date should any of the following provisions become applicable:   
        (i) Should Optionee cease to remain in
Service for any reason (other than death, Permanent Disability or Misconduct) while this option is outstanding, then Optionee shall have a period of three (3) months (commencing with the date of such cessation of Service) during which to exercise
this option, but in no event shall this option be exercisable at any time after the Expiration Date.         
  (ii) If Optionee dies while this option is outstanding, then the personal representative of Optionee s estate or the
person or persons to whom the option is transferred pursuant to Optionee s will or in accordance with the laws of descent and distribution shall have the right to exercise this option. Such right shall lapse, and this option shall cease to be
outstanding, upon the earlier of (A) the expiration of the twelve (12)- month period measured from the date of Optionee s death or (B) the Expiration Date.   
        (iii) Should Optionee cease Service by
reason of Permanent Disability while this option is outstanding, then Optionee shall have a period of twelve (12) months (commencing with the date of such cessation of Service) during which to exercise this option. In no event shall this option be
exercisable at any time after the Expiration Date.         
  (iv) For purposes of this Agreement, Optionee s period of Service shall not include any period of notice of
termination of employment, whether expressed or implied. Optionee s date of cessation of Service shall mean the date upon which Optionee ceases active performance of services for the Corporation following the provision of such notification of
termination or resignation from Service and shall be determined solely by this Agreement and without reference to any other agreement, written or oral, including Optionee s contract of employment.   
        (v) During the limited period of
post-Service exercisability, this option may not be exercised in the aggregate for more than the number of vested Option Shares for which the option is exercisable at the time of Optionee s cessation of Service. Upon the expiration of such
limited exercise period or (if earlier) upon the Expiration Date, this option shall terminate and cease to be outstanding for any vested Option Shares for which the option has not   
     
   2   

been exercised. However, this option shall, immediately upon Optionee s cessation of Service for any reason, terminate and cease to be outstanding with respect to any Option Shares in which
Optionee is not otherwise at that time vested or for which this option is not otherwise at that time exercisable.         
  (vi) Should Optionee s Service be terminated for Misconduct or should Optionee otherwise engage in Misconduct while
this option is outstanding, then this option shall terminate immediately and cease to remain outstanding.         
  6.   Special Acceleration of Option           
  (a) This option, to the extent outstanding at the time of a Corporate Transaction but not otherwise fully exercisable, shall
automatically accelerate so that this option shall, immediately prior to the effective date of the Corporate Transaction, become exercisable for all of the Option Shares at the time subject to this option and may be exercised for any or all of those
Option Shares as fully-vested shares of Common Stock. No such acceleration of this option, however, shall occur if and to the extent: (i) this option is, in connection with the Corporate Transaction, either to be assumed by the successor corporation
(or parent thereof) or to be replaced with a comparable option to purchase shares of the capital stock of the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or (ii) this option is to be replaced with a cash incentive program of the successor corporation
which preserves the spread existing on the unvested Option Shares at the time of the Corporate Transaction (the excess of the Fair Market Value of those Option Shares over the aggregate Exercise Price payable for such shares) and provides for
subsequent pay-out in accordance with the same option exercise/vesting schedule set forth in the Grant Notice. The determination of option comparability under clause (i) shall be made by the Plan Administrator, and such determination shall be final,
binding and conclusive.            (b) Immediately
following the Corporate Transaction, this option shall terminate and cease to be outstanding, except to the extent assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) in connection with the Corporate Transaction.   
        (c) If this option is assumed in connection with a Corporate
Transaction, then this option shall be appropriately adjusted, immediately after such Corporate Transaction, to apply to the number and class of securities which would have been issuable to Optionee in consummation of such Corporate Transaction had
the option been exercised immediately prior to such Corporate Transaction, and appropriate adjustments shall also be made to the Exercise Price, provided the aggregate Exercise Price shall remain the same.   
        (d) This option, to the extent outstanding at the time of a
Change in Control but not otherwise fully exercisable, shall automatically accelerate so that this option shall, immediately prior to the effective date of the Change in Control, become exercisable for all of the Option Shares at the time subject to
this option and may be exercised for any or all of those Option Shares as fully-vested shares of Common Stock. This option shall remain so exercisable until the Expiration Date or sooner termination of the option term.   
     
   3   

(e) This Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Corporation to adjust,
reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate or sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets.   
        7.   Adjustment in Option Shares  . Should any
change be made to the Common Stock by reason of any stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization, combination of shares, exchange of shares or other change affecting the outstanding Common Stock as a class without the Corporation s receipt of
consideration, appropriate adjustments shall be made to (i) the total number and/or class of securities subject to this option and (ii) the Exercise Price in order to reflect such change and thereby preclude a dilution or enlargement of benefits
hereunder.            8.   Shareholder Rights  .
The holder of this option shall not have any shareholder rights with respect to the Option Shares until such person shall have exercised the option, paid the Exercise Price and become a holder of record of the purchased shares.   
        9.   Manner of Exercising Option  .   
        (a) In order to exercise this option with respect to all or
any part of the Option Shares for which this option is at the time exercisable, Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising the option) must take the following actions:   
        (i) Pay the aggregate Exercise Price for
the purchased shares in one or more of the following forms:         
  (A) cash or check made payable to the Corporation;   
        (B) to the extent the option is exercised
for vested Option Shares, through a special sale and remittance procedure pursuant to which Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising the option) shall concurrently provide irrevocable written instructions (I) to a Corporation-designated
brokerage firm (or in the case of an Executive Officer or Board member of the Corporation, an Optionee-designated brokerage firm) to effect the immediate sale of the purchased shares and remit to the Corporation, out of the sale proceeds available
on the settlement date, sufficient funds to cover the aggregate Exercise Price payable for the purchased shares plus all applicable taxes required to be withheld by the Corporation by reason of such exercise and (II) to the Corporation to deliver
the certificates for the purchased shares directly to such brokerage firm in order to complete the sale transaction;         
  (C) a promissory note payable to the Corporation, but only to the extent authorized by the Plan Administrator in
accordance with Paragraph 13; and         
   4   

(D) shares of Common Stock held by Optionee (or any other person or persons
exercising the option) for the requisite period necessary to avoid a charge to the Corporation s earnings for financial reporting purposes and valued at Fair Market Value on the Exercise Date.   
        (ii) Furnish to the Corporation appropriate
documentation that the person or persons exercising the option (if other than Optionee) have the right to exercise this option.         
  (iii) Make appropriate arrangements with the Corporation (or Parent or Subsidiary employing or retaining Optionee) for
the satisfaction of all tax withholding requirements applicable to the option exercise.         
  (b) As soon as practical after the Exercise Date, the Corporation shall issue to or on behalf of Optionee (or any other person or persons
exercising this option) a certificate for the purchased Option Shares, with the appropriate legends affixed thereto.         
  (c) In no event may this option be exercised for any fractional shares.   
        (d) Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan, this
Agreement or any other agreement to the contrary, if at the time this option is exercised, Optionee is indebted to the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary) for any reason, the following actions shall be taken, as deemed appropriate by the Plan
Administrator:            (i) any shares
of Common Stock to be issued upon such exercise shall automatically be pledged against Optionee s outstanding indebtedness; and         
  (ii) if this option is exercised in accordance with subparagraph 9(a)(i)(B) above, the after tax proceeds of the sale of
Optionee s stock shall automatically be applied to the outstanding balance of Optionee s indebtedness.         
  10.   Compliance with Laws and Regulations  .       
     (a) The exercise of this option and the issuance of the Option Shares upon such exercise shall be subject to compliance by
the Corporation and Optionee with all applicable requirements of law relating thereto and with all applicable regulations of any stock exchange (or the Nasdaq National Market, if applicable) on which the Common Stock may be listed for trading at the
time of such exercise and issuance.            (b) The
inability of the Corporation to obtain approval from any regulatory body having authority deemed by the Corporation to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any Common Stock pursuant to this option shall relieve the Corporation of any
liability with respect to the non-issuance or sale of the Common Stock as to which such         
   5   

approval shall not have been obtained. The Corporation, however, shall use its best efforts to obtain all such approvals.   
        11.   Successors and Assigns  . Except to the
extent otherwise provided in Paragraphs 3 and 6, the provisions of this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and be binding upon, the Corporation and its successors and assigns and Optionee, Optionee s assigns and the legal representatives,
heirs and legatees of Optionee s estate.            12.
  Notices  . Any notice required to be given or delivered to the Corporation under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and addressed to the Corporation at its principal corporate offices. Any notice required to be given or
delivered to Optionee shall be in writing and addressed to Optionee at the address indicated below Optionee s signature line on the Grant Notice. All notices shall be deemed effective upon personal delivery or upon deposit in the U.S. mail,
postage prepaid and properly addressed to the party to be notified.         
  13.   Financing  . The Plan Administrator may, in its absolute discretion and without any obligation to do so, permit Optionee
to pay the Exercise Price for the purchased Option Shares by delivering a full-recourse promissory note payable to the Corporation. The terms of any such promissory note (including the interest rate, the requirements for collateral and the terms of
repayment) shall be established by the Plan Administrator in its sole discretion.         
  14.   Construction  . This Agreement and the option evidenced hereby are made and granted pursuant to the Plan and are in all
respects limited by and subject to the terms of the Plan. All decisions of the Plan Administrator with respect to any question or issue arising under the Plan or this Agreement shall be conclusive and binding on all persons having an interest in
this option.            15.   Governing Law  . The
interpretation, performance and enforcement of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California without resort to that State s conflict-of-laws rules.   
        16.   Excess Shares  . If the Option Shares covered
by this Agreement exceed, as of the Grant Date, the number of shares of Common Stock which may without shareholder approval be issued under the Plan, then this option shall be void with respect to those excess shares, unless shareholder approval of
an amendment sufficiently increasing the number of shares of Common Stock issuable under the Plan is obtained in accordance with the provisions of the Plan.         
  17.   Additional Terms Applicable to an Incentive Option  . In the event this option is designated an Incentive Option in the
Grant Notice, the following terms and conditions shall also apply to the grant:         
  (a) This option shall cease to qualify for favorable tax treatment as an Incentive Option if (and to the extent) this option is exercised
for one or more Option Shares: (A) more than three (3) months after the date Optionee ceases to be an Employee for any reason other than death or Permanent Disability or (B) more than twelve (12) months after the date Optionee ceases to be an
Employee by reason of Permanent Disability.         
   6   

(b) No installment under this option shall qualify for favorable tax treatment as an
Incentive Option if (and to the extent) the aggregate Fair Market Value (determined at the Grant Date) of the Common Stock for which such installment first becomes exercisable hereunder would, when added to the aggregate value (determined as of the
respective date or dates of grant) of the Common Stock or other securities for which this option or any other Incentive Options granted to Optionee prior to the Grant Date (whether under the Plan or any other option plan of the Corporation or any
Parent or Subsidiary) first become exercisable during the same calendar year, exceed One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000) in the aggregate. Should such One Hundred Thousand Dollar ($100,000) limitation be exceeded in any calendar year, this
option shall nevertheless become exercisable for the excess shares in such calendar year as a Non-Statutory Option.         
  (c) Should the exercisability of this option be accelerated upon a Corporate Transaction or Change in Control, then this option shall
qualify for favorable tax treatment as an Incentive Option only to the extent the aggregate Fair Market Value (determined at the Grant Date) of the Common Stock for which this option first becomes exercisable in the calendar year in which the
Corporate Transaction or Change in Control occurs does not, when added to the aggregate value (determined as of the respective date or dates of grant) of the Common Stock or other securities for which this option or one or more other Incentive
Options granted to Optionee prior to the Grant Date (whether under the Plan or any other option plan of the Corporation or any Parent or Subsidiary) first become exercisable during the same calendar year, exceed One Hundred Thousand Dollars
($100,000) in the aggregate. Should the applicable One Hundred Thousand Dollar ($100,000) limitation be exceeded in the calendar year of such Corporate Transaction or Change in Control, the option may nevertheless be exercised for the excess shares
in such calendar year as a Non-Statutory Option.         
  (d) Should Optionee hold, in addition to this option, one or more other options to purchase Common Stock which become exercisable for the
first time in the same calendar year as this option, then the foregoing limitations on the exercisability of such options as Incentive Options shall be applied on the basis of the order in which such options are granted.   
        18.   Leave of Absence .  The following provisions
shall apply upon the Optionee s commencement of an authorized leave of absence:         
  (a) The exercise schedule in effect under the Grant Notice shall be frozen as of the first day of the authorized leave, and this option
shall not become exercisable for any additional installments of the Option Shares during the period Optionee remains on such leave.         
  (b) If the option is designated as an Incentive Option in the Grant Notice, then the following additional provision shall apply:
           If the leave of absence
continues for more than ninety (90) days, then this option shall automatically convert to a Non-Statutory Option under the Federal tax laws at the end of the three (3)-month period measured from the ninety-first (91st) day of such leave, unless the
Optionee s reemployment rights are guaranteed by statute or by written agreement. Following any such         
   7   

conversion of the option, all subsequent exercises of such option, whether effected before or after Optionee s return to active Employee status, shall result in an immediate taxable event,
and the Corporation shall be required to collect from Optionee all withholding taxes applicable to such exercise.         
  (c) In no event shall this option become exercisable for any additional Option Shares or otherwise remain outstanding if Optionee does
not resume Employee status prior to the Expiration Date of the option term.         
  19.   Further Instruments  . The parties agree to execute such further instruments and to take such further action as may be
reasonably necessary to carry out the purposes and intent of this Agreement.         
  20.   Authorization to Release Necessary Personal Information  .   
        (a) Optionee hereby authorizes and directs Optionee s
employer to collect, use and transfer in electronic or other form, any personal information (the  Data ) regarding Optionee s employment, the nature and amount of Optionee s compensation and the fact and conditions of
Optionee s participation in the Plan (including, but not limited to, Optionee s name, home address, telephone number, date of birth, social security number (or any other social or national identification number), salary, nationality, job
title, number of shares of Common Stock held and the details of all options or any other entitlement to shares of Common Stock awarded, cancelled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding) for the purpose of implementing, administering and
managing Optionee s participation in the Plan. Optionee understands that the Data may be transferred to the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the
Plan, including any requisite transfer to a broker or other third party assisting with the exercise of Options under the Plan or with whom shares of Common Stock acquired upon exercise of this option or cash from the sale of such shares may be
deposited. Optionee acknowledges that recipients of the Data may be located in different countries, and those countries may have data privacy laws and protections different from those in the country of Optionee s residence. Furthermore,
Optionee acknowledges and understands that the transfer of the Data to the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties is necessary for Optionee s participation in the Plan.   
        (b) Optionee may at any time withdraw the consents herein,
by contacting Optionee s local human resources representative in writing. Optionee further acknowledges that withdrawal of consent may affect Optionee s ability to exercise or realize benefits from the option, and Optionee s ability
to participate in the Plan.            21.   No
Entitlement or Claims for Compensation  .         
  (a) The grant of options under the Plan is made at the discretion of the Plan Administrator, and the Plan may be suspended or terminated
by the Corporation at any time. The grant of an option in one year or at one time does not in any way entitle Optionee to an option grant in the future. The Plan is wholly discretionary in nature and is not to be considered part of Optionee s
normal or expected compensation subject to severance, resignation,         
   8   

redundancy or similar compensation. The value of the option is an extraordinary item of compensation which is outside the scope of Optionee s employment contract (if any).   
        (b) Optionee shall have no rights to compensation or damages
as a result of Optionee s cessation of Service for any reason whatsoever, whether or not in breach of contract, insofar as those rights arise or may arise from Optionee s ceasing to have rights under or be entitled to exercise this option
as a result of such cessation or from the loss or diminution in value of such rights. If Optionee did acquire any such rights, Optionee is deemed to have waived them irrevocably by accepting the option.   
     
   9   

Appendix     
        The following definitions shall be in effect under the
Agreement:            A.   Agreement   shall mean
this Stock Option Agreement.            B.
  Board   shall mean the Corporation s Board of Directors.         
  C.   Change in Control   shall mean a change in ownership or control of the Corporation effected through either of the following
transactions:            (i) the acquisition, directly or
indirectly by any person or related group of persons (other than the Corporation or a person that directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, the Corporation), of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of
Rule 13d-3 of the 1934 Act) of securities possessing more than thirty-five percent (35%) of the total combined voting power of the Corporation s outstanding securities pursuant to a tender or exchange offer made directly to the
Corporation s shareholders which the Board does not recommend such shareholders to accept, or         
  (ii) a change in the composition of the Board over a period of thirty-six (36) consecutive months or less such that a majority of the
Board members ceases, by reason of one or more contested elections for Board membership, to be comprised of individuals who either (A) have been Board members continuously since the beginning of such period or (B) have been elected or nominated for
election as Board members during such period by at least a majority of the Board members described in clause (A) who were still in office at the time the Board approved such election or nomination.   
        D.   Code   shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as amended.            E.   Common Stock  
shall mean the Corporation s common stock.         
  F.   Corporate Transaction   shall mean either of the following shareholder-approved transactions to which the Corporation is a
party:            (i) a merger or
consolidation in which securities possessing more than fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of the Corporation s outstanding securities are transferred to a person or persons different from the persons holding those securities
immediately prior to such transaction, or         
  (ii) the sale, transfer or other disposition of all or substantially all of the Corporation s assets in complete
liquidation or dissolution of the Corporation.            G.
  Corporation   shall mean Cisco Systems, Inc., a California corporation.         
   A-1   

H.   Employee   shall mean an individual who is in the employ of the Corporation
(or any Parent or Subsidiary), subject to the control and direction of the employer entity as to both the work to be performed and the manner and method of performance.       
     I.   Exercise Date   shall mean the date on which the option shall have been exercised in accordance with Paragraph
9 of the Agreement.            J.   Exercise
Price   shall mean the exercise price per share as specified in the Grant Notice.         
  K.   Expiration Date   shall mean the date on which the option expires as specified in the Grant Notice.   
        L.   Fair Market Value   per share of Common Stock
on any relevant date shall be determined in accordance with the following provisions:         
  (i) If the Common Stock is at the time traded on the Nasdaq National Market, then the Fair Market Value shall be the
closing selling price per share of Common Stock on the date in question, as the price is reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers on the Nasdaq National Market or any successor system. If there is no closing selling price for the
Common Stock on the date in question, then the Fair Market Value shall be the closing selling price on the last preceding date for which such quotation exists.         
  (ii) If the Common Stock is at the time listed on any Stock Exchange, then the Fair Market Value shall be the closing
selling price per share of Common Stock on the date in question on the Stock Exchange determined by the Plan Administrator to be the primary market for the Common Stock, as such price is officially quoted in the composite tape of transactions on
such exchange. If there is no closing selling price for the Common Stock on the date in question, then the Fair Market Value shall be the closing selling price on the last preceding date for which such quotation exists.   
        M.   Grant Date   shall mean the date of grant of
the option as specified in the Grant Notice.            N.
  Grant Notice   shall mean the Notice of Grant of Stock Option accompanying the Agreement, pursuant to which Optionee has been informed of the basic terms of the option evidenced hereby.   
        O.   Incentive Option   shall mean an option which
satisfies the requirements of Code Section 422.         
  P.   Misconduct   shall mean the commission of any act of fraud, embezzlement or dishonesty by Optionee, any unauthorized use or
disclosure by Optionee of confidential information or trade secrets of the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary), or any other   
     
   A-2   

intentional misconduct by Optionee adversely affecting the business or affairs of the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary) in a material manner. The foregoing definition shall not be deemed
to be inclusive of all the acts or omissions which the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary) may consider as grounds for the dismissal or discharge of Optionee or any other individual in the Service of the Corporation (or any Parent or
Subsidiary).            Q.   1934 Act   shall mean
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.         
  R.   Non-Statutory Option   shall mean an option not intended to satisfy the requirements of Code Section 422.   
        S.   Option Shares   shall mean the number of
shares of Common Stock subject to the option as specified in the Grant Notice.         
  T.   Optionee   shall mean the person to whom the option is granted as specified in the Grant Notice.   
        U.   Parent   shall mean any corporation (other
than the Corporation) in an unbroken chain of corporations ending with the Corporation, provided each corporation in the unbroken chain (other than the Corporation) owns, at the time of the determination, stock possessing fifty percent (50%) or more
of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of the other corporations in such chain.         
  V.   Permanent Disability   shall mean the inability of Optionee to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any
medically determinable physical or mental impairment which is expected to result in death or has lasted or can be expected to last for a continuous period of twelve (12) months or more.   
        W.   Plan   shall mean the Corporation s 1996
Stock Incentive Plan.            X.   Plan
Administrator   shall mean either the Board or a committee of the Board acting in its administrative capacity under the Plan.         
  Y.   Service   shall mean the Optionee s performance of services for the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary) in the
capacity of an Employee, a non-employee member of the board of directors or a consultant or independent advisor.         
  Z.   Stock Exchange   shall mean the American Stock Exchange or the New York Stock Exchange.   
        AA.   Subsidiary   shall mean any corporation
(other than the Corporation) in an unbroken chain of corporations beginning with the Corporation, provided each corporation (other than the last corporation) in the unbroken chain owns, at the time of the determination, stock possessing fifty
percent (50%) or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of the other corporations in such chain.         
   A-3   

INITIAL GRANT     
    NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR           
   CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.    
    NOTICE OF GRANT OF NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR     
    AUTOMATIC STOCK OPTION           
  Notice is hereby given of the following option grant (the  Option ) to purchase shares of the Common Stock of Cisco Systems,
Inc. (the  Corporation ):         
   Optionee :

Grant Date :

Exercise Price :
$                       per share         
   Number of Option Shares :
                       shares         
   Expiration Date :

Type
of Option : Non-Statutory Stock Option         
   Date Exercisable : Immediately Exercisable         
   Vesting Schedule:  The Option Shares shall initially be unvested and subject to repurchase by the Corporation at the Exercise Price
paid per share. Optionee shall acquire a vested interest in, and the Corporation s repurchase right shall accordingly lapse with respect to, the Option Shares in a series of four (4) successive equal annual installments upon the Optionee s
completion of each year of service as a member of the Corporation s Board of Directors (the  Board ) over the four (4)-year period measured from the Grant Date. In no event shall any additional Option Shares vest after Optionee s
cessation of Board service.            Optionee understands
and agrees that the Option is granted subject to and in accordance with the terms of the automatic option grant program under the Cisco Systems, Inc. 1996 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). Optionee further agrees to be bound by the terms
of the Plan and the terms of the Option as set forth in the Automatic Stock Option Agreement attached hereto as  Exhibit A .         
  Optionee hereby acknowledges receipt of a copy of the official prospectus for the Plan in the form attached hereto as  Exhibit B . A
copy of the Plan is available upon request made to the Corporate Secretary at the Corporation s principal offices.   

REPURCHASE RIGHT . OPTIONEE HEREBY AGREES THAT ALL UNVESTED OPTION SHARES ACQUIRED
UPON THE EXERCISE OF THE OPTION SHALL NOT BE TRANSFERABLE AND SHALL BE SUBJECT TO REPURCHASE BY THE CORPORATION, AT THE EXERCISE PRICE PAID PER SHARE, UPON OPTIONEE S TERMINATION OF SERVICE AS A MEMBER OF THE CORPORATION S BOARD OF
DIRECTORS PRIOR TO VESTING IN THOSE SHARES. THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF SUCH REPURCHASE RIGHT SHALL BE SPECIFIED IN A STOCK PURCHASE AGREEMENT, IN FORM AND SUBSTANCE SATISFACTORY TO THE CORPORATION, EXECUTED BY OPTIONEE AT THE TIME OF THE OPTION
EXERCISE.              No Impairment of Rights .
Nothing in this Notice or in the attached Automatic Stock Option Agreement or the Plan shall interfere with or otherwise restrict in any way the rights of the Corporation or the Corporation s shareholders to remove Optionee from the Board at
any time in accordance with the provisions of applicable law.         
   Definitions . All capitalized terms in this Notice shall have the meaning assigned to them in this Notice or in the attached
Automatic Stock Option Agreement.            DATED:
                      ,                

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.   

By:  

Title:  

OPTIONEE   

Address:  

ATTACHMENTS 
     Exhibit A - Automatic Stock Option Agreement   
  Exhibit B - Plan Summary and Prospectus         
   2   

ANNUAL GRANT     
    NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR           
   CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.    
    NOTICE OF GRANT OF NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR     
    AUTOMATIC STOCK OPTION           
  Notice is hereby given of the following option grant (the  Option ) to purchase shares of the Common Stock of Cisco Systems,
Inc. (the  Corporation ):         
   Optionee :

Grant Date :

Exercise Price :
$                           per share   
         Number of Option Shares :
                       shares         
   Expiration Date :

Type of
Option : Non-Statutory Stock Option             Date
Exercisable : Immediately Exercisable         
   Vesting Schedule : The Option Shares shall initially be unvested and subject to repurchase by the Corporation at the Exercise Price
paid per share. Optionee shall acquire a vested interest in, and the Corporation s repurchase right shall accordingly lapse with respect to, the Option Shares in a series of two (2) successive equal annual installments upon Optionee s
completion of each year of service as a member of the Corporation s Board of Directors (the  Board ) over the two (2)-year period measured from the Grant Date. In no event shall any additional Option Shares vest after Optionee s
cessation of Board service.            Optionee understands
and agrees that the Option is granted subject to and in accordance with the terms of the automatic option grant program under the Cisco Systems, Inc. 1996 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). Optionee further agrees to be bound by the terms
of the Plan and the terms of the Option as set forth in the Automatic Stock Option Agreement attached hereto as  Exhibit A .         
  Optionee hereby acknowledges receipt of a copy of the official prospectus for the Plan in the form attached hereto as  Exhibit B . A
copy of the Plan is available upon request made to the Corporate Secretary at the Corporation s principal offices.         
    REPURCHASE RIGHT . OPTIONEE HEREBY AGREES THAT ALL UNVESTED OPTION SHARES ACQUIRED UPON THE EXERCISE OF THE OPTION SHALL NOT BE
TRANSFERABLE AND SHALL BE SUBJECT TO REPURCHASE BY THE CORPORATION, AT THE EXERCISE PRICE PAID PER SHARE, UPON OPTIONEE S TERMINATION OF SERVICE AS A MEMBER OF THE    

CORPORATION S BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRIOR TO VESTING IN THOSE SHARES. THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF SUCH REPURCHASE RIGHT SHALL BE SPECIFIED IN A STOCK PURCHASE AGREEMENT, IN FORM AND SUBSTANCE
SATISFACTORY TO THE CORPORATION, EXECUTED BY OPTIONEE AT THE TIME OF THE OPTION EXERCISE.          
   No Impairment of Rights . Nothing in this Notice or in the attached Automatic Stock Option Agreement or the Plan shall interfere
with or otherwise restrict in any way the rights of the Corporation or the Corporation s shareholders to remove Optionee from the Board at any time in accordance with the provisions of applicable law.   
         Definitions . All capitalized terms in this Notice
shall have the meaning assigned to them in this Notice or in the attached Automatic Stock Option Agreement.         
   DATED:                        ,

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.    

By:  

Title:  

OPTIONEE    

Address:  

ATTACHMENTS 
     Exhibit A - Automatic Stock Option Agreement   
  Exhibit B - Plan Summary and Prospectus         
   2   

NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR    
         CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.    
    AUTOMATIC STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT           
    RECITALS           
  A. The Corporation has implemented an automatic option grant program under the Corporation s 1996 Stock Incentive Plan pursuant to
which eligible non-employee members of the Board will automatically receive special option grants at designated intervals over their period of Board service in order to provide such individuals with a meaningful incentive to continue to serve as a
member of the Board.            B. Optionee is an eligible
non-employee Board member, and this Agreement is executed pursuant to, and is intended to carry out the purposes of, the Plan in connection with the automatic grant of a stock option to purchase shares of the Corporation s Common Stock under
the Plan.            C. The granted option is intended to be
a non-statutory option which does  not  meet the requirements of Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code.         
  D. All capitalized terms in this Agreement, to the extent not otherwise defined in the Agreement, shall have the meaning assigned to them
in the attached Appendix.             NOW, THEREFORE ,
it is hereby agreed as follows:            1.   Grant
of Option  . The Corporation hereby grants to Optionee, as of the Grant Date, a Non-Statutory Option to purchase up to the number of Option Shares specified in the Grant Notice. The Option Shares shall be purchasable from time to time during
the option term specified in Paragraph 2 at the Exercise Price.         
  2.   Option Term  . This option shall have a maximum term of nine (9) years measured from the Grant Date and shall accordingly
expire at the close of business on the Expiration Date, unless sooner terminated in accordance with Paragraph 5, 6 or 7.         
  3.   Limited Transferability  . This option may, in connection with the Optionee s estate plan, be assigned in whole or in
part during Optionee s lifetime to one or more members of the Optionee s immediate family or to a trust established for the exclusive benefit of one or more such family members. The assigned portion shall be exercisable only by the person
or persons who acquire a proprietary interest in the option pursuant to such assignment. The terms applicable to the assigned portion shall be the same as those in effect for this option immediately prior to such assignment and shall be set forth in
such documents issued to the assignee as the Corporation may deem appropriate. Should the Optionee die while holding this option, then this option shall be transferred in accordance with Optionee s will or the laws of descent and distribution.

4.   Exercisability/Vesting  .   
        (a) This option shall be immediately exercisable for any or
all of the Option Shares, whether or not the Option Shares are vested in accordance with the Vesting Schedule set forth in the Grant Notice, and shall remain so exercisable until the Expiration Date or the sooner termination of the option term under
Paragraph 5, 6 or 7.            (b) Optionee shall, in
accordance with the Vesting Schedule set forth in the Grant Notice, vest in the Option Shares in a series of installments over his or her period of Board service. Vesting in the Option Shares may be accelerated pursuant to the provisions of
Paragraph 5, 6 or 7. In no event, however, shall any additional Option Shares vest following Optionee s cessation of service as a Board member.         
  5.   Cessation of Board Service  . Should Optionee s service as a Board member cease while this option remains outstanding,
then the option term specified in Paragraph 2 shall terminate (and this option shall cease to be outstanding) prior to the Expiration Date in accordance with the following provisions:   
        (i) Should Optionee cease to serve as a
Board member for any reason (other than death or Permanent Disability) while this option is outstanding, then the period for exercising this option shall be reduced to a twelve (12)-month period commencing with the date of such cessation of Board
service, but in no event shall this option be exercisable at any time after the Expiration Date. During such limited period of exercisability, this option may not be exercised in the aggregate for more than the number of Option Shares (if any) in
which Optionee is vested on the date of his or her cessation of Board service. Upon the  earlier  of (i) the expiration of such twelve (12)-month period or (ii) the specified Expiration Date, the option shall terminate and cease to be
exercisable with respect to any vested Option Shares for which the option has not been exercised.         
  (ii) Should Optionee die during the twelve (12)-month period following his or her cessation of Board service and hold
this option at the time of his or her death, then the personal representative of Optionee s estate or the person or persons to whom the option is transferred pursuant to Optionee s will or in accordance with the laws of descent and
distribution shall have the right to exercise this option for any or all of the Option Shares in which Optionee is vested at the time of Optionee s cessation of Board service (less any Option Shares purchased by Optionee after such cessation of
Board service but prior to death). Such right of exercise shall terminate, and this option shall accordingly cease to be exercisable for such vested Option Shares, upon the  earlier  of (i) the expiration of the twelve (12)-month period
measured from the date of Optionee s cessation of Board service or (ii) the specified Expiration Date of the option term. Should this option be transferred during Optionee s lifetime in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 3, then
the transferee(s) shall have the same limited time period in which to exercise this option for any or all of those vested Option Shares.         
   2   

(iii) Should Optionee cease service as a Board member by reason of death or
Permanent Disability, then all Option Shares at the time subject to this option but not otherwise vested shall immediately vest in full so that Optionee (or the personal representative of Optionee s estate or the person or persons to whom the
option is transferred upon Optionee s death or to whom the option is transferred during Optionee s lifetime in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 3) shall have the right to exercise this option for any or all of the Option Shares
as fully-vested shares of Common Stock at any time prior to the  earlier  of (i) the expiration of the twelve (12)-month period measured from the date of Optionee s cessation of Board service or (ii) the specified Expiration Date.
           (iv) Upon Optionee s
cessation of Board service for any reason other than death or Permanent Disability, this option shall immediately terminate and cease to be outstanding with respect to any and all Option Shares in which Optionee is not otherwise at that time vested
in accordance with the normal Vesting Schedule set forth in the Grant Notice or the special vesting acceleration provisions of Paragraph 6 or 7 below.         
  6.   Corporate Transaction  .         
  (a) In the event of a Corporate Transaction, all Option Shares at the time subject to this option but not otherwise vested shall
automatically vest so that this option shall, immediately prior to the specified effective date for the Corporate Transaction, become fully exercisable for all of the Option Shares at the time subject to this option and may be exercised for all or
any portion of such shares as fully-vested shares of Common Stock. Immediately following the consummation of the Corporate Transaction, this option shall terminate and cease to be outstanding, except to the extent assumed by the successor
corporation or its parent company.            (b) If this
option is assumed in connection with a Corporate Transaction, then this option shall be appropriately adjusted, immediately after such Corporate Transaction, to apply to the number and class of securities which would have been issuable to Optionee
in consummation of such Corporate Transaction had the option been exercised immediately prior to such Corporate Transaction, and appropriate adjustments shall also be made to the Exercise Price,  provided  the aggregate Exercise Price shall
remain the same.            7.   Change in
Control/Hostile Take-Over  .            (a) All
Option Shares subject to this option at the time of a Change in Control but not otherwise vested shall automatically vest so that this option shall, immediately prior to the effective date of such Change in Control, become fully exercisable for all
of the Option Shares at the time subject to this option and may be exercised for all or any portion of such shares as fully-vested shares of Common Stock. This option shall remain exercisable for such fully-vested Option Shares until the
 earliest  to occur of (i) the specified Expiration Date, (ii) the sooner termination of this option in accordance with Paragraph 5 or 6 or (iii) the surrender of this option under Paragraph 7(b).   
     
   3   

(b) Optionee shall have an unconditional right (exercisable during the thirty (30)-day
period immediately following the consummation of a Hostile Take-Over) to surrender this option to the Corporation in exchange for a cash distribution from the Corporation in an amount equal to the excess of (i) the Take-Over Price of the Option
Shares at the time subject to the surrendered option (whether or not those Option Shares are otherwise at the time vested) over (ii) the aggregate Exercise Price payable for such shares. This Paragraph 7(b) limited stock appreciation right shall in
all events terminate upon the expiration or sooner termination of the option term and may not be assigned or transferred by Optionee.         
  (c) To exercise the Paragraph 7(b) limited stock appreciation right, Optionee must, during the applicable thirty (30)-day exercise
period, provide the Corporation with written notice of the option surrender in which there is specified the number of Option Shares as to which the option is being surrendered. Such notice must be accompanied by the return of Optionee s copy of
this Agreement, together with any written amendments to such Agreement. The cash distribution shall be paid to Optionee within five (5) business days following such delivery date. Such option surrender and cash distribution has been pre-approved by
the Corporation s shareholders in connection with their approval of the Plan, and no additional approval of the Plan Administrator or the Board shall be required at the time of the actual option surrender and cash distribution. Upon receipt of
such cash distribution, this option shall be cancelled with respect to the shares subject to the surrendered option (or the surrendered portion), and Optionee shall cease to have any further right to acquire those Option Shares under this Agreement.
The option shall, however, remain outstanding for the balance of the Option Shares (if any) in accordance with the terms and provisions of this Agreement, and the Corporation shall accordingly issue a new stock option agreement (substantially in the
same form as this Agreement) for those remaining Option Shares.         
  8.   Adjustment in Option Shares  . Should any change be made to the Common Stock by reason of any stock split, stock dividend,
recapitalization, combination of shares, exchange of shares or other change affecting the outstanding Common Stock as a class without the Corporation s receipt of consideration, appropriate adjustments shall be made to (i) the number and/or
class of securities subject to this option and (ii) the Exercise Price in order to reflect such change and thereby preclude a dilution or enlargement of benefits hereunder; provided, however, that the aggregate Exercise Price shall remain the same.
           9.   Shareholder Rights  . The holder
of this option shall not have any shareholder rights with respect to the Option Shares until such person shall have exercised the option, paid the Exercise Price and become a holder of record of the purchased shares.   
        10.   Manner of Exercising Option  .   
        (a) In order to exercise this option for all or any part of
the Option Shares for which the option is at the time exercisable, Optionee or, in the case of exercise after Optionee s death, Optionee s executor, administrator, heir or legatee, as the case may be, must take the following actions:
        
   4   

(i) To the extent the option is exercised for vested Option Shares, the
Secretary of the Corporation shall be provided with written notice of the option exercise (the  Exercise Notice ) in substantially the form of Exhibit I attached hereto, in which there is specified the number of vested Option Shares to be
purchased under the exercised option. To the extent that the option is exercised for one or more unvested Option Shares, Optionee (or other person exercising the option) shall deliver to the Secretary of the Corporation a Purchase Agreement for
those unvested Option Shares.         
  (ii) The Exercise Price for the purchased shares shall be paid in one or more of the following alternative forms:
             cash or check made
payable to the Corporation s order; or         
    shares of Common Stock held by Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising the option) for the requisite
period necessary to avoid a charge to the Corporation s earnings for financial reporting purposes and valued at Fair Market Value on the Exercise Date; or         
    to the extent the option is exercised for vested Option Shares, through a special sale and remittance procedure
pursuant to which Optionee shall provide irrevocable written instructions (A) to a Optionee-designated brokerage firm to effect the immediate sale of the vested shares purchased under the option and remit to the Corporation, out of the sale proceeds
available on the settlement date, sufficient funds to cover the aggregate Exercise Price payable for those shares plus the applicable Federal, state and local income taxes required to be withheld by the Corporation by reason of such exercise and (B)
to the Corporation to deliver the certificates for the purchased shares directly to such brokerage firm in order to complete the sale.         
  (iii) Appropriate documentation evidencing the right to exercise this option shall be furnished the Corporation if the
person or persons exercising the option is other than Optionee.         
  (iv) Appropriate arrangement must be made with the Corporation for the satisfaction of all Federal, state and local
income tax withholding requirements applicable to the option exercise.         
  (b) Except to the extent the sale and remittance procedure specified above is utilized in connection with the exercise of the option for
vested Option Shares, payment of the Exercise Price for the purchased shares must accompany the Exercise Notice or Purchase Agreement delivered to the Corporation in connection with the option exercise.   
     
   5   

(c) As soon as practical after the Exercise Date, the Corporation shall issue to or on
behalf of Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising this option) a certificate or certificates representing the purchased Option Shares. To the extent any such Option Shares are unvested, the certificates for those Option Shares shall be
endorsed with an appropriate legend evidencing the Corporation s repurchase rights and may be held in escrow with the Corporation until such shares vest.         
  (d) In no event may this option be exercised for fractional shares.   
        11.   No Impairment of Rights  . This Agreement
shall not in any way affect the right of the Corporation to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise make changes in its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate or sell or transfer all or any part of its
business or assets. In addition, nothing in this Agreement shall in any way be construed or interpreted so as to affect adversely or otherwise impair the right of the Corporation or the shareholders to remove Optionee from the Board at any time in
accordance with the provisions of applicable law.         
  12.   Compliance with Laws and Regulations  .       
     (a) The exercise of this option and the issuance of the Option Shares upon such exercise shall be subject to compliance by
the Corporation and Optionee with all applicable requirements of law relating thereto and with all applicable regulations of any stock exchange (or the Nasdaq National Market, if applicable) on which the Common Stock may be listed for trading at the
time of such exercise and issuance.            (b) The
inability of the Corporation to obtain approval from any regulatory body having authority deemed by the Corporation to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any Common Stock pursuant to this option shall relieve the Corporation of any
liability with respect to the non-issuance or sale of the Common Stock as to which such approval shall not have been obtained. However, the Corporation shall use its best efforts to obtain all such applicable approvals.   
        13.   Successors and Assigns  . Except to the
extent otherwise provided in Paragraph 3 or 6, the provisions of this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and be binding upon, the Corporation and its successors and assigns and Optionee, Optionee s assigns and the legal representatives,
heirs and legatees of Optionee s estate.            14.
  Construction/Governing Law  . This Agreement and the option evidenced hereby are made and granted pursuant to the automatic option grant program in effect under the Plan and are in all respects limited by and subject to the express terms
and provisions of that program. The interpretation, performance, and enforcement of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California without resort to that State s conflict-of-laws rules.   
     
   6   

15.   Notices  . Any notice required to be given or delivered to the Corporation
under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and addressed to the Corporation at its principal corporate offices. Any notice required to be given or delivered to Optionee shall be in writing and addressed to Optionee at the address
indicated below Optionee s signature line on the Grant Notice. All notices shall be deemed effective upon personal delivery or upon deposit in the U.S. mail, postage prepaid and properly addressed to the party to be notified.   
     
   7   

EXHIBIT I    
         NOTICE OF EXERCISE    
        I hereby notify Cisco Systems, Inc. (the
 Corporation ) that I elect to purchase                shares of the Corporation s Common Stock (the  Purchased Shares ) at the option exercise price of
$               per share (the  Exercise Price ) pursuant to that certain option (the  Option ) granted to me pursuant to the automatic option grant program under
the Corporation s 1996 Stock Incentive Plan on                       ,
              .         
  Concurrently with the delivery of this Exercise Notice to the Secretary of the Corporation, I shall hereby pay to the Corporation the
Exercise Price for the Purchased Shares in accordance with the provisions of my agreement with the Corporation evidencing the Option and shall deliver whatever additional documents may be required by such agreement as a condition for exercise.
Alternatively, I may utilize the special broker/dealer sale and remittance procedure specified in my agreement to effect payment of the Exercise Price for any Purchased Shares in which I am vested at the time of exercise.   
     
                        ,
                    Date   

Optionee   

Address:  

Print name in exact manner  
  it is to appear on the  
  stock certificate:   

Address to which certificate  
  is to be sent, if different  
  from address above:   

Social Security Number:   

APPENDIX     
        The following definitions shall be in effect under the
Agreement:            A.   Agreement   shall mean
this Automatic Stock Option Agreement.            B.
  Board   shall mean the Corporation s Board of Directors.         
  C.   Change in Control   shall mean a change in ownership or control of the Corporation effected through either of the following
transactions:            (i) the
acquisition, directly or indirectly, by any person or related group of persons (other than the Corporation or a person that directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, the Corporation) of beneficial ownership
(within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the 1934 Act) of securities possessing more than thirty-five percent (35%) of the total combined voting power of the Corporation s outstanding securities pursuant to a tender or exchange offer made directly
to the Corporation s shareholders which the Board does not recommend such shareholders to accept, or         
  (ii) a change in the composition of the Board over a period of thirty-six (36) consecutive months or less such that a
majority of the Board members ceases, by reason of one or more contested elections for Board membership, to be comprised of individuals who either (A) have been Board members continuously since the beginning of such period or (B) have been elected
or nominated for election as Board members during such period by at least a majority of the Board members described in clause (A) who were still in office at the time the Board approved such election or nomination.   
        D.   Code   shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as amended.            E.   Common Stock  
shall mean the Corporation s common stock.         
  F.   Corporate Transaction   shall mean either of the following shareholder-approved transactions to which the Corporation is a
party:            (i) a merger or
consolidation in which securities possessing more than fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of the Corporation s outstanding securities are transferred to a person or persons different from the persons holding those securities
immediately prior to such transaction, or         
  (ii) the sale, transfer or other disposition of all or substantially all of the Corporation s assets in complete
liquidation or dissolution of the Corporation.         
   A-1   

G.   Corporation   shall mean Cisco Systems, Inc., a California corporation.
           H.   Exercise Date   shall mean the
date on which the option shall have been exercised in accordance with Paragraph 10 of the Agreement.         
  I.   Exercise Price   shall mean the exercise price payable per share as specified in the Grant Notice.   
        J.   Expiration Date   shall mean the date on
which the option term expires as specified in the Grant Notice.         
  K.   Fair Market Value   per share of Common Stock on any relevant date shall be determined in accordance with the following
provisions:            (i) If the Common
Stock is at the time traded on the Nasdaq National Market, then the Fair Market Value shall be the closing selling price per share of Common Stock on the date in question, as the price is reported on the Nasdaq National Market. If there is no
closing selling price for the Common Stock on the date in question, then the Fair Market Value shall be the closing selling price on the last preceding date for which such quotation exists.   
        (ii) If the Common Stock is at the time
listed on any Stock Exchange, then the Fair Market Value shall be the closing selling price per share of Common Stock on the date in question on the Stock Exchange determined by the Plan Administrator to be the primary market for the Common Stock,
as such price is officially quoted in the composite tape of transactions on such exchange. If there is no closing selling price for the Common Stock on the date in question, then the Fair Market Value shall be the closing selling price on the last
preceding date for which such quotation exists.         
  L.   Grant Date   shall mean the date of grant of the option as specified in the Grant Notice.   
        M.   Grant Notice   shall mean the Notice of Grant
of Automatic Stock Option accompanying this Agreement, pursuant to which Optionee has been informed of the basic terms of the option evidenced hereby.         
  N.   Hostile Take-Over   shall mean the acquisition, directly or indirectly, by any person or related group of persons (other
than the Corporation or a person that directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, the Corporation) of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the 1934 Act) of securities possessing more than
thirty five percent (35%) of the total combined voting power of the Corporation s outstanding securities pursuant to a tender or exchange offer made directly to the Corporation s shareholders which the Board does not recommend such
shareholders to accept.            O.   1934 Act  
shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.         
   A-2   

P.   Non-Statutory Option   shall mean an option not intended to satisfy the
requirements of Code Section 422.            Q.   Option
Shares   shall mean the number of shares of Common Stock subject to the option.         
  R.   Optionee   shall mean the person to whom the option is granted as specified in the Grant Notice.   
        S.   Permanent Disability   shall mean the
inability of Optionee to perform his or her usual duties as a Board member by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which is expected to result in death or has lasted or can be expected to last for a continuous period of
twelve (12) months or more.            T.   Plan  
shall mean the Corporation s 1996 Stock Incentive Plan.         
  U.   Purchase Agreement   shall mean the stock purchase agreement (in form and substance satisfactory to the Corporation) which
must be executed at the time the option is exercised for unvested Option Shares and which will accordingly (i) grant the Corporation the right to repurchase, at the Exercise Price, any and all of those Option Shares in which Optionee is not
otherwise vested at the time of his or her cessation of service as a Board member and (ii) preclude the sale, transfer or other disposition of any of the Option Shares purchased under such agreement while those Option Shares remain subject to the
repurchase right.            V.   Stock Exchange  
shall mean the American Stock Exchange or the New York Stock Exchange.         
  W.   Take-Over Price   shall mean the  greater  of (i) the Fair Market Value per share of Common Stock on the date the
option is surrendered to the Corporation in connection with a Hostile Take-Over or (ii) the highest reported price per share of Common Stock paid by the tender offeror in effecting the Hostile Take-Over.   
        X.   Vesting Schedule   shall mean the vesting
schedule specified in the Grant Notice, pursuant to which Optionee will vest in the Option Shares in one or more installments over his or her period of Board service, subject to acceleration in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement.
        
   A-3   

INITIAL GRANT     
    NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR           
   CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.    
    NOTICE OF GRANT OF NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR     
    DISCRETIONARY STOCK OPTION           
  Notice is hereby given of the following option grant (the  Option ) to purchase shares of the Common Stock of Cisco Systems,
Inc. (the  Corporation ):         
   Optionee :

Grant Date :

Exercise Price :
$                       per share         
   Number of Option Shares :
                       shares         
   Expiration Date :

Type of Option : Non-Statutory Stock Option   
         Date Exercisable : Immediately Exercisable   
         Vesting Schedule : The Option Shares shall initially
be unvested and subject to repurchase by the Corporation at the Exercise Price paid per share. Optionee shall acquire a vested interest in, and the Corporation s repurchase right shall accordingly lapse with respect to, the Option Shares in a
series of four (4) successive equal annual installments upon the Optionee s completion of each year of service as a member of the Corporation s Board of Directors (the  Board ) over the four (4)-year period measured from the
Grant Date. In no event shall any additional Option Shares vest after Optionee s cessation of Board service.         
  Optionee understands and agrees that the Option is granted subject to and in accordance with the terms of the Cisco Systems, Inc. 1996
Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). Optionee further agrees to be bound by the terms of the Plan and the terms of the Option as set forth in the Discretionary Stock Option Agreement attached hereto as  Exhibit A .   
        Optionee hereby acknowledges receipt of a copy of the
official prospectus for the Plan in the form attached hereto as  Exhibit B . A copy of the Plan is available upon request made to the Corporate Secretary at the Corporation s principal offices.   

REPURCHASE RIGHT . OPTIONEE HEREBY AGREES THAT ALL UNVESTED OPTION SHARES ACQUIRED
UPON THE EXERCISE OF THE OPTION SHALL NOT BE TRANSFERABLE AND SHALL BE SUBJECT TO REPURCHASE BY THE CORPORATION, AT THE EXERCISE PRICE PAID PER SHARE, UPON OPTIONEE S TERMINATION OF SERVICE AS A MEMBER OF THE CORPORATION S BOARD OF
DIRECTORS PRIOR TO VESTING IN THOSE SHARES. THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF SUCH REPURCHASE RIGHT SHALL BE SPECIFIED IN A STOCK PURCHASE AGREEMENT, IN FORM AND SUBSTANCE SATISFACTORY TO THE CORPORATION, EXECUTED BY OPTIONEE AT THE TIME OF THE OPTION
EXERCISE.              No Impairment of Rights .
Nothing in this Notice or in the attached Discretionary Stock Option Agreement or the Plan shall interfere with or otherwise restrict in any way the rights of the Corporation or the Corporation s shareholders to remove Optionee from the Board
at any time in accordance with the provisions of applicable law.         
   Definitions . All capitalized terms in this Notice shall have the meaning assigned to them in this Notice or in the attached
Discretionary Stock Option Agreement.            DATED:
                        ,              

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.   

By:  

Title:  

OPTIONEE   

Address:  

ATTACHMENTS 
     Exhibit A   Discretionary Stock Option Agreement   
  Exhibit B- Plan Summary and Prospectus         
   2   

ANNUAL GRANT     
    NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR           
   CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.    
    NOTICE OF GRANT OF NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR     
    DISCRETIONARY STOCK OPTION           
  Notice is hereby given of the following option grant (the  Option ) to purchase shares of the Common Stock of Cisco Systems,
Inc. (the  Corporation ):         
   Optionee :

Grant Date :

Exercise Price :
$                       per share         
   Number of Option Shares :
                       shares         
   Expiration Date :

Type of
Option : Non-Statutory Stock Option             Date
Exercisable : Immediately Exercisable         
   Vesting Schedule : The Option Shares shall initially be unvested and subject to repurchase by the Corporation at the Exercise Price
paid per share. Optionee shall acquire a vested interest in, and the Corporation s repurchase right shall accordingly lapse with respect to, the Option Shares in a series of two (2) successive equal annual installments upon Optionee s
completion of each year of service as a member of the Corporation s Board of Directors (the  Board ) over the two (2)-year period measured from the Grant Date. In no event shall any additional Option Shares vest after Optionee s
cessation of Board service.            Optionee understands
and agrees that the Option is granted subject to and in accordance with the terms of the Cisco Systems, Inc. 1996 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). Optionee further agrees to be bound by the terms of the Plan and the terms of the Option
as set forth in the Discretionary Stock Option Agreement attached hereto as  Exhibit A .         
  Optionee hereby acknowledges receipt of a copy of the official prospectus for the Plan in the form attached hereto as  Exhibit B . A
copy of the Plan is available upon request made to the Corporate Secretary at the Corporation s principal offices.         
    REPURCHASE RIGHT . OPTIONEE HEREBY AGREES THAT ALL UNVESTED OPTION SHARES ACQUIRED UPON THE EXERCISE OF THE OPTION SHALL NOT BE
TRANSFERABLE AND SHALL BE SUBJECT TO REPURCHASE BY THE CORPORATION, AT THE EXERCISE PRICE PAID PER SHARE, UPON OPTIONEE S TERMINATION OF SERVICE AS A MEMBER OF THE CORPORATION S BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRIOR TO VESTING IN THOSE

SHARES. THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF SUCH REPURCHASE RIGHT SHALL BE SPECIFIED IN A STOCK PURCHASE AGREEMENT, IN FORM AND SUBSTANCE SATISFACTORY TO THE CORPORATION, EXECUTED BY OPTIONEE AT THE TIME
OF THE OPTION EXERCISE.              No Impairment of
Rights . Nothing in this Notice or in the attached Discretionary Stock Option Agreement or the Plan shall interfere with or otherwise restrict in any way the rights of the Corporation or the Corporation s shareholders to remove Optionee from
the Board at any time in accordance with the provisions of applicable law.         
   Definitions . All capitalized terms in this Notice shall have the meaning assigned to them in this Notice or in the attached
Discretionary Stock Option Agreement.             DATED: 
                      ,              

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.    

By:   

Title:   

OPTIONEE    

Address:   

ATTACHMENTS 
     Exhibit A   Discretionary Stock Option Agreement   
  Exhibit B - Plan Summary and Prospectus         
   2   

NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR    
         CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.    
    DISCRETIONARY STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT           
    RECITALS           
  A. The Board has adopted the Plan for the purpose of retaining the services of selected employees, non-employee members of the Board or of
the board of directors of any Parent or Subsidiary and consultants and other independent advisors who provide services to the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary).       
     B. Optionee is an eligible non-employee Board member, and this Agreement is executed pursuant to, and is intended to carry out
the purposes of, the Plan in connection with the Corporation s grant of a stock option to purchase shares of the Corporation s Common Stock under the Plan.   
        C. The granted option is intended to be a non-statutory
option which does  not  meet the requirements of Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code.         
  D. All capitalized terms in this Agreement, to the extent not otherwise defined in the Agreement, shall have the meaning assigned to them
in the attached Appendix.             NOW, THEREFORE ,
it is hereby agreed as follows:            1.   Grant
of Option  . The Corporation hereby grants to Optionee, as of the Grant Date, a Non-Statutory Option to purchase up to the number of Option Shares specified in the Grant Notice. The Option Shares shall be purchasable from time to time during
the option term specified in Paragraph 2 at the Exercise Price.         
  2.   Option Term  . This option shall have a maximum term of nine (9) years measured from the Grant Date and shall accordingly
expire at the close of business on the Expiration Date, unless sooner terminated in accordance with Paragraph 5, 6 or 7.         
  3.   Limited Transferability  . This option may, in connection with the Optionee s estate plan, be assigned in whole or in
part during Optionee s lifetime to one or more members of the Optionee s immediate family or to a trust established for the exclusive benefit of one or more such family members. The assigned portion shall be exercisable only by the person
or persons who acquire a proprietary interest in the option pursuant to such assignment. The terms applicable to the assigned portion shall be the same as those in effect for this option immediately prior to such assignment and shall be set forth in
such documents issued to the assignee as the Corporation may deem appropriate. Should the Optionee die while holding this option, then this option shall be transferred in accordance with Optionee s will or the laws of descent and distribution.
           4.   Exercisability/Vesting  .

(a)  
    This option shall be immediately exercisable for any or all of the Option Shares, whether or not the Option Shares are vested in

accordance with the Vesting Schedule set forth in the Grant Notice, and shall remain so exercisable until the Expiration Date or the sooner termination of the option term under Paragraph 5, 6 or
7.            

(b)  
  Optionee shall, in accordance with the Vesting Schedule set forth in the Grant Notice, vest in the Option Shares in a series of installments over his or her period of
Board service. Vesting in the Option Shares may be accelerated pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph 5, 6 or 7. In no event, however, shall any additional Option Shares vest following Optionee s cessation of service as a Board member.
             5.   Cessation of Board
Service  . Should Optionee s service as a Board member cease while this option remains outstanding, then the option term specified in Paragraph 2 shall terminate (and this option shall cease to be outstanding) prior to the Expiration Date
in accordance with the following provisions:         
  (i) Should Optionee cease to serve as a Board member for any reason (other than death, Permanent Disability or Misconduct)
while this option is outstanding, then the period for exercising this option shall be reduced to a twelve (12)-month period commencing with the date of such cessation of Board service, but in no event shall this option be exercisable at any time
after the Expiration Date. During such limited period of exercisability, this option may not be exercised in the aggregate for more than the number of Option Shares (if any) in which Optionee is vested on the date of his or her cessation of Board
service. Upon the  earlier  of (i) the expiration of such twelve (12)-month period or (ii) the specified Expiration Date, the option shall terminate and cease to be exercisable with respect to any vested Option Shares for which the option has
not been exercised.            (ii) Should
Optionee die during the twelve (12)-month period following his or her cessation of Board service and hold this option at the time of his or her death, then the personal representative of Optionee s estate or the person or persons to whom the
option is transferred pursuant to Optionee s will or in accordance with the laws of descent and distribution shall have the right to exercise this option for any or all of the Option Shares in which Optionee is vested at the time of
Optionee s cessation of Board service (less any Option Shares purchased by Optionee after such cessation of Board service but prior to death). Such right of exercise shall terminate, and this option shall accordingly cease to be exercisable for
such vested Option Shares, upon the  earlier  of (i) the expiration of the twelve (12)-month period measured from the date of Optionee s cessation of Board service or (ii) the specified Expiration Date of the option term. Should this
option be transferred during Optionee s lifetime in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 3, then the transferee(s) shall have the same limited time period in which to exercise this option for any or all of those vested Option Shares.
        
   2   

(iii) Should Optionee cease service as a Board member by reason of death or
Permanent Disability, then all Option Shares at the time subject to this option but not otherwise vested shall immediately vest in full so that Optionee (or the personal representative of Optionee s estate or the person or persons to whom the
option is transferred upon Optionee s death or to whom the option is transferred during Optionee s lifetime in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 3) shall have the right to exercise this option for any or all of the Option Shares
as fully-vested shares of Common Stock at any time prior to the  earlier  of (i) the expiration of the twelve (12)-month period measured from the date of Optionee s cessation of Board service or (ii) the specified Expiration Date.
           (iv) Upon Optionee s
cessation of Board service for any reason other than death or Permanent Disability, this option shall immediately terminate and cease to be outstanding with respect to any and all Option Shares in which Optionee is not otherwise at that time vested
in accordance with the normal Vesting Schedule set forth in the Grant Notice or the special vesting acceleration provisions of Paragraph 6 or 7 below.         
  (v) Should Optionee cease service as a Board member by reason of Misconduct, then this option shall terminate immediately
and cease to remain outstanding.            6.
  Corporate Transaction  .            (a) In the
event of a Corporate Transaction, all Option Shares at the time subject to this option but not otherwise vested shall automatically vest so that this option shall, immediately prior to the specified effective date for the Corporate Transaction,
become fully-exercisable for all of the Option Shares at the time subject to this option and may be exercised for all or any portion of such shares as fully-vested shares of Common Stock. No such acceleration of this option, however, shall occur if
and to the extent: (i) this option is, in connection with the Corporate Transaction, either to be assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or to be replaced with a comparable option to purchase shares of the capital stock of the
successor corporation (or parent thereof) or (ii) this option is to be replaced with a cash incentive program of the successor corporation which preserves the spread existing on the unvested Option Shares at the time of the Corporate Transaction
(the excess of the Fair Market Value of those Option Shares over the aggregate Exercise Price payable for such shares) and provides for subsequent pay-out in accordance with the same option Vesting Schedule set forth in the Grant Notice. The
determination of option comparability under clause (i) shall be made by the Plan Administrator, and such determination shall be final, binding and conclusive.         
  (b) Immediately following the Corporate Transaction, this option shall terminate and cease to be outstanding, except to the extent
assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) in connection with the Corporate Transaction.         
  (c) If this option is assumed in connection with a Corporate Transaction, then this option shall be appropriately adjusted, immediately
after such Corporate Transaction, to apply to the number and class of securities which would have been issuable to         

   3   

Optionee in consummation of such Corporate Transaction had the option been exercised immediately prior to such Corporate Transaction, and appropriate adjustments shall also be made to the
Exercise Price, provided the aggregate Exercise Price shall remain the same.         
  7.   Change in Control/Hostile Take-Over  .   
        (a) All Option Shares subject to this option at the time of
a Change in Control but not otherwise vested shall automatically vest so that this option shall, immediately prior to the effective date of such Change in Control, become fully exercisable for all of the Option Shares at the time subject to this
option and may be exercised for all or any portion of such shares as fully-vested shares of Common Stock. This option shall remain exercisable for such fully-vested Option Shares until the  earliest  to occur of (i) the specified Expiration
Date, (ii) the sooner termination of this option in accordance with Paragraph 5 or 6 or (iii) the surrender of this option under Paragraph 7(b).         
  (b) Optionee shall have an unconditional right (exercisable during the thirty (30)-day period immediately following the consummation of a
Hostile Take-Over) to surrender this option to the Corporation in exchange for a cash distribution from the Corporation in an amount equal to the excess of (i) the Take-Over Price of the Option Shares at the time subject to the surrendered option
(whether or not those Option Shares are otherwise at the time vested) over (ii) the aggregate Exercise Price payable for such shares. This Paragraph 7(b) limited stock appreciation right shall in all events terminate upon the expiration or sooner
termination of the option term and may not be assigned or transferred by Optionee.         
  (c) To exercise the Paragraph 7(b) limited stock appreciation right, Optionee must, during the applicable thirty (30)-day exercise
period, provide the Corporation with written notice of the option surrender in which there is specified the number of Option Shares as to which the option is being surrendered. Such notice must be accompanied by the return of Optionee s copy of
this Agreement, together with any written amendments to such Agreement. The cash distribution shall be paid to Optionee within five (5) business days following such delivery date. Upon receipt of such cash distribution, this option shall be
cancelled with respect to the shares subject to the surrendered option (or the surrendered portion), and Optionee shall cease to have any further right to acquire those Option Shares under this Agreement. The option shall, however, remain
outstanding for the balance of the Option Shares (if any) in accordance with the terms and provisions of this Agreement, and the Corporation shall accordingly issue a new stock option agreement (substantially in the same form as this Agreement) for
those remaining Option Shares.            8.
  Adjustment in Option Shares  . Should any change be made to the Common Stock by reason of any stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization, combination of shares, exchange of shares or other change affecting the outstanding Common Stock
as a class without the Corporation s receipt of consideration, appropriate adjustments shall be made to (i) the number and/or class of securities subject to this option and (ii) the Exercise Price in order to reflect such change and thereby
preclude a dilution or enlargement of benefits hereunder; provided, however, that the aggregate Exercise Price shall remain the same.         
   4   

9.   Shareholder Rights  . The holder of this option shall not have any
shareholder rights with respect to the Option Shares until such person shall have exercised the option, paid the Exercise Price and become a holder of record of the purchased shares.   
        10.   Manner of Exercising Option  .   
        (a) In order to exercise this option for all or any part of
the Option Shares for which the option is at the time exercisable, Optionee or, in the case of exercise after Optionee s death, Optionee s executor, administrator, heir or legatee, as the case may be, must take the following actions:
           (i) To the extent the option is
exercised for vested Option Shares, the Secretary of the Corporation shall be provided with written notice of the option exercise (the  Exercise Notice ) in substantially the form of Exhibit I attached hereto, in which there is specified
the number of vested Option Shares to be purchased under the exercised option. To the extent that the option is exercised for one or more unvested Option Shares, Optionee (or other person exercising the option) shall deliver to the Secretary of the
Corporation a Purchase Agreement for those unvested Option Shares.         
  (ii) The Exercise Price for the purchased shares shall be paid in one or more of the following alternative forms:
             cash or check made
payable to the Corporation s order; or         
    shares of Common Stock held by Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising the option) for the requisite
period necessary to avoid a charge to the Corporation s earnings for financial reporting purposes and valued at Fair Market Value on the Exercise Date; or         
    to the extent the option is exercised for vested Option Shares, through a special sale and remittance procedure
pursuant to which Optionee shall provide irrevocable written instructions (A) to a Optionee-designated brokerage firm to effect the immediate sale of the vested shares purchased under the option and remit to the Corporation, out of the sale proceeds
available on the settlement date, sufficient funds to cover the aggregate Exercise Price payable for those shares plus the applicable Federal, state and local income taxes required to be withheld by the Corporation by reason of such exercise and (B)
to the Corporation to deliver the certificates for the purchased shares directly to such brokerage firm in order to complete the sale.         
  (iii) Appropriate documentation evidencing the right to exercise this option shall be furnished to the Corporation if the
person or persons exercising the option is other than Optionee.         
   5   

(iv) Appropriate arrangements must be made with the Corporation for the
satisfaction of all Federal, state and local income tax withholding requirements applicable to the option exercise.         
  (b) Except to the extent the sale and remittance procedure specified above is utilized in connection with the exercise of the option for
vested Option Shares, payment of the Exercise Price for the purchased shares must accompany the Exercise Notice or Purchase Agreement delivered to the Corporation in connection with the option exercise.   
        (c) As soon as practical after the Exercise Date, the
Corporation shall issue to or on behalf of Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising this option) a certificate or certificates representing the purchased Option Shares. To the extent any such Option Shares are unvested, the certificates
for those Option Shares shall be endorsed with an appropriate legend evidencing the Corporation s repurchase rights and may be held in escrow with the Corporation until such shares vest.   
        (d) In no event may this option be exercised for fractional
shares.            11.   No Impairment of
Rights  . This Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Corporation to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise make changes in its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate or sell or
transfer all or any part of its business or assets. In addition, nothing in this Agreement shall in any way be construed or interpreted so as to affect adversely or otherwise impair the right of the Corporation or the shareholders to remove Optionee
from the Board at any time in accordance with the provisions of applicable law.         
  12.   Compliance with Laws and Regulations  .       
     (a) The exercise of this option and the issuance of the Option Shares upon such exercise shall be subject to compliance by
the Corporation and Optionee with all applicable requirements of law relating thereto and with all applicable regulations of any stock exchange (or the Nasdaq National Market, if applicable) on which the Common Stock may be listed for trading at the
time of such exercise and issuance.            (b) The
inability of the Corporation to obtain approval from any regulatory body having authority deemed by the Corporation to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any Common Stock pursuant to this option shall relieve the Corporation of any
liability with respect to the non-issuance or sale of the Common Stock as to which such approval shall not have been obtained. However, the Corporation shall use its best efforts to obtain all such applicable approvals.   
        13.   Successors and Assigns  . Except to the
extent otherwise provided in Paragraph 3 or 6, the provisions of this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and be binding upon, the Corporation and its successors and assigns and Optionee, Optionee s assigns and the legal representatives,
heirs and legatees of Optionee s estate.         
   6   

14.   Construction/Governing Law  . This Agreement and the option evidenced hereby
are made and granted pursuant to the Plan and are in all respects limited by and subject to the terms of the Plan. The interpretation, performance, and enforcement of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California without
resort to that State s conflict-of-laws rules.         
  15.   Notices  . Any notice required to be given or delivered to the Corporation under the terms of this Agreement shall be in
writing and addressed to the Corporation at its principal corporate offices. Any notice required to be given or delivered to Optionee shall be in writing and addressed to Optionee at the address indicated below Optionee s signature line on the
Grant Notice. All notices shall be deemed effective upon personal delivery or upon deposit in the U.S. mail, postage prepaid and properly addressed to the party to be notified.   
     
   7   

EXHIBIT I    
         NOTICE OF EXERCISE    
        I hereby notify Cisco Systems, Inc. (the
 Corporation ) that I elect to purchase                  shares of the Corporation s Common Stock (the  Purchased Shares ) at the option exercise price of
$                per share (the  Exercise Price ) pursuant to that certain option (the  Option ) granted to me under the Corporation s 1996 Stock Incentive
Plan on                  , 20      .         
  Concurrently with the delivery of this Exercise Notice to the Secretary of the Corporation, I shall hereby pay to the Corporation the
Exercise Price for the Purchased Shares in accordance with the provisions of my agreement with the Corporation evidencing the Option and shall deliver whatever additional documents may be required by such agreement as a condition for exercise.
Alternatively, I may utilize the special broker/dealer sale and remittance procedure specified in my agreement to effect payment of the Exercise Price for any Purchased Shares in which I am vested at the time of exercise.   
     
                        ,
                    Date   

Optionee   

Address:  

Print name in exact manner     it
is to appear on the     stock certificate:   

Address to which certificate  
  is to be sent, if different     from address above:

Social Security Number:  

APPENDIX        
     The following definitions shall be in effect under the Agreement:   
        A.   Agreement   shall mean this Discretionary
Stock Option Agreement.            B.   Board  
shall mean the Corporation s Board of Directors.         
  C.   Change in Control   shall mean a change in ownership or control of the Corporation effected through either of the following
transactions:            (i) the
acquisition, directly or indirectly, by any person or related group of persons (other than the Corporation or a person that directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, the Corporation) of beneficial ownership
(within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the 1934 Act) of securities possessing more than thirty-five percent (35%) of the total combined voting power of the Corporation s outstanding securities pursuant to a tender or exchange offer made directly
to the Corporation s shareholders which the Board does not recommend such shareholders to accept, or         
  (ii) a change in the composition of the Board over a period of thirty-six (36) consecutive months or less such that a
majority of the Board members ceases, by reason of one or more contested elections for Board membership, to be comprised of individuals who either (A) have been Board members continuously since the beginning of such period or (B) have been elected
or nominated for election as Board members during such period by at least a majority of the Board members described in clause (A) who were still in office at the time the Board approved such election or nomination.   
        D.   Code   shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as amended.            E.   Common Stock  
shall mean the Corporation s common stock.         
  F.   Corporate Transaction   shall mean either of the following shareholder-approved transactions to which the Corporation is a
party:            (i) a merger or
consolidation in which securities possessing more than fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of the Corporation s outstanding securities are transferred to a person or persons different from the persons holding those securities
immediately prior to such transaction, or         
  (ii) the sale, transfer or other disposition of all or substantially all of the Corporation s assets in complete
liquidation or dissolution of the Corporation.         
   A-1   

G.   Corporation   shall mean Cisco Systems, Inc., a California corporation.
           H.   Exercise Date   shall mean the
date on which the option shall have been exercised in accordance with Paragraph 10 of the Agreement.         
  I.   Exercise Price   shall mean the exercise price payable per share as specified in the Grant Notice.   
        J.   Expiration Date   shall mean the date on which
the option term expires as specified in the Grant Notice.         
  K.   Fair Market Value   per share of Common Stock on any relevant date shall be determined in accordance with the following
provisions:            (i) If the Common
Stock is at the time traded on the Nasdaq National Market, then the Fair Market Value shall be the closing selling price per share of Common Stock on the date in question, as the price is reported on the Nasdaq National Market. If there is no
closing selling price for the Common Stock on the date in question, then the Fair Market Value shall be the closing selling price on the last preceding date for which such quotation exists.   
        (ii) If the Common Stock is at the time
listed on any Stock Exchange, then the Fair Market Value shall be the closing selling price per share of Common Stock on the date in question on the Stock Exchange determined by the Plan Administrator to be the primary market for the Common Stock,
as such price is officially quoted in the composite tape of transactions on such exchange. If there is no closing selling price for the Common Stock on the date in question, then the Fair Market Value shall be the closing selling price on the last
preceding date for which such quotation exists.         
  L.   Grant Date   shall mean the date of grant of the option as specified in the Grant Notice.   
        M.   Grant Notice   shall mean the Notice of Grant
of Discretionary Stock Option accompanying this Agreement, pursuant to which Optionee has been informed of the basic terms of the option evidenced hereby.         
  N.   Hostile Take-Over   shall mean the acquisition, directly or indirectly, by any person or related group of persons (other
than the Corporation or a person that directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, the Corporation) of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the 1934 Act) of securities possessing more than
thirty five percent (35%) of the total combined voting power of the Corporation s outstanding securities pursuant to a tender or exchange offer made directly to the Corporation s shareholders which the Board does not recommend such
shareholders to accept.            O.
  Misconduct   shall mean the commission of any act of fraud, embezzlement or dishonesty by Optionee, any unauthorized use or disclosure by Optionee of confidential information or trade secrets of the Corporation (or any Parent or
Subsidiary), or any other intentional misconduct by Optionee adversely affecting the business or affairs of the Corporation       
  
   A-2   

(or any Parent or Subsidiary) in a material manner. The foregoing definition shall not be deemed to be inclusive of all the acts or omissions which the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary)
may consider as grounds for the dismissal or discharge of Optionee or any other individual in the service of the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary).         
  P.   1934 Act   shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.   
        Q.   Non-Statutory Option   shall mean an option
not intended to satisfy the requirements of Code Section 422.         
  R.   Option Shares   shall mean the number of shares of Common Stock subject to the option.   
        S.   Optionee   shall mean the person to whom the
option is granted as specified in the Grant Notice.         
  T.   Parent   shall mean any corporation (other than the Corporation) in an unbroken chain of corporations ending with the
Corporation, provided each corporation in the unbroken chain (other than the Corporation) owns, at the time of the determination, stock possessing fifty percent (50%) or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of the
other corporations in such chain.            U.
  Permanent Disability   shall mean the inability of Optionee to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which is expected to result in death or has lasted or can be
expected to last for a continuous period of twelve (12) months or more.         
  V.   Plan   shall mean the Corporation s 1996 Stock Incentive Plan.   
        W.   Purchase Agreement   shall mean the stock
purchase agreement (in form and substance satisfactory to the Corporation) which must be executed at the time the option is exercised for unvested Option Shares and which will accordingly (i) grant the Corporation the right to repurchase, at the
Exercise Price, any and all of those Option Shares in which Optionee is not otherwise vested at the time of his or her cessation of service as a Board member and (ii) preclude the sale, transfer or other disposition of any of the Option Shares
purchased under such agreement while those Option Shares remain subject to the repurchase right.         
  X.   Stock Exchange   shall mean the American Stock Exchange or the New York Stock Exchange.   
        Y.   Subsidiary   shall mean any corporation (other
than the Corporation) in an unbroken chain of corporations beginning with the Corporation, provided each corporation (other than the last corporation) in the unbroken chain owns, at the time of the determination, stock possessing fifty percent (50%)
or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of the other corporations in such chain.         
  Z.   Take-Over Price   shall mean the  greater  of (i) the Fair Market Value per share of Common Stock on the date the
option is surrendered to the Corporation in connection with a         
   A-3   

Hostile Take-Over or (ii) the highest reported price per share of Common Stock paid by the tender offeror in effecting the Hostile Take-Over.   
        AA.   Vesting Schedule   shall mean the vesting
schedule specified in the Grant Notice, pursuant to which Optionee will vest in the Option Shares in one or more installments over his or her period of Board service, subject to acceleration in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement.
        
   A-4   

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.    
   STOCK ISSUANCE AGREEMENT          
   RECITALS          
  This stock issuance agreement (this  Stock Issuance Agreement ) is made and entered into as of
                       by and between Cisco Systems, Inc., a California corporation having a principal place of business at 170 West Tasman
Drive, San Jose, California (the  Corporation ) and                       , an individual having a principal place of business at
                       ( Consultant ).         
  A. Capitalized terms not defined in this Stock Issuance Agreement shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Corporation s
1996 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ).         
  B. The Board has adopted the Plan for the purpose of retaining the services of selected employees, non-employee members of the Board or of
the board of directors of any Parent or Subsidiary and consultants and other independent advisors who provide services to the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary).       
     C. Consultant is to render valuable services to the Corporation pursuant to the consulting agreement by and between the
Corporation and Consultant executed on                        (the  Consulting Agreement ), and this Stock Issuance Agreement is
executed pursuant to Article                        of, and is intended to carry out the purposes of, the Plan in connection with the
Corporation s grant of a share right award to Consultant.         
   NOW, THEREFORE , it is hereby agreed as follows:   
        1.  GRANT OF SHARE RIGHT AWARD . In full satisfaction
of its obligation under Section                of the Consulting Agreement, the Corporation hereby grants to Consultant a share right award which entitles Consultant to receive
               shares of Common Stock as soon as practicable following each Issuance Date, in each case subject to Consultant having provided continuous service to the Corporation
pursuant to the Consulting Agreement through each such date. In no event will Consultant be issued any shares of Common Stock following Consultant s termination of service pursuant to the Consulting Agreement. For purposes of this Stock
Issuance Agreement,  Issuance Date  shall mean                               .   
        2.  NON-TRANSFERABILITY . This share right award shall
be neither transferable or assignable by Consultant.         
  3.  ADJUSTMENT IN SHARE RIGHT AWARD SHARES . If any change is made to the Common Stock by reason of any stock split, stock dividend,
recapitalization, combination of shares, exchange of shares or other change affecting the outstanding Common Stock as a class without the Corporation s or its successor s receipt of consideration, appropriate adjustments shall be made to
the number and/or class of securities in effect under the share right award made hereunder. Such adjustments are to be effected in a manner which shall preclude the enlargement or dilution of rights and benefits under such share right award.

4.  STOCKHOLDER RIGHTS . Consultant shall have full stockholder rights with respect to
any shares of Common Stock issued to Consultant hereunder. Accordingly, Consultant have the right to vote such shares and to receive any regular cash dividends paid on such shares.   
        5.  CONSTRUCTION . This Stock Issuance Agreement and the
share right award evidenced hereby are made and granted pursuant to the Plan and are in all respects limited by and subject to the terms of the Plan. All decisions of the Plan Administrator with respect to any question or issue arising under the
Plan or this Stock Issuance Agreement shall be conclusive and binding on all persons having an interest in this share right award.         
   IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the parties have entered into this Stock Issuance Agreement as of the date first written above.   

Corporation:   
     
   CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.    

By:  

Consultant:   

2   

CISCO
SYSTEMS, INC.              VESTING ACCELERATION POLICY
       FOR    
   DEATH AND TERMINAL ILLNESS    
   AS    
   AMENDED JULY 26, 2007          
  Unless and until the Compensation   Management Development Committee of the Board of Directors of Cisco Systems, Inc. determines otherwise, the
following policy shall be applied to all equity awards issued under any equity plan maintained Cisco or any Cisco subsidiary, including equity awards and/or equity plans assumed by Cisco in connection with its acquisition of companies, and held by
any employee of Cisco or any Cisco subsidiary (each such award shall be referred to herein as an  equity award ), except to the extent that the application of such policy would be prohibited by the applicable equity plan, equity award
agreement or any applicable law, rule or regulation.            For purposes
of this policy:         

the value of stock options and stock appreciation rights is based on the difference between the exercise price of the equity awards and the closing
price of Cisco s stock on the date of the employee s death or terminal illness, as applicable, or if such day is not a trading day, the last trading day prior to the date of death or terminal illness, as applicable; and

the value of stock grants, stock units, and unvested shares previously acquired pursuant to equity awards (such shares are referred to herein as
 unvested equity award shares ) is based on the difference between the purchase price, if any, and the closing price of Cisco s stock on the date of the employee s death or terminal illness, as applicable, or if such day is not a
trading day, the last trading day prior to the date of death or terminal illness, as applicable.            
   ACCELERATION UPON DEATH OF EMPLOYEE          
  Upon the death of an employee, Cisco will accelerate the vesting of the employee s outstanding equity awards and any unvested equity award shares up
to a specified limit based on the value of the equity awards and/or shares on the date of death. The limit on the amount of accelerated vesting is the greater of: (a) one-hundred percent (100%) of the unvested equity awards and/or unvested equity
award shares up to a total value of $10 million; or (b) up to one year of vesting from the date of death as to all unvested equity awards and/or unvested equity award shares. For example, if an employee held unvested options for 100,000 shares with
an exercise price of $1 which would vest in four annual installments of 25,000 shares, and the closing price of Cisco s stock on the date of the employee s death was $101, all 100,000 of the shares would become vested (100,000 shares x
$100 (the difference between $101 and $1) = $10,000,000).         
   ACCELERATION UPON TERMINAL ILLNESS OF EMPLOYEE          
  Upon the terminal illness of an employee, Cisco will accelerate the vesting of the employee s outstanding equity awards and any unvested equity award
shares up to a specified limit based on the value of the equity awards and/or shares on the date of the terminal illness. An employee will be considered terminally ill upon the approval by Cisco s employee life insurance provider of the
accelerated life insurance benefit which indicates 12 months or less to live. The date of terminal illness will be the date the determination is made by Cisco s employee life insurance provider. The limit on the amount of accelerated vesting is
the greater of: (a) one-hundred percent (100%) of the unvested equity awards and/or unvested equity award shares up to a total value of $10 million; or (b) up to one year of vesting from the date of the terminal illness as to all unvested equity
awards and/or unvested equity award shares. For example, if an employee holds unvested options for 100,000 shares with an exercise price of $1 which would vest in four annual installments of 25,000 shares, and the closing price of Cisco s stock
on the date that the employee is determined to be terminally ill was $101, all 100,000 of the shares would become vested (100,000 shares x $100 (the difference between $101 and $1) = $10,000,000).   

CISCO
SYSTEMS, INC.              VESTING POLICY
       FOR    
   LEAVES OF ABSENCE          
  Unless and until the Compensation   Management Development Committee of the Board of Directors of Cisco Systems, Inc. determines otherwise, the
following policy shall be applied to all equity awards issued under any equity plan maintained Cisco or any Cisco subsidiary, including equity awards and/or equity plans assumed by Cisco in connection with its acquisition of companies, and held by
any employee of Cisco or any Cisco subsidiary (each such award shall be referred to herein as an  equity award ), except to the extent that the application of such policy would be prohibited by the applicable equity plan, equity award
agreement or any applicable law, rule or regulation.             90 DAYS
CONTINUED VESTING ON AUTHORIZED LEAVES OF ABSENCE             The
exercise or vesting schedule in effect for any outstanding equity award and any unvested shares previously acquired pursuant to any equity award (such shares referred to herein as  unvested equity award shares ) held by an employee at the
time of the employee s commencement of an authorized leave of absence shall continue to vest and/or become exercisable in accordance with the vesting schedule set forth in the applicable equity award agreement during the period the employee
remains on such authorized leave of absence; provided that, in no event shall any employee be entitled to vest for more than 90 days of authorized leaves of absence during any rolling 12-month period (the  LOA Limit ).   
        If an employee exceeds the LOA Limit during any rolling 12-month period, the
unvested equity award shares held by such an employee shall be suspended immediately following the expiration of the LOA Limit and the equity award and any unvested equity shares shall not vest and/or become exercisable for any additional shares
during the remainder of the rolling 12-month period.   

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.    
         TRANSFER POLICY    
   FOR    
   DIVORCE          
  Unless and until the Compensation   Management Development Committee of the Board of Directors of Cisco Systems, Inc. determines otherwise, the
following policy shall be applied to all equity awards issued under any equity plan maintained Cisco or any Cisco subsidiary, including equity awards and/or equity plans assumed by Cisco in connection with its acquisition of companies, and held by
any employee of Cisco or any Cisco subsidiary (each such award shall be referred to herein as an  equity award ), except to the extent that the application of such policy would be prohibited by the applicable equity plan, equity award
agreement or any applicable law, rule or regulation.         
   PROHIBITION ON TRANSFER OF EQUITY AWARDS UPON DIVORCE          
  Except as provided below, equity awards and any unvested shares acquired pursuant to equity awards shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached,
garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process in connection with the divorce of the holder of such equity award or shares. Equity awards and any unvested shares acquired pursuant to equity awards may be transferred
by an executive officer of Cisco only to the extent required by a domestic relations order, as defined by the Internal Revenue Code or Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, or the rules thereunder, in settlement of marital property
rights by any court of competent jurisdiction.   

</EX-10.2>

<EX-13.1>
 4
 dex131.htm
 PAGES 5 TO 78 OF THE REGISTRANT'S 2010 ANNUAL REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS

Pages 5 to 78 of the Registrant's 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders 

Reports of Management   
         Exhibit 13.1    
   Statement of Management s Responsibility    
  Cisco s management has always assumed full accountability for maintaining compliance with our established financial accounting policies and for reporting our
results with objectivity and the highest degree of integrity. It is critical for investors and other users of the Consolidated Financial Statements to have confidence that the financial information that we provide is timely, complete, relevant, and
accurate. Management is responsible for the fair presentation of Cisco s Consolidated Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, and has full responsibility for
their integrity and accuracy.      Management, with oversight by Cisco s Board of Directors, has established and maintains a strong
ethical climate so that our affairs are conducted to the highest standards of personal and corporate conduct. Management also has established an effective system of internal controls. Cisco s policies and practices reflect corporate governance
initiatives that are compliant with the listing requirements of NASDAQ and the corporate governance requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.   
  We are committed to enhancing shareholder value and fully understand and embrace our fiduciary oversight responsibilities. We are dedicated to
ensuring that our high standards of financial accounting and reporting, as well as our underlying system of internal controls, are maintained. Our culture demands integrity and we have the highest confidence in our processes, our internal controls
and our people, who are objective in their responsibilities and who operate under the highest level of ethical standards.   
   Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting    
  Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for Cisco. Internal control over financial reporting
is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Internal control
over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that: (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company;
(ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being
made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the Company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the Company s
assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.      Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.      Management (with the participation of the principal executive officer and
principal financial officer) conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of Cisco s internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in  Internal Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on this evaluation, management concluded that Cisco s internal control over financial reporting was effective as of July 31, 2010. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public
accounting firm, has audited the effectiveness of Cisco s internal control over financial reporting and has issued a report on Cisco s internal control over financial reporting, which is included in their report on the following page.

John T. Chambers   
     
  Frank A. Calderoni   
 
    Chairman and Chief Executive Officer   
     
  Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer   
 
    September 20, 2010   
     
  September 20, 2010          
   2010 Annual Report  5   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   
         To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Cisco Systems, Inc.:
      In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated statements of operations, of cash flows and of equity
appearing on pages 39 to 42 present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Cisco Systems, Inc. and its subsidiaries at July 31, 2010 and July 25, 2009, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each
of the three years in the period ended July 31, 2010 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control
over financial reporting as of July 31, 2010, based on criteria established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company s
management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying
Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts
and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting
included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk.
Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.   
  As discussed in Notes 2 and 14 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted new accounting rules for revenue recognition and
business combinations in 2010, other-than-temporary impairments of debt securities in 2009, and for uncertain tax positions in 2008.      A
company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect
the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.   
  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any
evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.   

San Jose, California   
  September 20, 2010         
   6  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Selected Financial Data   
  Five Years Ended July 31, 2010 (in millions, except per-share amounts)   
        The following selected financial data should be read in conjunction with the
Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes which appear on pages 39 to 76 of this Annual Report:       

2010 Annual Report  7   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations             Forward-Looking Statements    
  The Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward-looking statements regarding future events and our
future results that are subject to the safe harbors created under the Securities Act of 1933 (the  Securities Act ) and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ). All statements other than statements of historical
facts are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections about the industries in which we operate and the beliefs and assumptions of our
management. Words such as  expects,   anticipates,   targets,   goals,   projects,   intends,   plans,   believes,   seeks,   estimates, 
 continues,   endeavors,   strives,   may,  variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements that refer to projections of
our future financial performance, our anticipated growth and trends in our businesses, and other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are only
predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict, including those identified below, as well as on the inside back cover of this Annual Report to Shareholders and under  Part I, Item 1A.
Risk Factors,  and elsewhere in our 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any
forward-looking statements for any reason.       Overview    
  We design, manufacture, and sell Internet Protocol (IP)-based networking and other products related to the communications and information technology (IT) industry
and provide services associated with these products and their use. Our products and services are designed to address a wide range of customers  needs, including improving productivity, reducing costs, and gaining a competitive advantage. In
addition, our products and services are designed to help customers build their own network infrastructures that support tools and applications that allow them to communicate with key stakeholders, including customers, prospects, business partners,
suppliers, and employees. We focus on delivering networking products and solutions that are designed to simplify and secure customers  network infrastructures. We believe that integrating multiple network services into our products helps our
customers reduce their total cost of network ownership. Our product offerings fall into the following categories: our core technologies, routing and switching; advanced technologies; and other products. In addition to our product offerings, we
provide a broad range of service offerings, including technical support services and advanced services. Our customer base spans virtually all types of public and private agencies and businesses, comprising: enterprise businesses (including public
sector entities), service providers, commercial customers, and consumers.      A summary of our results is as follows (in millions, except
percentages and per-share amounts):       
    For fiscal 2010 our results reflected a return to a more
balanced growth across each of our geographic theaters, product categories and customer markets. Net sales totaled approximately $40.0 billion for fiscal 2010, an increase of approximately 11% compared with fiscal 2009. Net income and net income per
diluted share each increased by approximately 27% in fiscal 2010 compared with fiscal 2009 primarily as a result of the increase in sales. The increase in net income for fiscal 2010 also benefited from a small increase in the gross margin
percentage, lower operating expenses as a percentage of revenue and a lower effective tax rate. Additionally, our operating results for fiscal 2010 contain an extra week compared with fiscal 2009.   
   Strategy and Focus Areas       Our strategy centers on the
network as the platform. Consistent with our strategy both during the fiscal 2009 economic downturn and emerging from the downturn during fiscal 2010, we continue to seek to expand our share of our customers  information technology spending. We
will endeavor to achieve this objective by focusing on our core networking capabilities while continuing to expand into product markets in which the role of the network as the platform is increasing and which are similar, related, or adjacent to
markets in which we currently are active, which product markets we refer to as market adjacencies. We have continued our focus on our core networking capabilities and have expanded our movement into market adjacencies, primarily through the
realignment of resources, while simultaneously reducing our operating expenses as a percentage of revenue during fiscal 2010.      We refer
to the evolutionary process by which adjacencies arise as market transitions. Market transitions on which we are focusing primary attention include those related to the increased role of virtualization/the cloud, video, collaboration, and networked
Web 2.0 technologies. With regard to virtualization/the cloud, one example of a market in which a significant market transition is   
     
   8  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations         
   
underway is the enterprise data center market. We believe the market is at an inflection point, as awareness grows that intelligent networks are becoming the platform for productivity improvement
and global competitiveness. We further believe that disruption in the enterprise data center market is accelerating, due to changing technology trends such as the increasing adoption of virtualization, the rise in scalable processing, and the advent
of cloud computing and cloud-based IT resource deployments and business models. These key terms are defined as follows:   
    Virtualization:   refers to the process of aggregating the current siloed data center resources into unified, shared resource pools
that can be dynamically delivered to applications on demand thus enabling the ability to move content and applications between devices and the network.  
    The Cloud:   refers to an information technology hosting and delivery system in which resources, such as servers or software
applications, are no longer tethered to a user s physical infrastructure but which instead are delivered to and consumed by the user  on demand  as an Internet-based service, whether singularly or with multiple other users
simultaneously.      This virtualization and cloud-driven market transition in the enterprise data center market is being brought about through the
convergence of networking, computing, storage, and software technologies. We are seeking to take advantage of this market transition through, among other things, our Cisco Unified Computing System platform and Cisco Nexus product families, which are
designed to integrate the previously siloed technologies in the enterprise data center with a unified architecture. We are also seeking to capitalize on this market transition through the development of cloud-based product and service offerings,
through which we intend to enable customers to develop and deploy their own cloud-related IT solutions, including software-as-a-service (SaaS), and other-as-a-service (XaaS) solutions.   
  The competitive landscape in the enterprise data center market is changing, and we expect there will be a new class of very large, well-financed,
and aggressive competitors, each bringing its own new class of products to address this new market. However, with respect to this market, we believe the network will be the intersection of innovation through an open ecosystem and standards. We
expect to see acquisitions, further industry consolidation, and new alliances among companies as they seek to serve the enterprise data center market. As we enter this next market phase, we expect that we will strengthen certain strategic
alliances, compete more with certain strategic alliances and partners, and perhaps also encounter new competitors in our attempt to deliver the best solutions for our customers.   
  Other market transitions on which we are focusing primary attention include those related to the increased role of video, collaboration, and
networked Web 2.0 technologies. The key market transitions relative to the convergence of video, collaboration, and networked Web 2.0 technologies, which we believe will drive productivity and growth in network loads, appear to be evolving even more
quickly and more significantly than we had previously anticipated. Cisco TelePresence systems are one example of product offerings that have incorporated video, collaboration, and networked Web 2.0 technologies, as customers evolve their
communications and business models. We are focused on simplifying and expanding the creation, distribution, and use of end-to-end video solutions for businesses and consumers, and our fiscal 2010 acquisition of Tandberg ASA ( Tandberg ) is
an example of our increased emphasis on the video market segment.      We believe that the architectural approach that has served us well in
addressing the market adjacencies in the communications and information technology industry will be adaptable to other markets. Examples of market adjacencies where we aim to apply this approach are mobility, the consumer, and electrical services
infrastructure. With regard to mobility, the growth of IP traffic on handheld devices is driving the need for more robust architectures, equipment and services in order to accommodate not only an increasing number of worldwide mobile device users,
but also increased user demand for broadband-quality business network and consumer web applications to be seamlessly delivered on such devices. Our fiscal 2010 acquisition of Starent Networks, Corp. ( Starent ) reflects our recognition of
the significance of this market adjacency and our intent to offer solutions that help expand IP network load capabilities for mobile devices. For the consumer market, through collaboration with technology partners, retailers, service providers, and
content publishers, we are striving to create compelling consumer experiences and make the network the platform for a variety of services in the home, as broadband development moves from a device-centric phase to a network-centric model. In the
electrical services infrastructure market, we are developing an architecture for managing energy in a highly secure fashion on electrical grids at various steps from energy generation to consumption in homes and buildings.   
  We are currently undergoing product transitions within several of our product families, and we believe that many of these product transitions are
gaining momentum based on the strong year-over-year product revenue growth across these product families. We believe that our strategy and our ability to innovate and execute may enable us to improve our relative competitive position in uncertain or
difficult business conditions and may continue to provide us with long-term growth opportunities.         
   2010 Annual Report  9   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations         
    Revenue       We
experienced a return to growth in net sales in fiscal 2010 as net sales increased by approximately 11% compared with fiscal 2009. The increase was experienced across all of our geographic theaters with net sales growth of 12% in the United States
and Canada, 17% in Asia Pacific, 11% in Japan, 9% in Emerging Markets, and 5% in our European Markets theater. From a customer market perspective, in fiscal 2010, we saw an improved demand environment for capital expenditures across all of our
customer markets. While we cannot quantify with precision the impact to revenue of the extra week in fiscal 2010, we believe the extra week added approximately 1% to our year-over-year revenue growth for fiscal 2010.   
  In fiscal 2010, net product sales increased 11% on a year-over-year basis, with increases across almost all of our categories of similar products.
Sales of router products increased in fiscal 2010 due to increased sales of our high-end routers offset partially by lower sales within our mid-range and low-end router product categories. In fiscal 2010, the increase in sales of switching products
was driven by higher sales of both our modular and fixed-configuration switches. The increase in sales of advanced technology products was a result of growth in unified communications, security, wireless, and storage, partially offset by a decline
in sales of video systems, networked home and application networking services. The year-over-year revenue increase in the other product revenue category benefited from the inclusion of revenue from our acquisition of Pure Digital Technologies, Inc.
( Pure Digital ), which we acquired in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, and Tandberg, which we acquired in the third quarter of fiscal 2010. Additionally, the other product revenue category experienced increases from sales of cable
products and Cisco Unified Computing System. Net service revenue increased by 9% compared with fiscal 2009, reflecting increased service revenue across all of our geographic theaters. From a service offering perspective, both technical support
services and advanced services experienced revenue increases from the prior fiscal year.      We believe the increase in revenue for fiscal
2010 reflected the improved global economic environment in fiscal 2010, compared with what we experienced in fiscal 2009. However, as of the end of fiscal 2010 and entering fiscal 2011, we believe an accurate characterization of the global economic
environment is that it is uncertain.       Gross Margin    
  In fiscal 2010, our gross margin percentage increased by 0.1 percentage points compared with fiscal 2009, driven by a slightly higher product gross margin
percentage coupled with an unchanged service gross margin percentage. The higher product gross margin percentage was primarily due to lower overall manufacturing costs, higher shipment volume, and favorable product mix. Partially offsetting the
product gross margin increase were higher sales discounts and rebates, and lower product pricing. The service gross margin percentage remained unchanged from period to period with the increase in gross margin from technical support services being
offset by a decline in gross margin for advanced services. Our product and service gross margins may be impacted by uncertain economic conditions as well as our movement into market adjacencies and could decline if any of the factors that impact our
gross margins are adversely affected in future periods.       Operating Expenses    
  During fiscal 2010, operating expenses increased in absolute dollars but decreased as a percentage of revenue, compared with fiscal 2009. The increase in absolute
dollars was attributable to higher headcount-related expenses, including variable compensation expenses, higher discretionary expenses, and higher share-based compensation expense. The extra week in fiscal 2010 also contributed approximately $150
million to the year-over-year increase in total operating expenses during fiscal 2010.       Other Key Financial Measures    
  The following is a summary of our other key financial measures for fiscal 2010:       

We repurchased approximately 325 million shares of our common stock at an average price of $24.02 per share for an aggregate purchase price of $7.8 billion
during fiscal 2010. As of the end of fiscal 2010, the remaining authorized repurchase amount under the stock repurchase program was $7.0 billion with no termination date.      

10  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations         

During the second quarter of fiscal 2010, we completed an offering of senior unsecured notes in an aggregate principal amount of $5.0 billion.
         
    We believe that in any rapidly shifting supply and demand environment such as the one we experienced in fiscal
2010, shifts in lead times, inventory levels, purchase commitments, and manufacturing outputs will occur. During fiscal 2010, we experienced longer than normal lead times on several of our products and we continue to see challenges at some of our
component suppliers. This was attributable in part to increasing demand driven by the improvement in our overall markets. In addition, and similar to what is happening throughout the industry, the longer than normal lead times also stemmed from
supplier constraints based upon their labor and other actions taken during the global economic downturn. While we may continue to experience longer than normal lead times, our lead times improved on the majority of our products in the second half of
fiscal 2010, and at the end of fiscal 2010, product lead times to customers were within a normal range for the majority of our products. We have increased our efforts in procuring components in order to meet customer expectations, which have
contributed to an increase in purchase commitments. If, however, lead times for key components lengthen further, our operating results for a particular future period could be adversely affected if we further increase our purchase commitments, which
could lead to excess and obsolete inventory charges.       Critical Accounting Estimates    
  The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires us to make
judgments, assumptions, and estimates that affect the amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes. Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements describes the significant accounting policies and methods used in
the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements. The accounting policies described below are significantly affected by critical accounting estimates. Such accounting policies require significant judgments, assumptions, and estimates used in
the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements, and actual results could differ materially from the amounts reported based on these policies.   
   Revenue Recognition       Revenue is recognized when all of the
following criteria have been met:       

Persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists.  Contracts, Internet commerce agreements, and customer purchase orders are generally used to determine the
existence of an arrangement.          

Delivery has occurred.  Shipping documents and customer acceptance, when applicable, are used to verify delivery.      

The fee is fixed or determinable.  We assess whether the fee is fixed or determinable based on the payment terms associated with the transaction and
whether the sales price is subject to refund or adjustment.          

Collectibility is reasonably assured.  We assess collectibility based primarily on the creditworthiness of the customer as determined by credit checks and
analysis, as well as the customer s payment history.         In instances where final acceptance of the product, system, or solution is
specified by the customer, revenue is deferred until all acceptance criteria have been met. When a sale involves multiple deliverables, such as sales of products that include services, the entire fee from the arrangement is allocated to each
respective element based on its relative selling price and recognized when revenue recognition criteria for each element are met.      In
October 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) amended the accounting standards for revenue recognition to remove from the scope of industry-specific software revenue recognition guidance, tangible products containing software
components and nonsoftware components that function together to deliver the product s essential functionality. In October 2009, the FASB also amended the accounting standards for multiple-deliverable revenue arrangements to:   

(i)  
  provide updated guidance on whether multiple deliverables exist, how the deliverables in an arrangement should be separated, and how the consideration should be allocated;

(ii)  
  require an entity to allocate revenue in an arrangement using estimated selling prices (ESP) of deliverables if a vendor does not have vendor-specific objective evidence of
selling price (VSOE) or third-party evidence of selling price (TPE); and         

(iii)  
  eliminate the use of the residual method and require an entity to allocate revenue using the relative selling price method.     
     
   2010 Annual Report  11   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations         
   We elected to early adopt this accounting guidance at the beginning of our first quarter of fiscal 2010 on a
prospective basis for applicable transactions originating or materially modified after July 25, 2009.      The amount of product and
service revenue recognized in a given period is affected by our judgment as to whether an arrangement includes multiple deliverables and, if so, our determinations surrounding whether VSOE exists. In the certain limited circumstances when VSOE does
not exist, we then apply judgment with respect to whether we can obtain TPE. Generally, we are not able to determine TPE because our go-to-market strategy typically differs from that of our peers. In the limited number of circumstances in which we
are unable to establish selling price using VSOE or TPE, we will use ESP in our allocation of arrangement consideration. We determine VSOE based on our normal pricing and discounting practices for the specific product or service when sold
separately. In determining VSOE, we require that a substantial majority of the selling prices for a product or service fall within a reasonably narrow pricing range, generally evidenced by approximately 80% of such historical standalone transactions
falling within plus or minus 15% of the median rates. In determining ESP, we apply significant judgment as we weigh a variety of factors, based on the facts and circumstances of the arrangement. We typically arrive at an ESP for a product or service
that is not sold separately by considering company-specific factors such as geographies, competitive landscape, internal costs, gross margin objectives, pricing practices used to establish bundled pricing, and existing portfolio pricing and
discounting. There were no material impacts during fiscal 2010 nor do we currently expect a material impact in future periods from changes in VSOE, TPE, or ESP.   
  In terms of the timing and pattern of revenue recognition, the new accounting guidance for revenue recognition is not expected to have a significant
effect on net sales in subsequent periods after the initial adoption when applied to multiple-element arrangements based on current go-to-market strategies due to the existence of VSOE across most of our product and service offerings. However, we
expect that this new accounting guidance will facilitate our efforts to optimize our offerings due to better alignment between the economics of an arrangement and the accounting. This may lead to us engaging in new go-to-market practices in the
future. In particular, we expect that the new accounting standards will enable us to better integrate products and services without VSOE into existing offerings and solutions. As these go-to-market strategies evolve, we may modify our pricing
practices in the future, which could result in changes in selling prices, including both VSOE and ESP. As a result, our future revenue recognition for multiple-element arrangements could differ materially from the results in the current period. We
are currently unable to determine the impact that the newly adopted accounting guidance could have on our revenue as these go-to-market strategies evolve.   
  Revenue deferrals relate to the timing of revenue recognition for specific transactions based on financing arrangements, service, support, and other
factors. Financing arrangements may include sales-type, direct-financing, and operating leases, loans, and guarantees of third-party financing. Our deferred revenue for products was $3.7 billion and $2.9 billion as of July 31, 2010 and
July 25, 2009, respectively. Technical support services revenue is deferred and recognized ratably over the period during which the services are to be performed, which typically is from one to three years. Advanced services revenue is
recognized upon delivery or completion of performance. Our deferred revenue for services was $7.4 billion and $6.5 billion as of July 31, 2010 and July 25, 2009, respectively.   
  We make sales to distributors and retail partners and generally recognize revenue based on a sell-through method using information provided by them.
Our distributors and retail partners participate in various cooperative marketing and other programs, and we maintain estimated accruals and allowances for these programs. If actual credits received by our distributors and retail partners under
these programs were to deviate significantly from our estimates, which are based on historical experience, our revenue could be adversely affected.   
   Allowances for Receivables and Sales Returns       The allowances
for receivables were as follows (in millions, except percentages):       
    The
allowances are based on our assessment of the collectibility of customer accounts. We regularly review the adequacy of these allowances by considering factors such as historical experience, credit quality, age of the receivable balances, and
economic conditions that may affect a customer s ability to pay. In addition, we perform credit reviews and statistical portfolio analysis to assess the credit quality of our receivables. We also consider the concentration of receivables
outstanding with a particular customer in assessing the adequacy of our allowances. Our allowance percentages declined in fiscal 2010 compared with fiscal   
     
   12  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations         
   
2009 due to improved portfolio management as we moved out of the challenging economic environment in fiscal 2009. Our allowance percentages for accounts receivable and lease receivables represent
a return to approximately the levels we experienced prior to fiscal 2009, consistent with changes we have observed in the macroeconomic environment.   
  If a major customer s creditworthiness deteriorates, or if actual defaults are higher than our historical experience, or if other circumstances
arise, our estimates of the recoverability of amounts due to us could be overstated, and additional allowances could be required, which could have an adverse impact on our revenue.   
  A reserve for future sales returns is established based on historical trends in product return rates. The reserve for future sales returns as of
July 31, 2010 and July 25, 2009 was $90 million and $75 million, respectively, and was recorded as a reduction of our accounts receivable. If the actual future returns were to deviate from the historical data on which the reserve had been
established, our revenue could be adversely affected.       Inventory Valuation and Liability for Purchase Commitments with Contract Manufacturers and
Suppliers       Our inventory balance was $1.3 billion and $1.1 billion as of July 31, 2010 and July 25, 2009, respectively. Inventory is
written down based on excess and obsolete inventories determined primarily by future demand forecasts. Inventory write-downs are measured as the difference between the cost of the inventory and market, based upon assumptions about future demand, and
are charged to the provision for inventory, which is a component of our cost of sales. At the point of the loss recognition, a new, lower cost basis for that inventory is established, and subsequent changes in facts and circumstances do not result
in the restoration or increase in that newly established cost basis.      We record a liability for firm, noncancelable, and unconditional
purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers for quantities in excess of our future demand forecasts consistent with the valuation of our excess and obsolete inventory. As of July 31, 2010, the liability for these purchase
commitments was $135 million, compared with $175 million as of July 25, 2009, and was included in other current liabilities.      Our
provision for inventory was $94 million, $93 million, and $102 million for fiscal 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. The provision for the liability related to purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers was $8 million, $87
million, and $97 million in fiscal 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. The decrease in the provision for the liability related to purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers during fiscal 2010 was primarily attributable to the
increase in demand for our products during fiscal 2010. If there were to be a sudden and significant decrease in demand for our products, or if there were a higher incidence of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and
customer requirements, we could be required to increase our inventory write-downs and our liability for purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers and gross margin could be adversely affected. Inventory and supply chain
management remain areas of focus as we balance the need to maintain supply chain flexibility to help ensure competitive lead times with the risk of incurring inventory obsolescence charges.   
   Warranty Costs       The liability for product warranties,
included in other current liabilities, was $360 million as of July 31, 2010, compared with $321 million as of July 25, 2009. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Our products are generally covered by a warranty for periods
ranging from 90 days to five years, and for some products we provide a limited lifetime warranty. We accrue for warranty costs as part of our cost of sales based on associated material costs, technical support labor costs, and associated overhead.
Material cost is estimated based primarily upon historical trends in the volume of product returns within the warranty period and the cost to repair or replace the equipment. Technical support labor cost is estimated based primarily upon historical
trends in the rate of customer cases and the cost to support the customer cases within the warranty period. Overhead cost is applied based on estimated time to support warranty activities.   
  The provision for product warranties issued during fiscal 2010, 2009, and 2008 was $469 million, $374 million, and $511 million, respectively. The
increase in the provision for product warranties issued during fiscal 2010 was driven primarily by higher product revenue. If we experience an increase in warranty claims compared with our historical experience, or if the cost of servicing warranty
claims is greater than expected, our gross margin could be adversely affected.         
   2010 Annual Report  13   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations         
    Share-Based Compensation Expense    
  Share-based compensation expense is presented as follows (in millions):       
    The
determination of fair value of share-based payment awards on the date of grant using an option-pricing model is affected by our stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of highly complex and subjective variables. For employee stock
options and employee stock purchase rights, these variables include, but are not limited to, the expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards, risk-free interest rate and expected dividends as of the grant date. For employee stock
options, we used the implied volatility for two-year traded options on our stock as the expected volatility assumption required in the lattice-binomial model. For employee stock purchase rights, we used the implied volatility for traded options
(with lives corresponding to the expected life of the employee stock purchase rights) on our stock. The selection of the implied volatility approach was based upon the availability of actively traded options on our stock and our assessment that
implied volatility is more representative of future stock price trends than historical volatility. The valuation of employee stock options is also impacted by kurtosis, and skewness, which are technical measures of the distribution of stock price
returns, and the actual and projected employee stock option exercise behaviors. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   
  Because share-based compensation expense is based on awards ultimately expected to vest, it has been reduced for forfeitures. If factors change and
we employ different assumptions in the application of our option-pricing model in future periods or if we experience different forfeiture rates, the compensation expense that is derived may differ significantly from what we have recorded in the
current year.       Fair Value Measurements of Investments    
  Our fixed income and publicly traded equity securities, collectively, are reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at a fair value of $35.3 billion as of
July 31, 2010, compared with $29.3 billion as of July 25, 2009. Our fixed income investment portfolio, as of July 31, 2010, consisted primarily of the highest quality investment grade securities. See Note 7 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.      As described more fully in Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the valuation hierarchy is based on
the level of independent, objective evidence available regarding the value of the investments. It encompasses three classes of investments: Level 1 consists of securities for which there are quoted prices in active markets for identical securities;
Level 2 consists of securities for which observable inputs other than Level 1 inputs are used, such as prices for similar securities in active markets or for identical securities in less active markets and model-derived valuations for which the
variables are derived from, or corroborated by, observable market data; and Level 3 consists of securities for which there are unobservable inputs to the valuation methodology that are significant to the measurement of the fair value.   
  Our Level 2 securities are valued using quoted market prices for similar instruments, nonbinding market prices that are corroborated by observable
market data, or discounted cash flow techniques in limited circumstances. We use inputs such as actual trade data, benchmark yields, broker/dealer quotes, and other similar data, which are obtained from independent pricing vendors, quoted market
prices, or other sources to determine the ultimate fair value of our assets and liabilities. We use such pricing data as the primary input, to which we have not made any material adjustments during fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009 to make our assessments
and determinations as to the ultimate valuation of our investment portfolio. We are ultimately responsible for the financial statements and underlying estimates.   
  The inputs and fair value are reviewed for reasonableness, may be further validated by comparison to publicly available information and could be
adjusted based on market indices or other information that management deems material to their estimate of fair value. In the current market environment, the assessment of fair value can be difficult and subjective. However, given the relative
reliability of the inputs we use to value our investment portfolio, and because substantially all of our valuation inputs are obtained using quoted market prices for similar or identical assets, we do not believe that the nature of estimates and
assumptions affected by levels of subjectivity and judgment was material to the valuation of the investment portfolio as of July 31, 2010. Level 3 assets do not represent a significant portion of our total investment portfolio as of
July 31, 2010.       Other-than-Temporary Impairments   We recognize an impairment charge when the declines in the fair values of our
fixed income or publicly traded equity securities below their cost basis are judged to be other than temporary. The ultimate value realized on these securities, to the extent unhedged, is subject to market price volatility until they are sold.
     Effective at the beginning of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, we were required to evaluate our fixed income securities for
other-than-temporary impairments subject to new accounting guidance. Pursuant to this accounting guidance, if the fair value of a debt security is less than its amortized cost, we assess whether the impairment is other than temporary. An impairment
is considered other than temporary if (i) we have the intent to sell the security, (ii) it is more likely than not that we will be required to   
     
   14  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations         
   
sell the security before recovery of its entire amortized cost basis, or (iii) we do not expect to recover the entire amortized cost of the security. If an impairment is considered other
than temporary based on (i) or (ii) described in the prior sentence, the entire difference between the amortized cost and the fair value of the security is recognized in earnings. If an impairment is considered other than temporary based
on condition (iii), the amount representing credit losses, defined as the difference between the present value of the cash flows expected to be collected and the amortized cost basis of the debt security, will be recognized in earnings and the
amount relating to all other factors will be recognized in other comprehensive income (OCI). In estimating the amount and timing of cash flows expected to be collected, we consider all available information including past events, current conditions,
the remaining payment terms of the security, the financial condition of the issuer, expected defaults, and the value of underlying collateral.   
  For publicly traded equity securities, we consider various factors in determining whether we should recognize an impairment charge, including the
length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than our cost basis, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, and our intent and ability to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any
anticipated recovery in market value.      There were no impairment charges on investments in fixed income securities and publicly traded
equity securities that were recognized in earnings in fiscal 2010, while for fiscal 2009 impairment charges of $258 million were recognized in earnings. There were no such impairments in fiscal 2008. Our ongoing consideration of all the factors
described previously could result in additional impairment charges in the future, which could adversely affect our net income.      We also
have investments in privately held companies, some of which are in the startup or development stages. As of July 31, 2010, our investments in privately held companies were $756 million, compared with $709 million as of July 25, 2009, and
were included in other assets. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We monitor these investments for events or circumstances indicative of potential impairment and will make appropriate reductions in carrying values if we determine
that an impairment charge is required, based primarily on the financial condition and near-term prospects of these companies. These investments are inherently risky because the markets for the technologies or products these companies are developing
are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. Our impairment charges on investments in privately held companies were $25 million, $85 million, and $12 million in fiscal 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively.   
   Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Asset Impairments       Our
methodology for allocating the purchase price relating to purchase acquisitions is determined through established valuation techniques. Goodwill represents a residual value as of the acquisition date which, in most cases, results in measuring
goodwill as an excess of the purchase consideration transferred plus the fair value of any noncontrolling interest in the acquired company over the fair value of net assets acquired, including contingent consideration. We perform goodwill impairment
tests on an annual basis in the fourth fiscal quarter and between annual tests in certain circumstances for each reporting unit. Effective in fiscal 2010, the assessment of fair value for goodwill and purchased intangible assets is based on factors
that market participants would use in an orderly transaction in accordance with the new accounting guidance for the fair value measurement of nonfinancial assets.   
  The goodwill recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of July 31, 2010 and July 25, 2009 was $16.7 billion and $12.9 billion,
respectively. In response to changes in industry and market conditions, we could be required to strategically realign our resources and consider restructuring, disposing of, or otherwise exiting businesses, which could result in an impairment of
goodwill. There was no impairment of goodwill in fiscal 2010, 2009, or 2008. The excess of the fair value over the carrying value for each of our reporting units ranged from approximately $4 billion for the Japan theater to approximately $41 billion
for the United States and Canada theater. We performed a sensitivity analysis for goodwill impairment with respect to each of our respective reporting units and determined that a hypothetical 10% decline in the fair value of each reporting unit as
of July 31, 2010 would not result in an impairment of goodwill for any reporting unit.      We make judgments about the recoverability
of purchased intangible assets with finite lives whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that an impairment may exist. Recoverability of purchased intangible assets with finite lives is measured by comparing the carrying amount of the
asset to the future undiscounted cash flows the asset is expected to generate. We review indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Recoverability of indefinite-lived intangible assets is measured by comparing the carrying amount of the asset to the future discounted cash flows the asset is expected to generate. If the asset is considered to be impaired, the amount of any
impairment is measured as the difference between the carrying value and the fair value of the impaired asset. Assumptions and estimates about future values and remaining useful lives of our purchased intangible assets are complex and subjective.
They can be affected by a variety of factors, including external factors such as industry and economic trends, and internal factors such as changes in our business strategy and our internal forecasts. We recorded impairment charges of $28 million,
$95 million and $33 million during fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, related to our purchased intangible assets. Our ongoing consideration of all the factors described previously could result in additional impairment charges in the future,
which could adversely affect our net income.         
   2010 Annual Report  15   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations         
    Income Taxes    
  We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our effective tax rates differ from the statutory rate, primarily due to the
tax impact of state taxes, foreign operations, research and development (R D) tax credits, tax audit settlements, nondeductible compensation, international realignments, and transfer pricing adjustments. Our effective tax rate was 17.5%, 20.3%,
and 21.5% in fiscal 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively.      Significant judgment is required in evaluating our uncertain tax positions and
determining our provision for income taxes. Although we believe our reserves are reasonable, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be different from that which is reflected in our historical income tax
provisions and accruals. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit or the refinement of an estimate. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the
amounts recorded, such differences will impact the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. The provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered
appropriate, as well as the related net interest.      Significant judgment is also required in determining any valuation allowance recorded
against deferred tax assets. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider all available evidence, including past operating results, estimates of future taxable income, and the feasibility of tax planning strategies. In the event that
we change our determination as to the amount of deferred tax assets that can be realized, we will adjust our valuation allowance with a corresponding impact to the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made.
     Our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely impacted by earnings being lower than anticipated in
countries that have lower tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries that have higher tax rates; by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; by expiration of or lapses in the R D tax credit laws; by
transfer pricing adjustments including the effect of acquisitions on our intercompany R D cost sharing arrangement and legal structure; by tax effects of nondeductible compensation; by tax costs related to intercompany realignments; by changes
in accounting principles; or by changes in tax laws and regulations including possible U.S. changes to the taxation of earnings of our foreign subsidiaries, the deductibility of expenses attributable to foreign income, or the foreign
tax credit rules. Significant judgment is required to determine the recognition and measurement attributes prescribed in the accounting guidance for uncertainty in income taxes. The accounting guidance for uncertainty in income taxes applies to all
income tax positions, including the potential recovery of previously paid taxes, which if settled unfavorably could adversely impact our provision for income taxes or additional paid-in capital. Further, as a result of certain of our ongoing
employment and capital investment actions and commitments, our income in certain countries is subject to reduced tax rates and in some cases is wholly exempt from tax. Our failure to meet these commitments could adversely impact our provision for
income taxes. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these
examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition.   
   Loss Contingencies       We are subject to the possibility of
various losses arising in the ordinary course of business. We consider the likelihood of loss or impairment of an asset or the incurrence of a liability, as well as our ability to reasonably estimate the amount of loss, in determining loss
contingencies. An estimated loss contingency is accrued when it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. We regularly evaluate current information available to
us to determine whether such accruals should be adjusted and whether new accruals are required.      Third parties, including customers, have
in the past and may in the future assert claims or initiate litigation related to exclusive patent, copyright, trademark, and other intellectual property rights to technologies and related standards that are relevant to us. These assertions have
increased over time as a result of our growth and the general increase in the pace of patent claims assertions, particularly in the United States. If any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us by any third party is
successful, or if we fail to develop non-infringing technology or license the proprietary rights on commercially reasonable terms and conditions, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.
      Reclassifications       Certain
immaterial reclassifications have been made to amounts for prior years in order to conform to the current year s presentation. These immaterial reclassifications relate to net sales for similar groups of products, and gross margin by theater,
and are undertaken as we endeavor to refine the presentation of these respective categories.         
   16  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations         
    Discussion of Fiscal 2010, 2009, and 2008    
   Net Sales       The following table presents the breakdown of net
sales between product and service revenue (in millions, except percentages):       
      Fiscal 2010 Compared with Fiscal 2009   
     Net sales increased across all of our geographic theaters in fiscal 2010 as compared with fiscal 2009. In our view, the sales increase in fiscal 2010
was a result of the global demand recovery during fiscal 2010 in comparison to the weakness we experienced for most of fiscal 2009. We had an increase in both net product sales and service revenue in fiscal 2010 compared with fiscal 2009. From a
customer market perspective, in fiscal 2010, we saw an improved demand environment for capital expenditures and balanced growth across all of our customer markets.   
  We conduct business globally in numerous currencies. The direct effect of foreign currency fluctuations on sales has not been material because our
sales are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars. However, if the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to other currencies, such strengthening could have an indirect effect on our sales to the extent it raises the cost of our products to non-U.S.
customers and thereby reduces demand. A weaker U.S. dollar could have the opposite effect. However, the precise indirect effect of currency fluctuations is difficult to measure or predict because our sales are influenced by many factors in addition
to the impact of such currency fluctuations.      In addition to the impact of macroeconomic factors, net sales by theater in a particular
period may be significantly impacted by several factors related to revenue recognition, including the complexity of transactions such as multiple-element arrangements; the mix of financing arrangements provided to our channel partners and customers;
and final acceptance of the product, system, or solution, among other factors. In addition, certain customers tend to make large and sporadic purchases and the net sales related to these transactions may also be affected by the timing of revenue
recognition, which in turn would impact the net sales of the relevant theater.        Fiscal 2009 Compared with Fiscal 2008     
  We experienced a decline in our net product sales in fiscal 2009 compared with fiscal 2008, while our service revenue showed a year-over-year increase. The global
economic downturn and the effect it had on information technology spending resulted in year-over-year decreases in product sales in our service provider, commercial, enterprise, and consumer markets and across all our geographic theaters. However,
within our enterprise market, the public sector showed relative strength across most of our geographic theaters, compared with other customer markets within the respective theaters. Service revenue increased across all theaters, led by higher sales
in the Emerging Markets theater.         
   2010 Annual Report  17   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations         
    Net Product Sales by Theater    
  The following table presents the breakdown of net product sales by theater (in millions, except percentages):   
   
     United States and Canada    
    Fiscal 2010 Compared with Fiscal 2009        Net product
sales in the United States and Canada theater increased during fiscal 2010 compared with fiscal 2009 due to the improvement in the economic environment in this theater. The increase in net product sales compared with fiscal 2009 was across all of
our customer markets in the United States and Canada theater, led by the commercial and enterprise markets. Within the enterprise market, net product sales to the U.S. federal government increased on a year-over-year basis for fiscal 2010. Our net
product sales in the consumer market for fiscal 2010 in this theater increased compared with fiscal 2009, primarily due to sales of Flip Video cameras from the acquisition of Pure Digital, which we acquired in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. From
a product perspective, the increase in fiscal 2010 net product sales in this theater was driven in large part by higher sales of our switching products.   
    Fiscal 2009 Compared with Fiscal 2008        Net product
sales in the United States and Canada theater decreased during fiscal 2009 compared with fiscal 2008 as a result of the unfavorable economic and market conditions and the associated impact on information technology spending. The decrease was driven
by lower sales in the service provider and commercial markets and to a lesser extent by lower sales in the enterprise market. In fiscal 2009, sales in the service provider market in the United States were particularly affected by lower spending by a
few of the large customers in that market. Sales in our commercial and enterprise markets decreased in fiscal 2009, primarily due to cautious spending by customers in these markets. Within our enterprise market, sales to the U.S. federal government
showed relative strength, with increased sales in fiscal 2009 compared with fiscal 2008, while our sales to state and local governments decreased in fiscal 2009.   
   European Markets         Fiscal 2010 Compared with Fiscal
2009        The slight increase in net product sales in the European Markets theater in fiscal 2010 compared with fiscal 2009 was driven by increased
sales across most of our customer markets in this theater with particular strength in the enterprise and commercial markets. From a country perspective, net product sales increased in the United Kingdom and France while decreasing for both Germany
and Italy compared with fiscal 2009. Our European Markets theater grew more slowly relative to other theaters on a year-over-year basis, which we believe was attributable in part to the fact that many of the countries in this theater were among the
last countries to begin experiencing the economic downturn in fiscal 2009, and consequently some of these countries are recovering later. Product sales growth in this theater began to strengthen in the second half of fiscal 2010. During fiscal 2010
we did not see significant negative effects on our net product sales in the European Markets theater from the recent economic and financial turmoil related to sovereign debt issues in certain European countries.   
     
   18  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations         
     Fiscal 2009 Compared with Fiscal 2008     
  The decrease in net product sales in the European Markets theater in fiscal 2009 compared with fiscal 2008 was driven by lower sales to the service provider,
commercial, and enterprise markets. Despite a decline in sales in our overall enterprise market in this theater, sales to the public sector showed strength relative to other customer markets within this theater. The decline in sales for fiscal 2009
was experienced across the major countries in the European Markets theater, and particularly in the United Kingdom, Italy, and Germany.       Emerging
Markets         Fiscal 2010 Compared with Fiscal 2009     
  Net product sales in the Emerging Markets theater increased, primarily as a result of increased product sales across all of our customer markets with the exception
of the consumer market. We experienced a return to stronger year-over-year sales growth in the second half of fiscal 2010, led by Brazil, Mexico, and Russia. Certain of our customers in the Emerging Markets theater tend to make large and sporadic
purchases, and the net sales related to these transactions may also be affected by the timing of revenue recognition. Further, some customers may continue to require greater levels of financing arrangements, service, and support in future periods,
which may also impact the timing of recognition of the revenue for this theater.        Fiscal 2009 Compared with Fiscal 2008     
  Net product sales in the Emerging Markets theater decreased across all customer market segments in fiscal 2009 compared with fiscal 2008, primarily due to lower
sales to the service provider, commercial and enterprise markets. We also experienced a sales decline in fiscal 2009 across most countries in this theater, with particular weakness in Russia, Brazil, and Mexico. In addition to the impact from lower
shipments, the decline in net product sales in this theater in fiscal 2009 was also due to the timing of revenue recognition for sales involving financing arrangements.   
   Asia Pacific         Fiscal 2010 Compared with Fiscal 2009
       The increase in net product sales in the Asia Pacific theater in fiscal 2010 compared with fiscal 2009 was attributable to increased product
sales to our enterprise, commercial, and service provider markets in this theater. We experienced strength in most countries including China and Australia, two of the larger countries in this theater, during fiscal 2010.   
    Fiscal 2009 Compared with Fiscal 2008        The decrease
in net product sales in the Asia Pacific theater in fiscal 2009 compared with fiscal 2008 was reflected across all the customer market segments. The decrease was driven by lower sales in the enterprise and service provider markets, and to a lesser
extent in the commercial market. The year-over-year decline in net product sales was experienced across most of the major countries in this theater, particularly in South Korea and India. Net product sales in Australia remained relatively flat and
China exhibited only a slight decline in net product sales in fiscal 2009 compared with fiscal 2008.       Japan    
    Fiscal 2010 Compared with Fiscal 2009        Net product
sales in the Japan theater increased in fiscal 2010 compared with fiscal 2009, primarily due to an increase in net product sales to the enterprise and service provider markets.   
    Fiscal 2009 Compared with Fiscal 2008        Net product
sales in the Japan theater decreased in fiscal 2009 compared with fiscal 2008, primarily due to a decline in sales to the service provider market and a decline in sales to the enterprise market, excluding the public sector. Net product sales to the
public sector within the enterprise market increased in this theater.         
   2010 Annual Report  19   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations         
    Net Product Sales by Groups of Similar Products    
  In addition to the primary view on a geographic basis, we also prepare financial information related to groups of similar products and customer markets for various
purposes. The following table presents net sales for groups of similar products (in millions, except percentages):       
     Routers    
    Fiscal 2010 Compared with Fiscal 2009        We categorize
our routers primarily as high-end, midrange, and low-end routers. Our sales of routers increased in our high-end category in fiscal 2010 while sales of routers declined in both the midrange and low-end categories. Within the high-end router
category, the increase was driven by the higher sales of the Cisco CRS-1 Carrier Routing System, higher sales of the Cisco 7600 Series Routers, the Cisco ASR 1000 and 9000 Series Aggregation Services Routers, and the inclusion of the Cisco ASR 5000
products from our acquisition of Starent, partially offset by lower sales of Cisco 12000 Series Routers. Our decline in sales of midrange and low-end routers was primarily due to a decline in sales of our integrated services routers.   
    Fiscal 2009 Compared with Fiscal 2008        Our sales of
routers decreased across each category with the decline in sales of high-end routers of approximately $1.1 billion representing the most significant decrease in dollar and percentage terms. Within the high-end router category, the decline was driven
by the lower sales of Cisco 12000 Series Routers, Cisco 7600 Series Routers, and the Cisco CRS-1 Carrier Routing System, partially offset by an increase in sales of Cisco ASR 1000 Series Aggregation Services Routers. Because our high-end routers are
sold primarily to service providers, our high-end router sales during fiscal 2009 were adversely impacted by, among other factors, a slowdown in capital expenditures in the global service provider market, and the tendency of service providers to
make large and sporadic purchases. Our decline in sales of midrange and low-end routers was primarily due to a decline in sales of our integrated services routers.   
   Switches         Fiscal 2010 Compared with Fiscal 2009
       The increase in net product sales related to switches in fiscal 2010 compared with fiscal 2009 was due primarily to higher sales of our modular
and LAN fixed-configuration switches of approximately $830 million and $630 million, respectively. The increase in sales of modular switches was primarily due to the increased sales of our Cisco Nexus 7000 and Cisco Catalyst 4500 Series Switches,
partially offset by decreased sales of our Cisco Catalyst 6000 Series Switches. The increase in LAN fixed-configuration switches was primarily due to increased sales of Cisco Catalyst 2960 Series Switches and Cisco Nexus 5000 and 2000 Series
Switches, partially offset by decreased sales of our Cisco Catalyst 3560 Series Switches.        Fiscal 2009 Compared with Fiscal 2008
       The decrease in net product sales related to switches in fiscal 2009 compared with fiscal 2008 was due to lower sales in modular switches and
local-area network (LAN) fixed-configuration switches of approximately $740 million and approximately $680 million, respectively. The decrease in sales of modular switches was primarily due to decreased sales of Cisco Catalyst 6500 and 4500 Series
Switches, partially offset by increased sales of Cisco Nexus 7000 Series Switches. The decrease in sales of LAN fixed-configuration switches was primarily a result of lower sales of Cisco Catalyst 3560 and 3750 Series Switches.  
     
   20  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations         
    Advanced Technologies    
    Fiscal 2010 Compared with Fiscal 2009         

Sales of unified communications products increased by $294 million, primarily due to increased sales of IP phones and associated software, and higher sales of
our web-based collaboration offerings.          

Sales of security products increased by $195 million. Our increased sales of security products were a result of increased sales of our web and email security
products as well as our security appliance products, each of which integrates multiple technologies (including virtual private network (VPN), firewall, and intrusion prevention services) on one platform, partially offset by lower sales of module and
line-cards related to our routers and LAN switches.          

Sales of wireless LAN products increased by $169 million, primarily due to the customer adoption of and migration to the Cisco Unified Wireless Network
architecture.          

Sales of storage area networking products increased by $67 million, primarily due to higher sales of our Cisco MDS 9000 product line.

Sales of application networking services decreased by $16 million, primarily due to lower customer demand for our data center application optimization solutions.

Sales of video systems decreased by $57 million, primarily attributable to lower sales for digital set-top boxes.      

Sales of networked home products decreased by $106 million, primarily due to lower sales of routers and adapters.      
    Fiscal 2009 Compared with Fiscal 2008         

Sales of unified communications products increased by approximately $30 million, primarily due to increased adoption of our web-based collaborative applications
and related conferencing media, partially offset by lower sales of IP phones and associated software.          

Sales of video systems were relatively flat for fiscal 2009 compared with fiscal 2008, as the increased sales of IP set-top boxes and other video products was
offset by lower sales of HD-DVR cable set-top boxes.          

Sales of security products decreased by approximately $65 million. Our decreased sales of security products were a result of the lower sales of module and
line-cards related to our routers and LAN switches, partially offset by increased sales of our web and email security products and security appliance products.      

Sales of networked home products decreased by approximately $140 million. The decrease in sales of networked home products was primarily due to lower sales of
wireless routers for the connected home, cable modems, and adapters.          

Sales of storage area networking products decreased by approximately $85 million, which was primarily due to lower sales of our MDS 9000 product line.

Sales of wireless LAN products decreased by approximately $50 million.      

Sales of application networking services decreased by approximately $40 million. The decrease was primarily related to lower customer demand in fiscal 2009 for
data center application optimization solutions.          Other Product Revenue    
    Fiscal 2010 Compared with Fiscal 2009        The increase in
other product revenue in fiscal 2010 compared with fiscal 2009 was primarily due to the following: increased sales of Flip Video cameras of $317 million from our Pure Digital acquisition in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009; increased sales of Cisco
TelePresence systems products of $263 million, in large part from our acquisition of Tandberg in the third quarter of fiscal 2010; increased sales of cable products of $247 million; and increased sales of Cisco Unified Computing System products of
approximately $181 million.        Fiscal 2009 Compared with Fiscal 2008     
  The decrease in other product revenue in fiscal 2009 compared with fiscal 2008 was primarily due to the decline in sales of our cable, optical, and service provider
voice products, partially offset by increased sales of emerging technology products such as Cisco TelePresence systems.         
   2010 Annual Report  21   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations         
    Net Service Sales by Theater    
  The following table presents the breakdown of service revenue by theater (in millions, except percentages):   
   
      Fiscal 2010 Compared with Fiscal 2009
       Net service revenue increased across all of our geographic theaters in fiscal 2010, with particular strength in our Asia Pacific theater. The
increase in total service revenue was due to growth from technical support services as well as increased revenue from advanced services, which relates to consulting support services for specific network needs. In fiscal 2010, technical support
service revenue increased across all of our geographic theaters with solid growth in our Asia Pacific and European Markets theaters. In fiscal 2010, we experienced advanced services revenue growth across each of our geographic theaters except for
our Emerging Markets theater. Total service revenue growth in fiscal 2010 also benefited from incremental revenue from our acquisitions during fiscal 2010 of Tandberg and Starent. Renewals and technical support service contract initiations
associated with recent product sales have resulted in a new installed base of equipment being serviced, contributing to these increases. Revenue with respect to service arrangements is recognized ratably over the period during which the related
services are to be performed.        Fiscal 2009 Compared with Fiscal 2008     
  Net service revenue increased across all of our geographic theaters in fiscal 2009, with particular strength in our Emerging Markets theater. Higher revenue from
technical support service contracts and increased revenue from advanced services relating to consulting services for specific customer networking needs contributed to the growth in net service revenue in fiscal 2009. The increase in our technical
support revenue was due to a combination of renewals, the amortization of existing technical support service contracts including multiyear service contracts initiated in prior years, and initiations associated with recent product sales, which have
led to a larger installed base of our equipment being serviced.       Gross Margin    
  The following table presents the gross margin for products and services (in millions, except percentages):   

22  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations         
    Product Gross Margin    
    Fiscal 2010 Compared with Fiscal 2009        The following
table summarizes the key factors that contributed to the change in product gross margin percentage from fiscal 2009 to fiscal 2010:       
    Product
gross margin for fiscal 2010 increased by 0.2 percentage points compared with fiscal 2009, due primarily to lower overall manufacturing costs driven by strong operational efficiency in manufacturing operations, value engineering and a reduction in
other manufacturing-related costs. Value engineering is the process by which production costs are reduced through component redesign, board configuration, test processes, and transformation processes. The product gross margin for fiscal 2010 also
benefited from the increase in shipment volume. A favorable product mix contributed slightly to the increase in product gross margin percentage. Fiscal 2010 product gross margin was negatively impacted by sales discounts, rebates and product
pricing, which were driven by normal market factors, as well as the geographic mix of product revenue. The impact from sales discounts, rebates and product pricing was within our expected range.   
  Our future gross margins could be impacted by our product mix and by our movement into market adjacencies that have lower gross margins, such as the consumer
market with our sales of Flip Video cameras, as well as Cisco Unified Computing System products. Our gross margins may also be impacted by the geographic mix of our revenue or by increased sales discounts, rebates, and product pricing, which may be
attributable to competitive factors. Additionally, our manufacturing-related costs may be negatively impacted by constraints in our supply chain. If any of the preceding factors that impact our gross margins are adversely affected in future periods,
our product and service gross margins could decline.        Fiscal 2009 Compared with Fiscal 2008     
  The following table summarizes the key factors that contributed to the change in product gross margin percentage from fiscal 2008 to fiscal 2009:   
    Product gross
margin for fiscal 2009 decreased by 0.8 percentage points compared with fiscal 2008, primarily due to higher sales discounts and rebates and lower product pricing, which we experienced across our major geographic theaters. Lower shipment volume, net
of certain variable costs, and the mix of products sold also contributed to the decrease in the product gross margin percentage during fiscal 2009. The decrease in our product gross margin percentage was partially offset by lower manufacturing
costs, as we benefited from cost savings in component costs and value engineering and other manufacturing-related costs.       Service Gross Margin  
       Fiscal 2010 Compared with Fiscal 2009        Our
service gross margin percentage was unchanged from fiscal 2009 due to higher margins for technical support services offset by a decline in the gross margin for advanced services. The increase in technical support service gross margin in fiscal 2010
from fiscal 2009 was primarily a result of increased volume. Technical support margins will experience some variability due to various   
     
   2010 Annual Report  23   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations         
   
factors such as the timing of technical support service contract initiations and renewals and the timing of our strategic investments in headcount and resources to support this business. The
decrease in advanced services gross margin in fiscal 2010 from fiscal 2009 was primarily due to increased headcount costs, partially offset by higher volume. Our revenue from advanced services may increase to a higher proportion of total service
revenue due to our continued focus on providing comprehensive support to our customers  networking devices, applications, and infrastructures.   
  Our service gross margin normally experiences some fluctuations due to various factors such as the timing of contract initiations in our renewals,
our strategic investments in headcount, and resources to support the overall service business. Other factors include the mix of service offerings, as the gross margin from our advanced services is typically lower than the gross margin from technical
support services.        Fiscal 2009 Compared with Fiscal 2008     
  Our service gross margin percentage increased in fiscal 2009 compared with fiscal 2008, primarily due to higher margins for both technical support and advanced
services, and also due to the mix of service revenue, with advanced services constituting a lower proportion of total service revenue. The higher margins for both technical support and advanced services were attributable primarily to the growth of
our service revenue as well as to certain cost-control initiatives that have helped to limit our costs of providing technical support and advanced services. For advanced services, the higher gross margins also benefited from lower costs associated
with delays in certain projects.       Gross Margin by Theater    
  The following table presents the total gross margin for each theater (in millions, except percentages):   

(1)  The unallocated corporate items include the effects of
amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets; share-based compensation expense; and, for the year ended July 25, 2009, it also includes charges related to asset impairments and restructurings. We do not allocate these items to the gross
margin for each theater because management does not include such information in measuring the performance of the operating segments.        Fiscal 2010
Compared with Fiscal 2009        In fiscal 2010, the gross margin percentage in the United States and Canada theater declined compared with fiscal
2009, primarily due to higher sales discounts and a lower service gross margin. Partially offsetting the decline were the impacts from increased shipment volume and lower overall manufacturing costs. The gross margin percentage in the European
Markets theater increased during fiscal 2010 compared with fiscal 2009 due primarily to lower overall manufacturing costs, increased shipment volume and favorable product mix. Partially offsetting the increase in this theater was the impact of
higher sales discounts. In fiscal 2010, the gross margin percentage in the Emerging Markets theater increased compared with fiscal 2009 due primarily to lower overall manufacturing costs, partially offset by the impact of higher sales discounts. The
gross margin percentage in the Asia Pacific theater increased during fiscal 2010 compared with fiscal 2009 due primarily to higher shipment volume and lower overall manufacturing costs. Partially offsetting the increase was the impact of higher
sales discounts and a decline in the services gross margin. In fiscal 2010, the gross margin percentage in the Japan theater increased during fiscal 2010 compared with fiscal 2009 due primarily to lower overall manufacturing costs, favorable mix
impacts, and increased shipment volume. Partially offsetting the increase was the impact of higher sales discounts and a decline in the services gross margin for this theater. For each of our theaters, the negative impact of sales discounts, rebates
and product pricing was driven by normal market factors and was within our expected range.      The gross margin percentage for a particular
theater may fluctuate and period-to-period changes in such percentages may or may not be indicative of a trend for that theater. Our product and service gross margins may be impacted by economic downturns or uncertain economic conditions as well as
our movement into market adjacencies and could decline if any of the factors that impact our gross margins are adversely affected in future periods.         
   24  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations         
     Fiscal 2009 Compared with Fiscal 2008     
  In fiscal 2009, the gross margin percentage increased in our two largest theaters, United States and Canada and European Markets. For these theaters, the favorable
impacts of improved service margins and lower overall manufacturing costs were partially offset by the effects of lower shipment volume, lower product pricing, and higher sales discounts. The gross margin percentage also increased in our Japan
theater in fiscal 2009, driven by improved service margins and lower overall manufacturing costs, partially offset by the effect of an unfavorable product mix. The decreases in the gross margin percentages for the Asia Pacific and Emerging Markets
theaters in fiscal 2009 were primarily a result of lower product pricing, higher sales discounts, and lower shipment volume, partially offset by lower overall manufacturing costs and improved service margins. For the Asia Pacific theater, the lower
product pricing and higher sales discounts effects were attributable to the impact from various market factors, including price-focused competition in that theater.   
   Factors That May Impact Net Sales and Gross Margin       Net
product sales may continue to be affected by factors including the recent global economic downturn and related market uncertainty, that have resulted in reduced or cautious spending in our global enterprise, service provider, and commercial markets;
changes in the geopolitical environment and global economic conditions; competition, including price-focused competitors from Asia, especially from China; new product introductions; sales cycles and product implementation cycles; changes in the mix
of our customers between service provider and enterprise markets; changes in the mix of direct sales and indirect sales; variations in sales channels; and final acceptance criteria of the product, system, or solution as specified by the customer.
Sales to the service provider market have been and may be in the future characterized by large and sporadic purchases, especially relating to our router sales and sales of certain advanced technologies. In addition, service provider customers
typically have longer implementation cycles; require a broader range of services, including network design services; and often have acceptance provisions that can lead to a delay in revenue recognition. Certain of our customers in the Emerging
Markets theater also tend to make large and sporadic purchases, and the net sales related to these transactions may similarly be affected by the timing of revenue recognition. As we focus on new market opportunities, customers may require greater
levels of financing arrangements, service, and support, especially in the Emerging Markets theater, which may result in a delay in the timing of revenue recognition. To improve customer satisfaction, we continue to focus on managing our
manufacturing lead-time performance, which may result in corresponding reductions in order backlog. A decline in backlog levels could result in more variability and less predictability in our quarter-to-quarter net sales and operating results.
     Net product sales may also be adversely affected by fluctuations in demand for our products, especially with respect to
telecommunications service providers and Internet businesses, whether or not driven by any slowdown in capital expenditures in the service provider market; price and product competition in the communications and information technology industry;
introduction and market acceptance of new technologies and products; adoption of new networking standards; and financial difficulties experienced by our customers. We may, from time to time, experience manufacturing issues that create a delay in our
suppliers  ability to provide specific components, resulting in delayed shipments. To the extent that manufacturing issues and any related component shortages result in delayed shipments in the future, and particularly in periods when we and
our suppliers are operating at higher levels of capacity, it is possible that revenue for a quarter could be adversely affected if such matters are not remediated within the same quarter. For additional factors that may impact net product sales, see
 Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors  in our 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our distributors and retail partners participate in various cooperative marketing and other programs. In addition, increasing sales to our distributors and retail
partners generally result in greater difficulty in forecasting the mix of our products and, to a certain degree, the timing of orders from our customers. We recognize revenue for sales to our distributors and retail partners generally based on a
sell-through method using information provided by them, and we maintain estimated accruals and allowances for all cooperative marketing and other programs.   
  Product gross margin may be adversely affected in the future by changes in the mix of products sold, including further periods of increased growth
of some of our lower margin products; introduction of new products, including products with price-performance advantages; our ability to reduce production costs; entry into new markets, including markets with different pricing structures and cost
structures, as a result of internal development or through acquisitions; changes in distribution channels; price competition, including competitors from Asia, especially those from China; changes in geographic mix of our product sales; the timing of
revenue recognition and revenue deferrals; sales discounts; increases in material or labor costs, including share-based compensation expense; excess inventory and obsolescence charges; warranty costs; changes in shipment volume; loss of cost savings
due to changes in component pricing; effects of value engineering; inventory holding charges; and the extent to which we successfully execute on our strategy and operating plans. Additionally, our manufacturing-related costs may be negatively
impacted by constraints in our supply chain. Service gross margin may be impacted by various factors such as the change in mix between technical support services and advanced services, the timing of technical support service contract initiations and
renewals, share-based compensation expense, and the timing of our strategic investments in headcount and resources to support this business.         
   2010 Annual Report  25   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations         
    Research and Development (R D), Sales and Marketing, and General and Administrative (G A) Expenses  
     R D, sales and marketing, and G A expenses are summarized in the following table (in millions, except percentages):   
   
    Fiscal 2010 had an extra week compared with fiscal 2009. We estimate that the extra week contributed approximately $150
million of the year-over-year increase in total operating expenses. The year-over-year changes within operating expenses including the effects of foreign currency exchange rates, net of hedging, are summarized by line item as follows:   
   R D Expenses         Fiscal 2010 Compared with Fiscal
2009        The slight increase in R D expenses for fiscal 2010 was primarily due to higher headcount-related expenses, including increased
variable compensation expense and the impact of acquisitions, higher share-based compensation expense, and the impact of the extra week in fiscal 2010. Partially offsetting the increase in R D expenses in fiscal 2010 were lower
acquisition-related compensation expenses associated with milestone achievements from prior period acquisitions and the absence in fiscal 2010 of the enhanced early retirement and limited workforce reduction charges incurred during fiscal 2009. All
of our R D costs are expensed as incurred, and we continue to invest in R D in order to bring a broad range of products to market in a timely fashion. If we believe that we are unable to enter a particular market in a timely manner with
internally developed products, we may purchase or license technology from other businesses, or partner with, or acquire businesses as an alternative to internal R D.   
    Fiscal 2009 Compared with Fiscal 2008        The decrease
in R D expenses for fiscal 2009 was primarily due to lower discretionary expenses, lower variable compensation expenses, and lower acquisition-related compensation expenses. Lower discretionary expenses included reduced expenses for travel,
meeting and events, and outside services. These decreases were partially offset by enhanced early retirement and limited workforce reduction charges as well as increased employee share-based compensation expenses in fiscal 2009.   
   Sales and Marketing Expenses         Fiscal 2010 Compared
with Fiscal 2009        Sales and marketing expenses increased in fiscal 2010 compared with fiscal 2009 due to an increase of $197 million in sales
expenses and an increase of $116 million in marketing expenses. Both the sales expense and the marketing expense components of the category increased during fiscal 2010 due to higher headcount-related expenses, including higher variable compensation
expense, higher share-based compensation expense, and the impact of the extra week in fiscal 2010. Additionally, and separately, sales expenses increased due to the impact of acquisitions while higher advertising expenses contributed further to the
increase in marketing expenses. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in discretionary expenses such as travel, professional services, and a decrease in various operational expenses.   
    Fiscal 2009 Compared with Fiscal 2008        Sales and
marketing expenses declined in fiscal 2009 compared with fiscal 2008 due to a decrease of approximately $170 million in sales expenses and a decrease of approximately $120 million in marketing expenses. The decrease in sales and marketing expenses
was primarily a result of lower discretionary expenses related to travel, meeting and events, marketing programs and outside services. An additional factor that contributed to the decrease in sales and marketing expenses in fiscal 2009 was lower
variable compensation expenses, partially offset by the enhanced early retirement and limited workforce reduction charges. Foreign currency fluctuations, net of hedging, decreased total sales and marketing expenses by approximately $200 million
during fiscal 2009 compared with fiscal 2008.         
   26  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations         
    G A Expenses    
    Fiscal 2010 Compared with Fiscal 2009        The increase in
G A expenses in fiscal 2010 compared with fiscal 2009 was in part attributable to approximately $130 million of higher real estate-related charges related to impairments and other charges related to excess facilities. Additionally, G A
expenses in fiscal 2010 increased due to higher share-based compensation expense, higher headcount-related expenses, acquisition-related expenses, and higher information technology expenses, as well as the impact of the extra week in fiscal 2010.
       Fiscal 2009 Compared with Fiscal 2008     
  The increase in G A expenses in fiscal 2009 compared with fiscal 2008 was primarily due to increased project-related expenses, including information technology
expenses. Other factors also contributed to the increase in G A expenses in fiscal 2009, including higher share-based compensation and acquisition-related compensation expenses, as well as the enhanced early retirement and limited workforce
reduction charges in fiscal 2009.        Effect of Foreign Currency     
  In fiscal 2010, foreign currency fluctuations, net of hedging, increased the combined R D, sales and marketing, and G A expenses by $34 million, or
approximately 0.2%, compared with fiscal 2009. In fiscal 2009, foreign currency fluctuations, net of hedging, decreased the combined R D, sales and marketing, and G A expenses by approximately $280 million, or 1.8%, compared with fiscal
2008.       Headcount         Fiscal 2010 Compared with
Fiscal 2009        For fiscal 2010, our headcount increased by approximately 5,150 employees, which was attributable to the acquisitions of Tandberg
and Starent along with targeted hiring as part of our investment in growth initiatives. We expect to increase our headcount in the near term based on what we believe to be a positive market for our growth initiatives, and in addition to hiring in
order to capitalize on such initiatives, our hiring will be focused on productivity improvements and movements into new market adjacencies.   
    Fiscal 2009 Compared with Fiscal 2008        Our headcount
decreased by 584 employees in fiscal 2009. The decrease in headcount in fiscal 2009 resulted from our limited workforce reduction actions, employee attrition, and a hiring pause. The decrease was partially offset by the effect of acquisitions and
the hiring of recent college graduates.       Share-Based Compensation Expense    
  The following table presents share-based compensation expense (in millions):       
    Share-based
compensation expense increased for fiscal 2010 compared with fiscal 2009 due primarily to the effects of straight-line vesting compared with accelerated vesting for options granted prior to fiscal 2006, a change in vesting periods from five to four
years for awards granted beginning in fiscal 2009, and the impact of the extra week in fiscal 2010. Share-based compensation expense for fiscal 2009 increased compared with fiscal 2008, primarily due to a larger proportion of share-based awards
being subject to straight-line vesting, a shorter vesting period of four years for most share-based awards granted in fiscal 2009, and an increase in the weighted-average estimated grant date fair value for each share-based award. See Note 13 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.         
   2010 Annual Report  27   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations         
    Amortization of Purchased Intangible Assets    
  The following table presents the amortization of purchased intangible assets included in operating expenses (in millions):   
   
    For fiscal 2010, the decrease in the amortization of
purchased intangible assets included in operating expenses was primarily due to lower impairment charges in fiscal 2010 as compared with fiscal 2009, partially offset by increased amortization of purchased intangible assets from acquisitions
completed during fiscal 2010.      For fiscal 2009, the increase in the amortization of purchased intangible assets included in operating
expenses was primarily due to impairment charges of $95 million in connection with write-downs of purchased intangible assets related to certain technologies and customer relationships as a result of reductions in expected future cash flows from
those technologies and relationships. This effect was partially offset by lower amortization in fiscal 2009 from certain purchased intangible assets, primarily from the Scientific-Atlanta acquisition, that became fully amortized during fiscal 2009.
For additional information regarding purchased intangible assets, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.      The fair value of
acquired technology and patents, as well as acquired technology under development, is determined at acquisition date primarily using the income approach, which discounts expected future cash flows to present value. The discount rates used in the
present value calculations are typically derived from a weighted-average cost of capital analysis and then adjusted to reflect risks inherent in the development lifecycle as appropriate. We consider the pricing model for products related to these
acquisitions to be standard within the high-technology communications industry, and the applicable discount rates represent the rates that market participants would use for valuation of such intangible assets. For additional information regarding
purchased intangibles, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.       Interest and Other Income, Net    
   Interest Income (Expense), Net   The following table summarizes interest income and interest expense (in millions):   
   
      Fiscal 2010
Compared with Fiscal 2009        The decrease in interest income in fiscal 2010 compared with fiscal 2009 was due to lower average interest rates,
partially offset by higher average total cash and cash equivalents and fixed income security balances in fiscal 2010. The increase in interest expense in fiscal 2010 compared with fiscal 2009 was primarily due to additional interest expense related
to our debt issuances in November 2009 and February 2009.        Fiscal 2009 Compared with Fiscal 2008     
  The decrease in interest income in fiscal 2009 compared with fiscal 2008 was due to lower average interest rates, partially offset by higher average total cash and
cash equivalents and fixed income security balances in fiscal 2009. The increase in interest expense in fiscal 2009 compared with fiscal 2008 was primarily due to the higher average debt balances associated with the issuance of senior notes in an
aggregate amount of $4.0 billion in February 2009, partially offset by $500 million of senior unsecured notes which we retired when they were due.         
   28  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations         
    Other Income (Loss), Net   The components of other income (loss), net, are summarized as follows
(in millions):       
 
    Fiscal 2010 Compared with Fiscal 2009        For fiscal
2010, the increase in net gains on available-for-sale investments was due to the absence of impairment charges on these securities during fiscal 2010. For fiscal 2009, the net gains and losses on fixed income securities included impairment charges
of $219 million and net gains on publicly traded equity securities included impairment charges of $39 million. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the unrealized gains and losses on investments.   
  The change in net gains (losses) on investments in privately held companies in fiscal 2010 compared with fiscal 2009 was primarily due to higher
realized gains and lower impairment charges in fiscal 2010. Net losses on investments in privately held companies included impairment charges of $25 million in fiscal 2010 compared with $85 million in fiscal 2009.   
  Other gains (losses), net for fiscal 2010 increased due primarily to gains resulting from customer operating lease terminations.   
    Fiscal 2009 Compared with Fiscal 2008        For fiscal
2009, we had an aggregate net loss on investments in publicly traded equity and fixed income securities recognized in other income (loss), compared with a net gain in fiscal 2008. The net loss in fiscal 2009 was primarily a result of the volatile
market conditions in the fixed income market during parts of fiscal 2009, which resulted in impairment charges on fixed income securities of $219 million during fiscal 2009. Net losses on fixed income securities in fiscal 2009 were partially offset
by gains on investments in publicly traded equity securities, which were primarily due to the termination of various forward sale agreements designated as fair value hedges of publicly traded equity securities. Net gains on publicly traded equity
securities include impairment charges of $39 million during fiscal 2009.      Net losses on investments in privately held companies increased
in fiscal 2009 compared with fiscal 2008, primarily as a result of higher impairment charges, which were due to the deteriorating market conditions during parts of fiscal 2009. Net losses on investments in privately held companies included
impairment charges of $85 million in fiscal 2009 compared with $12 million in fiscal 2008.       Provision for Income Taxes    
    Fiscal 2010 Compared with Fiscal 2009        The provision
for income taxes resulted in an effective tax rate of 17.5% for fiscal 2010, compared with an effective tax rate of 20.3% for fiscal 2009. During fiscal 2010, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (the  Ninth Circuit ) withdrew
its prior holding and reaffirmed the 2005 U.S. Tax Court ruling in  Xilinx, Inc. v. Commissioner . This final decision effectively reversed the corresponding tax charge in fiscal 2009. The net 2.8 percentage point decrease in the effective tax
rate between fiscal years was primarily attributable to this benefit and the absence in fiscal 2010 of the corresponding charge from fiscal 2009, partially offset by the absence in fiscal 2010, of the fiscal 2009 tax benefit of $106 million, or 1.4
percentage points, related to the retroactive portion of the U.S. federal R D credit reinstatement.      For a full reconciliation of our
effective tax rate to the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% and further explanation of our provision for income taxes, see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   
     
   2010 Annual Report  29   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations         
     Fiscal 2009 Compared with Fiscal 2008     
  The provision for income taxes resulted in an effective tax rate of 20.3% for fiscal 2009, compared with 21.5% for fiscal 2008. The net 1.2 percentage point
decrease in the effective tax rates between fiscal years was attributable in part to a greater proportion of net income which was subject to foreign income tax rates that are lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35%. Additionally, the
effective tax rate of 20.3% for fiscal 2009 included a tax benefit of $106 million, or 1.4 percentage points, related to fiscal 2008 R D expenses due to the retroactive reinstatement of the U.S. federal R D tax credit offset by tax costs of
$174 million, or 2.3 percentage points, related to a transfer pricing adjustment for share-based compensation. The transfer pricing adjustment was a result of a decision by the Ninth Circuit to overturn a 2005 U.S. Tax Court ruling in a case to
which we were not a party. The Ninth Circuit decision impacted the tax treatment of share-based compensation expenses for the purpose of determining intangible development costs under a company s R D cost sharing arrangement. The effective
tax rate of 21.5% for fiscal 2008 included a net tax benefit of $162 million, or 1.6 percentage points, from the settlement of certain tax matters with the IRS offset by tax costs of $229 million, or 2.2 percentage points, related to the
intercompany realignment of certain of our foreign entities.       Recent Accounting Standards or Updates    
  In June 2009, the FASB issued revised guidance for the consolidation of variable interest entities. In February 2010, the FASB issued amendments to the
consolidation requirements, exempting certain investment funds from the June 2009 guidance for the consolidation of variable interest entities. The June 2009 guidance for the consolidation of variable interest entities replaces the
quantitative-based risks and rewards approach with a qualitative approach that focuses on identifying which enterprise has the power to direct the activities of a variable interest entity that most significantly impact the entity s economic
performance and has the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits from the entity that could be potentially significant to the variable interest entity. The accounting guidance also requires an ongoing reassessment of whether an
enterprise is the primary beneficiary and requires additional disclosures about an enterprise s involvement in variable interest entities. This accounting guidance is effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2011. Upon
adoption, the application of the revised guidance for the consolidation of variable interest entities did not have a material impact to our Consolidated Financial Statements.   
  In June 2009, the FASB issued revised guidance for the accounting of transfers of financial assets. This guidance eliminates the concept of a
qualifying special-purpose entity, removes the scope exception for qualifying special-purpose entities when applying the accounting guidance related to the consolidation of variable interest entities, changes the requirements for derecognizing
financial assets, and requires enhanced disclosure. This accounting guidance is effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2011. Upon adoption, the application of the revised guidance for the accounting of transfers of financial
assets did not have a material impact to our Consolidated Financial Statements.         
   30  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations         
    Liquidity and Capital Resources    
  The following sections discuss the effects of changes in our balance sheet, contractual obligations, other commitments, and the stock repurchase program on our
liquidity and capital resources.       Balance Sheet and Cash Flows    
   Cash and Cash Equivalents and Investments   The following table summarizes our cash and cash equivalents and investments (in millions):   
   
    The increase in
cash and cash equivalents and investments was primarily the result of cash provided by operating activities of $10.2 billion in fiscal 2010, an increase from $9.9 billion in fiscal 2009, as well as the issuance of $5.0 billion of senior notes in
November 2009, and the issuance of common stock of $3.3 billion related to employee stock option exercises and employee stock purchases. These factors were partially offset by the repurchase of common stock of $7.9 billion, business acquisitions
totaling $5.3 billion and capital expenditures of $1.0 billion.      The $276 million increase to cash provided by operating activities in
fiscal 2010 was the net result of a favorable impact to operating cash flows from increased net income and increased deferred revenue, partially offset by the unfavorable impact to operating cash flows from increased accounts receivable.   
  Our total in cash and cash equivalents and investments held outside of the United States in various foreign subsidiaries was $33.2 billion and $29.1
billion, as of July 31, 2010 and July 25, 2009, respectively. The remaining balance held in the United States as of July 31, 2010 and July 25, 2009 was $6.7 billion and $5.9 billion, respectively. Under current tax laws and
regulations, if cash and cash equivalents and investments held outside the United States are distributed to the United States in the form of dividends or otherwise, we may be subject to additional U.S. income taxes (subject to an adjustment for
foreign tax credits) and foreign withholding taxes.      We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. We
classify our investments as short-term investments based on their nature and their availability for use in current operations. We believe the overall credit quality of our portfolio is strong and our fixed income investment portfolio consists
primarily of the highest quality investment-grade securities. We believe that our strong cash and cash equivalents and investments position allows us to use our cash resources for strategic investments to gain access to new technologies,
acquisitions, customer financing activities, working capital, and the repurchase of shares of common stock.      We expect that cash provided
by operating activities may fluctuate in future periods as a result of a number of factors, including fluctuations in our operating results, the rate at which products are shipped during the quarter (which we refer to as shipment linearity), the
timing and collection of accounts receivable and financing receivables, inventory and supply chain management, deferred revenue, excess tax benefits from share-based compensation, and the timing and amount of tax and other payments. For additional
discussion, see  Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors  in our 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K.       Accounts Receivable, Net   The
following table summarizes our accounts receivable, net (in millions), and DSO:       
    Our accounts receivable, net increased during fiscal 2010 due
to our higher revenue in fiscal 2010 as compared with fiscal 2009, and higher days sales outstanding (DSO) in fiscal 2010 as well. Our DSO as of July 31, 2010 increased from the previous fiscal year end due to the timing of product shipments in
the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 as compared with the same period in fiscal 2009, partially offset by stronger collections in the later part of fiscal 2010.         
   2010 Annual Report  31   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations         
    Inventories and Purchase Commitments with Contract Manufacturers and Suppliers   The following
table summarizes our inventories and purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers (in millions, except annualized inventory turns):       
    The increase in our purchase commitments with
contract manufacturers and suppliers reflects our intent to maintain supply chain flexibility in support of anticipated higher business volume and longer term product demand projections in our business. Our view is that in any rapidly shifting
supply and demand environment such as the one we are currently experiencing, shifts in lead times, inventory levels, purchase commitments, and manufacturing outputs will occur. During fiscal 2010 we experienced longer than normal lead times on
several of our products and we continue to see challenges at some of our component suppliers. This was attributable in part to increasing demand driven by the improvement in our overall markets. In addition, similar to what is happening throughout
the industry, the longer than normal lead times also stemmed from supplier constraints based upon their labor and other actions taken during the global economic downturn. While we may continue to experience longer than normal lead times, our lead
times improved on the majority of our products in the second half of fiscal 2010, and at the end of fiscal 2010, product lead times to customers were within a normal range for the majority of our products. We have increased our efforts in procuring
components in order to meet customer expectations which have contributed to an increase in purchase commitments.      Inventories increased
during fiscal 2010 as a result of our response to increased demand and also due to the acquisitions of Tandberg and Starent. Our finished goods consist of distributor inventory and deferred cost of sales and manufactured finished goods. Distributor
inventory and deferred cost of sales are related to unrecognized revenue on shipments to distributors and retail partners as well as shipments to customers. Manufactured finished goods consist primarily of build-to-order and build-to-stock products.
Service-related spares consist of reusable equipment related to our technical support and warranty activities. All inventories are accounted for at the lower of cost or market. Inventory is written down based on excess and obsolete inventories
determined primarily by future demand forecasts. Inventory write-downs are measured as the difference between the cost of the inventory and market, based upon assumptions about future demand, and are charged to the provision for inventory, which is
a component of our cost of sales.      We purchase components from a variety of suppliers and use several contract manufacturers to provide
manufacturing services for our products. During the normal course of business, in order to manage manufacturing lead times and help ensure adequate component supply, we enter into agreements with contract manufacturers and suppliers that allow them
to procure inventory based upon criteria as defined by us or that establish the parameters defining our requirements and our commitment to securing manufacturing capacity. A significant portion of our reported purchase commitments arising from these
agreements are firm, noncancelable, and unconditional commitments. In certain instances, these agreements allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to firm orders being placed. Our
purchase commitments are for short-term product manufacturing requirements as well as for commitments to suppliers to secure manufacturing capacity.   
  We record a liability, included in other current liabilities, for firm, noncancelable, and unconditional purchase commitments for quantities in
excess of our future demand forecasts consistent with the valuation of our excess and obsolete inventory. The purchase commitments for inventory are expected to be primarily fulfilled within one year.   
  Inventory and supply chain management remain areas of focus as we balance the need to maintain supply chain flexibility to help ensure competitive
lead times with the risk of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements. We believe the amount of our inventory and purchase commitments is appropriate for our revenue levels.   
   Financing Receivables and Guarantees   The following table summarizes our financing receivables, financing guarantees, and the related deferred
revenue (in millions):       
       
   32  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations         
     Financing Receivables    We provide financing to certain end-user customers and channel
partners to enable sales of our products, services, and networking solutions. These financing arrangements include leases, financed service contracts, and loans. Arrangements related to leases and loans are generally collateralized by a security
interest in the underlying assets. Lease receivables include sales-type and direct-financing leases. We also provide certain qualified customers financing for long-term service contracts, which primarily relate to technical support services. Our
loan financing arrangements may include not only financing the acquisition of our products and services but also providing additional funds for other costs associated with network installation and integration of our products and services. We expect
to continue to expand the use of our financing programs in the near term.        Financing Guarantees    In the normal course of
business, third parties may provide financing arrangements to our customers and channel partners under financing programs. The financing arrangements to customers provided by third parties are related to leases and loans and typically have terms of
up to three years. In some cases, we provide guarantees to third parties for these lease and loan arrangements. The financing arrangements to channel partners consist of revolving short-term financing provided by third parties, generally with
payment terms ranging from 60 to 90 days. In certain instances, these financing arrangements result in a transfer of our receivables to the third party. The receivables are derecognized upon transfer, as these transfers qualify as true sales, and we
receive payments for the receivables from the third party based on our standard payment terms. These financing arrangements facilitate the working capital requirements of the channel partners and, in some cases, we guarantee a portion of these
arrangements. We could be called upon to make payments under these guarantees in the event of nonpayment by the channel partners or end-user customers. Historically, our payments under such arrangements have been immaterial. Where we provide a
guarantee, we defer the revenue associated with the channel partner and end-user financing arrangement in accordance with revenue recognition policies, or we record a liability for the fair value of the guarantees. In either case, the deferred
revenue is recognized as revenue when the guarantee is removed.        Deferred Revenue Related to Financing Receivables and
Guarantees    The majority of the deferred revenue in the preceding table is related to financed service contracts. The revenue related to financed service contracts, which primarily relates to technical support services, is deferred
and included in deferred service revenue. The revenue related to financed service contracts is recognized ratably over the period during which the related services are to be performed. A portion of the revenue related to lease and loan receivables
is also deferred and included in deferred product revenue based on revenue recognition criteria.       Borrowings    
    Senior Notes    The following table summarizes the principal amount of our senior notes (in millions):   
   
    In November
2009, we issued senior unsecured notes in an aggregate principal amount of $5.0 billion. Of these notes, $500 million will mature in 2014 and bear interest at a fixed rate of 2.90% per annum (the  2014 Notes ), $2.5 billion will
mature in 2020 and bear interest at a fixed rate of 4.45% per annum (the  2020 Notes ), and $2.0 billion will mature in 2040 and bear interest at a fixed rate of 5.50% per annum (the  2040 Notes ), as reflected in the
preceding table. To achieve our interest rate risk management objectives we entered into $1.5 billion notional amount interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges of a portion of the 2016 Notes.   
  Interest is payable semi-annually on each class of the senior fixed-rate notes, each of which is redeemable by us at any time, subject to a
make-whole premium. We were in compliance with all debt covenants as of July 31, 2010.        Other Notes and Borrowings    Other
notes and borrowings include notes and credit facilities with a number of financial institutions that are available to certain of our foreign subsidiaries. The amount of borrowings outstanding under these arrangements was $59 million and $2 million
as of July 31, 2010 and July 25, 2009, respectively.        Credit Facility    We have a credit agreement with certain
institutional lenders that provides for a $3.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility that is scheduled to expire on August 17, 2012. Any advances under the credit agreement will accrue interest at rates that are equal to, based on certain
conditions, either (i) the higher of the Federal Funds rate plus 0.50% or Bank of America s  prime         
   2010 Annual Report  33   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations         
   
rate  as announced from time to time, or (ii) the London Interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ) plus a margin that is based on our senior debt credit ratings as published by
Standard   Poor s Ratings Services and Moody s Investors Service, Inc. The credit agreement requires that we comply with certain covenants including that we maintain an interest coverage ratio as defined in the agreement.
     We may also, upon the agreement of either the then-existing lenders or of additional lenders not currently parties to the agreement,
increase the commitments under the credit facility by up to an additional $1.9 billion and/or extend the expiration date of the credit facility up to August 15, 2014. As of July 31, 2010, we were in compliance with the required interest
coverage ratio and the other covenants, and we had not borrowed any funds under the credit facility.       Deferred Revenue    
  The following table presents the breakdown of deferred revenue (in millions):       
    The
increase in deferred service revenue reflects the impact of new contract initiations and renewals, partially offset by an ongoing amortization of deferred service revenue. The increase in deferred product revenue was primarily related to the timing
of cash receipts related to unrecognized revenue from two-tier distributors and an increase in shipments not having met revenue recognition criteria as of July 31, 2010.   
   Contractual Obligations       The impact of contractual
obligations on our liquidity and capital resources in future periods should be analyzed in conjunction with the factors that impact our cash flows from operations discussed previously. In addition, we plan for and measure our liquidity and capital
resources through an annual budgeting process. The following table summarizes our contractual obligations at July 31, 2010 (in millions):       
      Operating Leases      We lease office space in several U.S. locations. Outside the United States,
larger leased sites are located in Australia, Belgium, China, Germany, India, Israel, Italy, Japan, Norway, and the United Kingdom. We also lease equipment and vehicles. Operating lease amounts include future minimum lease payments under all our
noncancelable operating leases with an initial term in excess of one year.        Purchase Commitments with Contract Manufacturers and
Suppliers    We purchase components from a variety of suppliers and use several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products. A significant portion of our reported estimated purchase commitments arising
from these agreements are firm, noncancelable, and unconditional commitments. We record a liability for firm, noncancelable, and unconditional purchase commitments for quantities in excess of our future demand forecasts consistent with the valuation
of our excess and obsolete inventory. See further discussion in  Inventories and Purchase Commitments with Contract Manufacturers and Suppliers.  As of July 31, 2010, the liability for these purchase commitments was $135 million and
is recorded in other current liabilities and is not included in the preceding table.        Purchase Obligations    Purchase obligations
represent an estimate of all open purchase orders and contractual obligations in the ordinary course of business, other than commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers, for which we have not received the goods or services. Although open
purchase orders are considered enforceable and legally binding, the terms generally allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to the delivery of goods or performance of services.
        
   34  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations         
     Long-Term Debt    The amount of long-term debt in the preceding table represents the
principal amount of the respective debt instruments. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.        Other Long-Term
Liabilities    Other long-term liabilities include noncurrent income taxes payable, accrued liabilities for deferred compensation, noncurrent deferred tax liabilities, and certain other long-term liabilities. Due to the uncertainty
in the timing of future payments, our noncurrent income taxes payable of approximately $1.4 billion and noncurrent deferred tax liabilities of $276 million were presented as one aggregated amount in the total column on a separate line in the
preceding table. Noncurrent income taxes payable includes uncertain tax positions (see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements) partially offset by payments.   
   Other Commitments       In connection with our business
combinations and asset purchases, we have agreed to pay certain additional amounts contingent upon the achievement of agreed-upon technology, development, product, or other milestones, or continued employment with us of certain employees of acquired
entities. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.      We also have certain funding commitments primarily related to our
investments in privately held companies and venture funds, some of which are based on the achievement of certain agreed-upon milestones, and some of which are required to be funded on demand. The funding commitments were $279 million as of
July 31, 2010, compared with $313 million as of July 25, 2009.       Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements    
  We consider our investments in unconsolidated variable interest entities to be off-balance sheet arrangements. In the ordinary course of business, we have
investments in privately held companies and provide financing to certain customers. These privately held companies and customers may be considered to be variable interest entities. We have evaluated our investments in these privately held companies
and our customer financings and have determined that there were no significant unconsolidated variable interest entities as of July 31, 2010.   
  On an ongoing basis, we reassess our investments in privately held companies and customer financings to determine if they are variable interest
entities and if we would be regarded as the primary beneficiary. As a result of this ongoing assessment, we may be required to make additional disclosures or consolidate these entities. Because we may not control these entities, we may not have the
ability to influence these events.      We provide financing guarantees, which are generally for various third-party financing arrangements
extended to our channel partners and end-user customers. We could be called upon to make payments under these guarantees in the event of nonpayment by the channel partners or end-user customers. See the previous discussion of these financing
guarantees under  Financing Receivables and Guarantees.        Stock Repurchase Program    
  In September 2001, our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program. As of July 31, 2010, our Board of Directors had authorized an aggregate
repurchase of up to $72 billion of common stock under this program, and as of July 31, 2010 the remaining authorized repurchase amount was $7.0 billion with no termination date. A summary of the stock repurchase activity under the stock
repurchase program, reported based on the trade date, is summarized as follows (in millions, except per-share amounts):       
 
   Liquidity and Capital Resource Requirements       Based on past
performance and current expectations, we believe our cash and cash equivalents, investments; cash generated from operations; our ability to access capital markets, such as our issuance of $5.0 billion of senior notes in November 2009; and committed
credit lines will satisfy our working capital needs, capital expenditures, investment requirements, stock repurchases, contractual obligations, commitments, principal payments on debt, future customer financings, and other liquidity requirements
associated with our operations through at least the next 12 months. We intend to begin paying a cash dividend on our common stock during fiscal 2011. There are no other transactions, arrangements, or other relationships with unconsolidated entities
or other persons that are reasonably likely to materially affect liquidity, the availability, and our requirements for capital resources.         
   2010 Annual Report  35   

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   
        Our financial position is exposed to a variety of risks including interest rate risk,
equity price risk, and foreign currency exchange risk.       Interest Rate Risk    
   Fixed Income Securities       We maintain an investment portfolio
of various holdings, types, and maturities. Our primary objective for holding fixed income securities is to achieve an appropriate investment return consistent with preserving principal and managing risk. At any time, a sharp rise in market interest
rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our fixed income investment portfolio. Conversely, declines in interest rates, including the impact from lower credit spreads, could have a material adverse impact on interest income
for our investment portfolio. We may utilize derivative instruments designated as hedging instruments to achieve our investment objectives. We had no outstanding hedging instruments for our fixed income securities as of July 31, 2010. Our fixed
income instruments are held for purposes other than trading. Our fixed income instruments are not leveraged as of July 31, 2010. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We monitor our interest rate and credit risks, including our
credit exposures to specific rating categories and to individual issuers. We believe the overall credit quality of our portfolio is strong.   
  The following tables present the hypothetical fair values of our fixed income securities, including the hedging effects when applicable, as a result
of selected potential market decreases and increases in interest rates. The market changes reflect immediate hypothetical parallel shifts in the yield curve of plus or minus 50 basis points ( BPS ), plus 100 BPS, and plus 150 BPS. Due to
the low interest rate environment at the ends of each of fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009, we did not believe a parallel of shift of minus 100 BPS or minus 150 BPS was relevant. The hypothetical fair values as of July 31, 2010 and July 25, 2009
are as follows (in millions):       
    There were no impairment charges on our
investments in fixed income securities for fiscal 2010. For fiscal 2009 we had impairment charges of $219 million on investments in fixed income securities, and for fiscal 2008 there were no such impairment charges.   
   Debt       As of July 31, 2010, we had $15.0 billion in
principal amount of fixed-rate senior notes outstanding, with a carrying amount of $15.2 billion and a fair value of $16.3 billion, which fair value is based on market prices. As of July 31, 2010, a hypothetical 50 BPS increase or decrease
in market interest rates would change the fair value of the fixed-rate debt, excluding the $1.5 billion of hedged debt, by a decrease of approximately $500 million and an increase of approximately $650 million, respectively. However, this
hypothetical change in interest rates would not impact the interest expense on the fixed-rate debt.       Equity Price Risk
      The fair value of our equity investments in publicly traded companies is subject to market price volatility. We may hold equity securities for
strategic purposes or to diversify our overall investment portfolio. Our equity portfolio consists of securities with characteristics that most closely match the Standard   Poor s 500 Index or NASDAQ Composite Index. These equity
securities are held for purposes other than trading. To manage our exposure to changes in the fair value of certain equity securities, we may enter into equity derivatives designated as hedging instruments.   
     
   36  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   
     
    Publicly Traded Equity Securities    
  The following tables present the hypothetical fair values of publicly traded equity securities as a result of selected potential decreases and increases in the
price of each equity security in the portfolio, excluding hedged equity securities, if any. Potential fluctuations in the price of each equity security in the portfolio of plus or minus 10%, 20%, and 30% were selected based on potential near-term
changes in those security prices. The hypothetical fair values as of July 31, 2010 and July 25, 2009 are as follows (in millions):       
    There were no impairment charges on our investments in
publicly traded equity securities in fiscal 2010. For fiscal 2009 impairment charges on our investments in publicly traded equity securities were $39 million, and there were no impairment charges on our investments in publicly traded equity
securities in fiscal 2008.       Investments in Privately Held Companies    
  We have also invested in privately held companies. These investments are recorded in other assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheets and are accounted for using
either the cost or the equity method. As of July 31, 2010, the total carrying amount of our investments in privately held companies was $756 million, compared with $709 million at July 25, 2009. Some of the privately held companies in
which we invested are in the startup or development stages. These investments are inherently risky because the markets for the technologies or products these companies are developing are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. We
could lose our entire investment in these companies. Our evaluation of investments in privately held companies is based on the fundamentals of the businesses, including, among other factors, the nature of their technologies and potential for
financial return. Our impairment charges on investments in privately held companies were $25 million, $85 million, and $12 million for fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.   
   Foreign Currency Exchange Risk       Our foreign
exchange forward and option contracts are summarized as follows (in millions):       
    We conduct business globally in numerous currencies. The direct
effect of foreign currency fluctuations on sales has not been material because our sales are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars. However, if the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to other currencies, such strengthening could have an indirect
effect on our sales to the extent it raises the cost of our products to non-U.S. customers and thereby reduces demand. A weaker U.S. dollar could have the opposite effect. However, the precise indirect effect of currency fluctuations is difficult to
measure or predict because our sales are influenced by many factors in addition to the impact of such currency fluctuations.         
   2010 Annual Report  37   

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   
     
   Approximately 70% of our operating expenses are U.S.-dollar denominated. Foreign currency
fluctuations, net of hedging, increased our operating expenses, categorized as research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative, by approximately 0.2% in fiscal 2010 compared with fiscal 2009 and decreased our operating
expenses by approximately 1.8% in fiscal 2009 compared with fiscal 2008. To reduce variability in operating expenses and service cost of sales caused by non-U.S.-dollar denominated operating expenses and costs, we hedge certain foreign currency
forecasted transactions with currency options and forward contracts. These hedging programs are not designed to provide foreign currency protection over long time horizons. In designing a specific hedging approach, we consider several factors,
including offsetting exposures, significance of exposures, costs associated with entering into a particular hedge instrument, and potential effectiveness of the hedge. The gains and losses on foreign exchange contracts mitigate the effect of
currency movements on our operating expenses and service cost of sales.      We also enter into foreign exchange forward and option contracts
to reduce the short-term effects of foreign currency fluctuations on receivables, investments, and payables, denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of the entities. The market risks associated with these foreign currency
receivables, investments, and payables relate primarily to variances from our forecasted foreign currency transactions and balances. Our forward and option contracts generally have the following maturities:   

Maturities   
 
    Forward and option contracts forecasted transactions related to operating expenses and service cost of sales   
      
  Up to 18 months   
 
    Forward contracts current assets and liabilities   
      
  Up to 3 months   
 
    Forward contracts net investments in foreign subsidiaries   
      
  Up to 6 months   
 
    Forward contracts long-term customer financings   
      
  Up to 2 years   
 
    Forward contracts investments   
      
  Up to 2 years       We do not enter into foreign exchange forward or
option contracts for trading purposes.         
   38  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Consolidated Balance Sheets   
  (in millions, except par value)         
 
  See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   
     
   2010 Annual Report  39   

Consolidated Statements of Operations   
  (in millions, except per-share amounts)         
 
  See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   
     
   40  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows   
  (in millions)         
    See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
        
   2010 Annual Report  41   

Consolidated Statements of Equity   
  (in millions)         

Supplemental Information       In September 2001, the
Company s Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program. As of July 31, 2010, the Company s Board of Directors had authorized an aggregate repurchase of up to $72 billion of common stock under this program with no
termination date. For additional information regarding stock repurchases, see Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The stock repurchases since the inception of this program and the related impacts on Cisco shareholders  equity are
summarized in the following table (in millions):      
    See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
        
   42  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
         1. Basis of Presentation    
  The fiscal year for Cisco Systems, Inc. (the  Company  or  Cisco ) is the 52 or 53 weeks ending on the last Saturday in July. Fiscal 2010 was a
53-week fiscal year, while fiscal 2009 and 2008 were 52-week fiscal years. The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Cisco and its subsidiaries. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. The
Company conducts business globally and is primarily managed on a geographic basis in the following theaters: United States and Canada, European Markets, Emerging Markets, Asia Pacific, and Japan. The Emerging Markets theater consists of Eastern
Europe, Latin America, the Middle East and Africa, and Russia and the Commonwealth of Independent States.      The Company consolidates its
investment in a venture fund managed by SOFTBANK Corp. and its affiliates ( SOFTBANK ) as the Company is the primary beneficiary. The noncontrolling interests attributed to SOFTBANK are presented as a separate component from the
Company s equity in the equity section of the Consolidated Balance Sheets. SOFTBANK s share of the earnings in the venture fund is not presented separately in the Consolidated Statements of Operations and is included in other income
(loss), net, as this amount is not material for any of the fiscal years presented.      Certain reclassifications have been made to amounts
for prior years in order to conform to the current year s presentation. The Company has evaluated subsequent events through the date that the financial statements were issued.   
   2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies    
   (a) Cash and Cash Equivalents   The Company considers all highly liquid investments purchased with an original or remaining maturity of less than
three months at the date of purchase to be cash equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents are maintained with various financial institutions.       (b)
Available-for-Sale Investments   The Company classifies its investments in both fixed income securities and publicly traded equity securities as available-for-sale investments. Fixed income securities primarily consist of U.S.
government securities, U.S. agency securities, non-U.S. government and agency securities, corporate debt securities, and asset-backed securities. These available-for-sale investments are held in the custody of several major financial institutions.
The specific identification method is used to determine the cost basis of fixed income securities sold. The weighted-average method is used to determine the cost basis of publicly traded equity securities sold. These investments are recorded in the
Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses on these investments, to the extent the investments are unhedged, are included as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI), net of tax. The Company
classifies its investments as current based on the nature of the investments and their availability for use in current operations.       (c)
Other-than-Temporary Impairments on Investments   Effective at the beginning of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, the Company was required to evaluate its fixed income securities for impairments in connection with an updated accounting
standard. Under this updated standard, if the fair value of a debt security is less than its amortized cost, the Company assesses whether the impairment is other than temporary. An impairment is considered other than temporary if (i) the
Company has the intent to sell the security, (ii) it is more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell the security before recovery of the entire amortized cost basis, or (iii) the Company does not expect to recover the
entire amortized cost basis of the security. If impairment is considered other than temporary based on condition (i) or (ii) described above, the entire difference between the amortized cost and the fair value of the debt security is
recognized in earnings. If an impairment is considered other than temporary based on condition (iii), the amount representing credit losses (defined as the difference between the present value of the cash flows expected to be collected and the
amortized cost basis of the debt security) will be recognized in earnings and the amount relating to all other factors will be recognized in OCI. Upon the adoption of the updated accounting standard, the Company recorded a cumulative effect
adjustment of $49 million, which resulted in an increase to the balance of retained earnings with a corresponding decrease to OCI. Prior to the adoption of this accounting standard, the Company recognized impairment charges on fixed income
securities using the impairment policy as is currently applied to publicly traded equity securities, as discussed below.      The Company
recognizes an impairment charge on publicly traded equity securities when a decline in the fair value of its investments in publicly traded equity securities below the cost basis is judged to be other than temporary. The Company considers various
factors in determining whether a decline in the fair value of these investments is other than temporary, including the length of time and extent to which the fair value of the security has been less than the Company s cost basis, the financial
condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, and the Company s intent and ability to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value.   
  Investments in privately held companies are included in other assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and are primarily accounted for using either
the cost or equity method. The Company monitors these investments for impairments and makes appropriate reductions in carrying values if the Company determines that an impairment charge is required based primarily on the financial condition and
near-term prospects of these companies.         
   2010 Annual Report  43   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
     
    (d) Inventories   Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost is computed using
standard cost, which approximates actual cost, on a first-in, first-out basis. The Company provides inventory write-downs based on excess and obsolete inventories determined primarily by future demand forecasts. The write-down is measured as the
difference between the cost of the inventory and market based upon assumptions about future demand and charged to the provision for inventory, which is a component of cost of sales. At the point of the loss recognition, a new, lower cost basis for
that inventory is established, and subsequent changes in facts and circumstances do not result in the restoration or increase in that newly established cost basis. In addition, the Company records a liability for firm, noncancelable, and
unconditional purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers for quantities in excess of the Company s future demand forecasts consistent with its valuation of excess and obsolete inventory.   
   (e) Allowance for Doubtful Accounts   The allowance for doubtful accounts is based on the Company s assessment of the collectibility of
customer accounts. The Company regularly reviews the allowance by considering factors such as historical experience, credit quality, age of the accounts receivable balances, and economic conditions that may affect a customer s ability to pay.
      (f) Financing Receivables and Guarantees   The Company provides financing arrangements, including leases, financed service contracts,
and loans, for certain qualified end-user customers to build, maintain, and upgrade their networks. Lease receivables primarily represent sales-type and direct-financing leases. Leases and loans have on average a three-year term and are usually
collateralized by a security interest in the underlying assets. Financed service contracts also typically have terms of one to three years and primarily relate to technical support services. The Company maintains an allowance for uncollectible
financing receivables based on a variety of factors, including the risk rating of the portfolio, macroeconomic conditions, historical experience, and other market factors.   
  In addition, the Company facilitates third-party financing arrangements for channel partners, consisting of revolving short-term financing,
generally with payment terms ranging from 60 to 90 days. In certain instances, these financing arrangements result in a transfer of the Company s receivables to the third party. The receivables are derecognized upon transfer, as these transfers
qualify as true sales, and the Company receives a payment for the receivables from the third party based on the Company s standard payment terms. These financing arrangements facilitate the working capital requirements of the channel partners
and, in some cases, the Company guarantees a portion of these arrangements. The Company also provides financing guarantees for third-party financing arrangements extended to end-user customers related to leases and loans, which typically have terms
of up to three years. The Company could be called upon to make payments under these guarantees in the event of nonpayment by the channel partners or end-user customers. Deferred revenue relating to these financing arrangements is recorded in
accordance with revenue recognition policies or for the fair value of the financing guarantees.       (g) Depreciation and
Amortization   Property and equipment are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation or amortization, whenever applicable. Depreciation and amortization are computed using the straight-line method, generally over the following
periods:       

Period   
 
    Buildings   
      
  25 years   
 
    Building improvements   
      
  10 years   
 
    Furniture and fixtures   
      
  5 years   
 
    Leasehold improvements   
      
  Shorter of remaining lease term or 5 years   
 
    Computer equipment and related software   
      
  30 to 36 months   
 
    Production, engineering, and other equipment   
      
  Up to 5 years   
 
    Operating lease assets   
      
  Based on lease term generally up to 3 years        (h) Business
Combinations   Upon adoption of the revised accounting guidance for business combinations in the first quarter of fiscal 2010, the Company has applied the expanded definition of  business  and  business combination 
as prescribed by the revised accounting guidance. Other significant changes in connection with the revised accounting guidance include (i) the recognition of assets acquired, liabilities assumed and noncontrolling interests (including goodwill)
measured at fair value at the acquisition date with subsequent changes to the fair value of such assets acquired and liabilities assumed recognized in earnings after the expiration of the measurement period, a period not to exceed 12 months from the
acquisition date; (ii) the recognition of acquisition-related expenses and acquisition-related restructuring costs in earnings; and (iii) the capitalization of in-process research and development (IPR D) at fair value as an
indefinite-lived intangible asset that will be assessed for impairment thereafter. Upon completion of development, the underlying R D intangible asset will be amortized over its estimated useful life.   
     
   44  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
     
    (i) Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets   Goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual
basis in the fourth fiscal quarter and, when specific circumstances dictate, between annual tests. When impaired, the carrying value of goodwill is written down to fair value. The goodwill impairment test involves a two-step process. The first step,
identifying a potential impairment, compares the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step would need to be conducted; otherwise,
no further steps are necessary as no potential impairment exists. The second step, measuring the impairment loss, compares the implied fair value of the reporting unit goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. Any excess of the reporting
unit goodwill carrying value over the respective implied fair value is recognized as an impairment loss. There was no impairment of goodwill identified in fiscal 2010, 2009, or 2008. Purchased intangible assets with finite lives are carried at cost,
less accumulated amortization. Amortization is computed over the estimated useful lives of the respective assets, generally two to seven years. See below related to the impairment test for purchased intangible assets with finite lives. Purchased
intangible assets with indefinite lives are assessed for potential impairment annually or when events or circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts might be impaired.   
   (j) Long-Lived Assets   Long-lived assets that are held and used by the Company are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable. Determination of recoverability of long-lived assets is based on an estimate of the undiscounted future cash flows resulting from the use of the asset and its
eventual disposition. Measurement of an impairment loss for long-lived assets that management expects to hold and use is based on the difference between the fair value of the asset and its carrying value. Long-lived assets to be disposed of are
reported at the lower of carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell.       (k) Derivative Instruments   The Company recognizes
derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities and measures those instruments at fair value. The accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative depends on the intended use of the derivative and the resulting designation. For a
derivative instrument designated as a fair value hedge, the gain or loss is recognized in earnings in the period of change together with the offsetting loss or gain on the hedged item attributed to the risk being hedged. For a derivative instrument
designated as a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the derivative s gain or loss is initially reported as a component of AOCI and subsequently reclassified into earnings when the hedged exposure affects earnings. The ineffective portion
of the gain or loss is reported in earnings immediately. For derivative instruments that are not designated as accounting hedges, changes in fair value are recognized in earnings in the period of change. The Company records derivative instruments in
the statements of cash flows to operating, investing or financing activities consistent with the cash flows of the hedged item.       (l) Foreign Currency
Translation   Assets and liabilities of non-U.S. subsidiaries that operate in a local currency environment, where that local currency is the functional currency, are translated to U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect at the balance
sheet date, with the resulting translation adjustments directly recorded to a separate component of AOCI. Income and expense accounts are translated at average exchange rates during the year. Remeasurement adjustments are recorded in other income
(loss), net. The effect of foreign currency exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents was not material for any of the years presented.       (m)
Concentrations of Risk   Cash and cash equivalents are maintained with several financial institutions. Deposits held with banks may exceed the amount of insurance provided on such deposits. Generally, these deposits may be redeemed upon
demand and are maintained with financial institutions with reputable credit and therefore bear minimal credit risk. The Company seeks to mitigate its credit risks by spreading such risks across multiple counterparties and monitoring the risk
profiles of these counterparties.      The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers and, with the exception of certain
financing transactions, does not require collateral from its customers. The Company receives certain of its components from sole suppliers. Additionally, the Company relies on a limited number of contract manufacturers and suppliers to provide
manufacturing services for its products. The inability of a contract manufacturer or supplier to fulfill supply requirements of the Company could materially impact future operating results.   
   (n) Revenue Recognition   The Company recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the fee is fixed
or determinable, and collectibility is reasonably assured. In instances where final acceptance of the product, system, or solution is specified by the customer, revenue is deferred until all acceptance criteria have been met. For hosting
arrangements, the Company recognizes revenue based on customer utilization. Technical support services revenue is deferred and recognized ratably over the period during which the services are to be performed, which is typically from one to three
years. Advanced services revenue is recognized upon delivery or completion of performance.      The Company uses distributors that stock
inventory and typically sell to systems integrators, service providers, and other resellers. In addition, certain products are sold through retail partners. The Company refers to this as its two-tier system of sales to the end customer. Revenue from
distributors and retail partners generally is recognized based on a sell-through method using         
   2010 Annual Report  45   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

information provided by them. Distributors and retail partners participate in various cooperative marketing and other programs, and the Company maintains estimated accruals and allowances for
these programs. The Company accrues for warranty costs, sales returns, and other allowances based on its historical experience. Shipping and handling fees billed to customers are included in net sales, with the associated costs included in cost of
sales.      In October 2009, the FASB amended the accounting standards for revenue recognition to remove from the scope of industry-specific
software revenue recognition guidance tangible products containing software components and nonsoftware components that function together to deliver the product s essential functionality. In October 2009, the FASB also amended the accounting
standards for multiple-deliverable revenue arrangements to:       

(i)  
  provide updated guidance on whether multiple deliverables exist, how the deliverables in an arrangement should be separated, and how consideration should be allocated;

(ii)  
  require an entity to allocate revenue in an arrangement using estimated selling prices (ESP) of deliverables if a vendor does not have vendor-specific objective evidence of
selling price (VSOE) or third-party evidence of selling price (TPE); and         

(iii)  
  eliminate the use of the residual method and require an entity to allocate revenue using the relative selling price method.     
  The Company elected to early adopt this accounting guidance at the beginning of its first quarter of fiscal 2010 on a prospective basis for applicable transactions
originating or materially modified after July 25, 2009. This guidance does not generally change the units of accounting for the Company s revenue transactions. Most products and services qualify as separate units of accounting and the
revenue is recognized when the applicable revenue recognition criteria are met. The Company s arrangements generally do not include any provisions for cancellation, termination, or refunds that would significantly impact recognized revenue.
     Many of the Company s products have both software and nonsoftware components that function together to deliver the products 
essential functionality. The Company s product offerings fall into the following categories: routing, switching, advanced technologies, and other products, the last of which includes emerging technologies items. The Company also provides
technical support and advanced services. The Company has a broad customer base that encompasses virtually all types of public and private entities, including enterprise businesses, service providers, commercial customers, and consumers. The Company
and its salesforce are not organized by product divisions and the Company s products and services can be sold standalone or together in various combinations across the Company s geographic segments or customer markets. For example, service
provider arrangements are typically larger in scale with longer deployment schedules and involve the delivery of a variety of product technologies, including high-end routing, video and network management software, among others, along with technical
support and advanced services. The Company s enterprise and commercial arrangements are typically unique for each customer and smaller in scale and may include network infrastructure products such as routers and switches or collaboration
technologies such as unified communications and Cisco TelePresence systems products along with technical support services. Consumer products, including Linksys wireless routers and Pure Digital video recorders, are sold in standalone arrangements
directly to distributors and retailers without support, as customers generally only require repair or replacement of defective products or parts under warranty.   
  The Company enters into revenue arrangements that may consist of multiple deliverables of its product and service offerings due to the needs of its
customers. For example, a customer may purchase routing products along with a contract for technical support services. This arrangement would consist of multiple elements, with the products delivered in one reporting period and the technical support
services delivered across multiple reporting periods. Another customer may purchase networking products along with advanced service offerings, in which all the elements are delivered within the same reporting period. In addition, distributors and
retail partners purchase products or technical support services on a standalone basis for resale to an end user or for purposes of stocking certain products, and these transactions would not result in a multiple element arrangement. For transactions
entered into prior to the first quarter of fiscal 2010, the Company primarily recognized revenue based on software revenue recognition guidance. For the vast majority of the Company s arrangements involving multiple deliverables, such as sales
of products with services, the entire fee from the arrangement was allocated to each respective element based on its relative selling price, using VSOE. In the limited circumstances when the Company was not able to determine VSOE for all of the
deliverables of the arrangement, but was able to obtain VSOE for any undelivered elements, revenue was allocated using the residual method. Under the residual method, the amount of revenue allocated to delivered elements equaled the total
arrangement consideration less the aggregate selling price of any undelivered elements, and no revenue was recognized until all elements without VSOE had been delivered. If VSOE of any undelivered items did not exist, revenue from the entire
arrangement was initially deferred and recognized at the earlier of (i) delivery of those elements for which VSOE did not exist or (ii) when VSOE could be established. However, in limited cases where technical support services were the
only undelivered element without VSOE, the entire arrangement fee was recognized ratably as a single unit of accounting over the technical services contractual period. The residual and ratable revenue recognition methods were generally used in a
limited number of arrangements containing advanced and emerging technologies, such as Cisco TelePresence systems products. Several of these technologies are sold as solution offerings, whereas products or services are not sold on a standalone basis.
        
   46  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
     
   In many instances, products are sold separately in standalone arrangements as customers may
support the products themselves or purchase support on a time-and-materials basis. Advanced services are sometimes sold in standalone engagements such as general consulting, network management, or security advisory projects and technical support
services are sold separately through renewals of annual contracts. As a result, for substantially all of the arrangements with multiple deliverables pertaining to routing and switching products and related services, as well as most arrangements
containing advanced and emerging technologies, the Company has used and intends to continue using VSOE to allocate the selling price to each deliverable. Consistent with its methodology under previous accounting guidance, the Company determines VSOE
based on its normal pricing and discounting practices for the specific product or service when sold separately. In determining VSOE, the Company requires that a substantial majority of the selling prices for a product or service fall within a
reasonably narrow pricing range, generally evidenced by approximately 80% of such historical standalone transactions falling within plus or minus 15% of the median rates. In addition, the Company considers the geographies in which the products or
services are sold, major product and service groups and customer classifications, and other environmental or marketing variables in determining VSOE.   
  In certain limited instances, the Company is not able to establish VSOE for all deliverables in an arrangement with multiple elements. This may be
due to the Company infrequently selling each element separately, not pricing products within a narrow range, or only having a limited sales history, such as in the case of certain advanced and emerging technologies. When VSOE cannot be established,
the Company attempts to establish selling price of each element based on TPE. TPE is determined based on competitor prices for similar deliverables when sold separately. Generally, the Company s go-to-market strategy typically differs from that
of its peers and its offerings contain a significant level of customization and differentiation such that the comparable pricing of products with similar functionality cannot be obtained. Furthermore, the Company is unable to reliably determine what
similar competitor products  selling prices are on a standalone basis. Therefore, the Company is typically not able to determine TPE.   
  When the Company is unable to establish selling price using VSOE or TPE, the Company uses ESP in its allocation of arrangement consideration. The
objective of ESP is to determine the price at which the Company would transact a sale if the product or service were sold on a standalone basis. ESP is generally used for new or highly customized offerings and solutions or offerings not priced
within a narrow range, and it applies to a small proportion of the Company s arrangements with multiple deliverables.      The Company
determines ESP for a product or service by considering multiple factors, including, but not limited to, geographies, market conditions, competitive landscape, internal costs, gross margin objectives, and pricing practices. The determination of ESP
is made through consultation with and formal approval by the Company s management, taking into consideration the go-to-market strategy.   
  The Company regularly reviews VSOE, TPE, and ESP and maintains internal controls over the establishment and updates of these estimates. There were
no material impacts during the fiscal year nor does the Company currently expect a material impact in the near term from changes in VSOE, TPE, or ESP.   
  Net sales as reported for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2010, and the Company s estimate of the pro forma net sales that would have been
reported if the transaction entered into or materially modified during fiscal 2010 were subject to previous accounting guidance, are shown in the following table (in millions):  
   
    The estimated impact to net sales of the
accounting standard was primarily to net product sales.      The new accounting standards for revenue recognition if applied in the same
manner to the year ended July 25, 2009 would not have had a material impact on net sales for that fiscal year. In terms of the timing and pattern of revenue recognition, the new accounting guidance for revenue recognition is not expected to
have a significant effect on net sales in periods after the initial adoption when applied to multiple-element arrangements based on current go-to-market strategies due to the existence of VSOE across most of the Company s product and service
offerings. However, the Company expects that this new accounting guidance will facilitate the Company s efforts to optimize its offerings due to better alignment between the economics of an arrangement and the accounting. This may lead to the
Company engaging in new go-to-market practices in the future. In particular, the Company expects that the new accounting standards will enable it to better integrate products and services without VSOE into existing offerings and solutions. As these
go-to-market strategies evolve, the Company may modify its pricing practices in the future, which could result in changes in selling prices, including both VSOE and ESP. As a result, the Company s future revenue recognition for multiple-element
arrangements could differ materially from the results in the current period. The Company is currently unable to determine the impact that the newly adopted accounting guidance could have on its revenue as these go-to-market strategies evolve.
        
   2010 Annual Report  47   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
     
   The Company s arrangements with multiple deliverables may have a standalone software
deliverable that is subject to the existing software revenue recognition guidance. The revenue for these multiple-element arrangements is allocated to the software deliverable and the nonsoftware deliverables based on the relative selling prices of
all of the deliverables in the arrangement using the hierarchy in the new revenue accounting guidance. In the limited circumstances where the Company cannot determine VSOE or TPE of the selling price for all of the deliverables in the arrangement,
including the software deliverable, ESP is used for the purposes of performing this allocation.       (o) Advertising Costs   The Company
expenses all advertising costs as incurred. Advertising costs included within sales and marketing expenses were approximately $290 million, $165 million, and $195 million for fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.   
   (p) Share-Based Compensation Expense   The Company measures and recognizes the compensation expense for all share-based awards made to employees
and directors including employee stock options and employee stock purchases related to the Employee Stock Purchase Plan ( employee stock purchase rights ) based on estimated fair values. The fair value of employee stock options is
estimated on the date of grant using a lattice-binomial option-pricing model ( lattice-binomial model ) and for employee stock purchase rights the Company estimates the fair value using the Black-Scholes model. The Company measures the
fair value of restricted stock and restricted stock units as if the awards were vested and issued on the grant date. The value of awards that are ultimately expected to vest is recognized as expense over the requisite service periods. Because
share-based compensation expense is based on awards ultimately expected to vest, it has been reduced for forfeitures.       (q) Software Development
Costs   Software development costs required to be capitalized for software sold, leased, or otherwise marketed have not been material to date. Software development costs required to be capitalized for internal use software have also not
been material to date.       (r) Income Taxes   Income tax expense is based on pretax financial accounting income. Deferred tax assets and
liabilities are recognized for the expected tax consequences of temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts. Valuation allowances are recorded to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that will
more likely than not be realized.      The Company accounts for uncertainty in income taxes using a two-step approach to recognizing and
measuring uncertain tax positions. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including
resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely of being realized upon settlement. The Company classifies the liability for unrecognized
tax benefits as current to the extent that the Company anticipates payment (or receipt) of cash within one year. Interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions are recognized in the provision for income taxes.   
   (s) Computation of Net Income per Share   Basic net income per share is computed using the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding
during the period. Diluted net income per share is computed using the weighted-average number of common shares and dilutive potential common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted shares outstanding include the dilutive effect of in-the-money
options, unvested restricted stock, and restricted stock units. The dilutive effect of such equity awards is calculated based on the average share price for each fiscal period using the treasury stock method. Under the treasury stock method, the
amount the employee must pay for exercising stock options, the amount of compensation cost for future service that the Company has not yet recognized, and the amount of tax benefits that would be recorded in additional paid-in capital when the award
becomes deductible, are collectively assumed to be used to repurchase shares.       (t) Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities   In the
event that the Company is the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity, the assets, liabilities, and results of operations of the variable interest entity will be included in the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements.   
     
   48  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
     
    (u) Use of Estimates   The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes. Estimates are used
for the following, among others:       

Revenue recognition      

Allowances for receivables and sales returns      

Inventory valuation and liability for purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers      

Warranty costs      

Share-based compensation expense      

Fair value measurements and other-than-temporary impairments      

Goodwill and purchased intangible asset impairments      

Income taxes      

Loss contingencies         The actual results
experienced by the Company may differ materially from management s estimates.       (v) Recent Accounting Standards or Updates   In June
2009, the FASB issued revised guidance for the consolidation of variable interest entities. In February 2010, the FASB issued amendments to the consolidation requirements, exempting certain investment funds from the June 2009 guidance for the
consolidation of variable interest entities. The June 2009 guidance for the consolidation of variable interest entities replaces the quantitative-based risks and rewards approach with a qualitative approach that focuses on identifying which
enterprise has the power to direct the activities of a variable interest entity that most significantly impact the entity s economic performance and has the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits from the entity that could
be potentially significant to the variable interest entity. The accounting guidance also requires an ongoing reassessment of whether an enterprise is the primary beneficiary and requires additional disclosures about an enterprise s involvement
in variable interest entities. This accounting guidance is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2011. Upon adoption, the application of the revised guidance for the consolidation of variable interest entities did not
have a material impact to the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements.      In June 2009, the FASB issued revised guidance for
the accounting of transfers of financial assets. This guidance eliminates the concept of a qualifying special-purpose entity, removes the scope exception for qualifying special-purpose entities when applying the accounting guidance related to the
consolidation of variable interest entities, changes the requirements for derecognizing financial assets, and requires enhanced disclosure. This accounting guidance is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2011. Upon
adoption, the application of the revised guidance for the accounting of transfers of financial assets did not have a material impact to the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements.   
  In July 2010, the FASB issued an accounting update to provide guidance to enhance disclosures related to the credit quality of a company s
financing receivables portfolio and the associated allowance for credit losses. Pursuant to this accounting update, a company is required to provide a greater level of disaggregated information about its allowance for credit loss with the objective
of facilitating users  evaluation of the nature of credit risk inherent in the company s portfolio of financing receivables, how that risk is analyzed and assessed in arriving at the allowance for credit losses, and the changes and reasons
for those changes in the allowance for credit losses. The revised disclosures as of the end of the reporting period are effective for the Company beginning in the second quarter of fiscal 2011, and the revised disclosures related to activities
during the reporting period are effective for the Company beginning in the third quarter of fiscal 2011. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this accounting update on its financial disclosures.   
   3. Business Combinations       The Company
completed seven business combinations during fiscal 2010. A summary of the more significant acquisitions completed in fiscal 2010 is as follows:       

In December 2009, the Company acquired ScanSafe, Inc. ( ScanSafe ), a provider of hosted web security to help build a borderless network security
architecture that combines network and cloud-based services for advanced security enforcement.          

In December 2009, the Company acquired Starent Networks, Corp. ( Starent ), a provider of IP-based mobile infrastructure for mobile and converged
carriers, to enhance the Company s portfolio of products to provide an integrated architecture to offer rich, quality multimedia experiences to mobile subscribers.      

In April 2010, the Company acquired Tandberg ASA ( Tandberg ), a leader in video communications. With this acquisition, the Company expects that it
will be able to combine innovations with multivendor interoperability capabilities to provide a platform significantly more attractive to its customers and partners.      

In July 2010, the Company acquired CoreOptics Inc. ( CoreOptics ), a designer of digital signal processing solutions for high-speed optical networking
applications.            
   2010 Annual Report  49   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
     
   Allocation of the purchase consideration for business combinations completed in fiscal 2010 is summarized as
follows (in millions):       
    The
total purchase consideration related to the Company s business combinations completed during fiscal 2010 consisted of one, or both, of cash consideration and vested share-based awards assumed. Total cash and cash equivalents acquired from
business combinations completed during fiscal 2010 were approximately $760 million.      Pursuant to the revised accounting guidance related
to business combinations, transaction costs for the business combinations completed during fiscal 2010 were expensed as incurred. Such transaction costs, totaling $40 million for fiscal 2010, were recorded as G A expenses.
    In addition, IPR D of $199 million for fiscal 2010 has been capitalized at fair value as an intangible asset with an indefinite life (see
Note 4) and is assessed for impairment in subsequent periods. Upon completion of development, the underlying R D intangible asset will be amortized over its estimated useful life. Prior to the adoption of the revised accounting guidance,
IPR D was expensed upon acquisition if it had no alternative future use.      The Company continues to evaluate certain assets and
liabilities related to business combinations completed during the period. Additional information, which existed as of the acquisition date but was at that time unknown to the Company, may become known to the Company during the remainder of
the measurement period, a period not to exceed 12 months from the acquisition date. Changes to amounts recorded as assets or liabilities may result in a corresponding adjustment to goodwill.  
  The goodwill generated from the Company s business combinations completed during the year ended July 31, 2010 is primarily related to
expected synergies. The goodwill is generally not deductible for U.S. federal income tax purposes.       Fiscal 2009    
  Allocation of the purchase consideration for business combinations completed in fiscal 2009 is summarized as follows (in millions):   
   
     Fiscal 2008
      Allocation of the purchase consideration for business combinations completed in fiscal 2008 is summarized as follows (in millions):   
   
    The
Consolidated Financial Statements include the operating results of each business from the date of acquisition. Pro forma results of operations for the acquisitions completed during fiscal 2010, 2009, and 2008 have not been presented because the
effects of the acquisitions, individually and in the aggregate, were not material to the Company s financial results.         
   50  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
     
    4. Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets    
   (a) Goodwill       The following tables present the goodwill
allocated to the Company s reportable segments as of July 31, 2010 and July 25, 2009 and the changes to goodwill during fiscal 2010 and 2009 (in millions):   
   
    In the
preceding tables,  Other  primarily includes foreign currency translation and purchase accounting adjustments.       (b) Purchased Intangible
Assets       The following tables present details of the intangible assets acquired through business combinations during fiscal 2010 and 2009 (in
millions, except years):       

2010 Annual Report  51   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
     
   The following tables present details of the Company s purchased intangible assets (in millions):   

Purchased
intangible assets include intangible assets acquired through business combinations as well as through direct purchases or licenses.      The
following table presents the amortization of purchased intangible assets (in millions):       
    The Company
recorded impairment charges of $28 million, $95 million and $33 million during fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, related to its purchased intangible assets. These impairment charges were due to reductions in expected future cash flows
related to certain technologies and customer relationships and were recorded as amortization of purchased intangible assets.      For
purchased intangible assets with finite lives, the estimated future amortization expense as of July 31, 2010 is as follows (in millions):       
       
   52  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
     
    5. Balance Sheet Details    
  The following tables provide details of selected balance sheet items (in millions):   

(1)  Amounts represent the noncurrent portions of the respective
balances. See Note 6 for the current portions of the respective balances.         
   2010 Annual Report  53   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
     
    6. Financing Receivables and Guarantees    
   (a) Financing Receivables       Financing receivables primarily
consist of lease receivables, financed service contracts and loan receivables. Lease receivables represent sales-type and direct-financing leases resulting from the sale of the Company s and complementary third-party products. These lease
arrangements have terms of on average three years and are generally collateralized by a security interest in the underlying assets. The revenue related to financed service contracts, which is primarily associated with technical support services, is
deferred and included in deferred service revenue. The revenue is recognized ratably over the period during which the related services are to be performed, which is typically from one to three years.   
  A summary of the Company s financing receivables is presented as follows (in millions):   

Contractual
maturities of the gross lease receivables at July 31, 2010 are summarized as follows (in millions):       
    Actual cash
collections may differ from the contractual maturities due to early customer buyouts, refinancings, or defaults.       (b) Financing Guarantees
      In the ordinary course of business, the Company provides financing guarantees that are generally for various third-party financing arrangements
extended to channel partners and end-user customers.       Channel Partner Financing Guarantees  The Company facilitates arrangements for third-party
financing extended to channel partners, consisting of revolving short-term financing, generally with payment terms ranging from 60 to 90 days. These financing arrangements facilitate the working capital requirements of the channel partners and, in
some cases, the Company guarantees a portion of these arrangements. The volume of channel partner financing was $17.2 billion, $14.2 billion and $14.4 billion for fiscal 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. As of July 31, 2010 and July 25,
2009, the balance of the channel partner financing subject to guarantees was $1.4 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively.         
   54  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
     
    End-User Financing Guarantees  The Company also provides financing guarantees for third-party financing
arrangements extended to end-user customers related to leases and loans that typically have terms of up to three years. The volume of financing provided by third parties for leases and loans on which the Company has provided guarantees was $944
million for fiscal 2010 and $1.2 billion for both fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008.       Financing Guarantee Summary  The aggregate amount of financing
guarantees outstanding at July 31, 2010 and July 25, 2009, representing the total maximum potential future payments under financing arrangements with third parties, and the related deferred revenue are summarized in the following table (in
millions):       
 
   7. Investments        (a) Summary of
Available-for-Sale Investments       The following tables summarize the Company s available-for-sale investments (in millions):   

(1)  Includes corporate securities that are guaranteed by the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC).       (2)  Includes agency
and corporate securities that are guaranteed by non-U.S. governments.         
   2010 Annual Report  55   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
     
    (b) Gains and Losses on Available-for-Sale Investments    
  The following tables present the gross and net realized gains and losses related to the Company s available-for-sale investments (in millions):   

There were no
impairment charges on available-for-sale investments for the years ended July 31, 2010 and July 26, 2008. For the year ended July 25, 2009, net losses on fixed income securities and net gains on publicly traded equity securities
included impairment charges of $219 million and $39 million, respectively. The impairment charges for both types of securities were due to a decline in the fair value of the investments below their cost basis that were judged to be other than
temporary and were recorded as a reduction to the amortized cost of the respective investments.      The following table summarizes the
activity related to credit losses for fixed income securities (in millions):       
 
   (1)  The beginning balance for the year ended July 25, 2009
represents the credit loss balance as of April 26, 2009, the date on which the Company adopted the revised accounting guidance related to other-than-temporary impairments on debt securities.   
  The following tables present the breakdown of the available-for-sale investments with gross unrealized losses and the duration that those losses had been
unrealized at July 31, 2010 and July 25, 2009 (in millions):       
       
   56  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

(1)  Includes corporate securities that are guaranteed by the FDIC.
      (2)  Includes agency and corporate securities that are
guaranteed by non-U.S. governments.      For fixed income securities that have unrealized losses as of July 31, 2010, the Company has determined that
(i) it does not have the intent to sell any of these investments and (ii) it is not more likely than not that it will be required to sell any of these investments before recovery of the entire amortized cost basis. In addition, as of
July 31, 2010, the Company anticipates that it will recover the entire amortized cost basis of such fixed income securities and has determined that no other-than-temporary impairments associated with credit losses were required to be recognized
during the year ended July 31, 2010.      The Company has evaluated its publicly traded equity securities as of July 31, 2010 and
has determined that there was no indication of other-than-temporary impairments in the respective categories of unrealized losses. This determination was based on several factors, which include the length of time and extent to which fair value has
been less than the cost basis, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, and the Company s intent and ability to hold the publicly traded equity securities for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated
recovery in market value.       (c) Maturities of Fixed Income Securities    
  The following table summarizes the maturities of the Company s fixed income securities at July 31, 2010 (in millions):   
   
    Actual
maturities may differ from the contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or prepay certain obligations.       (d) Securities
Lending       The Company periodically engages in securities lending activities with certain of its fixed income securities. These transactions, with a
daily balance averaging less than 25% of the Company s total fixed income portfolio, are accounted for as a secured lending of the securities, and the securities are typically loaned only on an overnight basis. The Company requires collateral
equal to at least 102% of the fair market value of the loaned security in the form of cash or liquid, high-quality assets. The Company engages in these secured lending transactions only with highly creditworthy counterparties, and the associated
portfolio custodian has agreed to indemnify the Company against any collateral losses. The Company did not experience any losses in connection with the secured lending of securities during the years presented. As of July 31, 2010 and
July 25, 2009, the Company had no outstanding securities lending transactions.         
   2010 Annual Report  57   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
     
    8. Fair Value    
  Pursuant to the accounting guidance for fair value measurements and its subsequent updates, fair value is defined as the price that would be received from selling
an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required or permitted to be recorded at fair value, the
Company considers the principal or most advantageous market in which it would transact, and it considers assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability.   
   (a) Fair Value Hierarchy       The accounting guidance for fair
value measurement also requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. The standard establishes a fair value hierarchy based on the level of independent, objective
evidence surrounding the inputs used to measure fair value. A financial instrument s categorization within the fair value hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. The fair value
hierarchy is as follows:       Level 1     Level 1 applies to assets or liabilities for which there are quoted prices in active
markets for identical assets or liabilities.       Level 2     Level 2 applies to assets or liabilities for which there are inputs
other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in markets with insufficient volume or infrequent
transactions (less active markets); or model-derived valuations in which significant inputs are observable or can be derived principally from, or corroborated by, observable market data.   
   Level 3     Level 3 applies to assets or liabilities for which there are unobservable inputs to the valuation methodology that are
significant to the measurement of the fair value of the assets or liabilities.       (b) Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring
Basis       Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of July 31, 2010 and July 25, 2009 were as follows (in
millions):       
 
   (1)  Includes corporate securities that are guaranteed by the FDIC.
      (2)  Includes agency and
corporate securities that are guaranteed by non-U.S. governments.      Level 2 fixed income securities are priced using quoted market prices for similar
instruments; nonbinding market prices that are corroborated by observable market data; or in limited circumstances, discounted cash flow techniques. The Company uses inputs   
     
   58  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

such as actual trade data, benchmark yields, broker/dealer quotes, and other similar data, which are obtained from quoted market prices, independent pricing vendors, or other sources, to
determine the ultimate fair value of these assets and liabilities. The Company uses such pricing data as the primary inputs to make its assessments and determinations as to the ultimate valuation of its investment portfolio and has not made, during
the periods presented, any material adjustments to such inputs. The Company is ultimately responsible for the financial statements and underlying estimates. The Company s derivative instruments are primarily classified as Level 2, as they are
not actively traded and are valued using pricing models that use observable market inputs. The Company did not have any transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements during fiscal 2010.   
  Level 3 assets include asset-backed securities and certain derivative instruments, the values of which are determined based on discounted cash flow
models using inputs that the Company could not corroborate with market data.      The following tables present a reconciliation for all
assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) for the years ended July 31, 2010 and July 25, 2009 (in millions):   
   
     (c) Assets and
Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis       The following table presents the Company s financial instruments and nonfinancial
assets that were measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis and the gains and losses recorded for the year ended July 31, 2010 (in millions):       
    The fair value
for investments in privately held companies was measured using financial metrics, comparison to other private and public companies, and analysis of the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuers, including recent financing activities
and their capital structure as well as other economic variables. These investments were classified as Level 3 assets   
     
   2010 Annual Report  59   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

because the Company used unobservable inputs to value them, reflecting the Company s assessment of the assumptions market participants would use in pricing these investments due to the
absence of quoted market prices and inherent lack of liquidity. The losses for the investments in privately held companies were recorded to other income (loss), net.   
  The fair values for purchased intangible assets and property held for sale were measured using discounted cash flow techniques. These assets were
classified as Level 3 assets because the Company used unobservable inputs to value them, reflecting the Company s assessment of the assumptions market participants would use in valuing these assets. The losses for purchased intangible assets
were included in amortization of purchased intangible assets, and the net losses for property held for sale were included in G A expenses.   
  The following table presents the Company s financial instruments that were measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis and the
losses recorded for the year ended July 25, 2009 (in millions):       

FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS USING  

Net Carrying Value as of July 25, 2009  
      
  Quoted Prices in Active Markets for Identical Instruments (Level 1)  
      
  Significant Other Observable Inputs (Level 2)  
      
  Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level 3)  
      
  Total Losses for the Year Ended July 25, 2009  

Investments in privately held companies   
      
  $  
   69  
      
  $  

$  

$  
   69  
      
  $  
   (78  
  )    
 
    Losses on assets no longer held as of July 25, 2009   

(9  
  )    
 
    Total   

$  
  (87  
  )         (d) Other
      The fair value of certain of the Company s financial instruments that are not measured at fair value, including accounts receivable, accounts
payable, accrued compensation, and other current liabilities, approximates the carrying amount because of their short maturities. In addition, the fair value of the Company s loan receivables and financed service contracts also approximates the
carrying amount. The fair value of the Company s debt is disclosed in Note 9 and was determined using quoted market prices for those securities.   
   9. Borrowings        (a) Debt    
  The following table summarizes the Company s debt (in millions, except percentages):   
   
    In November 2009, the Company issued senior unsecured notes in an aggregate principal amount of $5.0 billion. Of these
notes, $500 million will mature in 2014 and bear interest at a fixed rate of 2.90% per annum (the  2014 Notes ), $2.5 billion will mature in 2020 and bear interest at a fixed rate of 4.45% per annum (the  2020 Notes ),
and $2.0 billion will mature in 2040 and bear interest         
   60  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

at a fixed rate of 5.50% per annum (the  2040 Notes ). To achieve its interest rate risk management objectives, the Company entered into interest rate swaps, in an aggregate
notional amount of $1.5 billion, designated as fair value hedges for a portion of the 2016 Notes. In effect, these swaps convert the fixed interest rates of a portion of the 2016 Notes to floating interest rates based on LIBOR plus a fixed number of
basis points. Gains and losses in the value of the interest rate swaps substantially offset changes in the fair value of the hedged portion of the underlying debt.   
  The effective rates for the fixed-rate debt include the interest on the notes; the accretion of the discount; and, if applicable, adjustments
related to hedging. Based on market prices, the fair value of the Company s senior notes was $16.3 billion and $10.5 billion as of July 31, 2010 and July 25, 2009, respectively. Interest is payable semiannually on each class of the
senior fixed-rate notes. The notes are redeemable by the Company at any time, subject to a make-whole premium. The Company was in compliance with all debt covenants as of July 31, 2010.   
  Other notes and borrowings include notes and credit facilities with a number of financial institutions that are available to certain foreign
subsidiaries of the Company. The amount of borrowings outstanding under these arrangements was $59 million and $2 million at July 31, 2010 and July 25, 2009, respectively.   
   (b) Credit Facility       The Company has a credit agreement with
certain institutional lenders providing for a $3.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility that is scheduled to expire on August 17, 2012. Any advances under the credit agreement will accrue interest at rates that are equal to, based on
certain conditions, either (i) the higher of the Federal Funds rate plus 0.50% or Bank of America s  prime rate  as announced from time to time or (ii) LIBOR plus a margin that is based on the Company s senior debt
credit ratings as published by Standard   Poor s Ratings Services and Moody s Investors Service, Inc. The credit agreement requires the Company to comply with certain covenants, including that it maintain an interest coverage
ratio as defined in the agreement. The Company was in compliance with the required interest coverage ratio and the other covenants as of July 31, 2010.   
  The Company may also, upon the agreement of either the then-existing lenders or of additional lenders not currently parties to the agreement,
increase the commitments under the credit facility by up to an additional $1.9 billion and/or extend the expiration date of the credit facility up to August 15, 2014. As of July 31, 2010, the Company had not borrowed any funds under the
credit facility.       10. Derivative Instruments    
   (a) Summary of Derivative Instruments       The Company uses
derivative instruments primarily to manage exposures to foreign currency exchange rate, interest rate, and equity price risks. The Company s primary objective in holding derivatives is to reduce the volatility of earnings and cash flows
associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, and equity prices. The Company s derivatives expose it to credit risk to the extent that the counterparties may be unable to meet the terms of the agreement. The
Company does, however, seek to mitigate such risks by limiting its counterparties to major financial institutions. In addition, the potential risk of loss with any one counterparty resulting from this type of credit risk is monitored. Management
does not expect material losses as a result of defaults by counterparties.      The fair values of the Company s derivative instruments
and the line items on the Consolidated Balance Sheets to which they were recorded are summarized as follows (in millions):       
       
   2010 Annual Report  61   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
     
   The effects of the Company s cash flow hedging instruments on other comprehensive income (OCI) and the
Consolidated Statements of Operations are summarized as follows (in millions):       
    During the years ended
July 31, 2010 and July 25, 2009, the amounts recognized in earnings on derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges related to the ineffective portion were not material, and the Company did not exclude any component of the changes
in fair value of the derivative instruments from the assessment of hedge effectiveness. As of July 31, 2010, the Company estimates that approximately $40 million of net derivative gains related to its cash flow hedges included in
AOCI will be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months.      The effect on the Consolidated Statements of
Operations of derivative instruments designated as fair value hedges is summarized as follows (in millions):       

GAINS (LOSSES) FOR THE YEARS ENDED  

Derivatives Designated as Fair Value Hedging Instruments  
      
  Line Item in Statements of Operations  
     
   July 31, 2010   
      
  July 25, 2009  

Equity derivatives   
      
  Other income (loss), net  
     
   $   
      3   
      
  $  
   97  

Interest rate derivatives   
      
  Other income (loss), net  

(7  
  )    
 
    Interest rate derivatives   
      
  Interest expense  

72   

Total   

$   
   75   
      
  $  
  90  
           The effect on the
Consolidated Statements of Operations of derivative instruments not designated as hedges is summarized as follows (in millions):       
     (b) Foreign Currency
Exchange Risk       The Company conducts business globally in numerous currencies. Therefore, it is exposed to adverse movements in foreign currency
exchange rates. To limit the exposure related to foreign currency changes, the Company enters into foreign currency contracts. The Company does not enter into such contracts for trading purposes.   
  The Company hedges foreign currency forecasted transactions related to certain operating expenses and service cost of sales with currency options
and forward contracts. These currency option and forward contracts, designated as cash flow hedges, generally have maturities of less than 18 months. The Company assesses effectiveness based on changes in total fair value of the derivatives. The
effective portion of the derivative instrument s gain or loss is initially reported as a component of AOCI and subsequently reclassified into earnings when the hedged exposure affects earnings. The ineffective portion, if any, of the gain or
loss is reported in earnings immediately. The Company did not discontinue any hedges during any of the periods presented because it was probable that the original forecasted transaction would not occur.   
     
   62  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
     
   The Company enters into foreign exchange forward and option contracts to reduce the short-term
effects of foreign currency fluctuations on assets and liabilities such as foreign currency receivables, including long-term customer financings, investments, and payables. These derivatives are not designated as hedging instruments. Gains and
losses on the contracts are included in other income (loss), net, and substantially offset foreign exchange gains and losses from the remeasurement of intercompany balances or other current assets, investments, or liabilities denominated in
currencies other than the functional currency of the reporting entity.      The Company hedges certain net investments in its foreign
subsidiaries with forward contracts, which generally have maturities of up to six months. The Company recognized a loss of $2 million in OCI for the effective portion of its net investment hedges for the year ended July 31, 2010. The
Company s net investment hedges are not included in the preceding tables.      The notional amounts of the Company s foreign
currency derivatives are summarized as follows (in millions):       
     (c) Interest
Rate Risk        Interest Rate Derivatives, Investments   The Company s primary objective for holding fixed income securities is to
achieve an appropriate investment return consistent with preserving principal and managing risk. To realize these objectives, the Company may utilize interest rate swaps or other derivatives designated as fair value or cash flow hedges. As of
July 31, 2010 and July 25, 2009 the Company did not have any outstanding interest rate derivatives related to its fixed income securities.   
   Interest Rate Derivatives Designated as Cash Flow Hedge, Long-Term Debt   In fiscal 2010 and 2009, the Company entered into contracts related to
interest rate derivatives designated as cash flow hedges, with an aggregate notional amount of $3.7 billion and $3.9 billion, respectively, to hedge against interest rate movements in connection with its anticipated issuance of senior notes in each
of those fiscal years. These derivative instruments were settled in connection with the actual issuance of the senior notes. The effective portion of these hedges was recorded to AOCI, net of tax, and is being amortized to interest expense over the
respective lives of the notes.       Interest Rate Derivatives Designated as Fair Value Hedge, Long-Term Debt   In fiscal 2010, the Company
entered into interest rate swaps with a $1.5 billion notional amount designated as fair value hedges of a portion of the 2016 Notes. Under these interest rate swaps, the Company receives fixed-rate interest payments and makes interest payments based
on LIBOR plus a fixed number of basis points. The effect of these swaps is to convert fixed-rate interest expense on a portion of the 2016 Notes to a floating rate interest expense. The gains and losses related to changes in the fair value of the
interest rate swaps are included in interest expense and substantially offset changes in the fair value of the hedged portion of the underlying hedged debt. The fair value of the interest rate swaps was $72 million as of July 31, 2010 and was
reflected in other assets. The Company did not have any interest rate swaps outstanding at July 25, 2009.       (d) Equity Price Risk    
  The Company may hold equity securities for strategic purposes or to diversify its overall investment portfolio. The publicly traded equity securities in the
Company s portfolio are subject to price risk. To manage its exposure to changes in the fair value of certain equity securities, the Company may enter into equity derivatives that are designated as fair value or cash flow hedges. The changes in
the value of the hedging instruments are included in other income (loss), net, and offset the change in the fair value of the underlying hedged investment. The Company did not have any equity derivatives outstanding at July 31, 2010 and
July 25, 2009.      In addition, the Company periodically manages the risk of its investment portfolio by entering into equity
derivatives that are not designated as accounting hedges. The changes in the fair value of these derivatives were also included in other income (loss), net. The Company is also exposed to variability in compensation charges related to
certain deferred compensation obligations to employees. Although not designated as accounting hedges, the Company utilizes equity derivatives to economically hedge this exposure. As of July 31, 2010 and July 25, 2009,
the notional amount of the derivative instruments used to hedge such liabilities was $169 million and $91 million, respectively.       (e)
Credit-Risk-Related Contingent Features       Certain derivative instruments are executed under agreements that have provisions requiring the Company and
counterparty to maintain a specified credit rating from certain credit rating agencies. If the Company s or counterparty s credit rating falls below a specified credit rating, either party has the right to request collateral on the
derivatives  net liability position. Such provisions did not affect the Company s financial position as of July 31, 2010 and July 25, 2009.        
   2010 Annual Report  63   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
     
    11. Commitments and Contingencies    
   (a) Operating Leases       The Company leases office space in
several U.S. locations. Outside the United States, larger leased sites include sites in Australia, Belgium, China, Germany, India, Israel, Italy, Japan, Norway, and the United Kingdom. Rent expense totaled $364 million, $328 million, and $291
million in fiscal 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. The Company also leases equipment and vehicles. Future minimum lease payments under all noncancelable operating leases with an initial term in excess of one year as of July 31, 2010 are as
follows (in millions):       
     (b)
Purchase Commitments with Contract Manufacturers and Suppliers       The Company purchases components from a variety of suppliers and uses several
contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for its products. During the normal course of business, in order to manage manufacturing lead times and help ensure adequate component supply, the Company enters into agreements with contract
manufacturers and suppliers that either allow them to procure inventory based upon criteria as defined by the Company or that establish the parameters defining the Company s requirements. A significant portion of the Company s reported
purchase commitments arising from these agreements consists of firm, noncancelable, and unconditional commitments. In certain instances, these agreements allow the Company the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust the Company s requirements
based on its business needs prior to firm orders being placed. As of July 31, 2010 and July 25, 2009, the Company had total purchase commitments for inventory of $4.319 billion and $1.962 billion, respectively.   
  The Company records a liability for firm, noncancelable, and unconditional purchase commitments for quantities in excess of its future demand
forecasts consistent with the valuation of the Company s excess and obsolete inventory. As of July 31, 2010 and July 25, 2009, the liability for these purchase commitments was $135 million and $175 million, respectively, and was
included in other current liabilities.       (c) Other Commitments    
  In connection with the Company s business combinations and asset purchases, the Company has agreed to pay certain additional amounts contingent upon the
achievement of certain agreed-upon-technology, development, product, or other milestones or the continued employment with the Company of certain employees of the acquired entities. The Company recognized such compensation expense of $120 million,
$291 million, and $340 million during fiscal 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. The largest component of such compensation expense during the fiscal years presented was related to milestone payments made to former noncontrolling interest holders of
Nuova Systems, Inc. ( Nuova Systems ), the remaining interest of which the Company purchased in fiscal 2008. As of July 31, 2010, the Company estimated that future compensation expense and contingent consideration of up to $205 million may
be required to be recognized pursuant to these business combination and asset purchase agreements. The remaining potential compensation expense is primarily related to Nuova Systems.   
  The Company also has certain funding commitments, primarily related to its investments in privately held companies and venture funds, some of which
are based on the achievement of certain agreed-upon milestones, and some of which are required to be funded on demand. The funding commitments were $279 million and $313 million as of July 31, 2010 and July 25, 2009, respectively.
      (d) Variable Interest Entities       In the ordinary
course of business, the Company has investments in privately held companies and provides financing to certain customers. These privately held companies and customers may be considered to be variable interest entities. The Company has evaluated its
investments in these privately held companies and its customer financings and has determined that there were no significant unconsolidated variable interest entities as of July 31, 2010.   
     
   64  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
     
    (e) Product Warranties and Guarantees    
  The following table summarizes the activity related to the product warranty liability during fiscal 2010 and 2009 (in millions):   
   
    The Company
accrues for warranty costs as part of its cost of sales based on associated material product costs, labor costs for technical support staff, and associated overhead. The Company s products are generally covered by a warranty for periods ranging
from 90 days to five years, and for some products the Company provides a limited lifetime warranty.      In the normal course of business,
the Company indemnifies other parties, including customers, lessors, and parties to other transactions with the Company, with respect to certain matters. The Company has agreed to hold the other parties harmless against losses arising from a breach
of representations or covenants, or out of intellectual property infringement or other claims made against certain parties. These agreements may limit the time within which an indemnification claim can be made and the amount of the claim. In
addition, the Company has entered into indemnification agreements with its officers and directors, and the Company s bylaws contain similar indemnification obligations to the Company s agents. It is not possible to determine the maximum
potential amount under these indemnification agreements due to the Company s limited history with prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Historically, payments made by the
Company under these agreements have not had a material effect on the Company s operating results, financial position, or cash flows.   
  The Company also provides financing guarantees, which are generally for various third-party financing arrangements to channel partners and other
end-user customers. See Note 6. The Company s other guarantee arrangements as of July 31, 2010 that are subject to recognition and disclosure requirements were not material.   
   (f) Legal Proceedings       Brazilian authorities have
investigated the Company s Brazilian subsidiary and certain of its current and former employees, as well as a Brazilian importer of the Company s products, and its affiliates and employees, relating to alleged evasion of import taxes and
alleged improper transactions involving the subsidiary and the importer. Brazilian authorities have assessed claims against the Company s Brazilian subsidiary based on a theory of joint liability with the Brazilian importer for import taxes and
related penalties. The claims are for calendar years 2003 through 2007 and aggregate to approximately $190 million for the alleged evasion of import taxes, $85 million for interest, and approximately $1.6 billion for various penalties, all
determined using an exchange rate as of July 31, 2010. The Company has completed a thorough review of the matter and believes the asserted tax claims against it are without merit, and the Company intends to defend the claims vigorously. While
the Company believes there is no legal basis for its alleged liability, due to the complexities and uncertainty surrounding the judicial process in Brazil and the nature of the claims asserting joint liability with the importer, the Company is
unable to determine the likelihood of an unfavorable outcome against it and is unable to reasonably estimate a range of loss, if any. The Company does not expect a final judicial determination for several years.   
  The Company has investigated the alleged improper transactions referred to above. The Company communicated with United States authorities to
provide information and report on its findings and the United States authorities have investigated such allegations.      The Company and
other defendants were subject to patent claims asserted by Network-1 Security Solutions, Inc. on February 7, 2008 in the Federal District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. Network-1 alleged that various Cisco products implement a
method for remotely powering equipment that infringes United States Patent No. 6,218,930. Network-1 sought monetary damages. The trial on these claims began on July 12, 2010. During trial, the Company and Network-1 settled
the dispute on terms that are not material to the Company, and the lawsuit was dismissed with prejudice on August 6, 2010.      In
addition, the Company is subject to legal proceedings, claims, and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business, including intellectual property litigation. While the outcome of these matters is currently not determinable, the Company does
not expect that the ultimate costs to resolve these matters will have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.   
     
   2010 Annual Report  65   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
     
    12. Shareholders  Equity    
   (a) Stock Repurchase Program       In September 2001, the
Company s Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program. As of July 31, 2010, the Company s Board of Directors had authorized an aggregate repurchase of up to $72 billion of common stock under this program and the remaining
authorized repurchase amount was $7.0 billion with no termination date. A summary of the stock repurchase activity under the stock repurchase program, reported based on the trade date, is summarized as follows (in millions, except per-share
amounts):       
    The
purchase price for the shares of the Company s stock repurchased is reflected as a reduction to shareholders  equity. The Company is required to allocate the purchase price of the repurchased shares as (i) a reduction to retained
earnings until retained earnings are zero and then as an increase to accumulated deficit and (ii) a reduction of common stock and additional paid-in capital. Issuance of common stock and the tax benefit related to employee stock incentive plans
are recorded as an increase to common stock and additional paid-in capital.       (b) Other Repurchases of Common Stock    
  For the years ended July 31, 2010 and July 25, 2009, the Company repurchased approximately 5.6 million and 1.1 million shares, respectively, in
settlement of employee tax withholding obligations due upon the vesting of restricted stock or stock units.       (c) Preferred Stock    
  Under the terms of the Company s Articles of Incorporation, the Board of Directors may determine the rights, preferences, and terms of the Company s
authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock.       (d) Comprehensive Income    
  The components of comprehensive income, net of tax, are as follows (in millions):       
       
   66  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
     
    13. Employee Benefit Plans    
   (a) Employee Stock Purchase Plan       The Company has an Employee
Stock Purchase Plan, which includes its subplan, the International Employee Stock Purchase Plan (together, the  Purchase Plan ), under which 471.4 million shares of the Company s common stock have been reserved for issuance as of
July 31, 2010. Effective July 1, 2009, eligible employees are offered shares through a 24-month offering period, which consists of four consecutive 6-month purchase periods. Employees may purchase a limited number of shares of the
Company s stock at a discount of up to 15% of the lesser of the market value at the beginning of the offering period or the end of each 6-month purchase period. Prior to July 1, 2009 the offering period was six months. The
Purchase Plan is scheduled to terminate on January 3, 2020. The Company issued 27 million, 28 million, and 19 million shares under the Purchase Plan in fiscal 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. As of July 31, 2010,
156 million shares were available for issuance under the Purchase Plan.       (b) Employee Stock Incentive Plans    
   Stock Incentive Plan Program Description   As of July 31, 2010, the Company had five stock incentive plans: the 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the
 2005 Plan  the 1996 Stock Incentive Plan (the  1996 Plan  the 1997 Supplemental Stock Incentive Plan (the  Supplemental Plan  the Cisco Systems, Inc. SA Acquisition Long-Term Incentive Plan (the  SA
Acquisition Plan  and the Cisco Systems, Inc. WebEx Acquisition Long-Term Incentive Plan (the  WebEx Acquisition Plan ). In addition, the Company has, in connection with the acquisitions of various companies, assumed the share-based
awards granted under stock incentive plans of the acquired companies or issued share-based awards in replacement thereof. Share-based awards are designed to reward employees for their long-term contributions to the Company and provide incentives for
them to remain with the Company. The number and frequency of share-based awards are based on competitive practices, operating results of the Company, government regulations, and other factors. Since the inception of the stock incentive plans, the
Company has granted share-based awards to a significant percentage of its employees, and the majority has been granted to employees below the vice president level. The Company s primary stock incentive plans are summarized as follows:
         2005 Plan      As amended on
November 15, 2007, the maximum number of shares issuable under the 2005 Plan over its term is 559 million shares plus the amount of any shares underlying awards outstanding on November 15, 2007 under the 1996 Plan, the SA Acquisition
Plan, and the WebEx Acquisition Plan that are forfeited or are terminated for any other reason before being exercised or settled. If any awards granted under the 2005 Plan are forfeited or are terminated for any other reason before being exercised
or settled, then the shares underlying the awards will again be available under the 2005 Plan.      Prior to November 12, 2009, the
number of shares available for issuance under the 2005 Plan was reduced by 2.5 shares for each share awarded as a stock grant or stock unit. Pursuant to an amendment approved by the Company s shareholders on November 12, 2009, following
that amendment the number of shares available for issuance under the 2005 Plan is reduced by 1.5 shares for each share awarded as a stock grant or a stock unit, and any shares underlying awards outstanding under the 1996 Plan, the SA Acquisition
Plan, and the WebEx Acquisition Plan that expire unexercised at the end of their maximum terms become available for reissuance under the 2005 Plan. The 2005 Plan permits the granting of stock options, stock, stock units, and stock appreciation
rights to employees (including employee directors and officers), consultants of the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates, and non-employee directors of the Company. Stock options and stock appreciation rights granted under the 2005 Plan have
an exercise price of at least 100% of the fair market value of the underlying stock on the grant date and prior to November 12, 2009 have an expiration date no later than nine years from the grant date. The expiration date for stock options and
stock appreciation rights granted subsequent to the amendment approved on November 12, 2009 shall be no later than ten years from the grant date. The stock options will generally become exercisable for 20% or 25% of the option shares one year
from the date of grant and then ratably over the following 48 or 36 months, respectively. Stock grants and stock units will generally vest with respect to 20% or 25% of the shares covered by the grant on each of the first through fifth or fourth
anniversaries of the date of the grant, respectively. The Compensation and Management Development Committee of the Board of Directors has the discretion to use different vesting schedules. Stock appreciation rights may be awarded in combination with
stock options or stock grants, and such awards shall provide that the stock appreciation rights will not be exercisable unless the related stock options or stock grants are forfeited. Stock grants may be awarded in combination with non-statutory
stock options, and such awards may provide that the stock grants will be forfeited in the event that the related non-statutory stock options are exercised.   
      1996 Plan      The 1996 Plan expired on
December 31, 2006, and the Company can no longer make equity awards under the 1996 Plan. The maximum number of shares issuable over the term of the 1996 Plan was 2.5 billion shares. Stock options granted under the 1996 Plan have an exercise
price of at least 100% of the fair market value of the underlying stock on the grant date and expire no later than nine years from the grant date. The stock options generally become exercisable for 20% or 25% of the option shares one year from the
date of grant and then ratably over the following 48 or 36 months, respectively. Certain other grants have utilized a 60-month ratable vesting schedule. In addition, the Board of Directors, or other committees administering the plan, has the
discretion to use a different vesting schedule and have done so from time to time.         
   2010 Annual Report  67   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
     
      Supplemental
Plan     The Supplemental Plan expired on December 31, 2007, and the Company can no longer make equity awards under the Supplemental Plan. Officers and members of the Company s
Board of Directors were not eligible to participate in the Supplemental Plan. Nine million shares were reserved for issuance under the Supplemental Plan.   
    Acquisition
Plans       In connection with the Company s acquisitions of Scientific-Atlanta, Inc. ( Scientific-Atlanta ) and WebEx
Communications, Inc. ( WebEx ), the Company adopted the SA Acquisition Plan and the WebEx Acquisition Plan, respectively, each effective upon completion of the applicable acquisition. These plans constitute assumptions, amendments,
restatements, and renamings of the 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan of Scientific-Atlanta and the WebEx Communications, Inc. Amended and Restated 2000 Stock Incentive Plan, respectively. The plans permit the grant of stock options, stock, stock units,
and stock appreciation rights to certain employees of the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates who had been employed by Scientific-Atlanta or its subsidiaries or WebEx or its subsidiaries, as applicable. As a result of the shareholder
approval of the amendment and extension of the 2005 Plan, as of November 15, 2007, the Company will no longer make stock option grants or direct share issuances under either the SA Acquisition Plan or the WebEx Acquisition Plan.
       General Share-Based Award Information    
    Stock Option
Awards       A summary of the stock option activity is as follows (in millions, except per-share amounts):   

(1)  The total pretax intrinsic value of stock options exercised
during fiscal 2010, 2009, and 2008 was $1.0 billion, $158 million, and $1.6 billion, respectively.      The following table summarizes significant ranges of
outstanding and exercisable stock options as of July 31, 2010 (in millions, except years and share prices):       
       
   68  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
     
   The aggregate intrinsic value in the preceding table represents the total pretax intrinsic value, based on the
Company s closing stock price of $23.07 as of July 30, 2010, which would have been received by the option holders had those option holders exercised their stock options as of that date. The total number of in-the-money stock options
exercisable as of July 31, 2010 was 500 million. As of July 25, 2009, 768 million outstanding stock options were exercisable and the weighted-average exercise price was $24.16.   
      Restricted Stock and Stock Unit Awards      A
summary of the restricted stock and stock unit activity is as follows (in millions, except per-share amounts):       
     Share-Based Awards Available for Grant   A summary of share-based awards available for grant is as follows
(in millions):       
 
  As reflected in the preceding table, for each share awarded as restricted stock or subject to a restricted stock unit award under the 2005 Plan, beginning
November 15, 2007 and prior to November 12, 2009, an equivalent of 2.5 shares was deducted from the available share-based award balance. Effective as of November 12, 2009, the equivalent number of shares was revised to 1.5 shares for
each share awarded as restricted stock or subject to a restricted stock unit award under the 2005 Plan beginning on this date.         
   2010 Annual Report  69   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
     
    Expense and Valuation Information for Share-Based Awards    
    Share-Based Compensation Expense        Share-based
compensation expense consists primarily of expenses for stock options, stock purchase rights, restricted stock, and restricted stock units granted to employees. The following table summarizes share-based compensation expense (in millions):
      
    As of
July 31, 2010, the total compensation cost related to unvested share-based awards not yet recognized was $3.3 billion, which is expected to be recognized over approximately 2.5 years on a weighted-average basis. The income tax benefit for
share-based compensation expense was $415 million, $317 million, and $362 million for fiscal 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively.        Valuation of
Employee Stock Options and Employee Stock Purchase Rights        The assumptions related to and the valuation of employee stock options and employee
stock purchase rights are summarized as follows:       
    The Company estimates the value of
employee stock options on the date of grant using a lattice-binomial model and estimates the value of employee stock purchase rights on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes model. The lattice-binomial model is more capable of incorporating the
features of the Company s employee stock options, such as the vesting provisions and various restrictions including restrictions on transfer and hedging, among others, and the options are often exercised prior to their contractual maturity. The
use of the lattice-binomial model also requires extensive actual employee exercise behavior data for the relative probability estimation purpose, and a number of complex assumptions as presented in the preceding table. The probability estimation of
the employees  exercise behavior is assumed to be a function of two variables: an option s remaining vested life and the extent to which the option is in-the-money. Both of these two variables are based on the entire history of exercises
and cancellations on all past option grants made by the Company.      The determination of the fair value of employee stock options and
employee stock purchase rights on the date of grant is impacted by the Company s stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of highly complex and subjective variables. The weighted-average assumptions were determined as follows:

For employee stock options, the Company used the implied volatility for two-year traded options on the Company s stock as the expected volatility assumption
required in the lattice-binomial model. For employee stock purchase rights, the Company used the implied volatility for traded options (with contract terms corresponding to the expected life of the employee stock purchase rights) on the
Company s stock in the Black-Scholes model. The selection of the implied volatility approach was based upon the availability of actively traded options on the Company s stock and the Company s assessment that implied volatility is
more representative of future stock price trends than historical volatility.            
   70  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

The risk-free interest rate assumption is based upon observed interest rates appropriate for the term of the Company s employee stock options and employee
stock purchase rights.          

The dividend yield assumption is based on the history and expectation of dividend payouts at the grant date.      

The estimated kurtosis and skewness are technical measures of the distribution of stock price returns, which affect expected employee stock option exercise
behaviors, and are based on the Company s stock price return history as well as consideration of various academic analyses.         The
expected life of employee stock options represents the weighted-average period the stock options are expected to remain outstanding and is a derived output of the lattice-binomial model. The expected life of employee stock options is impacted by all
of the underlying assumptions and calibration of the Company s model. The lattice-binomial model assumes that employees  exercise behavior is a function of the option s remaining vested life and the extent to which the option is
in-the-money. The lattice-binomial model estimates the probability of exercise as a function of these two variables based on the entire history of exercises and cancellations on all past option grants made by the Company. The Company measures the
fair value of restricted stock and restricted stock units as if the awards were vested and issued on the grant date.       Accuracy of Fair Value
Estimates   The Company uses third-party analyses to assist in developing the assumptions used in, as well as calibrating, its lattice-binomial and Black-Scholes models. The Company is responsible for determining the assumptions used in
estimating the fair value of its share-based payment awards. The Company s determination of the fair value of share-based payment awards is affected by assumptions regarding a number of highly complex and subjective variables. These variables
include, but are not limited to, the Company s expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards and actual and projected employee stock option exercise behaviors. Option-pricing models were developed for use in estimating the value
of traded options that have no vesting or hedging restrictions and are fully transferable. Because the Company s employee stock options have certain characteristics that are significantly different from traded options, and because changes in
the subjective assumptions can materially affect the estimated value, in management s opinion, the existing valuation models may not provide an accurate measure of the fair value or be indicative of the fair value that would be observed in a
willing buyer/willing seller market for the Company s employee stock options.       (c) Employee 401(k) Plans    
  The Company sponsors the Cisco Systems, Inc. 401(k) Plan (the  Plan ) to provide retirement benefits for its employees. As allowed under
Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code, the Plan provides for tax-deferred salary contributions for eligible employees. Effective January 1, 2009, the Plan allows employees to contribute from 1% to 75% of their annual compensation to
the Plan on a pretax and after-tax basis. Employee contributions are limited to a maximum annual amount as set periodically by the Internal Revenue Code. Effective January 1, 2009, the Company matches pretax employee contributions up to 100% of
the first 4.5% of eligible earnings that are contributed by employees. Therefore, the maximum matching contribution that the Company may allocate to each participant s account will not exceed $11,025 for the 2010 calendar year due to the
$245,000 annual limit on eligible earnings imposed by the Internal Revenue Code. All matching contributions vest immediately. The Company s matching contributions to the Plan totaled $210 million, $202 million, and $171 million in fiscal 2010,
2009, and 2008, respectively.      The Plan allows employees who meet the age requirements and reach the Plan contribution limits to make a
catch-up contribution not to exceed the lesser of 75% of their eligible compensation or the limit set forth in the Internal Revenue Code. The catch-up contributions are not eligible for matching contributions. In addition, the Plan provides for
discretionary profit-sharing contributions as determined by the Board of Directors. Such contributions to the Plan are allocated among eligible participants in the proportion of their salaries to the total salaries of all participants. There were no
discretionary profit-sharing contributions made in fiscal 2010, 2009, or 2008.      The Company also sponsors other 401(k) plans that arose
from acquisitions of other companies. The Company s contributions to these plans were not material to the Company on either an individual or aggregate basis for any of the fiscal years presented.   
   (d) Deferred Compensation Plans       The Cisco Systems, Inc.
Deferred Compensation Plan (the  Deferred Compensation Plan ), a nonqualified deferred compensation plan, became effective in 2007. As required by applicable law, participation in the Deferred Compensation Plan is limited to a select group
of the Company s management employees. Under the Deferred Compensation Plan, which is an unfunded and unsecured deferred compensation arrangement, a participant may elect to defer base salary, bonus, and/or commissions, pursuant to such rules
as may be established by the Company, up to the maximum percentages for each deferral election as described in the plan. The Company may also, at its discretion, make a matching contribution to the employee under the Deferred Compensation Plan. A
matching contribution equal to 4.5% of eligible compensation in excess of the Internal Revenue Code limit for qualified plans for   
     
   2010 Annual Report  71   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

calendar year 2010 that is deferred by participants under the Deferred Compensation Plan, with a $1.5 million cap on eligible compensation, will be made to eligible participants  accounts at
the end of calendar year 2010. The deferred compensation liability under the Deferred Compensation Plan, together with a deferred compensation plan assumed from Scientific-Atlanta, was approximately $280 million and $220 million as of July 31,
2010 and July 25, 2009, respectively, and was recorded primarily in other long-term liabilities.       14. Income Taxes
       (a) Provision for Income Taxes       The provision
for income taxes consists of the following (in millions):       
    Income before
provision for income taxes consists of the following (in millions):       
    The items
accounting for the difference between income taxes computed at the federal statutory rate and the provision for income taxes consists of the following:       
    During
fiscal 2010, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (the  Ninth Circuit ) withdrew its prior holding and reaffirmed the 2005 U.S. Tax Court ruling in  Xilinx, Inc. v. Commissioner . This final decision impacted the tax
treatment of share-based compensation expenses for the purpose of determining intangible development costs under a company s research and development cost sharing arrangement. While the Company was not a named party to the case, this decision
resulted in a change in the Company s tax benefits recognized in its financial statements. As a result of the decision, the Company recognized tax   
     
   72  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

benefits of $158 million as a reduction to the provision for income taxes, or an impact of 1.7 percentage points as presented under the caption of  Transfer pricing adjustment related to
share-based compensation  in the preceding table. In addition, an increase was recorded to additional paid-in capital for $566 million. The fiscal 2010 tax benefits above effectively reverse the related charges that the Company incurred during
fiscal 2009.      The tax provision in fiscal 2009 included a net tax benefit of $106 million, related to the R D tax credit for fiscal
2008, as a result of the Tax Extenders and Alternative Minimum Tax Relief Act of 2008 which reinstated the U.S. federal R D tax credit retroactive to January 1, 2008. The tax provision in fiscal 2008 included tax expense of $229 million
related to the intercompany realignment of certain of the Company s foreign operations and a net tax benefit of $162 million related to a settlement of certain tax matters with the IRS.   
  U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes associated with the repatriation of earnings of foreign subsidiaries were not provided for on a
cumulative total of $31.6 billion of undistributed earnings for certain foreign subsidiaries as of the end of fiscal 2010. The Company intends to reinvest these earnings indefinitely in its foreign subsidiaries. If these earnings were distributed to
the United States in the form of dividends or otherwise, or if the shares of the relevant foreign subsidiaries were sold or otherwise transferred, the Company would be subject to additional U.S. income taxes (subject to an adjustment for foreign tax
credits) and foreign withholding taxes. Determination of the amount of unrecognized deferred income tax liability related to these earnings is not practicable.   
  As a result of certain employment and capital investment actions, the Company s income in certain foreign countries is subject to reduced tax
rates and in some cases is wholly exempt from taxes. A portion of these tax incentives will expire at the end of fiscal 2015 and the majority of the remaining balance will expire at the end of fiscal 2025. As of the end of the respective fiscal
years, the gross income tax benefits attributable to these tax incentives were estimated to be $1.7 billion ($0.30 per diluted share) in fiscal 2010, $1.3 billion ($0.22 per diluted share) in fiscal 2009, and $1.6 billion ($0.26 per diluted share)
in fiscal 2008. These gross income tax benefits for the respective years were partially offset by accruals of U.S. income taxes on undistributed earnings.   
   (b) Unrecognized Tax Benefits       The aggregate changes in the
balance of gross unrecognized tax benefits were as follows (in millions):       
 
   (1) The beginning balance of the unrecognized tax benefits for the
year ended July 26, 2008 included a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle for $451 million.      As of July 31, 2010, $2.3 billion
of the unrecognized tax benefits would affect the effective tax rate if realized. During fiscal 2010, the Company recognized $167 million of net interest income and $5 million of penalties. During 2009, the Company recognized $158 million of
net interest expense and $5 million of penalties. The Company s total accrual for interest and penalties was $167 million and $329 million as of the end of fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively. The Company is no longer subject to U.S. federal
income tax audit for returns covering tax years through fiscal 2001. With limited exceptions, the Company is no longer subject to state and local or foreign income tax audits for returns covering tax years through fiscal 1997.   
  During fiscal 2010, the Ninth Circuit withdrew its prior holding and reaffirmed the 2005 U.S. Tax Court ruling in  Xilinx, Inc. v.
Commissioner . As a result of this final decision, the Company decreased the amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits by approximately $220 million and decreased the amount of accrued interest by $218 million.   
  During fiscal 2009, the Company increased the amount of unrecognized tax benefits by approximately $214 million and increased the amount of accrued
interest by $197 million as a result of the Ninth Circuit s initial decision.      During fiscal 2008, the Company and the IRS agreed to
a settlement with respect to certain tax issues related to U.S. income inclusions arising from the Company s international operations for fiscal years ended July 27, 2002 through July 29, 2006. As a result of the settlement, the
Company reduced the amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits by approximately $1.0 billion. The Company also reduced the amount of accrued interest by $39 million. In addition, the IRS has proposed other adjustments that are not covered under the
settlement agreement related to fiscal years ended July 27, 2002 through July 31, 2004. The Company timely filed a protest with IRS Appeals on these proposed adjustments. The Company believes that adequate amounts have been reserved for
any adjustments that may ultimately result from these examinations.         
   2010 Annual Report  73   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
     
   Although timing of the resolution of audits is highly uncertain, the Company does not believe it
is reasonably possible that the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits as of July 31, 2010 will materially change in the next 12 months.       (c)
Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities       The following table presents the breakdown between current and noncurrent net deferred tax assets (in millions):
      
    The components of
the deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows (in millions):       
    As of
July 31, 2010, the Company s federal, state, and foreign net operating loss carryforwards for income tax purposes were $325 million, $1.6 billion, and $252 million, respectively. If not utilized, the federal net operating loss
carryforwards will begin to expire in fiscal 2019, the state net operating loss carryforwards will begin to expire in fiscal 2011, and the foreign net operating loss carryforwards will begin to expire in fiscal 2012. As of July 31, 2010, the
Company s federal and state tax credit carryforwards for income tax purposes were approximately $8 million and $584 million, respectively. If not utilized, the federal and state tax credit carryforwards will begin to expire in fiscal 2011.
      15. Segment Information and Major Customers    
  The Company designs, manufactures, and sells Internet Protocol (IP)-based networking and other products related to the communications and IT industry and provides
services associated with these products and their use. Cisco products include routers, switches, advanced technologies, and other products. These products, primarily integrated by Cisco IOS Software, link geographically dispersed local-area networks
(LANs), metropolitan-area networks (MANs) and wide-area networks (WANs).         
   74  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
     
    (a) Net Sales and Gross Margin by Theater    
  The Company conducts business globally and is primarily managed on a geographic basis. The Company s management makes financial decisions and allocates
resources based on the information it receives from its internal management system. Sales are attributed to a geographic theater based on the ordering location of the customer.   
  The Company does not allocate research and development, sales and marketing, or general and administrative expenses to its geographic theaters in
this internal management system because management does not include the information in its measurement of the performance of the operating segments. In addition, the Company does not allocate amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets,
share-based compensation expense, charges related to asset impairments and restructurings, and certain other charges to the gross margin for each theater because management does not include this information in its measurement of the performance of
the operating segments.      Summarized financial information by theater for fiscal 2010, 2009, and 2008, based on the Company s
internal management system and as utilized by the Company s Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM), is as follows (in millions):       
 
   (1)  Net sales in the United States were $20.4 billion, $18.2
billion, and $20.1 billion for fiscal 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively.   
   (2)  The unallocated corporate items include the effects of
amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets; share-based compensation expense; and, for the year ended July 25, 2009, it also includes charges related to asset impairments and restructurings.   
  Certain reclassifications have been made to amounts for prior years to conform to the current year s presentation.   
   (b) Net Sales for Groups of Similar Products and Services    
  The following table presents net sales for groups of similar products and services (in millions):   
   
    Certain
reclassifications have been made to amounts for prior years to conform to the current year s presentation.      The Company refers to
some of its products and technologies as advanced technologies. For the periods presented, advanced technologies consisted of application networking services, home networking, security, storage area networking, unified communications, video systems,
and wireless technology.         
   2010 Annual Report  75   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
     
    (c) Other Segment Information    
  The majority of the Company s assets, excluding cash and cash equivalents and investments, as of July 31, 2010 and July 25, 2009 were attributable to
its U.S. operations. The Company s total cash and cash equivalents and investments held outside of the United States in various foreign subsidiaries was $33.2 billion and $29.1 billion as of July 31, 2010 and July 25, 2009,
respectively, and the remaining $6.7 billion and $5.9 billion at the respective year ends was held in the United States. In fiscal 2010, 2009, and 2008, no single customer accounted for 10% or more of the Company s net sales.   
  Property and equipment information is based on the physical location of the assets. The following table presents property and equipment information
for geographic areas (in millions):       
 
   16. Net Income per Share       The following
table presents the calculation of basic and diluted net income per share (in millions, except per-share amounts):       
    Employee equity
share options, unvested shares, and similar equity instruments granted by the Company are treated as potential common shares outstanding in computing diluted earnings per share. Diluted shares outstanding include the dilutive effect of in-the-money
options, unvested restricted stock, and restricted stock units. The dilutive effect of such equity awards is calculated based on the average share price for each fiscal period using the treasury stock method. Under the treasury stock method, the
amount the employee must pay for exercising stock options, the amount of compensation cost for future service that the Company has not yet recognized, and the amount of tax benefits that would be recorded in additional paid-in capital when the award
becomes deductible, are collectively assumed to be used to repurchase shares.         
   76  Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Supplementary Financial Data (Unaudited)   
  (in millions, except per-share amounts)         
     Stock Market Information
      Cisco common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol CSCO. The following table lists the high and low sales prices for
each period indicated:       
    The Company has never paid cash dividends on its common
stock. The Company intends to begin paying a cash dividend on its common stock during fiscal 2011. There were 62,867 registered shareholders as of September 15, 2010.       
  
   2010 Annual Report  77   

Stock Performance
Graph       The following graph shows a five-year comparison of the cumulative total shareholder return on Cisco common stock with the cumulative total
returns of the S P Information Technology Index and the S P 500 Index. The graph tracks the performance of a $100 investment in the Company s common stock and in each of the indexes (with the reinvestment of all dividends) on
July 29, 2005. No cash dividends have been declared on Cisco common stock. Shareholder returns over the indicated period are based on historical data and should not be considered indicative of future shareholder returns.   
   Comparison of 5-Year Cumulative Total Return Among Cisco Systems, Inc.,    
   the S P Information Technology Index and the S P 500 Index    

2010 Annual Report  78   

</EX-13.1>

<EX-21.1>
 5
 dex211.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

Subsidiaries of the Registrant 

EXHIBIT 21.1    
   SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT        

Subsidiaries    
      
   State Or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Organization    
 
    3010081 Nova Scotia Company   
      
  Canada   
 
    3045848 Nova Scotia Company   
      
  Canada   
 
    3048504 Nova Scotia Company   
      
  Canada   
 
    3801110 Canada Inc.   
      
  Canada   
 
    Actona Technologies Ltd.   
      
  Israel   
 
    Airespace Wireless Networks Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Aironet Canada Inc.   
      
  Canada   
 
    Aironet Canada Limited   
      
  Canada   
 
    BarcoNet Pty. Ltd.   
      
  Australia   
 
    Broadware Technologies LLC   
      
  California   
 
    Callway LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cisco Albania SHPK   
      
  Albania   
 
    Cisco Bahrain (SPC)   
      
  Bahrain   
 
    Cisco Cameroon Limited   
      
  Cameroon   
 
    Cisco Capital (Dubai) Limited   
      
  Dubai   
 
    Cisco Comercio E Servicos de Hardware E Software do Brasil LTDA   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Cisco Consumer Products LLC   
      
  California   
 
    Cisco Consumer Products Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Cisco Development India Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Cisco do Brasil Ltda.   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Cisco Fast Data, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cisco International Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Cisco Iris, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cisco IronPort Systems LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cisco ISH B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Cisco ISH II B.V   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Cisco Linksys Kiss ApS   
      
  Denmark   
 
    Cisco Malaysia Managed Services Sdn. Bhd   
      
  Malaysia   
 
    Cisco Managed Services Nigeria Limited   
      
  Nigeria   
 
    Cisco Managed Solutions, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cisco Media Solutions, Inc.   
      
  California   
 
    Cisco MO B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Cisco Photonics Italy S.r.l.   
      
  Italy   
 
    Cisco QSTP-LLC   
      
  Qatar   
 
    Cisco Ravenscourt LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cisco RZ LLC (formerly Richard Zeta Intelligence, Inc.)   
      
  California   
 
    Cisco Serbia doo Beograd   
      
  Serbia   Montenegro   
 
    Cisco Services Korea Limited   
      
  Korea, Republic of   
 
    Cisco Services Malaysia Sdn. Bhd.   
      
  Malaysia   
 
    Cisco Systems (Argentina) S.A.   
      
  Argentina   
 
    Cisco Systems (Bermuda) Holdings Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Cisco Systems (Bermuda) Ltd   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Cisco Systems (China) Information Technology Services Limited   
      
  China   
 
    Cisco Systems (China) Networking Technology Co., Ltd.   
      
  China   
 
    Cisco Systems (China) Research and Development Co., Ltd.   
      
  China   
 
    Cisco Systems (Colombia) Limitada   
      
  Colombia   
 
    Cisco Systems (Czech Republic) S.R.O.   
      
  Czech Republic   
 
    Cisco Systems (Ethiopia) PLC   
      
  Ethiopia   
 
    Cisco Systems (HK) Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Cisco Systems (HK) Holdings Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Cisco Systems (India) Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Cisco Systems (Italy) S.r.l.   
      
  Italy   
 
    Cisco Systems (Jordan)   
      
  Jordan   
 
    Cisco Systems (Korea) Limited   
      
  Korea   
 
    Cisco Systems (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd   
      
  Malaysia   
 
    Cisco Systems (Nigeria) Limited   
      
  Nigeria    

Subsidiaries    
      
   State Or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Organization    

Cisco Systems (Puerto Rico) Corp.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cisco Systems (Scotland) Limited   
      
  Scotland   
 
    Cisco Systems (Senegal) SUARL   
      
  Senegal   
 
    Cisco Systems (Shanghai) Video Technology Co. Ltd.   
      
  Shanghai   
 
    Cisco Systems (South Africa) (Proprietary) Limited   
      
  South Africa   
 
    Cisco Systems (Spain) S.L.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Cisco Systems (Sweden) AB   
      
  Sweden   
 
    Cisco Systems (Switzerland) GmbH   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Cisco Systems (Switzerland) Investments Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Cisco Systems (Thailand) Limited   
      
  Thailand   
 
    Cisco Systems (Trinidad   Tobago) Limited   
      
  Trinidad   Tobago   
 
    Cisco Systems (USA) Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Cisco Systems Algeria EURL   
      
  Algeria   
 
    Cisco Systems Australia Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Cisco Systems Austria GmbH   
      
  Austria   
 
    Cisco Systems Belgium BVBA/SPRL   
      
  Belgium   
 
    Cisco Systems Bulgaria EOOD   
      
  Bulgaria   
 
    Cisco Systems Canada Co./Les Systemes Cisco Canada Cie   
      
  Canada   
 
    Cisco Systems Canada IP Holdings Company   
      
  Canada   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital (Australia) Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital (India) Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital (Korea) Limited   
      
  Korea   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital Asia Pte. Ltd   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital Canada Co./Les Systemes Cisco Capital Canada Cie   
      
  Canada   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital China Corporation   
      
  China   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital Corporation   
      
  Nevada   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital France SAS   
      
  France   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital Italy S.r.l.   
      
  Italy   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital K.K.   
      
  Japan   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital Netherlands B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital Sdn. Bhd.   
      
  Malaysia   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital South Africa (Proprietary) Limited   
      
  South Africa   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital Spain, S.L.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital Thailand Limited   
      
  Thailand   
 
    Cisco Systems Chile S.A.   
      
  Chile   
 
    Cisco Systems Co.   
      
  Canada   
 
    Cisco Systems Costa Rica, Sociedad Anonima   
      
  Costa Rica   
 
    Cisco Systems Croatia Ltd. For Trade   
      
  Croatia   
 
    Cisco Systems Cyprus Ltd.   
      
  Cyprus   
 
    Cisco Systems de Mexico, S.A. de C.V.   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Cisco Systems Danmark ApS   
      
  Denmark   
 
    Cisco Systems Dominicana, S.A.   
      
  Dominican Republic   
 
    Cisco Systems Ecuador S.A.   
      
  Ecuador   
 
    Cisco Systems Egypt Ltd.   
      
  Egypt   
 
    Cisco Systems El Salvador, Ltda. De C.V.   
      
  El Salvador   
 
    Cisco Systems Estonia OU   
      
  Estonia   
 
    Cisco Systems Finance International   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Cisco Systems Finance International Holdings I Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Cisco Systems Finance International Holdings II Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Cisco Systems Finance International Holdings III Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Cisco Systems Finance International Holdings IV Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Cisco Systems Finance International Holdings V Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Cisco Systems Finance International Holdings VI Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Cisco Systems Finland Oy   
      
  Finland   
 
    Cisco Systems France Sarl   
      
  France   
 
    Cisco Systems G.K.   
      
  Japan   
 
    Cisco Systems Global Holdings Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Cisco Systems GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Cisco Systems Holding GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Cisco Systems Hungary Ltd. / Cisco Systems Hungary Servicing and Trading Limited Liability Company   
      
  Hungary   
 
    Cisco Systems International B.V.   
      
  Netherlands    

Subsidiaries    
      
   State Or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Organization    

Cisco Systems International Holdings Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Cisco Systems International Sarl   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Cisco Systems Internetworking (Ireland) Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Cisco Systems Internetworking d.o.o. za marketing, tehnicke I druge usluge Sarajevo   
      
  Bosnia   Herzegovina   
 
    Cisco Systems Internetworking Hellas S.A.   
      
  Greece   
 
    Cisco Systems Internetworking Iletisim Hizmetleri Limited Sirketi   
      
  Turkey   
 
    Cisco Systems Island Ehf.   
      
  Iceland   
 
    Cisco Systems Israel Ltd.   
      
  Israel   
 
    Cisco Systems Jamaica Limited   
      
  Jamaica   
 
    Cisco Systems Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Cisco Systems Luxembourg International S.a.r.l.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Cisco Systems Luxembourg S.a.r.l.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Cisco Systems Macedonia Dooel Skopje   
      
  Macedonia   
 
    Cisco Systems Management B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Cisco Systems Management GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Cisco Systems Management Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Cisco Systems Mo ambique, Limitada   
      
  Mozambique   
 
    Cisco Systems Netherlands Holdings B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Cisco Systems New Zealand Limited   
      
  New Zealand   
 
    Cisco Systems Norway AS   
      
  Norway   
 
    Cisco Systems Norway Holdings AS   
      
  Norway   
 
    Cisco Systems Pakistan (Private) Limited   
      
  Pakistan   
 
    Cisco Systems Panama S. De R.L.   
      
  Panama   
 
    Cisco Systems Peru S.A.   
      
  Peru   
 
    Cisco Systems Poland Sp. Z o.o.   
      
  Poland   
 
    Cisco Systems Portugal  Sistemas Inform ticos, Sociedade Unipessoal, Limitada   
      
  Portugal   
 
    Cisco Systems Romania S.R.L.   
      
  Romania   
 
    Cisco Systems Services B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Cisco Systems Slovakia, SPOL. S R.O.   
      
  Slovakia   
 
    Cisco Systems Taiwan Ltd.   
      
  Taiwan   
 
    Cisco Systems Uruguay S.R.L.   
      
  Uruguay   
 
    Cisco Systems Venezuela, C.A.   
      
  Venezuela   
 
    Cisco Systems Video Technology Canada Inc.   
      
  Canada   
 
    Cisco Systems Vietnam Limited   
      
  Vietnam   
 
    Cisco Systems Wireless Networking (Australia) Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Cisco Technology, Inc.   
      
  California   
 
    Cisco Technology (China) Co., Ltd.   
      
  China   
 
    Cisco Technology and Services (South Africa) (Pty.) Limited   
      
  South Africa   
 
    Cisco TelePresence Suites LLC   
      
  California   
 
    Cisco THV LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cisco Tunisia SARL   
      
  Tunisia   
 
    Cisco WebEx LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cisco Worldwide Holdings Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Cisco-Linksys (Chengdu) Networking Technology Co., Ltd.   
      
  China   
 
    Cisco-Linksys (HK) Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Cisco-Navini Networks LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Codian APAC Pty, Ltd   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Codian Australia Pty. Ltd.   
      
  Australia   
 
    CoreOptics GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    CoreOptics LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    CSI (BD) Mauritius Inc   
      
  Mauritius   
 
    CSI Mauritius Inc.   
      
  Mauritius   
 
    Divitech A/S   
      
  Denmark   
 
    Fibercore Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Flip Video UK Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Greenfield Networks LLC   
      
  California   
 
    Greenfield Networks Technologies Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Infogear Technology (Israel) Ltd.   
      
  Israel   
 
    IronPort APAC Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    IronPort do Brasil Intermediacao de Servicos Ltda   
      
  Brazil   
 
    IronPort EMEA, Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    IronPort Systems GmbH   
      
  Germany    

Subsidiaries    
      
   State Or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Organization    

IronPort Systems Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Jabber LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Limited Liability Company Cisco Capital CIS   
      
  Russia   
 
    LLC Cisco Systems   
      
  Russia   
 
    Moto Asia Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Moto Development Group LLC   
      
  California   
 
    Navini Networks Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Nihon Tandberg K.K.   
      
  Japan   
 
    Orative Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    PostPath LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    PostX LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    P-Cube Ltd.   
      
  Israel   
 
    PT Cisco Systems Indonesia   
      
  Indonesia   
 
    Pure Digital Technologies LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pure Networks LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Radiata, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Reactivity LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Rohati Systems, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    SA Japan K.K.   
      
  Japan   
 
    SA Limited Enterprises LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    SA Management Enterprises LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Sammex, L.P.   
      
  Texas   
 
    Scansafe Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Scansafe LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Scansafe Services LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta LLC   
      
  Georgia   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta (HK) Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta (Shanghai) Company Limited   
      
  China   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta Argentina S.A.   
      
  Argentina   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta Belgium BVBA   
      
  Belgium   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta Canada Company   
      
  Canada   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta China, LLC   
      
  California   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta de Mexico, S. De R.L. de C.V..   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta do Brasil Ltda.   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta Europe BVBA   
      
  Belgium   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta Financial Enterprises, LLC   
      
  Georgia   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta Holdings BV   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta Iberia, S.L.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta India Sales   Service Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta India Technology Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta Italy S.R.L.   
      
  Italy   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta Korea Co., Ltd.   
      
  Korea   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta Pty. Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta Strategic Investments, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta Vancouver Company   
      
  Canada   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta Western Europe Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Securent LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Securent (India) Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    SIA  Cisco Latvia    
      
  Latvia   
 
    Starent do Brasil LTDA.   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Starent International LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Starent Networks (India) Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Starent Networks (UK) Ltd   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Starent Networks Beijing Co, Ltd   
      
  China   
 
    Starent Networks Canada Limited   
      
  Canada   
 
    Starent Networks de Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V.   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Starent Networks India Sales and Services Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Starent Networks Japan G.K.   
      
  Japan   
 
    Starent Networks Korea   
      
  Korea, Republic of   
 
    Starent Networks LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Starent Networks Spain, S.L.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Tandberg AS   
      
  Norway    

Subsidiaries    
      
   State Or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Organization    

Tandberg Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Tandberg Australia Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Tandberg Canada Inc.   
      
  Canada   
 
    Tandberg do Brasil Comunicacao Ltda   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Tandberg Finance AS   
      
  Norway   
 
    Tandberg India Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Tandberg LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Tandberg NZ Limited   
      
  New Zealand   
 
    Tandberg Products UK Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Tandberg Research LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Tandberg Services LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Tandberg Technology (India) Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Tandberg Telecom AS   
      
  Norway   
 
    Tandberg Telecom UK Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Tandberg UK Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Tandberg Visual Communications International Trading (Beijing) Co., Ltd.   
      
  China   
 
    Tidal Software Limited   
      
  UK   
 
    Tidal Software LLC   
      
  California   
 
    Topspin Communications LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Topspin Communication Technologies India Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    UAB  Cisco LT    
      
  Lithuania   
 
    WebEx (China) Software Co., Ltd.   
      
  China   
 
    WebEx Asia Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    WebEx Australia Pty. Ltd.   
      
  Australia   
 
    WebEx Communications Deutschland GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    WebEx Communications France Sarl   
      
  France   
 
    WebEx Communications India, Pvt. Ltd.   
      
  India   
 
    WebEx Communications Japan, K.K.   
      
  Japan   
 
    WebEx Communications UK, Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    WebEx Worldwide B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    WebEx Communications B.V.   
      
  Netherlands    

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 6
 dex231.htm
 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

EXHIBIT 23.1    
   CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM    
  We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-3 (Nos.: 333-17839, 333-20157, 333-24559,
333-33093, 333-33663, 333-36197, 333-47191, 333-47191, 333-49141, 333-51089, 333-51487, 333-51089, 333-58533, 333-65867, 333-65867, 333-67789, 333-79941, 333-82945, 333-84663, 333-88917, 333-89893, 333-91241, 333-91239, 333-91285, 333-91897,
333-89893, 333-92439, 333-92441, 333-92435, 333-92439, 333-94225, 333-94365, 333-94753, 333-94753, 333-94225, 333-89893, 333-92435, 333-91897, 333-91239, 333-91241, 333-88917, 333-91285, 333-92441, 333-92439, 333-94365, 333-34400, 333-36034,
333-36156, 333-34400, 333-36156, 333-38738, 333-39086, 333-39818, 333-39086, 333-39858, 333-39086, 333-43628, 333-45788, 333-45794, 333-45898, 333-46124, 333-47920, 333-47922, 333-51118, 333-46124, 333-51118, 333-51118, 333-51118, 333-56004,
333-56960, 333-57328, 333-56960, 333-57328, 333-131723, 333-157177) dated December 13, 1996, January 22, 1997, April 4, 1997, August 7, 1997, August 14, 1997, September 23,
1997, March 2, 1998, March 9, 1998, April 1, 1998, April 27, 1998, April 30, 1998, May 1, 1998, July 6, 1998, October 19, 1998, November 9,
1998, November 24, 1998, June 4, 1999, July 15, 1999, August 6, 1999, October 13, 1999, October 29, 1999, November 18, 1999, November 18, 1999, November 19,
1999, December 1, 1999, December 9, 1999, December 9, 1999, December 9, 1999, December 9, 1999, January 4, 2000, January 7, 2000, January 10, 2000, January 14,
2000, February 4, 2000, February 4, 2000, February 4, 2000, February 4, 2000, February 4, 2000, February 4, 2000, February 4, 2000, February 4, 2000, February 4,
2000, February 4, 2000, February 4, 2000, February 10, 2000, April 10, 2000, May 1, 2000, May 3, 2000, May 9, 2000, May 9, 2000, June 7, 2000, June 12,
2000, June 21, 2000, June 21, 2000, June 22, 2000, June 22, 2000, August 11, 2000, September 14, 2000, September 14, 2000, September 15, 2000, September 19, 2000,
October 13, 2000, October 13, 2000, December 1, 2000, December 6, 2000, December 12, 2000, January 3, 2001, January 4, 2001, February 21, 2001, March 13,
2001, March 20, 2001, March 22, 2001, April 4, 2001, February 10, 2006, and February 9, 2009, respectively, of Cisco Systems, Inc. and on Form S-8 (Nos.: 33-63331, 33-64283, 333-64283 [Post Eff.], 333-01069,
333-02101, 333-05447 [Post Eff.], 333-09903, 333-14383, 333-14661, 333-14679, 333-16577, 333-17287, 333-24741, 333-33613, 333-33619, 333-35805, 333-01069 [Post Eff.], 333-34849 [Post Eff.], 33-40509 [Post Eff.], 33-44221 [Post Eff.], 33-71860 [Post
Eff.], 33-87096 [Post Eff.], 333-42249, 333-47159, 333-48949, 333-48949 [Post Eff.], 333-51093, 333-51315, 333-42249 [Post Eff.], 333-64651, 333-65871,333-68335, 333-69117, 333-74237, 333-79717, 333-79721, 333-81971, 333-83045, 333-83277, 333-88695,
333-88699, 333-88831, 333-90883, 333-90885, 333-83227 [Post Eff.], 333-91813, 333-91911, 333-93283, 333-93281, 333-96203, 333-96367, 333-35246, 333-36124, 333-36126, 333-36414, 333-39108, 333-39902, 333-43120, 333-43632, 333-45478, 333-47828,
333-51114, 333-51280, 333-54248, 333-55742, 333-56224, 333-56756, 333-56916, 333-58556, 333-76184, 333-42249 [Post Eff.], 333-91258, 333-96797, 333-42249 [Post Eff.], 333-101340, 333-102623, 333-105300, 333-105713, 333-106284, 333-111977,
333-111995, 333-113993, 333-1114558, 333-118238, 333-118870, 333-119954, 333-120064, 333-120843, 333-120844, 333-121307, 333-122946, 333-123872, 333-125568, 333-125570, 333-125573, 333-126430, 333-126841, 333-128755, 333-129719, 333-132050,
333-133436, 333-135687, 333-135688, 333-137653, 333-137654, 333-139175, 333-140069, 333-141123, 333-141945, 333-142332, 333-142333, 333-143389, 333-143506, 333-143997, 333-144305, 333-147522, 333-147523, 333-147763, 333-148576, 333-153248,
333-153808, 333-155494, 333-157368, 333-159679, 333-159681, 333-163864, 333-163953, 333-163954, 333-167430, and 333-168364) dated October 11, 1995, November 15, 1995, February 20, 1996, February 20,
1996, April 1, 1996, July 29, 1996, August 9, 1996, October 18, 1996, October 23, 1996, October 23, 1996, November 21, 1996, December 5, 1996, April 8,
1997, August 14, 1997, August 14, 1997, September 17, 1997, December 10, 1997, December 10, 1997, December 10, 1997, December 10, 1997, December 10,
1997, December 10, 1997, December 15, 1997, March 2, 1998, March 31, 1998, April 13, 1998, April 27, 1998, April 29, 1998, September 28, 1998, September 29,
1998, October 19, 1998, December 3, 1998, December 17, 1998, March 11, 1999, June 1, 1999, June 1, 1999, June 30, 1999, July 16, 1999, July 20, 1999,
October 8, 1999, October 8, 1999, October 12, 1999, November 12, 1999, November 12, 1999, November 12, 1999, November 30, 1999, December 1, 1999, December 21,
1999, December 21, 1999, February 4, 2000, February 8, 2000, April 20, 2000, May 2, 2000, May 2, 2000, May 5, 2000, June 12, 2000, June 22,
2000, August 4, 2000, August 11, 2000, September 8, 2000, October 12, 2000, December 1, 2000, December 5, 2000, January 24, 2001, February 16, 2001, February 26,
2001, March 8, 2001, March 12, 2001, April 9, 2001, January 2, 2002, June 25, 2002, June 26, 2002, July 19, 2002, August 20, 2002, November 20,
2002, January 21, 2003, May 15, 2003, May 30, 2003, June 19, 2003, January 16, 2004, January 16, 2004, March 29, 2004, April 19, 2004, August 13, 2004,
September 8, 2004, October 26, 2004, October 29, 2004, November 30, 2004, November 30, 2004, December 16, 2004, February 22, 2005, April 6, 2005, June 6,
2005, June 6, 2005, June 6, 2005, July 6, 2005, July 25, 2005, September 30, 2005, November 15, 2005, February 27, 2006, April 20, 2006, July 11, 2006, July 11,
2006, September 28, 2006, September 28, 2006, December 7, 2006, January 18, 2007, March 7, 2007, April 6, 2007, April 24, 2007, April 24, 2007, May 31,
2007, June 5, 2007, June 22, 2007, July 3, 2007, November 20, 2007, November 20, 2007, December 3, 2007, January 10, 2008, August 29, 2008, October 2, 2008,
November 20, 2008, February 17, 2009, June 2, 2009, June 2, 2009, December 18, 2009, December 23, 2009, December 23, 2009, June 10, 2010, and July 28, 2010, respectively, of
Cisco Systems, Inc. of our report dated September 20, 2010 relating to the consolidated financial statements and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in the 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders, which is
incorporated in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We also consent to the incorporation by reference of our report dated September 20, 2010 relating to the financial statement schedule, which appears in this Form 10-K.   
  /s/ P RICEWATERHOUSE C OOPERS  LLP   
  San Jose, California      September 20, 2010

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 7
 dex311.htm
 RULE 13A-14(A)/15D-14(A) CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER

Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of Principal Executive Officer 

EXHIBIT 31.1    
   CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER    
   PURSUANT TO EXCHANGE ACT RULE 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a)    
   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 302    
   OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002    
  I, John T. Chambers, certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Cisco Systems, Inc.;         

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:     

(a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;     

(b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;     

(c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

(d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

(a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize, and report financial information; and         

(b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.        Date: September 21, 2010       

/ S /    J OHN  T.
C HAMBERS             
 
     John T. Chambers   
   Chairman and Chief Executive Officer   
   (Principal Executive Officer)      

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 8
 dex312.htm
 RULE 13A-14(A)/15D-14(A) CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER

Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of Principal Financial Officer 

EXHIBIT 31.2    
   CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER    
   PURSUANT TO EXCHANGE ACT RULE 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a)    
   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 302    
   OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002    
  I, Frank A. Calderoni, certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Cisco Systems, Inc.;         

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:     

(a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;     

(b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;     

(c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

(d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

(a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize, and report financial information; and         

(b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.        Date: September 21, 2010       

/ S /    F RANK  A.
C ALDERONI             
 
     Frank A. Calderoni   
   Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer   
   (Principal Financial Officer)      

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 9
 dex321.htm
 SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER

Section 1350 Certification of Principal Executive Officer 

EXHIBIT 32.1    
   CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER    
   PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350    
   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906    
   OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002    
  I, John T. Chambers, do hereby certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that, to my knowledge:       

The Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2010, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the
 Report ), fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and          

The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.
        Date: September 21, 2010       

/s/    J OHN  T.
C HAMBERS             
 
     John T. Chambers   
   Chairman and Chief Executive Officer   
   (Principal Executive Officer)      

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 10
 dex322.htm
 SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER

Section 1350 Certification of Principal Financial Officer 

EXHIBIT 32.2    
   CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER    
   PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350    
   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906    
   OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002    
  I, Frank A. Calderoni, do hereby certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that, to my knowledge:       

The Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2010, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the
 Report ), fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and          

The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.
        Date: September 21, 2010       

/s/    F RANK  A.
C ALDERONI             
 
     Frank A. Calderoni   
   Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer   
   (Principal Financial Officer)      

</EX-32.2>

<EX-101.INS>
 11
 csco-20100731.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 12
 csco-20100731.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 13
 csco-20100731_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 14
 csco-20100731_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 15
 csco-20100731_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 16
 csco-20100731_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

