<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20110914_10-K_edgar_data_858877_0001193125-11-247394_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>20682516</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>830437</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>4979234</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>4282617</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>6566446</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>3443030</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>110</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>13</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-11-247394.hdr.sgml : 20110914
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20110914063432
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-11-247394
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		19
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20110730
FILED AS OF DATE:		20110914
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20110914

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			CISCO SYSTEMS INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000858877
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	COMPUTER COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT [3576]
		IRS NUMBER:				770059951
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			CA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0728

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-18225
		FILM NUMBER:		111089320

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		170 WEST TASMAN DR
		CITY:			SAN JOSE
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			95134-1706
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4085264000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		225 WEST TASMAN DR
		CITY:			SAN JOSE
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			95134-1706

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001193125-11-247394.txt : 20110914

10-K
 1
 d202951d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

UNITED STATES    
   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549         
        FORM 10-K
       (Mark one)    
 
   For the fiscal year ended July 30, 2011        or        
 
   For the transition period
from              to                    Commission file number 0-18225         
        CISCO SYSTEMS,
INC.        (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)    
   
     Registrant s telephone number, including area code: (408) 526-4000    
   Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:    

Title of Each Class:    
     
     Name of Each Exchange on which Registered     

Common Stock, par value $0.001 per share  
     
  The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC   
     Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None    
         
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.         Yes         No   
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act.         Yes         No   
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
days.         Yes         No   
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive
Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such
files).         Yes         No   
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will
not be contained to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.           Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

Large accelerated filer  

Accelerated filer  

Non-accelerated filer  
     
       (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)  
      
  Smaller reporting company  

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act).         Yes         No   
  Aggregate market value of registrant s common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant, based upon the closing price of a share
of the registrant s common stock on January 28, 2011 as reported by the NASDAQ Global Select Market on that date: $115,714,190,905      Number of shares of the registrant s common stock outstanding as of September 8, 2011: 5,382,854,827        
        DOCUMENTS
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE       Portions of the registrant s Proxy Statement relating to the registrant s 2011 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders, to be held on December 7, 2011, are incorporated by reference into Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K where indicated.       

Table of Contents  

       PART I     

Item 1.  
      
     Business    

1  

General    

1  

Products and Services    

1  

Customers and Markets    

7  

Sales Overview    

8  

Product Backlog    

9  

Acquisitions, Investments, and Alliances    

9  

Competition    

10  

Research and Development    

11  

Manufacturing    

11  

Patents, Intellectual Property, and Licensing    

12  

Employees    

12  

Executive Officers of the Registrant    

13  

Item 1A.  
      
     Risk Factors    

15  

Item 1B.  
      
     Unresolved Staff Comments    

33  

Item 2.  
      
     Properties    

33  

Item 3.  
      
     Legal Proceedings    

34  

PART II    

Item 5.  
      
     Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

35  

Item 6.  
      
     Selected Financial Data    

37  

Item 7.  
      
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations    

38  

Item 7A.  
      
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk    

74  

Item 8.  
      
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data    

77  

Item 9.  
      
     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure    

131  

Item 9A.  
      
     Controls and Procedures    

131  

Item 9B.  
      
     Other Information    

131  

PART III    

Item 10.  
      
     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance    

131  

Item 11.  
      
     Executive Compensation    

132  

Item 12.  
      
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters    

132  

Item 13.  
      
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence    

132  

Item 14.  
      
     Principal Accountant Fees and Services    

132  

PART IV    

Item 15.  
      
     Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules    

133  

Signatures    

135  

Table of Contents  

    This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the  Management s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,  contains forward-looking statements regarding future events and our future results that are subject to the safe harbors created under the Securities Act of 1933 (the  Securities
Act ) and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ). All statements other than statements of historical facts are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current
expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections about the industries in which we operate and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. Words such as  expects,   anticipates,   targets,   goals, 
 projects,   intends,   plans,   believes,   seeks,   estimates,   continues,   endeavors,   strives,   may,  variations of such words, and similar
expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements that refer to projections of our future financial performance, our anticipated growth and trends in our businesses, and other characterizations of
future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are only predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict, including those
identified below, under  Item 1A. Risk Factors,  and elsewhere herein. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any
forward-looking statements for any reason.        PART I    

Item 1.   
   Business      
     General       We
design, manufacture, and sell Internet Protocol (IP)-based networking and other products related to the communications and information technology (IT) industry and provide services associated with these products and their use. We provide a broad
line of products for transporting data, voice, and video within buildings, across campuses, and around the world. Our products are designed to transform how people connect, communicate, and collaborate. Our products are installed at enterprise
businesses, public institutions, telecommunications companies and other service providers, commercial businesses, and personal residences.      We
conduct our business globally and are managed geographically in four segments: United States and Canada, European Markets, Emerging Markets, and Asia Pacific Markets. The Emerging Markets segment consists of Eastern Europe, Latin America, the Middle
East and Africa, and Russia and the Commonwealth of Independent States. For revenue and other information regarding these segments, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. As we strive for faster decision making with greater
accountability and alignment to support our emerging countries and our five foundational priorities as discussed below, beginning in fiscal 2012, we will organize into the following three geographic segments: The Americas; Europe, Middle East, and
Africa ( EMEA  and Asia Pacific, Japan, and China ( APJC ).      We were incorporated in California in December 1984, and
our headquarters are in San Jose, California. The mailing address of our headquarters is 170 West Tasman Drive, San Jose, California 95134-1706, and our telephone number at that location is (408) 526-4000. Our website is www.cisco.com. Through
a link on the Investor Relations section of our website, we make available the following filings as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ): our
Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. All such filings are available free of
charge.         Products and Services       As part of our business focus on the network as the platform for all forms of communications and IT, our products and services are designed to help our customers use technology to address their business
imperatives   
         1   

Table of Contents  

and opportunities improving productivity and user experience, reducing costs, and gaining a competitive advantage and to help them connect more effectively with their key stakeholders,
including their customers, prospects, business partners, suppliers, and employees. We deliver networking products and solutions designed to simplify and secure customers  network infrastructures. We also deliver products and solutions that
leverage the network to most effectively address market transitions and customer requirements including in recent periods, virtualization, cloud, collaboration, and video. We believe that integrating multiple network services into and across
our products helps our customers reduce their operational complexity, increase their agility and reduce their total cost of network ownership. Our product offerings fall into the following categories: our core technologies, Routing and Switching;
New Products; and Other Products. In addition to our product offerings, we provide a broad range of service offerings, including technical support services and advanced services. Our customer base spans virtually all types of public and private
agencies and businesses, comprising enterprise businesses, service providers, commercial customers, and consumers.      Our products are used
individually or as integrated offerings to connect personal and business computing devices to networks or computer networks with each other whether they are within a building, across a campus, or around the world. Our breadth of product and
service offerings across multiple technology segments enables us to offer a wide range of products and services to meet customer-specific requirements. We also provide products and services that allow customers to transition their various networks
to a single multi-service data, voice, and video network, thereby enabling economies of scale.      Network architectures, built on core routing
and switching technologies, are evolving to accommodate the demands of increasing numbers of users, network applications and new network-related markets. These new markets are a natural extension of our core business and have emerged as the
network has become the platform for provisioning, integrating and delivering an ever-increasing array of IT-based products and services.      We
announced a plan in May 2011, which we began implementing in fiscal 2011 and expect to complete in fiscal 2012, to realign our sales, services and engineering organizations in order to simplify our operating model and focus on our five foundational
priorities:       

Leadership in our core business (routing, switching, and associated services) which includes comprehensive security and mobility solutions

Collaboration          

Data center virtualization and cloud          

Video          

Architectures for business transformation         We believe that focusing on these priorities will best position us to continue to expand our share of our customers  information technology spending.   
  We are currently undergoing product transitions in our core business and introducing next-generation products with higher price performance and
architectural advantages compared to both our prior generation of products and the product offerings of our competitors. We believe that many of these product transitions are gaining momentum based on the strong year-over-year product revenue growth
across these next-generation product families. We believe that our strategy and our ability to innovate and execute may enable us to improve our relative competitive position in many of our product areas even in uncertain or difficult business
conditions and, therefore, may continue to provide us with long-term growth opportunities. However, we believe that these newly introduced products may continue to negatively impact product gross margins, which we are currently striving to address
through various initiatives including value engineering, effective supply chain management, and delivering greater customer value through offers that include hardware, software, and services.   
         2   

Table of Contents  

   We continue to seek to capitalize on market transitions. Market transitions on which we are primarily
focused include those related to the increased role of virtualization/the cloud, video, collaboration, networked mobility technologies and the transition from Internet Protocol Version 4 to Internet Protocol Version 6. For example, a market in which
a significant market transition is under way is the enterprise data center market, where a transition to virtualization / the cloud is rapidly evolving. There is a continued growing awareness that intelligent networks are becoming the platform for
productivity improvement and global competitiveness. We believe that disruption in the enterprise data center market is accelerating, due to changing technology trends such as the increasing adoption of virtualization, the rise in scalable
processing, and the advent of cloud computing and cloud-based IT resource deployments and business models. These key terms are defined as follows:       Virtualization:  refers to the process of aggregating the current siloed data center resources into unified, shared resource pools that can be dynamically delivered to applications on
demand thus enabling the ability to move content and applications between devices and the network.       The cloud: 
refers to an information technology hosting and delivery system in which resources, such as servers or software applications, are no longer tethered to a user s physical infrastructure but instead are delivered to and consumed by the user
 on demand  as an Internet-based service, whether singularly or with multiple other users simultaneously.      This virtualization and
cloud-driven market transition in the enterprise data center market is being brought about through the convergence of networking, computing, storage, and software technologies. We are seeking to take advantage of this market transition through,
among other things, our Cisco Unified Computing System platform and Cisco Nexus product families, which are designed to integrate the previously siloed technologies in the enterprise data center with a unified architecture. We are also seeking to
capitalize on this market transition through the development of other cloud-based product and service offerings through which we intend to enable customers to develop and deploy their own cloud-based IT solutions, including software-as-a-service
(SaaS) and other-as-a-service (XaaS) solutions.      The competitive landscape in the enterprise data center market is changing. Very large,
well-financed, and aggressive competitors are each bringing their own new class of products to address this new market. We expect this competitive market trend to continue. With respect to this market, we believe the network will be the intersection
of innovation through an open ecosystem and standards. We expect to see acquisitions, further industry consolidation, and new alliances among companies as they seek to serve the enterprise data center market. As we enter this next market phase,
we expect that we will strengthen certain strategic alliances, compete more with certain strategic alliances and partners, and perhaps also encounter new competitors in our attempt to deliver the best solutions for our customers.   
  Other market transitions on which we are focusing particular attention include those related to the increased role of video, collaboration, and networked
mobility technologies. The key market transitions relative to the convergence of video, collaboration, and networked mobility technologies, which we believe will drive productivity and growth in network loads, appear to be evolving even more quickly
and more significantly than we had previously anticipated. Cisco TelePresence systems are one example of product offerings that have incorporated video, collaboration, and networked mobility technologies, as customers evolve their communications and
business models. We are focused on simplifying and expanding the creation, distribution, and use of end-to-end video solutions for businesses and consumers.      We believe that the architectural approach that has served us well in the past in addressing market opportunities in the communications and IT industry will be adaptable to other markets. An example of a
market where we aim to apply this approach is mobility, where growth of IP traffic on handheld devices is driving the need for more robust architectures, equipment and services in order to accommodate not only an increasing number of worldwide
mobile device users, but also increased user demand for broadband-quality business network and consumer web applications to be delivered on such devices.   
         3   

Table of Contents  

   For a discussion of the risks associated with our strategy, see  Item 1A. Risk Factors,  including
the risk factor entitled  We depend upon the development of new products and enhancements to existing products, and if we fail to predict and respond to emerging technological trends and customers  changing needs, our operating results and
market share may suffer.  For information regarding sales of our major products and services, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.      Our current offerings fall into several categories:        Routing     
  Routing technology is fundamental to the Internet, and this technology interconnects public and private IP networks for mobile, data, voice, and video
applications. Our routing products are designed to enhance the intelligence, security, reliability, scalability, and level of performance in the transmission of information and media-rich applications. We offer a broad range of routers, from core
network infrastructure and mobile Internet network for service providers and enterprises to access routers for branch offices and for telecommuters and consumers at home. Key products within our routing category are the Cisco 800, 1900, 2900, and
3900 Series Integrated Services Routers as well as the Cisco Aggregation Services Routers (ASR) 1000, 5000 and 9000 Series; Cisco 7600 and 12000 Series Routers; and the Cisco Carrier Routing System (CRS), CRS-1 and CRS-3.   
  During fiscal 2011, we introduced enhancements to the ASR 9000 System, which complement the Cisco CRS-3 located in the core of the next-generation
Internet. We believe these new enhancements will help enable compelling new experiences for consumers, new revenue opportunities for service providers, and new ways to collaborate in the workplace.   
    Switching        Switching is another
integral networking technology used in campuses, branch offices, and data centers. Switches are used within buildings in local-area networks (LANs) and across great distances in wide-area networks (WANs). Our switching products offer many forms of
connectivity to end users, workstations, IP phones, access points, and servers, and also function as aggregators on LANs and WANs. Our switching systems employ several widely used technologies, including Ethernet, Power over Ethernet, Fibre Channel
over Ethernet (FCoE), Packet over Synchronous Optical Network, and Multiprotocol Label Switching. Many of our switches are designed to support an integrated set of advanced services, allowing organizations to be more efficient by using one switch
for multiple networking functions rather than multiple switches to accomplish the same functions. Cisco offers a comprehensive family of Ethernet switching solutions from fixed-configuration to cover a range of deployments in small and medium-sized
businesses, to modular switches for enterprises and service providers. Our fixed-configuration switches are designed to provide a foundation for converged data, voice, and video services. They range from small, standalone switches to stackable
models that function as a single, scalable switching unit. Modular switches offer flexibility for enterprises, which due to large-scale network demands often need to deploy numerous, concurrent intelligent networking services without degrading
overall performance. Key products within our switching category are the Cisco Catalyst 2960, 3560, 3750, 4500, 4900, and 6500 Series; the Nexus 1000V, 3000, 4000, 5000 and 7000 Series switches; and Cisco Nexus 2000 Series Fabric Extenders.
     During fiscal 2011, we continued to enhance our fixed configuration and modular switches to deliver key network services that are designed to
work with Cisco routing, security, and wireless products to enable video collaboration, enterprise-wide energy management, and policy-based security. In fiscal 2011, we also continued to expand on the Cisco Catalyst 4500 processor module by adding a
new supervisor engine and features such as Universal Power over Ethernet to power new applications such as thin clients. This supervisor engine is designed to achieve borderless network access and price-performance aggregation deployments providing
increased fiber density along with hardware capabilities to support aggregation functionalities. In addition, we introduced capabilities in the Nexus 7000 for scale and convergence such as FabricPath and Director-class FCoE. Additionally, we
completely refreshed our flagship Catalyst 6500 platform, tripling the performance, quadrupling the scalability, and adding new services to the platform.   
         4   

Table of Contents  

     New Products         Video Connected Home       Our end-to-end, digital video distribution systems and digital
interactive set-top boxes enable service providers and content originators to deliver entertainment, information, and communication services to consumers and businesses around the world. These systems consist of products and platforms deployed
in network operation centers, headends, core and edge access networks, and outside plant environments, as well as in homes and businesses. Our range of set-top box product offerings includes both standard IP capable models and radio frequency
models that can securely distribute content, as well as more advanced models with digital video recording options and whole home video capabilities for delivering standard definition and high definition video. We also provide cable modems,
residential gateways, femtocell access points, and other products deployed in homes and businesses      Our home networking strategy aligns with
Cisco s broader vision to enable consumers to live a connected life that is more personal, social, and visual. Our products connect different devices in the household, allowing people to share Internet access, printers, storage, video, music,
movies, and games throughout the home. Products include routers, adapters, gateways, switches, modems, home network management software, and other products that are designed to provide both tech-savvy and mass-market consumers with rich in-home
experiences. These products are sold through select retailers, value-added resellers, online retailers, and service providers worldwide.   
   Collaboration       Cisco s
Collaboration portfolio integrates voice, video, data and mobile applications on fixed and mobile networks across a wide range of devices and endpoints from mobile phones and tablets to desktops, Macs and laptops to desktop virtualization
clients. Specific solutions include IP phones, mobile applications, customer care, web conferencing, messaging, enterprise social software and Cisco TelePresence Systems. These solutions are available as software and web-based collaborative
offerings, standalone devices, integrated components in Cisco routers and switches, and as hosted services in the cloud. Cisco s strategy is to offer an open, interoperable architecture that enables customers to deliver a consistent
collaboration experience regardless of device, content, location, or interaction style. These capabilities are critical capabilities in today s era, which requires a collaborative workspace that is mobile, social, visual and
virtual.     During fiscal 2011, Cisco introduced several new Collaboration solutions including: Cisco Quad, an enterprise social software
platform; Cisco Social Miner, a social media solution for proactive customer care; Cisco TelePresence EX90 and MX200 systems designed to easily extend TelePresence to more desktops, offices and meeting spaces; Cisco Jabber, an enterprise application
for presence, instant messaging, web conferencing, desktop sharing, voice and video on mobile devices, laptops and applications; Cisco WebEx for web-based collaboration with presentations, applications, documents, integrated audio and high
quality video on tablets and desktops; and new desktop virtualization endpoints for thin client Collaboration applications.      Security
      Cisco security solutions deliver network and content security systems that are designed to enable highly secure collaboration. Our
products in this category span firewall, intrusion prevention, remote access, virtual private networks (VPN), unified client, web and email security and network security. Our AnyConnect Secure Mobility Client enables users to access networks with
their mobile device of choice, such as laptops and smartphone-based mobile devices while allowing organizations to manage the security risks of borderless networks. Our cloud-based web security service is designed to provide real-time threat
protection and to prevent zero-day malware from reaching corporate networks, including roaming or mobile users. We focus on a proactive, layered approach to counter both existing and emerging security threats. We provide security solutions that are
designed to be integrated, timely, comprehensive, and effective, helping to ensure holistic security for organizations worldwide. In addition, Cisco security systems include network and application policy solutions for identity services used in
  
         5   

Table of Contents  

data centers and collaboration services as a series of network access control and entitlement solutions. A key product line within our security product category is the Cisco ASA 5500 Series
Adaptive Security Appliances line.       Wireless       The Cisco Unified Wireless Network is designed to unify high-performance 802.11n wireless access across campus, branch, remote, and outdoor environments. This wireless system strives to maximize
flexibility and reliability with its access point, controller, antenna, and integrated management products. Simplified management and mobile device troubleshooting are features of the platform designed to reduce operational cost. This platform
delivers, through an open application programming interface (API), business-relevant mobility data, voice, video, and context-aware applications to partners and end-user customers. A current key product line within our wireless technology category
is the Cisco Aironet product family.       Data Center       Cisco Unified Computing System (UCS) and Server Virtualization form the core of Cisco s Data Center products. The UCS platform unites computing, network, storage access, and virtualization into a
cohesive system. Key products within our UCS platform are Cisco UCS B-Series Blade Servers and Cisco UCS C-Series Rack-Mount Servers supported by fabric interconnects which include our lossless FCoE interconnect switch that consolidates input/output
within the system, server chassis, fabric extenders, and network adapters.      Cisco Application Networking Services consist of a broad portfolio
of application networking solutions designed to enable secure, high performance, reliable delivery of applications within data centers and across WANs to remote and branch office users. Our solutions are designed to help facilitate the deployment
and delivery of business applications across an entire organization by using technology to accelerate, maximize availability of, and secure both application traffic and computing resources. A key product within our application networking services
category is Cisco Wide Area Application Services (WAAS), a comprehensive WAN optimization solution that is enabled for SaaS-based applications and the Integrated Service Router G2 s Services Ready Engine.   
  We provide storage area networking (SAN) products for data center environments designed to deliver multilayer, scalable, and highly secure connectivity
between servers and storage systems, including products such as storage arrays and tape drives. These products incorporate intelligent network features, such as advanced network security, traffic management, server virtualization, SAN consolidation
and pay-as-you-grow flexibility to permit users to scale from an entry-level departmental switch to edge connectivity in enterprise SANs, and also incorporate tools that are designed to help make storing, retrieving, and protecting critical data
across widely distributed environments more efficient. The Cisco MDS 9000 Series of configurable Fiber Channel fabric switches is currently the key product line within our storage area networking product category.   
    Other Products        Our Other
Products category primarily consists of optical networking products, emerging technologies such as physical security and video surveillance, and digital media systems.        Service        In addition to our product offerings, we provide a broad range of service
offerings, including technical support services and advanced services. Technical support services help ensure that our products operate efficiently, remain available, and benefit from the most up-to-date system software. These services help
customers protect their network investments and minimize downtime for systems running mission-critical applications. Advanced services are services that are part of a comprehensive program that is designed to provide responsive, preventive,
  
         6   

Table of Contents  

and consultative support of our technologies for specific networking needs. The advanced services program supports networking devices, applications, solutions, and complete infrastructures. Our
service and support strategy seeks to capitalize on increased globalization, and we believe this strategy, along with our architectural approach, has the potential to further differentiate us from competitors.   
     Customers and Markets       Many factors influence the IT, collaboration, and networking requirements of our customers. These include the size of the organization, number and types of technology systems, geographic location, and the
business applications deployed throughout the customer s network. Our customer base is not limited to any specific industry, geography, or market segment. In each of the past three fiscal years, no single customer has accounted for 10 percent
or more of our net sales. Our customers primarily operate in the following markets: enterprise, service provider, commercial, and consumer.   
    Enterprise        Enterprise businesses
are large regional, national, or global organizations with multiple locations or branch offices and typically employ 1,000 or more employees. Many enterprise businesses have unique IT, collaboration, and networking needs within a multi-vendor
environment. Our enterprise customers also include public sector entities and governments. We strive to take advantage of the network-as-a-platform strategy to integrate business processes with technology architectures to assist customer growth. We
offer service and support packages, financing, and managed network services through our service provider partners. We sell these products through a network of third-party application and technology vendors and channel partners.  
    Service Providers        Service
providers offer data, voice, video, and mobile/wireless services to businesses, governments, utilities, and consumers worldwide. They include regional, national, and international wireline carriers, as well as Internet, cable, and wireless
providers. We also group media, broadcast, and content-providers within our service provider market, as the lines in the telecommunications industry continue to blur between traditional network-based services and content-based and application-based
services. Service providers use a variety of our routing and switching, optical, security, video, connected home, mobility, and network management products, systems and services for their own networks. In addition, many service providers use Cisco
data center, virtualization, and collaboration technologies to offer managed or Internet-based services to their business customers. These technologies include Cisco Unified Communications and call center products and applications, Cisco WebEx
collaboration tools, and Cisco TelePresence systems products, as well as other video and security products and systems that can be incorporated into network-attached data centers. Compared with other customers, service providers are more likely to
require network design, deployment, and support services because of the scale and complexity of their networks, which requirements are addressed, we believe, by our architectural approach.        Commercial        Generally, we define commercial businesses as companies with fewer than
1,000 employees. The larger, or midmarket, customers within the commercial market are served by a combination of our direct salesforce and our channel partners. These customers typically require the latest advanced technologies that our enterprise
customers demand, but with less complexity. Small businesses, or companies with fewer than 100 employees, require information technologies and communication products that are easy to configure, install, and maintain. These smaller companies within
the commercial market are primarily served by our channel partners.        Consumer     
  Our consumer customers are individuals who use the network at home, or while away from home, for personal use to enjoy a broad range of entertainment,
communications, and information experiences. Cisco s primary   
         7   

Table of Contents  

strategy for serving the consumer market is through its service provider customers, and to a lesser extent through major consumer channels, including through both traditional and online
retailers, through our website, and through value added resellers.         Sales Overview    
  As of the end of fiscal 2011, our worldwide sales and marketing department consisted of approximately 25,898 employees, including managers, sales
representatives, and technical support personnel. We have field sales offices in approximately 95 countries, and we sell our products and services both directly and through a variety of channels with support from our salesforce. A substantial
portion of our products and services is sold through our channel partners, and the remainder is sold through direct sales. Our channel partners include systems integrators, service providers, other resellers, distributors, and retail partners.
     Systems integrators and service providers typically sell directly to end users and often provide system installation, technical support,
professional services, and other support services in addition to network equipment sales. Systems integrators also typically integrate our products into an overall solution. Some service providers are also systems integrators.   
  Distributors hold inventory and typically sell to systems integrators, service providers, and other resellers. In addition, home networking products are
generally sold through distributors and retail partners. We refer to sales through distributors and retail partners as our two-tier system of sales to the end customer. Revenue from distributors and retail partners generally is recognized based on a
sell-through method using information provided by them. These distributors and retail partners are generally given business terms that allow them to return a portion of inventory, receive credits for changes in selling prices, and participate in
various cooperative marketing programs.      For information regarding risks related to our channels, see  Item 1A. Risk Factors, 
including the risk factors entitled  Disruption of or changes in our distribution model could harm our sales and margins  and  Our inventory management relating to our sales to our two-tier distribution channel is complex, and excess
inventory may harm our gross margins.       For information regarding risks relating to our international operations, see  Item 1A. Risk
Factors,  including the risk factors entitled  Our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions and the uncertain geopolitical environment   Entrance into new or developing markets
exposes us to additional competition and will likely increase demands on our service and support operations   Due to the global nature of our operations, political or economic changes or other factors in a specific country or region could
harm our operating results and financial condition   We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could negatively impact our financial results and cash flows  and  Man-made problems such as computer viruses
or terrorism may disrupt our operations and harm our operating results , among others.      Our service offerings complement our products
through a range of consulting, technical, project, quality, and maintenance services, including 24-hour online and telephone support through technical assistance centers.      We provide financing arrangements, such as leases, financed service contracts, and loans, for certain qualified customers to build, maintain, and upgrade their networks. We believe customer financing is a
competitive factor in obtaining business, particularly in serving customers involved in significant infrastructure projects. Leases include sales-type, direct financing, and operating leases. We also provide certain qualified customers with the
option of financing long-term service contracts, which primarily relate to technical support services and typically range from one to three years. Our loan financing arrangements may include not only financing for the acquisition of our products and
services, but also may provide additional funds for other costs associated with network installation and integration of our products and services. For additional information regarding these financing arrangements, see Note 7 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.   
         8   

Table of Contents  

      Product Backlog       Our product backlog at July 30, 2011, the last day of our 2011 fiscal year, was approximately $4.3 billion, compared with product backlog of approximately $4.1 billion at July 31, 2010, the last
day of our 2010 fiscal year. The product backlog includes orders confirmed for products scheduled to be shipped within 90 days to customers with approved credit status. Because of the generally short cycle between order and shipment and occasional
customer changes in delivery schedules or cancellation of orders (which are made without significant penalty), we do not believe that our product backlog, as of any particular date, is necessarily indicative of actual net product sales for any
future period.         Acquisitions, Investments, and Alliances    
  The markets in which we compete require a wide variety of technologies, products, and capabilities. The combination of technological complexity and rapid
change within our markets makes it difficult for a single company to develop all of the technological solutions that it desires to offer within its family of products and services. We work to broaden the range of products and services we deliver to
customers in target markets through acquisitions, investments, and alliances. We employ the following strategies to address the need for new or enhanced networking and communications products and services:   

Developing new technologies and products internally          

Acquiring all or parts of other companies          

Entering into joint-development efforts with other companies      

Reselling other companies  products           Acquisitions        We have acquired many companies, and we expect to make future
acquisitions. Mergers and acquisitions of high-technology companies are inherently risky, especially if the acquired company has yet to ship a product. No assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful or will not
materially adversely affect our financial condition or operating results. Prior acquisitions have resulted in a wide range of outcomes, from successful introduction of new products and technologies to an inability to do so. The risks associated with
acquisitions are more fully discussed in  Item 1A. Risk Factors,  including the risk factor entitled  We have made and expect to continue to make acquisitions that could disrupt our operations and harm our operating results. 
       Investments in Privately Held Companies        We make investments in privately held companies that develop technology or provide services that are complementary to our products or that provide strategic value. The risks associated with these
investments are more fully discussed in  Item 1A. Risk Factors,  including the risk factor entitled  We are exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our portfolio investments and in interest rates; impairment of our investments
could harm our earnings.         Strategic Alliances        We pursue strategic alliances with other companies in areas where collaboration can produce industry advancement and acceleration of new markets. The objectives and goals of a strategic alliance can
include one or more of the following: technology exchange, product development, joint sales and marketing, or new-market creation. Currently, we have strategic alliances with Accenture Ltd; AT T Inc.; Cap Gemini S.A.; Citrix Systems, Inc.; EMC
Corporation; Fujitsu Limited; Intel Corporation; International Business Machines Corporation; Italtel SpA; Johnson Controls Inc.; Microsoft Corporation; NetApp, Inc.; Nokia Corporation; Nokia Siemens Networks; Oracle Corporation; SAP AG; Sprint
Nextel Corporation; Tata Consultancy Services Ltd.; VMware, Inc.; Wipro Limited; Xerox Corporation; and others. Companies with which we have strategic alliances in some areas may be competitors in other areas. The risks associated with our strategic
alliances are more fully   
         9   

Table of Contents  

discussed in  Item 1A. Risk Factors,  including the risk factor entitled  If we do not successfully manage our strategic alliances, we may not realize the expected benefits from
such alliances and we may experience increased competition or delays in product development.          Competition
      We compete in the networking and communications equipment markets, providing products and services for transporting data, voice, and video
traffic across intranets, extranets, and the Internet. These markets are characterized by rapid change, converging technologies, and a migration to networking and communications solutions that offer relative advantages. These market factors
represent both an opportunity and a competitive threat to us. We compete with numerous vendors in each product category. The overall number of our competitors providing niche product solutions may increase. Also, the identity and composition of
competitors may change as we increase our activity in our New Products markets. As we continue to expand globally, we may see new competition in different geographic regions. In particular, we have experienced price-focused competition from
competitors in Asia, especially from China, and we anticipate this will continue.      Our competitors include Alcatel-Lucent; Arista Networks,
Inc.; ARRIS Group, Inc.; Aruba Networks, Inc.; Avaya Inc.; Brocade Communications Systems, Inc.; Check Point Software Technologies Ltd.; Citrix Systems, Inc.; Dell Inc.; D-Link Corporation; LM Ericsson Telephone Company; Extreme Networks, Inc.; F5
Networks, Inc.; Fortinet, Inc.; Hewlett-Packard Company; Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd.; International Business Machines Corporation; Juniper Networks, Inc.; LogMeIn, Inc.; Meru Networks, Inc.; Microsoft Corporation; Motorola Mobility Holdings, Inc.;
Motorola Solutions, Inc.; NETGEAR, Inc.; Polycom, Inc.; Riverbed Technology, Inc.; and Symantec Corporation; among others.      Some of these
companies compete across many of our product lines, while others are primarily focused in a specific product area. Barriers to entry are relatively low, and new ventures to create products that do or could compete with our products are regularly
formed. In addition, some of our competitors may have greater resources, including technical and engineering resources, than we do. As we expand into new markets, we will face competition not only from our existing competitors but also from other
competitors, including existing companies with strong technological, marketing, and sales positions in those markets. We also sometimes face competition from resellers and distributors of our products. Companies with whom we have strategic alliances
in some areas may be competitors in other areas. For example, the enterprise data center is undergoing a fundamental transformation arising from the convergence of technologies, including computing, networking, storage, and software, that previously
were siloed. Due to several factors, including the availability of highly scalable and general purpose microprocessors, application-specific integrated circuits offering advanced services, standards based protocols, cloud computing and
virtualization, the convergence of technologies within the enterprise data center is spanning multiple, previously independent, technology segments. Also, some of our current and potential competitors for enterprise data center business have made
acquisitions, or announced new strategic alliances, designed to position them to provide end-to-end technology solutions for the enterprise data center. As a result of all of these developments, we face greater competition in the development and
sale of enterprise data center technologies, including competition from entities that are among our long-term strategic alliance partners. Companies that are strategic alliance partners in some areas of our business may acquire or form alliances
with our competitors, thereby reducing their business with us.      The principal competitive factors in the markets in which we presently compete
and may compete in the future include:       

The ability to provide a broad range of networking and communications products and services      

Product performance          

Price          

The ability to introduce new products, including products with price-performance advantages      
         10   

Table of Contents  

The ability to reduce production costs          

The ability to provide value-added features such as security, reliability, and investment protection      

Conformance to standards          

Market presence          

The ability to provide financing          

Disruptive technology shifts and new business models         We also face competition from customers to which we license or supply technology and suppliers from which we transfer technology. The inherent nature of networking requires interoperability. As such, we
must cooperate and at the same time compete with many companies. Any inability to effectively manage these complicated relationships with customers, suppliers, and strategic alliance partners could have a material adverse effect on our business,
operating results, and financial condition, and accordingly affect our chances of success.         Research and
Development       We regularly seek to introduce new products and features to address the requirements of our markets. We allocate our research
and development budget among routers, switches, new products, and other product technologies for this purpose. Our research and development expenditures were $5.8 billion, $5.3 billion, and $5.2 billion in fiscal 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.
These expenditures are applied generally to all product areas, with specific areas of focus being identified from time to time. Recent areas of focus are tied to our foundational priorities and include, but are not limited to, our core routing and
switching products, Cisco TelePresence systems products, and the Cisco Unified Computing System. Our expenditures for research and development costs were expensed as incurred.      The industry in which we compete is subject to rapid technological developments, evolving standards, changes in customer requirements, and new product introductions and enhancements. As a result, our
success depends in part upon our ability, on a cost-effective and timely basis, to continue to enhance our existing products and to develop and introduce new products that improve performance and reduce total cost of ownership. To achieve these
objectives, our management and engineering personnel work with customers to identify and respond to customer needs, as well as with other innovators of internetworking products, including universities, laboratories, and corporations. We also expect
to continue to make acquisitions and investments, where appropriate, to provide us with access to new technologies. We intend to continue developing products that meet key industry standards and to support important protocol standards as they
emerge, such as IP version 6. Nonetheless, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully develop products to address new customer requirements and technological changes, or that those products will achieve market acceptance.
        Manufacturing       We rely on contract manufacturers for substantially all of our manufacturing needs. We presently use a variety of independent third-party companies to provide services related to printed-circuit board
assembly, in-circuit test, product repair, and product assembly. Proprietary software on electronically programmable memory chips is used to configure products that meet customer requirements and to maintain quality control and security. The
manufacturing process enables us to configure the hardware and software in unique combinations to meet a wide variety of individual customer requirements. The manufacturing process uses automated testing equipment and burn-in procedures, as well as
comprehensive inspection, testing, and statistical process controls, which are designed to help ensure the quality and reliability of our products. The manufacturing processes and procedures are generally certified to International Organization for
Standardization (ISO) 9001 or ISO 9003 standards.      Our arrangements with contract manufacturers generally provide for quality, cost, and
delivery requirements, as well as manufacturing process terms, such as continuity of supply; inventory management; flexibility regarding   
         11   

Table of Contents  

capacity, quality, and cost management; oversight of manufacturing; and conditions for use of our intellectual property. We have not entered into any significant long-term contracts with any
manufacturing service provider. We generally have the option to renew arrangements on an as-needed basis, primarily annually. These arrangements generally do not commit us to purchase any particular amount or any quantities beyond certain amounts
covered by orders or forecasts that we submit covering discrete periods of time, defined as less than one year.      Although we employ an
outsourced manufacturing strategy, as of July 30, 2011 we operated manufacturing facilities in Juarez, Mexico for the manufacture of set-top boxes. We have entered into an agreement to sell these manufacturing operations to a contract
manufacturer, consistent with our strategic objective of simplifying our operating model. The transaction is expected to be completed in fiscal 2012.         Patents, Intellectual Property, and Licensing       We seek to
establish and maintain our proprietary rights in our technology and products through the use of patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secret laws. We have a program to file applications for and obtain patents, copyrights, and trademarks in the
United States and in selected foreign countries where we believe filing for such protection is appropriate. We also seek to maintain our trade secrets and confidential information by nondisclosure policies and through the use of appropriate
confidentiality agreements. We have obtained a substantial number of patents and trademarks in the United States and in other countries. There can be no assurance, however, that the rights obtained can be successfully enforced against infringing
products in every jurisdiction. Although we believe the protection afforded by our patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets has value, the rapidly changing technology in the networking industry and uncertainties in the legal process make
our future success dependent primarily on the innovative skills, technological expertise, and management abilities of our employees rather than on the protection afforded by patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret laws.   
  Many of our products are designed to include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. While it may be necessary in the future
to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of our products, we believe, based upon past experience and standard industry practice, that such licenses generally could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. Nonetheless, there can be
no assurance that the necessary licenses would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Our inability to obtain certain licenses or other rights or to obtain such licenses or rights on favorable terms, or the need to engage in litigation
regarding these matters, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Moreover, inclusion in our products of software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties on a nonexclusive
basis can limit our ability to protect our proprietary rights in our products.      The industry in which we compete is characterized by rapidly
changing technology, a large number of patents, and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. There can be no assurance that our patents and other proprietary rights will not be challenged,
invalidated, or circumvented; that others will not assert intellectual property rights to technologies that are relevant to us; or, that our rights will give us a competitive advantage. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect
our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The risks associated with patents and intellectual property are more fully discussed in  Item 1A. Risk Factors,  including the risk factors entitled  Our
proprietary rights may prove difficult to enforce,   We may be found to infringe on intellectual property rights of others,  and  We rely on the availability of third-party licenses.    
     Employees       As
of July 30, 2011, we employed approximately 71,825 employees, including approximately 18,368 in service and manufacturing, approximately 21,112 in engineering, approximately 25,898 in sales and marketing, and
  
         12   

Table of Contents  

approximately 6,447 in general and administration. Approximately 37,300 employees are in locations within the United States. We expect our headcount to decrease in the near term as part of
targeted cost-cutting initiatives, which include the workforce reduction announced in July 2011. Additionally, we also expect our headcount in fiscal 2012 to decrease by approximately 5,000 employees upon the completion in fiscal 2012 of the sale of
our Juarez, Mexico manufacturing operations.      We consider the relationships with our employees to be positive. Competition for technical
personnel in the industry in which we compete is intense. We believe that our future success depends in part on our continued ability to hire, assimilate, and retain qualified personnel. To date, we believe that we have been successful in recruiting
qualified employees, but there is no assurance that we will continue to be successful in the future.         Executive
Officers of the Registrant       The following table shows the name, age and position as of August 31, 2011 of each of our executive
officers:       

Name    
      
     Age    
      
     Position     

Frank A. Calderoni   
      
  54  
      
    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer      
  Mr. Calderoni joined Cisco in May 2004 as Vice President, Worldwide Sales Finance. In June 2007, he was promoted to Senior Vice President, Customer
Solutions Finance. He was appointed to his current position effective in February 2008. From March 2002 until he joined Cisco, Mr. Calderoni served as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of QLogic Corporation, a supplier of storage
networking solutions. Prior to that, he was Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration and Chief Financial Officer of SanDisk Corporation from February 2000 to February 2002. Prior to that, he was employed by IBM Corporation where he held a
number of executive positions.    

John T. Chambers   
      
  62  
      
    Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, and Director      
  Mr. Chambers has served as Chief Executive Officer since January 1995, as Chairman of the Board of Directors since November 2006 and as a member of the
Board of Directors since November 1993. Mr. Chambers also served as President from January 31, 1995 to November 2006. He joined Cisco as Senior Vice President in January 1991 and was promoted to Executive Vice President in June 1994. Mr. Chambers
was promoted to President and Chief Executive Officer as of January 31, 1995. Before joining Cisco, he was employed by Wang Laboratories, Inc. for eight years, where, in his last role, he was the Senior Vice President of U.S.
Operations.    

Mark Chandler   
      
  55  
      
    Senior Vice President, Legal Services, General Counsel and Secretary  
      Mr. Chandler joined Cisco in July 1996, upon Cisco s acquisition of StrataCom,
Inc., where he served as General Counsel. He served as Cisco s Managing Attorney for Europe, the Middle East, and Africa from December 1996 until June 1999; as Director, Worldwide Legal Operations from June 1999 until February 2001; and was
promoted to Vice President, Worldwide Legal Services in February 2001. In October 2001, he was promoted to Vice President, Legal Services and General Counsel and in May 2003, he was also appointed Secretary. In February 2006, he was promoted to
Senior Vice President. Before joining StrataCom, he had served as Vice President, Corporate Development and General Counsel of Maxtor Corporation.     
         13   

Table of Contents  

Name    
      
     Age    
      
     Position     

Blair Christie   
      
  39  
      
    Senior Vice President, Chief Marketing and Communications Officer, Worldwide Government Affairs  
      Ms. Christie joined Cisco in August 1999 as part of Cisco s Investor Relations
team. From April 2000 through December 2003, Ms. Christie held a number of managerial positions within Cisco s Investor Relations function. In January 2004, Ms. Christie was promoted to Vice President, Investor Relations.In June 2006, Ms.
Christie was appointed to Vice President, Global Corporate Communications. In January 2008, Ms. Christie was promoted to Senior Vice President, Global Corporate Communications. In January 2011, Ms. Christie was appointed to her current
position.    

Wim Elfrink   
      
  59  
      
    Executive Vice President, Emerging Solutions and Chief Globalisation Officer  
      Mr. Elfrink joined Cisco in 1997 as Vice President of Customer Advocacy in Europe. In
November 2000 he was promoted to Senior Vice President, Customer Advocacy and took over global responsibility for the function. Mr. Elfrink was appointed Chief Globalisation Officer in December 2006 and moved to Bangalore, India to
establish Cisco s Globalisation Centre East. In August 2007 he was named Executive Vice President. In February 2011, Mr. Elfrink was appointed to his current position and as of August 2011 he has relocated to San Jose,
California.    

Robert W. Lloyd   
      
  55  
      
    Executive Vice President, Worldwide Operations      
  Mr. Lloyd joined Cisco in November 1994 as General Manager of Cisco Canada. In October 1998, he was promoted to Vice President, EMEA (Europe, Middle East
and Africa); in February 2001, he was promoted to Senior Vice President, EMEA; and in July 2005, Mr. Lloyd was appointed Senior Vice President, US, Canada and Japan. In April 2009, he was promoted to his current position.    

Gary B. Moore   
      
  62  
      
    Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer      
  Mr. Moore joined Cisco in October 2001 as Senior Vice President, Advanced Services. In August 2007, he also assumed responsibility as co-lead of Cisco
Services. In May 2010, he was promoted to Executive Vice President, Cisco Services. In February 2011, Mr. Moore was appointed to his current position. Immediately before joining Cisco, Mr. Moore served for approximately two years as chief
executive officer of Netigy Corporation, a network consulting company. Prior to that, he was employed by Electronic Data Systems where he held a number of executive positions.    

Randy Pond   
      
  57  
      
    Executive Vice President, Operations, Processes and Systems  
      Mr. Pond joined Cisco in September 1993. In 1994, Mr. Pond assumed leadership of
Cisco s Supply/Demand group. In 1994, he was appointed Director of Manufacturing Operations. He was promoted to Vice President of Manufacturing in 1995. In January 2000, Mr. Pond was promoted to Senior Vice President of West Coast and Asia
operations. He was promoted to Senior Vice President, Worldwide Manufacturing Operations and Logistics in June 2001. In August 2003, he was promoted to Senior Vice President, Operations, Processes and Systems, and he was named Executive Vice
President in August 2007. Before joining Cisco, Mr. Pond held the position of Vice President Finance, Chief Financial Officer, and Vice President of Operations at Crescendo Communications.    
 
         14   

Table of Contents  

Item 1A.   
   Risk Factors         Set forth below and
elsewhere in this report and in other documents we file with the SEC are descriptions of the risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained
in this report.       OUR OPERATING RESULTS MAY FLUCTUATE IN FUTURE PERIODS, WHICH MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR STOCK PRICE    
  Our operating results have been in the past, and will continue to be, subject to quarterly and annual fluctuations as a result of numerous factors, some
of which may contribute to more pronounced fluctuations in an uncertain global economic environment. These factors include:       

Fluctuations in demand for our products and services, especially with respect to telecommunications service providers and Internet businesses, in part
due to changes in the global economic environment          

Changes in sales and implementation cycles for our products and reduced visibility into our customers  spending plans and associated revenue

Our ability to maintain appropriate inventory levels and purchase commitments      

Price and product competition in the communications and networking industries, which can change rapidly due to technological innovation and different
business models from various geographic regions          

The overall movement toward industry consolidation among both our competitors and our customers      

The introduction and market acceptance of new technologies and products and our success in new and evolving markets, including in our New Products
category and emerging technologies, as well as the adoption of new standards          

Variations in sales channels, product costs, or mix of products sold      

The timing, size, and mix of orders from customers          

Manufacturing and customer lead times          

Fluctuations in our gross margins, and the factors that contribute to such fluctuations, as described below      

The ability of our customers, channel partners, contract manufacturers and suppliers to obtain financing or to fund capital expenditures, especially
during a period of global credit market disruption or in the event of customer, channel partner, contract manufacturer or supplier financial problems          

Share-based compensation expense          

Actual events, circumstances, outcomes, and amounts differing from judgments, assumptions, and estimates used in determining the values of certain
assets (including the amounts of related valuation allowances), liabilities, and other items reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements          

How well we execute on our strategy and operating plans and the impact of changes in our business model that could result in significant restructuring
charges          

Our ability to achieve targeted cost reductions          

Benefits anticipated from our investments in engineering, sales and manufacturing activities      

Changes in tax laws or regulations or accounting rules         As a consequence, operating results for a particular future period are difficult to predict, and, therefore, prior results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. Any
of the foregoing factors, or any other factors discussed elsewhere herein, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition that could adversely affect our stock price.   
         15   

Table of Contents  

    OUR OPERATING RESULTS MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY UNFAVORABLE ECONOMIC AND MARKET CONDITIONS AND THE
UNCERTAIN GEOPOLITICAL ENVIRONMENT       Challenging economic conditions worldwide have from time to time contributed, and may continue to
contribute, to slowdowns in the communications and networking industries at large, as well as in specific segments and markets in which we operate, resulting in:       

Reduced demand for our products as a result of continued constraints on IT-related capital spending by our customers, particularly service providers,
and other customer markets as well          

Increased price competition for our products, not only from our competitors but also as a consequence of customers disposing of unutilized products

Risk of excess and obsolete inventories          

Risk of supply constraints          

Risk of excess facilities and manufacturing capacity          

Higher overhead costs as a percentage of revenue and higher interest expense      
  Instability in the global credit markets, including the recent European economic and financial turmoil related to sovereign debt issues in certain
countries, the instability in the geopolitical environment in many parts of the world and other disruptions, such as changes in energy costs, may continue to put pressure on global economic conditions. The world has recently experienced a global
macroeconomic downturn, and if global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in key markets, remain uncertain or deteriorate further, we may experience material impacts on our business, operating results, and financial condition.
     Our operating results in one or more segments may also be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions particularly germane to that
segment or to particular customer markets within that segment. For example, during fiscal 2011 we experienced and continue to see a decrease in spending by our public sector customers in almost every developed market around the world.   
   WE HAVE BEEN INVESTING IN PRIORITIES, INCLUDING OUR FOUNDATIONAL PRIORITIES, AND IF THE RETURN ON THESE INVESTMENTS IS LOWER OR DEVELOPS MORE SLOWLY
THAN WE EXPECT, OUR OPERATING RESULTS MAY BE HARMED       We have been realigning and are dedicating resources to focus on certain priorities,
such as leadership in our core routing, switching and services, including security and mobility solutions; collaboration; data center virtualization and cloud; video; and architectures for business transformation. However, the return on our
investments in such priorities may be lower, or may develop more slowly, than we expect. If we do not achieve the benefits anticipated from these investments (including if our selection of areas for investment does not play out as we expect), or if
the achievement of these benefits is delayed, our operating results may be adversely affected.       OUR REVENUE FOR A PARTICULAR PERIOD IS
DIFFICULT TO PREDICT, AND A SHORTFALL IN REVENUE MAY HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS       As a result of a variety of factors discussed in this
report, our revenue for a particular quarter is difficult to predict, especially in light of the recent global economic downturn and related market uncertainty. Our net sales may grow at a slower rate than in past periods or may decline, which
occurred in fiscal 2009. Our ability to meet financial expectations could also be adversely affected if the nonlinear sales pattern seen in some of our past quarters recurs in future periods. We have experienced periods of time during which
shipments have exceeded net bookings or manufacturing issues have delayed shipments, leading to nonlinearity in shipping patterns. In addition to making it difficult to predict revenue for a particular period, nonlinearity in shipping can increase
costs, because irregular shipment patterns result in periods of underutilized capacity and periods in which   
         16   

Table of Contents  

overtime expenses may be incurred, as well as in potential additional inventory management-related costs. In addition, to the extent that manufacturing issues and any related component shortages
result in delayed shipments in the future, and particularly in periods in which we and our contract manufacturers are operating at higher levels of capacity, it is possible that revenue for a quarter could be adversely affected if such matters occur
and are not remediated within the same quarter.      The timing of large orders can also have a significant effect on our business and operating
results from quarter to quarter, primarily in the United States and in emerging countries. From time to time, we receive large orders that have a significant effect on our operating results in the period in which the order is recognized as revenue.
The timing of such orders is difficult to predict, and the timing of revenue recognition from such orders may affect period to period changes in net sales. As a result, our operating results could vary materially from quarter to quarter based on the
receipt of such orders and their ultimate recognition as revenue.      Inventory management remains an area of focus. We experienced longer than
normal lead times on several of our products in fiscal 2010. This was attributable in part to increasing demand driven by the improvement in our overall markets, and similar to what has happened in the industry, the longer than normal lead time
extensions also stemmed from supplier constraints based upon their labor and other actions taken during the global economic downturn. We continue to see challenges at some of our component suppliers. Additionally, the earthquake and tsunami in Japan
during the third quarter of fiscal 2011 resulted in industry wide component supply constraints. Longer manufacturing lead times in the past have caused some customers to place the same order multiple times within our various sales channels and to
cancel the duplicative orders upon receipt of the product, or to place orders with other vendors with shorter manufacturing lead times. Such multiple ordering (along with other factors) or risk of order cancellation may cause difficulty in
predicting our sales and, as a result, could impair our ability to manage parts inventory effectively. In addition, our efforts to improve manufacturing lead-time performance may result in corresponding reductions in order backlog. A decline in
backlog levels could result in more variability and less predictability in our quarter-to-quarter net sales and operating results. In addition, when facing component supply-related challenges, we have increased our efforts in procuring components in
order to meet customer expectations which in turn contribute to an increase in purchase commitments. Increases in our purchase commitments to shorten lead times could also lead to excess and obsolete inventory charges if the demand for our products
is less than our expectations.      We plan our operating expense levels based primarily on forecasted revenue levels. These expenses and the
impact of long-term commitments are relatively fixed in the short term. A shortfall in revenue could lead to operating results being below expectations because we may not be able to quickly reduce these fixed expenses in response to short-term
business changes.      Any of the above factors could have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial results.   
   WE EXPECT GROSS MARGIN TO VARY OVER TIME, AND OUR LEVEL OF PRODUCT GROSS MARGIN MAY NOT BE SUSTAINABLE    
  Our level of product gross margins declined in fiscal 2011 and may continue to decline and be adversely affected by numerous factors, including:

Changes in customer, geographic, or product mix, including mix of configurations within each product group      

Introduction of new products, including products with price-performance advantages      

Our ability to reduce production costs          

Entry into new markets or growth in lower margin markets, including markets with different pricing and cost structures, through acquisitions or
internal development          

Sales discounts      
         17   

Table of Contents  

Increases in material, labor or other manufacturing-related costs, which could be significant especially during periods of supply constraints

Excess inventory and inventory holding charges          

Obsolescence charges          

Changes in shipment volume          

The timing of revenue recognition and revenue deferrals      

Increased cost, loss of cost savings or dilution of savings due to changes in component pricing or charges incurred due to inventory holding periods if
parts ordering does not correctly anticipate product demand or if the financial health of either contract manufacturers or suppliers deteriorates          

Lower than expected benefits from value engineering          

Increased price competition, including competitors from Asia, especially from China      

Changes in distribution channels          

Increased warranty costs          

How well we execute on our strategy and operating plans         Changes in service gross margin may result from various factors such as changes in the mix between technical support services and advanced services, as well as the timing of technical support service
contract initiations and renewals and the addition of personnel and other resources to support higher levels of service business in future periods.       SALES TO THE SERVICE PROVIDER MARKET ARE ESPECIALLY VOLATILE, AND WEAKNESS IN SALES ORDERS FROM THIS INDUSTRY MAY HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION    
  Sales to the service provider market have been characterized by large and sporadic purchases, especially relating to our router sales and sales of
certain products in our New Products category, in addition to longer sales cycles. In the past, we have experienced significant weakness in sales to service providers over certain extended periods of time as market conditions have fluctuated. Sales
activity in this industry depends upon the stage of completion of expanding network infrastructures; the availability of funding; and the extent to which service providers are affected by regulatory, economic, and business conditions in the country
of operations. Weakness in orders from this industry, including as a result of any slowdown in capital expenditures by service providers (which may be more prevalent during a global economic downturn or periods of economic uncertainty), could have a
material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. For example, during fiscal 2009, we experienced a slowdown in service provider capital expenditures globally, and in fiscal 2011 we experienced a slowdown in
certain segments of this market, including in capital expenditures by some service provider customers and in sales of our traditional cable set-top boxes in our United States and Canada segment. Such slowdowns may continue or recur in future
periods. Orders from this industry could decline for many reasons other than the competitiveness of our products and services within their respective markets. For example, in the past, many of our service provider customers have been materially and
adversely affected by slowdowns in the general economy, by overcapacity, by changes in the service provider market, by regulatory developments, and by constraints on capital availability, resulting in business failures and substantial reductions in
spending and expansion plans. These conditions have materially harmed our business and operating results in the past, and some of these or other conditions in the service provider market could affect our business and operating results in any future
period. Finally, service provider customers typically have longer implementation cycles; require a broader range of services, including design services; demand that vendors take on a larger share of risks; often require acceptance provisions, which
can lead to a delay in revenue recognition; and expect financing from vendors. All these factors can add further risk to business conducted with service providers.   
         18   

Table of Contents  

    DISRUPTION OF OR CHANGES IN OUR DISTRIBUTION MODEL COULD HARM OUR SALES AND MARGINS    
  If we fail to manage distribution of our products and services properly, or if our distributors  financial condition or operations weaken, our
revenue and gross margins could be adversely affected.      A substantial portion of our products and services is sold through our channel
partners, and the remainder is sold through direct sales. Our channel partners include systems integrators, service providers, other resellers, distributors, and retail partners. Systems integrators and service providers typically sell directly to
end users and often provide system installation, technical support, professional services, and other support services in addition to network equipment sales. Systems integrators also typically integrate our products into an overall solution, and a
number of service providers are also systems integrators. Distributors stock inventory and typically sell to systems integrators, service providers, and other resellers. In addition, home networking products are generally sold through distributors
and retail partners. We refer to sales through distributors and retail partners as our two-tier system of sales to the end customer. Revenue from distributors and retail partners generally is recognized based on a sell-through method using
information provided by them. These distributors and retail partners are generally given business terms that allow them to return a portion of inventory, receive credits for changes in selling prices, and participate in various cooperative marketing
programs. If sales through indirect channels increase, this may lead to greater difficulty in forecasting the mix of our products and, to a degree, the timing of orders from our customers.      Historically, we have seen fluctuations in our gross margins based on changes in the balance of our distribution channels. Although variability to date has not been significant, there can be no assurance
that changes in the balance of our distribution model in future periods would not have an adverse effect on our gross margins and profitability.      Some factors could result in disruption of or changes in our distribution model, which could harm our sales and margins, including the following:   

We compete with some of our channel partners, including through our direct sales, which may lead these channel partners to use other suppliers that do
not directly sell their own products or otherwise compete with them          

Some of our channel partners may demand that we absorb a greater share of the risks that their customers may ask them to bear

Some of our channel partners may have insufficient financial resources and may not be able to withstand changes and challenges in business conditions

Revenue from indirect sales could suffer if our distributors  financial condition or operations weaken      
  In addition, we depend on our channel partners globally to comply with applicable regulatory requirements. To the extent that they fail to do so, that
could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition.       THE MARKETS IN WHICH WE COMPETE ARE
INTENSELY COMPETITIVE, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR ACHIEVEMENT OF REVENUE GROWTH       The markets in which we compete are characterized
by rapid change, converging technologies, and a migration to networking and communications solutions that offer relative advantages. These market factors represent a competitive threat to us. We compete with numerous vendors in each product
category. The overall number of our competitors providing niche product solutions may increase. Also, the identity and composition of competitors may change as we increase our activity in markets for our New Products and in our priorities. As we
continue to expand globally, we may see new competition in different geographic regions. In particular, we have   
         19   

Table of Contents  

experienced price-focused competition from competitors in Asia, especially from China, and we anticipate this will continue. For information regarding our competitors, see the section entitled
 Competition  contained in  Item 1. Business  of this report.      Some of our competitors compete across many of our product
lines, while others are primarily focused in a specific product area. Barriers to entry are relatively low, and new ventures to create products that do or could compete with our products are regularly formed. In addition, some of our competitors may
have greater resources, including technical and engineering resources, than we do. As we expand into new markets, we will face competition not only from our existing competitors but also from other competitors, including existing companies with
strong technological, marketing, and sales positions in those markets. We also sometimes face competition from resellers and distributors of our products. Companies with whom we have strategic alliances in some areas may be competitors in other
areas.      For example, the enterprise data center is undergoing a fundamental transformation arising from the convergence of technologies,
including computing, networking, storage, and software, that previously were siloed. Due to several factors, including the availability of highly scalable and general purpose microprocessors, application-specific integrated circuits offering
advanced services, standards based protocols, cloud computing and virtualization, the application of these converging technologies is spanning multiple, previously independent, technology segments. Also, some of our current and potential competitors
for enterprise data center business have made acquisitions, or announced new strategic alliances, designed to position them to provide end-to-end technology solutions for the enterprise data center. As a result of all of these developments, we face
greater competition in the development and sale of enterprise data center technologies, including competition from entities that are among our long-term strategic alliance partners. Companies that are strategic alliance partners in some areas of our
business may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, thereby reducing their business with us.      The principal competitive factors in
the markets in which we presently compete and may compete in the future include:       

The ability to provide a broad range of networking and communications products and services      

Product performance          

Price          

The ability to introduce new products, including products with price-performance advantages      

The ability to reduce production costs          

The ability to provide value-added features such as security, reliability, and investment protection      

Conformance to standards          

Market presence          

The ability to provide financing          

Disruptive technology shifts and new business models         We also face competition from customers to which we license or supply technology and suppliers from which we transfer technology. The inherent nature of networking requires interoperability. As such, we
must cooperate and at the same time compete with many companies. Any inability to effectively manage these complicated relationships with customers, suppliers, and strategic alliance partners could have a material adverse effect on our business,
operating results, and financial condition and accordingly affect our chances of success.   
         20   

Table of Contents  

    OUR INVENTORY MANAGEMENT RELATING TO OUR SALES TO OUR TWO-TIER DISTRIBUTION CHANNEL IS COMPLEX, AND
EXCESS INVENTORY MAY HARM OUR GROSS MARGINS       We must manage our inventory relating to sales to our distributors and retail partners
effectively, because inventory held by them could affect our results of operations. Our distributors and retail partners may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders if their inventory is too high, or delay orders in
anticipation of new products. They also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors that are available to them and in response to seasonal fluctuations in end-user demand. Revenue to our
distributors and retail partners generally is recognized based on a sell-through method using information provided by them, and they are generally given business terms that allow them to return a portion of inventory, receive credits for changes in
selling price, and participate in various cooperative marketing programs. Inventory management remains an area of focus as we balance the need to maintain strategic inventory levels to ensure competitive lead times against the risk of inventory
obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements. We continue to see challenges at some of our component suppliers and, when facing component supply-related challenges, have increased our efforts in procuring components
in order to meet customer expectations. If we ultimately determine that we have excess inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write down inventory, which in turn could result in lower gross margins.   
   SUPPLY CHAIN ISSUES, INCLUDING FINANCIAL PROBLEMS OF CONTRACT MANUFACTURERS OR COMPONENT SUPPLIERS, OR A SHORTAGE OF ADEQUATE COMPONENT SUPPLY OR
MANUFACTURING CAPACITY THAT INCREASED OUR COSTS OR CAUSED A DELAY IN OUR ABILITY TO FULFILL ORDERS, COULD HAVE AN ADVERSE IMPACT ON OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATING RESULTS, AND OUR FAILURE TO ESTIMATE CUSTOMER DEMAND PROPERLY MAY RESULT IN EXCESS OR
OBSOLETE COMPONENT SUPPLY, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR GROSS MARGINS       The fact that we do not own or operate the bulk of our
manufacturing facilities and that we are reliant on our extended supply chain could have an adverse impact on the supply of our products and on our business and operating results:   

Any financial problems of either contract manufacturers or component suppliers could either limit supply or increase costs

Reservation of manufacturing capacity at our contract manufacturers by other companies, inside or outside of our industry, could either limit supply or
increase costs         A reduction or interruption in supply; a significant increase in the price of one or more components; a
failure to adequately authorize procurement of inventory by our contract manufacturers; a failure to appropriately cancel, reschedule, or adjust our requirements based on our business needs; or a decrease in demand for our products could materially
adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition and could materially damage customer relationships. Furthermore, as a result of binding price or purchase commitments with suppliers, we may be obligated to purchase
components at prices that are higher than those available in the current market. In the event that we become committed to purchase components at prices in excess of the current market price when the components are actually used, our gross margins
could decrease. We experienced longer than normal lead times on several of our products in fiscal 2010 and we continue to see challenges at some of our component suppliers. Additionally, the earthquake and tsunami in Japan resulted in industry wide
component supply constraints. Although we have generally secured additional supply or taken other mitigation actions, if the conditions resulting from the Japan situation worsen, these conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business,
results of operations, and financial condition. See the risk factor above entitled  Our revenue for a particular period is difficult to predict, and a shortfall in revenue may harm our operating results.    
  Our growth and ability to meet customer demands depend in part on our ability to obtain timely deliveries of parts from our suppliers and contract
manufacturers. We have experienced component shortages in the past,   
         21   

Table of Contents  

including shortages caused by manufacturing process issues, that have affected our operations. We may in the future experience a shortage of certain component parts as a result of our own
manufacturing issues, manufacturing issues at our suppliers or contract manufacturers, capacity problems experienced by our suppliers or contract manufacturers, or strong demand in the industry for those parts. A return to growth in the economy is
likely to create greater pressures on us and our suppliers to accurately project overall component demand and component demands within specific product categories and to establish optimal component levels and manufacturing capacity, especially for
labor-intensive components, components for which we purchase a substantial portion of the supply, or re-ramping manufacturing capacity for highly complex products. For example, during fiscal 2010, we experienced longer than normal lead times on
several of our products and we continue to see challenges at some of our component suppliers. This was attributable in part to increasing demand driven by the improvement in our overall markets, and similar to what is happening in the industry, the
longer than normal lead time extensions also stemmed from supplier constraints based upon their labor and other actions taken during the global economic downturn. If shortages or delays persist or worsen, the price of these components may increase,
or the components may not be available at all, and we may also encounter shortages if we do not accurately anticipate our needs. We may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build new products in a
timely manner in the quantities or configurations needed. Accordingly, our revenue and gross margins could suffer until other sources can be developed. Our operating results would also be adversely affected if, anticipating greater demand than
actually develops, we commit to the purchase of more components than we need, which is more likely to occur in a period of demand uncertainties such as we are currently experiencing. There can be no assurance that we will not encounter these
problems in the future. Although in many cases we use standard parts and components for our products, certain components are presently available only from a single source or limited sources, and a global economic downturn and related market
uncertainty could negatively impact the availability of components from one or more of these sources, especially during times such as we have recently seen when there are supplier constraints based on labor and other actions taken during economic
downturns. We may not be able to diversify sources in a timely manner, which could harm our ability to deliver products to customers and seriously impact present and future sales.      We believe that we may be faced with the following challenges in the future:       

New markets in which we participate may grow quickly, which may make it difficult to quickly obtain significant component capacity

As we acquire companies and new technologies, we may be dependent, at least initially, on unfamiliar supply chains or relatively small supply partners

We face competition for certain components that are supply-constrained, from existing competitors, and companies in other markets
        Manufacturing capacity and component supply constraints could continue to be significant issues for us. We purchase
components from a variety of suppliers and use several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products. During the normal course of business, in order to improve manufacturing lead-time performance and to help ensure
adequate component supply, we enter into agreements with contract manufacturers and suppliers that either allow them to procure inventory based upon criteria as defined by us or that establish the parameters defining our requirements. In certain
instances, these agreements allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to firm orders being placed. When facing component supply-related challenges, we have increased our efforts in
procuring components in order to meet customer expectations which in turn contribute to an increase in purchase commitments. For example, the earthquake in Japan during the third quarter of fiscal 2011 resulted in industry wide component supply
constraints, and approximately $300 million of our purchase commitment increase was attributable to us securing supply components as we made commitments to secure our near term supply needs. Increases in our purchase commitments to shorten lead
times could also lead to excess and obsolete inventory charges if the demand for our products is less than our expectations. If we fail to anticipate customer demand properly, an oversupply of parts could result in excess or obsolete components that
could adversely affect our   
         22   

Table of Contents  

gross margins. For additional information regarding our purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers, see Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this
report.      Our key manufacturing facilities for Scientific-Atlanta s products are located in Juarez, Mexico, and we may be materially and
adversely affected by any prolonged disruption in the operation of these facilities. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, we entered into an agreement to sell these manufacturing operations to one of our contract manufacturers.   
   WE DEPEND UPON THE DEVELOPMENT OF NEW PRODUCTS AND ENHANCEMENTS TO EXISTING PRODUCTS, AND IF WE FAIL TO PREDICT AND RESPOND TO EMERGING TECHNOLOGICAL
TRENDS AND CUSTOMERS  CHANGING NEEDS, OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND MARKET SHARE MAY SUFFER       The markets for our products are
characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, new product introductions, and evolving methods of building and operating networks. Our operating results depend on our ability to develop and introduce new products into
existing and emerging markets and to reduce the production costs of existing products. We believe the industry is evolving to enable personal and business process collaboration enabled by networked technologies. As such, many of our strategic
initiatives and investments are aimed at meeting the requirements that a network capable of multiple-party, collaborative interaction would demand, and the investments we have made and our architectural approach are designed to enable the increased
use of the network as the platform for all forms of communications and IT. In fiscal 2009 we launched our Cisco Unified Computing System, our next-generation enterprise data center platform architected to unite computing, network, storage access,
and virtualization resources in a single system, which is designed to address the fundamental transformation occurring in the enterprise data center. Cisco Unified Computing System is one of several priorities on which we are focusing resources.
     The process of developing new technology is complex and uncertain, and if we fail to accurately predict customers  changing needs and
emerging technological trends our business could be harmed. We must commit significant resources, including the investments we have been making in our priorities to developing new products before knowing whether our investments will result in
products the market will accept. In particular, if our model of the evolution of networking to collaborative systems does not emerge as we believe it will, or if the industry does not evolve as we believe it will, or if our strategy for addressing
this evolution is not successful, many of our strategic initiatives and investments may be of no or limited value. Furthermore, we may not execute successfully on that vision because of errors in product planning or timing, technical hurdles that we
fail to overcome in a timely fashion, or a lack of appropriate resources. This could result in competitors providing those solutions before we do and loss of market share, net sales, and earnings. The success of new products depends on several
factors, including proper new product definition, component costs, timely completion and introduction of these products, differentiation of new products from those of our competitors, and market acceptance of these products. There can be no
assurance that we will successfully identify new product opportunities, develop and bring new products to market in a timely manner, or achieve market acceptance of our products or that products and technologies developed by others will not render
our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. The products and technologies in our New Products category and those in our Other Products category that we identify as  emerging technologies  may not prove to have the market
success we anticipate, and we may not successfully identify and invest in other emerging or new products.       CHANGES IN INDUSTRY STRUCTURE
AND MARKET CONDITIONS COULD LEAD TO CHARGES RELATED TO DISCONTINUANCES OF CERTAIN OF OUR PRODUCTS OR BUSINESSES AND ASSET IMPAIRMENTS       In
response to changes in industry and market conditions, we may be required to strategically realign our resources and consider restructuring, disposing of, or otherwise exiting businesses. Any decision to limit investment in or dispose of or
otherwise exit businesses may result in the recording of special charges, such as   
         23   

Table of Contents  

inventory and technology-related write-offs, workforce reduction costs, charges relating to consolidation of excess facilities, or claims from third parties who were resellers or users of
discontinued products. Our estimates with respect to the useful life or ultimate recoverability of our carrying basis of assets, including purchased intangible assets, could change as a result of such assessments and decisions. Although in certain
instances, our supply agreements allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to firm orders being placed, our loss contingencies may include liabilities for contracts that we cannot cancel
with contract manufacturers and suppliers. Further, our estimates relating to the liabilities for excess facilities are affected by changes in real estate market conditions. Additionally, we are required to perform goodwill impairment tests on an
annual basis and between annual tests in certain circumstances, and future goodwill impairment tests may result in a charge to earnings.      In
fiscal 2011 we announced and began implementing restructuring activities designed to lower our operating costs and to simplify our operating model and concentrate our focus on selected foundational priorities. We have incurred in the fourth quarter
of fiscal 2011 and will continue to incur in the near term significant restructuring charges as a result of these activities. The changes to our business model may be disruptive, and the revised model that we adopt may not be more efficient or
effective than the aspects of our business model that are being revised. Our restructuring activities, including any related charges and the impact of the related headcount reductions, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating
results, and financial condition.       OVER THE LONG TERM WE INTEND TO INVEST IN ENGINEERING, SALES, SERVICE, MARKETING AND MANUFACTURING
ACTIVITIES, AND THESE INVESTMENTS MAY ACHIEVE DELAYED, OR LOWER THAN EXPECTED BENEFITS WHICH COULD HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS       While we
intend to focus on managing our costs and expenses, over the long term, we also intend to invest in personnel and other resources related to our engineering, sales, service, marketing and manufacturing functions as we focus on our foundational
priorities, such as leadership in our core routing, switching and services, including security and mobility solutions; collaboration; data center virtualization and cloud; video; and architectures for business transformation. We are likely to
recognize the costs associated with these investments earlier than some of the anticipated benefits, and the return on these investments may be lower, or may develop more slowly, than we expect. If we do not achieve the benefits anticipated from
these investments, or if the achievement of these benefits is delayed, our operating results may be adversely affected.       OUR BUSINESS
SUBSTANTIALLY DEPENDS UPON THE CONTINUED GROWTH OF THE INTERNET AND INTERNET-BASED SYSTEMS       A substantial portion of our business and
revenue depends on growth and evolution of the Internet, including the continued development of the Internet, and on the deployment of our products by customers who depend on such continued growth and evolution. To the extent that an economic
slowdown or economic uncertainty and related reduction in capital spending adversely affect spending on Internet infrastructure we could experience material harm to our business, operating results, and financial condition.   
  Because of the rapid introduction of new products and changing customer requirements related to matters such as cost-effectiveness and security, we
believe that there could be performance problems with Internet communications in the future, which could receive a high degree of publicity and visibility. Because we are a large supplier of networking products, our business, operating results, and
financial condition may be materially adversely affected, regardless of whether or not these problems are due to the performance of our own products. Such an event could also result in a material adverse effect on the market price of our common
stock independent of direct effects on our business.   
         24   

Table of Contents  

    WE HAVE MADE AND EXPECT TO CONTINUE TO MAKE ACQUISITIONS THAT COULD DISRUPT OUR OPERATIONS AND HARM OUR
OPERATING RESULTS       Our growth depends upon market growth, our ability to enhance our existing products, and our ability to introduce new
products on a timely basis. We intend to continue to address the need to develop new products and enhance existing products through acquisitions of other companies, product lines, technologies, and personnel. Acquisitions involve numerous risks,
including the following:       

Difficulties in integrating the operations, systems, technologies, products, and personnel of the acquired companies, particularly companies with large
and widespread operations and/or complex products, such as Scientific-Atlanta, WebEx and Tandberg          

Diversion of management s attention from normal daily operations of the business and the challenges of managing larger and more widespread
operations resulting from acquisitions          

Potential difficulties in completing projects associated with in-process research and development intangibles      

Difficulties in entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market
positions          

Initial dependence on unfamiliar supply chains or relatively small supply partners      

Insufficient revenue to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions      

The potential loss of key employees, customers, distributors, vendors and other business partners of the companies we acquire following and continuing
after announcement of acquisition plans         Acquisitions may also cause us to:   

Issue common stock that would dilute our current shareholders  percentage ownership      

Use a substantial portion of our cash resources, or incur debt, as we did in fiscal 2006 when we issued and sold $6.5 billion in senior unsecured notes
to fund our acquisition of Scientific-Atlanta          

Significantly increase our interest expense, leverage and debt service requirements if we incur additional debt to pay for an acquisition

Assume liabilities          

Record goodwill and nonamortizable intangible assets that are subject to impairment testing on a regular basis and potential periodic impairment
charges          

Incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets      

Incur tax expenses related to the effect of acquisitions on our intercompany research and development (R D) cost sharing
arrangement and legal structure          

Incur large and immediate write-offs and restructuring and other related expenses      

Become subject to intellectual property or other litigation         Mergers and acquisitions of high-technology companies are inherently risky and subject to many factors outside of our control, and no assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions will
be successful and will not materially adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition. Failure to manage and successfully integrate acquisitions could materially harm our business and operating results. Prior acquisitions
have resulted in a wide range of outcomes, from successful introduction of new products and technologies to a failure to do so. Even when an acquired company has already developed and marketed products, there can be no assurance that product
enhancements will be made in a timely fashion or that pre-acquisition due diligence will have identified all possible issues that might arise with respect to such products.   
         25   

Table of Contents  

   From time to time, we have made acquisitions that resulted in charges in an individual quarter. These
charges may occur in any particular quarter, resulting in variability in our quarterly earnings. In addition, our effective tax rate for future periods is uncertain and could be impacted by mergers and acquisitions. Risks related to new product
development also apply to acquisitions. Please see the risk factors above, including the risk factor entitled  We depend upon the development of new products and enhancements to existing products, and if we fail to predict and respond to
emerging technological trends and customers  changing needs, our operating results and market share may suffer  for additional information.       ENTRANCE INTO NEW OR DEVELOPING MARKETS EXPOSES US TO ADDITIONAL COMPETITION AND WILL LIKELY INCREASE DEMANDS ON OUR SERVICE AND SUPPORT OPERATIONS    
  As we focus on new market opportunities for example, storage; wireless; security; transporting data, voice, and video traffic across the same
network; and other areas within our New Products category, emerging technologies, and our priorities we will increasingly compete with large telecommunications equipment suppliers as well as startup companies. Several of our competitors may
have greater resources, including technical and engineering resources, than we do. Additionally, as customers in these markets complete infrastructure deployments, they may require greater levels of service, support, and financing than we have
provided in the past, especially in emerging countries. Demand for these types of service, support, or financing contracts may increase in the future. There can be no assurance that we can provide products, service, support, and financing to
effectively compete for these market opportunities.      Further, provision of greater levels of services, support and financing by us may result
in a delay in the timing of revenue recognition. In addition, entry into other markets, such as our entry into the consumer market, has subjected and will subject us to additional risks, particularly to those markets, including the effects of
general market conditions and reduced consumer confidence.       INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION MAY LEAD TO INCREASED COMPETITION AND MAY HARM OUR
OPERATING RESULTS       There has been a trend toward industry consolidation in our markets for several years. We expect this trend to continue
as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry and as companies are acquired or are unable to continue operations. For example, some of our current and potential competitors for enterprise data center
business have made acquisitions, or announced new strategic alliances, designed to position them with the ability to provide end-to-end technology solutions for the enterprise data center. Companies that are strategic alliance partners in some areas
of our business may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, thereby reducing their business with us. We believe that industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete as sole-source vendors for
customers. This could lead to more variability in our operating results and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Furthermore, particularly in the service provider market, rapid
consolidation will lead to fewer customers, with the effect that loss of a major customer could have a material impact on results not anticipated in a customer marketplace composed of more numerous participants.   
   PRODUCT QUALITY PROBLEMS COULD LEAD TO REDUCED REVENUE, GROSS MARGINS, AND NET INCOME       We produce highly complex products that incorporate leading-edge technology, including both hardware and software. Software typically contains bugs that can unexpectedly interfere with expected
operations. There can be no assurance that our preshipment testing programs will be adequate to detect all defects, either ones in individual products or ones that could affect numerous shipments, which might interfere with customer satisfaction,
reduce sales opportunities, or affect gross margins. In the past, we have had to replace certain components and provide remediation in response to the discovery of defects or bugs in products that we had
  
         26   

Table of Contents  

shipped. Although the cost of such remediation has not been material in the past, there can be no assurance that such a remediation, depending on the product involved, would not have a material
impact. An inability to cure a product defect could result in the failure of a product line, temporary or permanent withdrawal from a product or market, damage to our reputation, inventory costs, or product reengineering expenses, any of which could
have a material impact on our revenue, margins, and net income.       DUE TO THE GLOBAL NATURE OF OUR OPERATIONS, POLITICAL OR ECONOMIC CHANGES
OR OTHER FACTORS IN A SPECIFIC COUNTRY OR REGION COULD HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION       We conduct significant sales
and customer support operations in countries outside of the United States and also depend on non-U.S. operations of our contract manufacturers, component suppliers and distribution partners. Although sales in several of our emerging countries
decreased during the recent global economic downturn, several of our emerging countries generally have been relatively fast growing, and we have announced plans to expand our commitments and expectations in certain of those countries. As such, our
growth depends in part on our increasing sales into emerging countries. Our future results could be materially adversely affected by a variety of political, economic or other factors relating to our operations outside the United States, any or all
of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, including, among others, the following:       

The worldwide impact of the recent global economic downturn and related market uncertainty, including the recent European economic and financial
turmoil related to sovereign debt issues in certain countries          

Foreign currency exchange rates          

Political or social unrest          

Economic instability or weakness or natural disasters in a specific country or region; environmental and trade protection measures and other legal and
regulatory requirements, some of which may affect our ability to import our products, to export our products from, or sell our products in various countries      

Political considerations that affect service provider and government spending patterns      

Health or similar issues, such as a pandemic or epidemic      

Difficulties in staffing and managing international operations      

Adverse tax consequences, including imposition of withholding or other taxes on payments by subsidiaries      
   WE ARE EXPOSED TO THE CREDIT RISK OF SOME OF OUR CUSTOMERS AND TO CREDIT EXPOSURES IN WEAKENED MARKETS, WHICH COULD RESULT IN MATERIAL LOSSES
      Most of our sales are on an open credit basis, with typical payment terms of 30 days in the United States and, because of local customs
or conditions, longer in some markets outside the United States. We monitor individual customer payment capability in granting such open credit arrangements, seek to limit such open credit to amounts we believe the customers can pay, and maintain
reserves we believe are adequate to cover exposure for doubtful accounts. Beyond our open credit arrangements, we have also experienced demands for customer financing and facilitation of leasing arrangements. We expect demand for customer financing
to continue, and recently we have been experiencing an increase in this demand as the credit markets have been impacted by the recent global economic downturn and related market uncertainty, including increased demand from customers in certain
emerging countries. We believe customer financing is a competitive factor in obtaining business, particularly in serving customers involved in significant infrastructure projects. Our loan financing arrangements may include not only financing the
acquisition of our products and services but also providing additional funds for other costs associated with network installation and integration of our products and services.   
         27   

Table of Contents  

   Our exposure to the credit risks relating to our financing activities described above may increase if our
customers are adversely affected by a global economic downturn or periods of economic uncertainty. Although we have programs in place that are designed to monitor and mitigate the associated risk, including monitoring of particular risks in certain
geographic areas, there can be no assurance that such programs will be effective in reducing our credit risks.      In the past, there have been
significant bankruptcies among customers both on open credit and with loan or lease financing arrangements, particularly among Internet businesses and service providers, causing us to incur economic or financial losses. There can be no assurance
that additional losses will not be incurred. Although these losses have not been material to date, future losses, if incurred, could harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. A portion of
our sales is derived through our distributors and retail partners. These distributors and retail partners are generally given business terms that allow them to return a portion of inventory, receive credits for changes in selling prices, and
participate in various cooperative marketing programs. We maintain estimated accruals and allowances for such business terms. However, distributors tend to have more limited financial resources than other resellers and end-user customers and
therefore represent potential sources of increased credit risk, because they may be more likely to lack the reserve resources to meet payment obligations. Additionally, to the degree that turmoil in the credit markets makes it more difficult for
some customers to obtain financing, those customers  ability to pay could be adversely impacted, which in turn could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition.   
   WE ARE EXPOSED TO FLUCTUATIONS IN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES THAT COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS AND CASH FLOWS    
  Because a significant portion of our business is conducted outside the United States, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange
rates. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve, and they could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows. Historically, our primary exposures have related to nondollar-denominated sales in
Japan, Canada, and Australia and certain nondollar-denominated operating expenses and service cost of sales in Europe, Latin America, and Asia, where we sell primarily in U.S. dollars. Additionally, we have exposures to emerging market currencies,
which can have extreme currency volatility. An increase in the value of the dollar could increase the real cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside the United States where we sell in dollars, and a weakened dollar could
increase the cost of local operating expenses and procurement of raw materials to the extent that we must purchase components in foreign currencies.      Currently, we enter into foreign exchange forward contracts and options to reduce the short-term impact of foreign currency fluctuations on certain foreign currency receivables, investments, and payables.
In addition, we periodically hedge anticipated foreign currency cash flows. Our attempts to hedge against these risks may not be successful, resulting in an adverse impact on our net income.       OUR PROPRIETARY RIGHTS MAY PROVE DIFFICULT TO ENFORCE       We generally rely on patents,
copyrights, trademarks, and trade secret laws to establish and maintain proprietary rights in our technology and products. Although we have been issued numerous patents and other patent applications are currently pending, there can be no assurance
that any of these patents or other proprietary rights will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented or that our rights will, in fact, provide competitive advantages to us. Furthermore, many key aspects of networking technology are governed by
industrywide standards, which are usable by all market entrants. In addition, there can be no assurance that patents will be issued from pending applications or that claims allowed on any patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology.
In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. The outcome of any actions taken in these foreign countries may be different than if such actions were
determined under the laws of the United States. Although we are not   
         28   

Table of Contents  

dependent on any individual patents or group of patents for particular segments of the business for which we compete, if we are unable to protect our proprietary rights to the totality of the
features (including aspects of products protected other than by patent rights) in a market, we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to others who need not incur the substantial expense, time, and effort required to create innovative
products that have enabled us to be successful.       WE MAY BE FOUND TO INFRINGE ON INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS OF OTHERS    
  Third parties, including customers, have in the past and may in the future assert claims or initiate litigation related to exclusive patent, copyright,
trademark, and other intellectual property rights to technologies and related standards that are relevant to us. These assertions have increased over time as a result of our growth and the general increase in the pace of patent claims assertions,
particularly in the United States. Because of the existence of a large number of patents in the networking field, the secrecy of some pending patents, and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, it is not economically practical or even possible
to determine in advance whether a product or any of its components infringes or will infringe on the patent rights of others. The asserted claims and/or initiated litigation can include claims against us or our manufacturers, suppliers, or
customers, alleging infringement of their proprietary rights with respect to our existing or future products or components of those products. Regardless of the merit of these claims, they can be time-consuming, result in costly litigation and
diversion of technical and management personnel, or require us to develop a non-infringing technology or enter into license agreements. Where claims are made by customers, resistance even to unmeritorious claims could damage customer relationships.
There can be no assurance that licenses will be available on acceptable terms and conditions, if at all, or that our indemnification by our suppliers will be adequate to cover our costs if a claim were brought directly against us or our customers.
Furthermore, because of the potential for high court awards that are not necessarily predictable, it is not unusual to find even arguably unmeritorious claims settled for significant amounts. If any infringement or other intellectual property claim
made against us by any third party is successful, if we are required to indemnify a customer with respect to a claim against the customer, or if we fail to develop non-infringing technology or license the proprietary rights on commercially
reasonable terms and conditions, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.      Our
exposure to risks associated with the use of intellectual property may be increased as a result of acquisitions, as we have a lower level of visibility into the development process with respect to such technology or the care taken to safeguard
against infringement risks. Further, in the past, third parties have made infringement and similar claims after we have acquired technology that had not been asserted prior to our acquisition.   
   WE RELY ON THE AVAILABILITY OF THIRD-PARTY LICENSES       Many of our products are designed to include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. It may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of
these products. There can be no assurance that the necessary licenses would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. The inability to obtain certain licenses or other rights or to obtain such licenses or rights on favorable terms, or the need to
engage in litigation regarding these matters, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Moreover, the inclusion in our products of software or other intellectual property licensed from third
parties on a nonexclusive basis could limit our ability to protect our proprietary rights in our products.       OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND
FUTURE PROSPECTS COULD BE MATERIALLY HARMED BY UNCERTAINTIES OF REGULATION OF THE INTERNET       Currently, few laws or regulations apply
directly to access or commerce on the Internet. We could be materially adversely affected by regulation of the Internet and Internet commerce in any country where we operate. Such regulations could include matters such as voice over the Internet or
using IP, encryption technology, sales taxes on Internet product sales, and access charges for Internet service providers. The adoption of regulation of the   
         29   

Table of Contents  

Internet and Internet commerce could decrease demand for our products and, at the same time, increase the cost of selling our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business,
operating results, and financial condition.       CHANGES IN TELECOMMUNICATIONS REGULATION AND TARIFFS COULD HARM OUR PROSPECTS AND FUTURE SALES
      Changes in telecommunications requirements, or regulatory requirements in other industries in which we operate, in the United States or
other countries could affect the sales of our products. In particular, we believe that there may be future changes in U.S. telecommunications regulations that could slow the expansion of the service providers  network infrastructures and
materially adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition.      Future changes in tariffs by regulatory agencies or
application of tariff requirements to currently untariffed services could affect the sales of our products for certain classes of customers. Additionally, in the United States, our products must comply with various requirements and regulations of
the Federal Communications Commission and other regulatory authorities. In countries outside of the United States, our products must meet various requirements of local telecommunications and other industry authorities. Changes in tariffs or failure
by us to obtain timely approval of products could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition.   
   FAILURE TO RETAIN AND RECRUIT KEY PERSONNEL WOULD HARM OUR ABILITY TO MEET KEY OBJECTIVES    
  Our success has always depended in large part on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled technical, managerial, sales, and marketing personnel.
Competition for these personnel is intense, especially in the Silicon Valley area of Northern California. Stock incentive plans are designed to reward employees for their long-term contributions and provide incentives for them to remain with us.
Volatility or lack of positive performance in our stock price or equity incentive awards, or changes to our overall compensation program, including our stock incentive program, resulting from the management of share dilution and share-based
compensation expense or otherwise, may also adversely affect our ability to retain key employees. As a result of one or more of these factors, we may increase our hiring in geographic areas outside the United States, which could subject us to
additional geopolitical and exchange rate risk. The loss of services of any of our key personnel; the inability to retain and attract qualified personnel in the future; or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly engineering and sales
personnel, could make it difficult to meet key objectives, such as timely and effective product introductions. In addition, companies in our industry whose employees accept positions with competitors frequently claim that competitors have engaged in
improper hiring practices. We have received these claims in the past and may receive additional claims to this effect in the future.   
   ADVERSE RESOLUTION OF LITIGATION OR GOVERNMENTAL INVESTIGATIONS MAY HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS OR FINANCIAL CONDITION    
  We are a party to lawsuits in the normal course of our business. Litigation can be expensive, lengthy, and disruptive to normal business operations.
Moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. For example, Brazilian authorities have investigated our Brazilian subsidiary and certain of our current and former employees, as well as a Brazilian importer of our
products, and its affiliates and employees, relating to alleged evasion of import taxes and alleged improper transactions involving the subsidiary and the importer. Brazilian tax authorities have assessed claims against our Brazilian subsidiary
based on a theory of joint liability with the Brazilian importer for import taxes and related penalties. The asserted claims by Brazilian federal tax authorities are for calendar years 2003 through 2007 and the related asserted claims by the tax
authorities from the state of Sao Paulo, are for calendar years 2005 through 2007. The total asserted claims by Brazilian state and federal tax authorities aggregated to approximately $522 million for the alleged evasion of import taxes,
  
         30   

Table of Contents  

approximately $860 million for interest, and approximately $2.4 billion for various penalties, all determined using an exchange rate as of July 30, 2011. We have completed a thorough review
of the matter and believe the asserted tax claims against us are without merit, and we intend to defend the claims vigorously. While we believe there is no legal basis for our alleged liability, due to the complexities and uncertainty surrounding
the judicial process in Brazil and the nature of the claims asserting joint liability with the importer, we are unable to determine the likelihood of an unfavorable outcome against us and are unable to reasonably estimate a range of loss, if any. An
unfavorable resolution of lawsuits or governmental investigations could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, or financial condition. For additional information regarding certain of the matters in which we are involved,
see Item 3,  Legal Proceedings,  contained in Part I of this report.       CHANGES IN OUR PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES OR ADVERSE
OUTCOMES RESULTING FROM EXAMINATION OF OUR INCOME TAX RETURNS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS       Our provision for income taxes is
subject to volatility and could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries that have lower tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries that have higher tax rates; by changes in the valuation of our deferred
tax assets and liabilities; by expiration of or lapses in the R D tax credit laws; by transfer pricing adjustments, including the effect of acquisitions on our intercompany R D cost sharing arrangement and legal structure; by tax effects of
nondeductible compensation; by tax costs related to intercompany realignments; by changes in accounting principles; or by changes in tax laws and regulations, including possible U.S. changes to the taxation of earnings of our foreign subsidiaries,
the deductibility of expenses attributable to foreign income, or the foreign tax credit rules. Significant judgment is required to determine the recognition and measurement attribute prescribed in the accounting guidance for uncertainty in income
taxes. The accounting guidance for uncertainty in income taxes applies to all income tax positions, including the potential recovery of previously paid taxes, which if settled unfavorably could adversely impact our provision for income taxes or
additional paid-in capital. Further, as a result of certain of our ongoing employment and capital investment actions and commitments, our income in certain countries is subject to reduced tax rates and in some cases is wholly exempt from tax. Our
failure to meet these commitments could adversely impact our provision for income taxes. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly
assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect
on our operating results and financial condition.       OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS ARE ESPECIALLY SUBJECT TO THE RISKS OF EARTHQUAKES, FLOODS,
AND OTHER NATURAL CATASTROPHIC EVENTS       Our corporate headquarters, including certain of our research and development operations are
located in the Silicon Valley area of Northern California, a region known for seismic activity. Additionally, a certain number of our facilities are located near rivers that have experienced flooding in the past. Also certain of our suppliers and
logistics centers are located in regions that have or may be affected by recent earthquake and tsunami activity which has and could continue to disrupt the flow of components and delivery of products. A significant natural disaster, such as an
earthquake, a hurricane, volcano, or a flood, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition.   
   MAN-MADE PROBLEMS SUCH AS COMPUTER VIRUSES OR TERRORISM MAY DISRUPT OUR OPERATIONS AND HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS    
  Despite our implementation of network security measures our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins, and similar disruptions from
unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Efforts to limit the ability of malicious third parties to disrupt the operations of
the Internet or undermine our own security efforts may meet   
         31   

Table of Contents  

with resistance. In addition, the continued threat of terrorism and heightened security and military action in response to this threat, or any future acts of terrorism, may cause further
disruptions to the economies of the United States and other countries and create further uncertainties or otherwise materially harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. Likewise, events such as widespread blackouts could have
similar negative impacts. To the extent that such disruptions or uncertainties result in delays or cancellations of customer orders or the manufacture or shipment of our products, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be
materially and adversely affected.       WE ARE EXPOSED TO FLUCTUATIONS IN THE MARKET VALUES OF OUR PORTFOLIO INVESTMENTS AND IN INTEREST RATES;
IMPAIRMENT OF OUR INVESTMENTS COULD HARM OUR EARNINGS       We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities.
These securities are generally classified as available-for-sale and, consequently, are recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income, net
of tax. Our portfolio includes fixed income securities and equity investments in publicly traded companies, the values of which are subject to market price volatility to the extent unhedged. If such investments suffer market price declines, as we
experienced with some of our investments during fiscal 2009, we may recognize in earnings the decline in the fair value of our investments below their cost basis when the decline is judged to be other than temporary. For information regarding the
sensitivity of and risks associated with the market value of portfolio investments and interest rates, refer to the section titled  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.  Our investments in private companies are
subject to risk of loss of investment capital. These investments are inherently risky because the markets for the technologies or products they have under development are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. We could lose our
entire investment in these companies.       IF WE DO NOT SUCCESSFULLY MANAGE OUR STRATEGIC ALLIANCES, WE MAY NOT REALIZE THE EXPECTED BENEFITS
FROM SUCH ALLIANCES AND WE MAY EXPERIENCE INCREASED COMPETITION OR DELAYS IN PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT       We have several strategic alliances with
large and complex organizations and other companies with which we work to offer complementary products and services and have established a joint venture to market services associated with our Cisco Unified Computing System products. These
arrangements are generally limited to specific projects, the goal of which is generally to facilitate product compatibility and adoption of industry standards. There can be no assurance we will realize the expected benefits from these strategic
alliances or from the joint venture. If successful, these relationships may be mutually beneficial and result in industry growth. However, alliances carry an element of risk because, in most cases, we must compete in some business areas with a
company with which we have a strategic alliance and, at the same time, cooperate with that company in other business areas. Also, if these companies fail to perform or if these relationships fail to materialize as expected, we could suffer delays in
product development or other operational difficulties. Joint ventures can be difficult to manage, given the potentially different interests of joint venture partners.       OUR STOCK PRICE MAY BE VOLATILE       Historically, our common stock has experienced
substantial price volatility, particularly as a result of variations between our actual financial results and the published expectations of analysts and as a result of announcements by our competitors and us. Furthermore, speculation in the press or
investment community about our strategic position, financial condition, results of operations, business, security of our products, or significant transactions can cause changes in our stock price. In addition, the stock market has experienced
extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many technology companies, in particular, and that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These factors, as well as general economic and
political conditions and the announcement of proposed and completed acquisitions or other significant transactions, or any difficulties associated with such transactions, by us or our current or potential competitors,
  
         32   

Table of Contents  

may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock in the future. Additionally, volatility, lack of positive performance in our stock price or changes to our overall
compensation program, including our stock incentive program, may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, virtually all of whom are compensated, in part, based on the performance of our stock price.   
   THERE CAN BE NO ASSURANCE THAT OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION WILL NOT BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY OUR INCURRENCE OF DEBT    
  We have senior unsecured notes outstanding in an aggregate principal amount of $16.0 billion that mature at specific dates in 2014, 2016, 2017, 2019,
2020, 2039 and 2040. We have also established a commercial paper program under which we may issue short-term, unsecured commercial paper notes on a private placement basis up to a maximum aggregate amount outstanding at any time of $3 billion, and
had commercial paper notes outstanding in an aggregate principal amount of $500 million as of July 30, 2011. The outstanding senior unsecured notes bear fixed-rate interest payable semiannually, except $1.25 billion of the notes which bears
interest at a floating rate payable quarterly. The fair value of the long-term debt is subject to market interest rate volatility. The instruments governing the senior unsecured notes contain certain covenants applicable to us and our subsidiaries
that may adversely affect our ability to incur certain liens or engage in certain types of sale and leaseback transactions. In addition, we will be required to have available in the United States sufficient cash to repay all of our notes on
maturity. There can be no assurance that our incurrence of this debt or any future debt will be a better means of providing liquidity to us than would our use of our existing cash resources, including cash currently held offshore. Further, we cannot
be assured that our maintenance of this indebtedness or incurrence of future indebtedness will not adversely affect our operating results or financial condition. In addition, changes by any rating agency to our credit rating can negatively impact
the value and liquidity of both our debt and equity securities, as well as the terms upon which we may borrow under our commercial paper program.       

Item 1B.   
   Unresolved Staff Comments         Not
applicable.       

Item 2.   
   Properties         Our headquarters are located
at an owned site in San Jose, California. In addition to this site, we own certain sites in the United States, which include facilities in the surrounding areas of San Jose, California; Boston, Massachusetts; Richardson, Texas; Lawrenceville,
Georgia; and Research Triangle Park, North Carolina. We also own land for expansion in some of these locations. In addition, we lease office space in several U.S. locations.      Outside the United States our operations are conducted primarily in leased sites, such as our Globalisation Centre East campus in Bangalore, India. Other significant sites are located in Australia,
Belgium, China, Germany, India, Israel, Italy, Japan, Norway, and the United Kingdom.      We believe that our existing facilities, including both
owned and leased, are in good condition and suitable for the conduct of our business.      For additional information regarding obligations under
operating leases, see Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. For additional information regarding properties by operating segment, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   
         33   

Table of Contents  

Item 3.   
   Legal Proceedings         Brazilian authorities
have investigated our Brazilian subsidiary and certain of our current and former employees, as well as a Brazilian importer of our products, and its affiliates and employees, relating to alleged evasion of import taxes and alleged improper
transactions involving the subsidiary and the importer. Brazilian tax authorities have assessed claims against our Brazilian subsidiary based on a theory of joint liability with the Brazilian importer for import taxes and related penalties. In
addition to claims asserted during prior fiscal years by Brazilian federal tax authorities, tax authorities from the Brazilian state of Sao Paulo asserted similar claims on the same legal basis during the second quarter of fiscal 2011.   
  The asserted claims by Brazilian federal tax authorities are for calendar years 2003 through 2007 and the asserted claims by the tax authorities from the
state of Sao Paulo, are for calendar years 2005 through 2007. The total asserted claims by Brazilian state and federal tax authorities aggregated to approximately $522 million for the alleged evasion of import taxes, approximately $860 million for
interest, and approximately $2.4 billion for various penalties, all determined using an exchange rate as of July 30, 2011. We have completed a thorough review of the matter and believe the asserted tax claims against us are without merit, and
we intend to defend the claims vigorously. While we believe there is no legal basis for our alleged liability, due to the complexities and uncertainty surrounding the judicial process in Brazil and the nature of the claims asserting joint liability
with the importer, we are unable to determine the likelihood of an unfavorable outcome against us and are unable to reasonably estimate a range of loss, if any. We do not expect a final judicial determination for several years.   
  On March 31, 2011, a purported shareholder class action lawsuit was filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of
California against Cisco and certain of its officers and directors. A second lawsuit with substantially similar allegations was filed with the same court on April 12, 2011 against Cisco and certain of its officers and directors. The lawsuits
are purportedly brought on behalf of those who purchased Cisco s publicly traded securities between May 12, 2010 and February 9, 2011, and between February 3, 2010 and February 9, 2011, respectively. Plaintiffs allege that
defendants made false and misleading statements during quarterly earnings calls, purport to assert claims for violations of the federal securities laws, and seek unspecified compensatory damages and other relief. We believe the claims are without
merit and intend to defend the actions vigorously. While we believe there is no legal basis for liability, due to the uncertainty surrounding the litigation process, we are unable to reasonably estimate a range of loss, if any, at this time.
     Beginning in April 2011, purported shareholder derivative lawsuits were filed in both the United States District Court for the Northern
District of California and the California Superior Court for the County of Santa Clara against our Board of Directors and several of our officers for allowing management to make allegedly false statements during earnings calls. Our management of the
stock repurchase program is also alleged to have breached a fiduciary duty. The complaints include claims for violation of the federal securities laws, breach of fiduciary duty, aiding and abetting breaches of fiduciary duty, waste of corporate
assets, unjust enrichment, and violations of the California Corporations Code. The complaint seeks compensatory damages, disgorgement, and other relief.      In addition, we are subject to legal proceedings, claims, and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business, including intellectual property litigation. While the outcome of these matters is
currently not determinable, we do not expect that the ultimate costs to resolve these matters will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. For additional information regarding
intellectual property litigation, see  Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors We may be found to infringe on intellectual property rights of others  herein.   
         34   

Table of Contents  

    PART II    

Item 5.   
   Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities      

(a)  
  Cisco common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol CSCO. Information regarding the market prices of Cisco common stock as well as
quarterly cash dividends declared on Cisco s common stock during fiscal 2011 may be found in Supplementary Financial Data on page 130 of this report. No cash dividends were declared on Cisco s common stock during fiscal 2010. There were
58,434 registered shareholders as of September 8, 2011.         

(b)  
  Not Applicable.         

(c)  
  Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities (in millions, except per-share amounts):     

(1)      
    Includes approximately 2 million shares repurchased to satisfy tax withholding obligations that arose on the vesting of shares of restricted stock
and restricted stock units.      

(2)      
    On September 13, 2001, we announced that our Board of Directors had authorized a stock repurchase program. As of July 30, 2011, our Board of
Directors had authorized the repurchase of up to $82 billion of common stock under this program. During fiscal 2011, we repurchased and retired 351 million shares of our common stock at an average price of $19.36 per share for an aggregate
purchase price of $6.8 billion. As of July 30, 2011, we had repurchased and retired 3.5 billion shares of our common stock at an average price of $20.64 per share for an aggregate purchase price of $71.8 billion since inception of the stock
repurchase program, and the remaining authorized amount for stock repurchases under this program was $10.2 billion with no termination date.      
         35   

Table of Contents  

    Stock Performance Graph        The information contained in this Stock Performance Graph section shall not be deemed to be  soliciting material  or  filed  or incorporated by reference in future filings with the
SEC, or subject to the liabilities of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except to the extent that Cisco specifically incorporates it by reference into a document filed under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934.       The following graph shows a five-year comparison of the cumulative total shareholder return on Cisco common stock with the
cumulative total returns of the S P Information Technology Index and the S P 500 Index. The graph tracks the performance of a $100 investment in the Company s common stock and in each of the indexes (with the reinvestment of all
dividends) on July 28, 2006. Shareholder returns over the indicated period are based on historical data and should not be considered indicative of future shareholder returns.   
   Comparison of 5-Year Cumulative Total Return Among Cisco Systems, Inc.,    
   the S P Information Technology Index and the S P 500 Index    

36   

Table of Contents  

Item 6.   
   Selected Financial Data         Five Years Ended
July 30, 2011 (in millions, except per-share amounts)       

(1)      
    Net income for the year ended July 30, 2011 included restructuring and other charges of $694 million, net of tax. See Note 5 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.      
         37   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations          Forward-Looking Statements       This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including this
Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains forward-looking statements regarding future events and our future results that are subject to the safe harbors created under the Securities Act of
1933 (the  Securities Act ) and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ). All statements other than statements of historical facts are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements. These statements
are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections about the industries in which we operate and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. Words such as  expects,   anticipates,   targets, 
 goals,   projects,   intends,   plans,   believes,   seeks,   estimates,   continues,   endeavors,   strives,   may,  variations of such
words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements that refer to projections of our future financial performance, our anticipated growth and trends in our businesses, and other
characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are only predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to
predict, including those identified below, under  Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors,  and elsewhere herein. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. We undertake
no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason.       OVERVIEW    
  We design, manufacture, and sell Internet Protocol (IP)-based networking and other products related to the communications and information technology (IT)
industry and provide services associated with these products and their use. Our products and services are designed to address a wide range of customers  needs, including improving productivity, reducing costs, and gaining a competitive
advantage. In addition, our products and services are designed to help customers build their own network infrastructures that support tools and applications that allow them to communicate with key stakeholders, including customers, prospects,
business partners, suppliers, and employees. We focus on delivering networking products and solutions that are designed to simplify and secure customers  network infrastructures. We believe that integrating multiple network services into our
products helps our customers reduce their total cost of network ownership. Our product offerings fall into the following four categories: our two core technology categories, Routing and Switching; New Products; and Other Products. In addition to our
product offerings, we provide a broad range of service offerings, including technical support services and advanced services. Our customer base spans virtually all types of public and private agencies and businesses, including enterprise businesses
(including public sector entities), service providers, commercial customers, and consumers.      A summary of our results is as follows (in
millions, except percentages and per-share amounts):       
 
         38   

Table of Contents  

      Fiscal 2011 Compared with Fiscal 2010      
  Net sales increased 8%, with net product sales increasing 6% and service revenue increasing 14%. We experienced net sales increases across each of our
geographic segments for both product and service revenue. Total gross margin declined by 2.6 percentage points primarily as a result of higher sales discounts and unfavorable product pricing, product mix shifts, increased amortization and impairment
charges from acquisition-related intangible assets, and restructuring charges. As a percentage of revenue, the total for research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses increased by 0.7 percentage points,
primarily as a result of increased headcount-related costs. Total charges for restructuring and other in fiscal 2011 totaled $923 million, which consisted of $124 million recorded to cost of sales and $799 million recorded to operating expenses.
Diluted earnings per share decreased by 12%, a result of a 16% decrease in net income, partially offset by a decline in our diluted share count of 285 million shares. For further details, see our Discussion of Fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009
beginning on page 50.      During fiscal 2011 net sales increased as compared to fiscal 2010; however, our results for the year reflect the
effects of certain challenges that we faced. We identified challenges with the public sector market early in the year and we continued to experience declining business momentum with that market throughout the year as spending reductions were being
taken across virtually all developed markets. In the service provider market, we experienced challenges in sales of traditional set-top boxes. In addition, we experienced challenges with regard to switching, as switching revenue was flat for fiscal
2011 as compared to fiscal 2010. We believe the performance in switching was due to continued transitions taking place in our product portfolio, the lower public sector spending, and the impact of increased competitive pressures. In fiscal 2011
switching gross margins declined on a year-over-year basis due to the transition of products at the high-end of the portfolio. We also identified significant pressures in our consumer market during the fiscal year and addressed these issues with
targeted actions, as discussed below.      Beginning in the third quarter of fiscal 2011, we initiated a number of key, targeted actions that are
intended to accomplish the following: simplify and focus our organization and operating model; align our cost structure to the transitions in the marketplace; divest or exit underperforming operations; and deliver value to our shareholders. We are
taking these actions to align our business based on five foundational priorities: leadership in our core business (routing, switching, and associated services), which includes comprehensive security and mobility solutions; collaboration; data center
virtualization and cloud; video; and architectures for business transformation. In connection with these activities, we incurred restructuring and other charges, as discussed above, in the second half of fiscal 2011, and we have announced that we
will incur additional charges in fiscal 2012. These actions include implementing a voluntary early retirement program, effecting a workforce reduction, and realigning and restructuring our consumer business, most notably exiting our Flip Video
cameras product line. We anticipate that our total expense reduction actions will reduce our annualized operating expense run rate by approximately $1 billion, with the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 operating expenses as our base. We expect to
achieve this annualized run rate reduction target within fiscal 2012.      While we experienced the challenges outlined above, there were several
positive aspects to our fiscal 2011 performance. For fiscal 2011, the Emerging Markets segment experienced revenue growth of 14%. We had strong growth in our commercial market and in our enterprise market (excluding the public sector). Positive
aspects of our results for fiscal 2011 also included revenue growth in New Products of 14%, with strong growth of 31% in collaboration (which includes the impact of the Tandberg ASA ( Tandberg ) acquisition completed at the end of the
third quarter of fiscal 2010) and 44% in data center, both key strategic areas for us. For fiscal 2011, service revenue increased by 14%. In addition, as we focused on and addressed the items that impacted our financial performance in the first
three quarters of fiscal 2011, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 there was improvement in our general business momentum.   
         39   

Table of Contents  

    Strategy and Focus Areas       We announced a plan in May 2011, which we began implementing in fiscal 2011 and expect to complete in fiscal 2012, to realign our sales, services and engineering organizations in order to simplify our
operating model and focus on our five foundational priorities:       

Leadership in our core business (routing, switching, and associated services) which includes comprehensive security and mobility solutions

Collaboration          

Data center virtualization and cloud          

Video          

Architectures for business transformation         We believe that focusing on these priorities will best position us to continue to expand our share of our customers  information technology spending.   
  We are currently undergoing product transitions in our core business and introducing next-generation products with higher price performance and
architectural advantages compared to both our prior generation of products and the product offerings of our competitors. We believe that many of these product transitions are gaining momentum based on the strong year-over-year product revenue growth
across these next-generation product families. We believe that our strategy and our ability to innovate and execute may enable us to improve our relative competitive position in many of our product areas even in uncertain or difficult business
conditions and, therefore, may continue to provide us with long-term growth opportunities. However, we believe that these newly introduced products may continue to negatively impact product gross margins, which we are currently striving to address
through various initiatives including value engineering, effective supply chain management, and delivering greater customer value through offers that include hardware, software, and services.      We continue to seek to capitalize on market transitions. Market transitions on which we are primarily focused include those related to the increased role of virtualization/the cloud, video, collaboration,
networked mobility technologies and the transition from Internet Protocol Version 4 to Internet Protocol Version 6. For example, a market in which a significant market transition is under way is the enterprise data center market, where a transition
to virtualization/the cloud is rapidly evolving. There is a continued growing awareness that intelligent networks are becoming the platform for productivity improvement and global competitiveness. We believe that disruption in the enterprise data
center market is accelerating, due to changing technology trends such as the increasing adoption of virtualization, the rise in scalable processing, and the advent of cloud computing and cloud-based IT resource deployments and business models. These
key terms are defined as follows:       Virtualization:  refers to the process of aggregating the current siloed data
center resources into unified, shared resource pools that can be dynamically delivered to applications on demand thus enabling the ability to move content and applications between devices and the network.   
   The cloud:  refers to an information technology hosting and delivery system in which resources, such as servers or software
applications, are no longer tethered to a user s physical infrastructure but instead are delivered to and consumed by the user  on demand  as an Internet-based service, whether singularly or with multiple other users simultaneously.
     This virtualization and cloud-driven market transition in the enterprise data center market is being brought about through the convergence of
networking, computing, storage, and software technologies. We are seeking to take advantage of this market transition through, among other things, our Cisco Unified Computing System platform and Cisco Nexus product families, which are designed to
integrate the previously siloed technologies in the enterprise data center with a unified architecture. We are also seeking to capitalize on this market transition through the development of other cloud-based product and service offerings through
which we intend to enable customers to develop and deploy their own cloud-based IT solutions, including software-as-a-service (SaaS) and other-as-a-service (XaaS) solutions.   
         40   

Table of Contents  

   The competitive landscape in the enterprise data center market is changing. Very large, well-financed, and
aggressive competitors are each bringing their own new class of products to address this new market. We expect this competitive market trend to continue. With respect to this market, we believe the network will be the intersection of innovation
through an open ecosystem and standards. We expect to see acquisitions, further industry consolidation, and new alliances among companies as they seek to serve the enterprise data center market. As we enter this next market phase, we expect
that we will strengthen certain strategic alliances, compete more with certain strategic alliances and partners, and perhaps also encounter new competitors in our attempt to deliver the best solutions for our customers.   
  Other market transitions on which we are focusing particular attention include those related to the increased role of video, collaboration, and networked
mobility technologies. The key market transitions relative to the convergence of video, collaboration, and networked mobility technologies, which we believe will drive productivity and growth in network loads, appear to be evolving even more quickly
and more significantly than we had previously anticipated. Cisco TelePresence systems are one example of product offerings that have incorporated video, collaboration, and networked mobility technologies, as customers evolve their communications and
business models. We are focused on simplifying and expanding the creation, distribution, and use of end-to-end video solutions for businesses and consumers.      We believe that the architectural approach that has served us well in the past in addressing market opportunities in the communications and IT industry will be adaptable to other markets. An example of a
market where we aim to apply this approach is mobility, where growth of IP traffic on handheld devices is driving the need for more robust architectures, equipment and services in order to accommodate not only an increasing number of worldwide
mobile device users, but also increased user demand for broadband-quality business network and consumer web applications to be delivered on such devices.       Revenue       For fiscal 2011, total revenue increased by 8%. Within total revenue, net product
revenue increased 6% and net service revenue increased 14%, each as compared with fiscal 2010. With regard to our geographic segment performance, net revenue increased 6% in the United States and Canada segment, 6% in our European Markets segment,
14% in our Emerging Markets segment, and 12% in our Asia Pacific Markets segment. Customer market product revenue performance in fiscal 2011 was driven by increases, in order of largest percentage growth, in our commercial, service provider, and
enterprise markets. Our consumer market experienced a large revenue decline in fiscal 2011, as compared with fiscal 2010, as we exited the Flip Video cameras business and experienced weakness in sales of our networked home products.   
  The 6% increase in product revenue was driven by growth across most of our product categories. In particular, our New Products category experienced a
revenue increase of 14%, primarily as a result of the acquisition of Tandberg, which was completed at the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2010. Within the New Products category, increased revenue was driven by growth of 44% in data center and
revenue growth of 31% in collaboration. In our core product categories we experienced revenue growth of 6% in Routers, principally as a result of strength in the high-end router product offerings, and flat revenue in our Switches product category,
with single-digit revenue growth in fixed-configuration switching products being offset by a similar revenue decline in modular switches. The net service revenue increase was experienced across the technical support services and advanced services
categories with revenue increases of 12% and 21%, respectively, in fiscal 2011 as compared with fiscal 2010. For further details see our Discussion of Fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009 beginning on page 50.   
   Gross Margin       In fiscal 2011, our gross
margin percentage decreased by approximately 2.6 percentage points, as compared with fiscal 2010. Within this total gross margin change, product gross margin declined by 3.7 percentage points, while service gross margin increased by 1.5 percentage
points. The decrease in our product gross margin percentage was a result of higher sales discounts and unfavorable product pricing, unfavorable product mix, and   
         41   

Table of Contents  

restructuring and other charges. Additionally, increased amortization expense and impairment charges from purchased intangible assets contributed to the decline in product gross margin. Partially
offsetting these decreases were lower overall manufacturing costs and higher shipment volume. The increase in our service gross margin was due to increased volume, partially offset by increased costs and unfavorable mix impacts. For further details
see our Discussion of Fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009 beginning on page 50.       Operating Expenses    
  Total operating expenses in fiscal 2011, as compared with fiscal 2010, increased by 14%. In fiscal 2011, research and development expenses increased 10%,
sales and marketing expenses increased 12%, while general and administrative expenses were down slightly. The collective increase was primarily a result of higher headcount-related expenses. This increase was partially offset by the impact from the
fiscal 2011 period containing one less week compared with the fiscal 2010 period. Operating expense as a percentage of revenue increased by 2.4 percentage points, primarily as a result of restructuring and other charges and the higher
headcount-related charges along with increased expense from purchased intangible asset amortization and impairments.       Other Key Financial
Measures       The following is a summary of our other key financial measures for fiscal 2011:   

We repurchased approximately 351 million shares of our common stock at an average price of $19.36 per share for an aggregate purchase price of
$6.8 billion during fiscal 2011. As of the end of fiscal 2011, the remaining authorized repurchase amount under the stock repurchase program was $10.2 billion with no termination date. We also declared and paid dividends of $658 million to our
shareholders during fiscal 2011.          

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES    
  The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires
us to make judgments, assumptions, and estimates that affect the amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes. Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements describes the significant accounting policies and
methods used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements. The accounting policies described below are significantly affected by critical accounting estimates. Such accounting policies require significant judgments, assumptions, and
estimates used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements, and actual results could differ materially from the amounts reported based on these policies.   
         42   

Table of Contents  

    Revenue Recognition       Revenue is recognized when all of the following criteria have been met:       

Persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists.  Contracts, Internet commerce agreements, and customer purchase orders are generally used to
determine the existence of an arrangement.          

Delivery has occurred.  Shipping documents and customer acceptance, when applicable, are used to verify delivery.      

The fee is fixed or determinable.  We assess whether the fee is fixed or determinable based on the payment terms associated with the transaction
and whether the sales price is subject to refund or adjustment.          

Collectibility is reasonably assured.  We assess collectibility based primarily on the creditworthiness of the customer as determined by credit
checks and analysis, as well as the customer s payment history.         In instances where final acceptance of the product,
system, or solution is specified by the customer, revenue is deferred until all acceptance criteria have been met. When a sale involves multiple deliverables, such as sales of products that include services, the multiple deliverables are evaluated
to determine the unit of accounting, and the entire fee from the arrangement is allocated to each unit of accounting based on the relative selling price. Revenue is recognized when the revenue recognition criteria for each unit of accounting are
met.      The amount of product and service revenue recognized in a given period is affected by our judgment as to whether an arrangement includes
multiple deliverables and, if so, our valuation of the units of accounting for multiple deliverables. According to the accounting guidance prescribed in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 605,  Revenue Recognition , we use vendor-specific
objective evidence of selling price (VSOE) for each of those units, when available. We determine VSOE based on our normal pricing and discounting practices for the specific product or service when sold separately. In determining VSOE, we require
that a substantial majority of the selling prices for a product or service fall within a reasonably narrow pricing range, generally evidenced by approximately 80% of such historical standalone transactions falling within plus or minus 15% of the
median selling price. VSOE exists across most of our product and service offerings. In certain limited circumstances when VSOE does not exist, we apply the selling price hierarchy to applicable multiple-deliverable arrangements. Under the selling
price hierarchy, third-party evidence of selling price (TPE) will be considered if VSOE does not exist, and estimated selling price (ESP) will be used if neither VSOE nor TPE is available. Generally, we are not able to determine TPE because our
go-to-market strategy differs from that of others in our markets, and the extent of customization varies among comparable products or services from our peers. In determining ESP, we apply significant judgment as we weigh a variety of factors, based
on the facts and circumstances of the arrangement. We typically arrive at an ESP for a product or service that is not sold separately by considering company-specific factors such as geographies, competitive landscape, internal costs, gross margin
objectives, pricing practices used to establish bundled pricing, and existing portfolio pricing and discounting.      Some of our sales
arrangements have multiple deliverables containing software and related software support components. Such sale arrangements are subject to the accounting guidance in ASC 985-605,  Software-Revenue Recognition .   
  As our business and offerings evolve over time, our pricing practices may be required to be modified accordingly, which could result in changes in
selling prices, including both VSOE and ESP, in subsequent periods. There were no material impacts during fiscal 2011, nor do we currently expect a material impact in fiscal 2012 on our revenue recognition due to any changes in our VSOE, TPE, or
ESP.      Revenue deferrals relate to the timing of revenue recognition for specific transactions based on financing arrangements, service,
support, and other factors. Financing arrangements may include sales-type, direct-financing, and operating leases, loans, and guarantees of third-party financing. Our deferred revenue for products was $3.7 billion as of both July 30, 2011 and
July 31, 2010. Technical support services revenue is deferred and   
         43   

Table of Contents  

recognized ratably over the period during which the services are to be performed, which typically is from one to three years. Advanced services revenue is recognized upon delivery or completion
of performance. Our deferred revenue for services was $8.5 billion and $7.4 billion as of July 30, 2011 and July 31, 2010, respectively.      We make sales to distributors and retail partners and generally recognize revenue based on a sell-through method using information provided by them. Our distributors and retail partners participate in
various cooperative marketing and other programs, and we maintain estimated accruals and allowances for these programs. If actual credits received by our distributors and retail partners under these programs were to deviate significantly from our
estimates, which are based on historical experience, our revenue could be adversely affected.       Allowances for Receivables and Sales Returns
      The allowances for receivables were as follows (in millions, except percentages):   
   
    The allowances are based on our assessment of the collectibility of customer accounts. We regularly review the adequacy
of these allowances by considering internal factors such as historical experience, credit quality and age of the receivable balances as well as external factors such as economic conditions that may affect a customer s ability to pay, historical
default rates, and long-term historical loss rates published by major third-party credit-rating agencies. We also consider the concentration of receivables outstanding with a particular customer in assessing the adequacy of our allowances. In
addition, we evaluate the credit quality of our financing receivables and any associated allowance for credit loss by applying the relevant loss factors based on our internal credit risk rating for the respective financing receivables, disaggregated
by segment and class. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Determination of loss factors associated with internal credit risk ratings is complex and subjective. Our ongoing consideration of all these factors could result in an
increase in our allowance for credit loss in the future, which could adversely affect our net income. Similarly, if a major customer s creditworthiness deteriorates, if actual defaults are higher than our historical experience, or if other
circumstances arise, our estimates of the recoverability of amounts due to us could be overstated, and additional allowances could be required, which could have an adverse impact on our revenue.   
  Both accounts receivable and financing receivables are charged off at the point when they are considered uncollectible. The decline in our allowance for
doubtful accounts as a percentage of our gross accounts receivable was primarily due to the charge-off of certain uncollectible receivables that had been fully reserved.      A reserve for future sales returns is established based on historical trends in product return rates. The reserve for future sales returns as of July 30, 2011 and July 31, 2010 was $106 million
and $90 million, respectively, and was recorded as a reduction of our accounts receivable. If the actual future returns were to deviate from the historical data on which the reserve had been established, our revenue could be adversely affected.
      Inventory Valuation and Liability for Purchase Commitments with Contract Manufacturers and Suppliers    
  Our inventory balance was $1.5 billion and $1.3 billion as of July 30, 2011 and July 31, 2010, respectively. Inventory is written down based on
excess and obsolete inventories determined primarily by future demand forecasts. Inventory write-downs are measured as the difference between the cost of the inventory and market, based upon assumptions about future demand, and are charged to the
provision for inventory, which is a   
         44   

Table of Contents  

component of our cost of sales. At the point of the loss recognition, a new, lower cost basis for that inventory is established, and subsequent changes in facts and circumstances do not result in
the restoration or increase in that newly established cost basis.      We record a liability for firm, noncancelable, and unconditional purchase
commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers for quantities in excess of our future demand forecasts consistent with the valuation of our excess and obsolete inventory. As of July 30, 2011, the liability for these purchase commitments
was $168 million, compared with $135 million as of July 31, 2010, and was included in other current liabilities.      Our provision for
inventory was $196 million, $94 million, and $93 million for fiscal 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. The provision for the liability related to purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers was $114 million, $8 million, and $87
million in fiscal 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. The increase in the provision for inventory and the provision for the liability related to purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers was due in part to charges recorded in
connection with the restructuring and realignment of our consumer business. Additionally, the provision for the liability related to purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers increased due to higher provisions related to certain
component supplies that we secured for our extended needs, and due to higher contract manufacturer excess and obsolescence charges. If there were to be a sudden and significant decrease in demand for our products, or if there were a higher incidence
of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements, we could be required to increase our inventory write-downs, and our liability for purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers, and
accordingly gross margin could be adversely affected. We regularly evaluate our exposure for inventory write-downs and the adequacy of our liability for purchase commitments. Inventory and supply chain management remain areas of focus as we balance
the need to maintain supply chain flexibility to help ensure competitive lead times with the risk of inventory obsolescence, particularly in light of current macroeconomic uncertainties and conditions and the resulting potential for changes in
future demand forecast.       Warranty Costs       The liability for product warranties, included in other current liabilities, was $342 million as of July 30, 2011, compared with $360 million as of July 31, 2010. See Note 12 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements. Our products are generally covered by a warranty for periods ranging from 90 days to five years, and for some products we provide a limited lifetime warranty. We accrue for warranty costs as part of our cost of sales based on
associated material costs, technical support labor costs, and associated overhead. Material cost is estimated based primarily upon historical trends in the volume of product returns within the warranty period and the cost to repair or replace the
equipment. Technical support labor cost is estimated based primarily upon historical trends in the rate of customer cases and the cost to support the customer cases within the warranty period. Overhead cost is applied based on estimated time to
support warranty activities.      The provision for product warranties issued during fiscal 2011, 2010, and 2009 was $456 million, $469 million,
and $374 million, respectively. If we experience an increase in warranty claims compared with our historical experience, or if the cost of servicing warranty claims is greater than expected, our gross margin could be adversely affected.   
   Share-Based Compensation Expense    
  Share-based compensation expense is presented as follows (in millions):       
    Prior to the initial declaration of a quarterly cash dividend on March 17, 2011, the fair value of restricted stock
and restricted stock units was measured based on an expected dividend yield of 0% as we did not historically pay   
         45   

Table of Contents  

cash dividends on our common stock. For awards granted on or subsequent to March 17, 2011, we used an annualized dividend yield based on the per share dividends declared by our Board of
Directors. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.      The determination of the fair value of employee stock options and employee
stock purchase rights on the date of grant using an option-pricing model is affected by our stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of highly complex and subjective variables. For employee stock options and employee stock purchase
rights, these variables include, but are not limited to, the expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards, the risk-free interest rate, and expected dividends as of the grant date. For employee stock options, we used the implied
volatility for two-year traded options on our stock as the expected volatility assumption required in the lattice-binomial model. For employee stock purchase rights, we used the implied volatility for traded options (with lives corresponding to the
expected life of the employee stock purchase rights) on our stock. The selection of the implied volatility approach was based upon the availability of actively traded options on our stock and our assessment that implied volatility is more
representative of future stock price trends than historical volatility. The valuation of employee stock options is also impacted by kurtosis and skewness, which are technical measures of the distribution of stock price returns and the actual and
projected employee stock option exercise behaviors.      Because share-based compensation expense is based on awards ultimately expected to vest,
it has been reduced for forfeitures. If factors change and we employ different assumptions in the application of our option-pricing model in future periods or if we experience different forfeiture rates, the compensation expense that is derived may
differ significantly from what we have recorded in the current year.       Fair Value Measurements    
  Our fixed income and publicly traded equity securities, collectively, are reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at a fair value of $36.9 billion as
of July 30, 2011, compared with $35.3 billion as of July 31, 2010. Our fixed income investment portfolio, as of July 30, 2011, consisted primarily of high quality investment-grade securities. See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.      As described more fully in Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, a valuation hierarchy is based on the level of
independent, objective evidence available regarding the value of the investments. It encompasses three classes of investments: Level 1 consists of securities for which there are quoted prices in active markets for identical securities; Level 2
consists of securities for which observable inputs other than Level 1 inputs are used, such as quoted prices for similar securities in active markets or quoted prices for identical securities in less active markets and model-derived valuations for
which the variables are derived from, or corroborated by, observable market data; and Level 3 consists of securities for which there are unobservable inputs to the valuation methodology that are significant to the measurement of the fair value.
     Our Level 2 securities are valued using quoted market prices for similar instruments or nonbinding market prices that are corroborated by
observable market data. We use inputs such as actual trade data, benchmark yields, broker/dealer quotes, and other similar data, which are obtained from independent pricing vendors, quoted market prices, or other sources to determine the ultimate
fair value of our assets and liabilities. We use such pricing data as the primary input, to which we have not made any material adjustments during fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010, to make our assessments and determinations as to the ultimate valuation
of our investment portfolio. We are ultimately responsible for the financial statements and underlying estimates.      The inputs and fair value
are reviewed for reasonableness, may be further validated by comparison to publicly available information, and could be adjusted based on market indices or other information that management deems material to its estimate of fair value. The
assessment of fair value can be difficult and subjective. However, given the relative reliability of the inputs we use to value our investment portfolio, and because substantially all of our valuation inputs are obtained using quoted market prices
for similar or identical assets, we do not believe that the nature of estimates and assumptions affected by levels of subjectivity and judgment was   
         46   

Table of Contents  

material to the valuation of the investment portfolio as of July 30, 2011. Level 3 assets do not represent a significant portion of our total investment portfolio as of July 30, 2011.
      Other-than-Temporary Impairments  We recognize an impairment charge when the declines in the fair values of our fixed income or
publicly traded equity securities below their cost basis are judged to be other than temporary. The ultimate value realized on these securities, to the extent unhedged, is subject to market price volatility until they are sold.   
  If the fair value of a debt security is less than its amortized cost, we assess whether the impairment is other than temporary. An impairment is
considered other than temporary if (i) we have the intent to sell the security, (ii) it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery of its entire amortized cost basis, or (iii) we do not
expect to recover the entire amortized cost of the security. If an impairment is considered other than temporary based on (i) or (ii) described in the prior sentence, the entire difference between the amortized cost and the fair value of
the security is recognized in earnings. If an impairment is considered other than temporary based on condition (iii), the amount representing credit loss, defined as the difference between the present value of the cash flows expected to be collected
and the amortized cost basis of the debt security, will be recognized in earnings, and the amount relating to all other factors will be recognized in other comprehensive income (OCI). In estimating the amount and timing of cash flows expected to be
collected, we consider all available information, including past events, current conditions, the remaining payment terms of the security, the financial condition of the issuer, expected defaults, and the value of underlying collateral.   
  For publicly traded equity securities, we consider various factors in determining whether we should recognize an impairment charge, including the length
of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than our cost basis, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, and our intent and ability to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any
anticipated recovery in market value.      There were no significant impairment charges on our investments in publicly traded equity securities in
fiscal 2011 and 2010. There were no impairment charges on investments in fixed income securities in fiscal 2011 and 2010. In fiscal 2009, impairment charges of $258 million for investments in fixed income securities and publicly traded equity
securities were recognized in earnings. Our ongoing consideration of all the factors described previously could result in additional impairment charges in the future, which could adversely affect our net income.   
  We also have investments in privately held companies, some of which are in the startup or development stages. As of July 30, 2011, our investments
in privately held companies were $796 million, compared with $756 million as of July 31, 2010, and were included in other assets. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We monitor these investments for events or circumstances
indicative of potential impairment and will make appropriate reductions in carrying values if we determine that an impairment charge is required, based primarily on the financial condition and near-term prospects of these companies. These
investments are inherently risky because the markets for the technologies or products these companies are developing are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. Our impairment charges on investments in privately held companies were
$10 million, $25 million, and $85 million in fiscal 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.       Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Asset
Impairments       Our methodology for allocating the purchase price relating to purchase acquisitions is determined through established
valuation techniques. Goodwill represents a residual value as of the acquisition date, which in most cases results in measuring goodwill as an excess of the purchase consideration transferred plus the fair value of any noncontrolling interest in the
acquired company over the fair value of net assets acquired, including contingent consideration. We perform goodwill impairment tests on an annual basis in the fourth fiscal quarter and between annual tests in certain circumstances for each
reporting unit. Effective in fiscal 2010, the assessment   
         47   

Table of Contents  

of fair value for goodwill and purchased intangible assets is based on factors that market participants would use in an orderly transaction in accordance with the new accounting guidance for the
fair value measurement of nonfinancial assets.      The goodwill recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of July 30, 2011 and
July 31, 2010 was $16.8 billion and $16.7 billion, respectively. In response to changes in industry and market conditions, we could be required to strategically realign our resources and consider restructuring, disposing of, or otherwise
exiting businesses, which could result in an impairment of goodwill. As a result of the pending divestiture of our manufacturing operations in Juarez, Mexico, we recorded an adjustment of $63 million to reduce goodwill associated with these
operations. There was no impairment of goodwill resulting from our annual impairment testing in fiscal 2011, 2010 or 2009. The excess of the fair value over the carrying value for each of our reporting units ranged from approximately $7 billion for
the Asia Pacific Markets segment to approximately $12 billion for the United States and Canada segment as of July 30, 2011. We performed a sensitivity analysis for goodwill impairment with respect to each of our respective reporting units and
determined that a hypothetical 10% decline in the fair value of each reporting unit as of July 30, 2011 would not result in an impairment of goodwill for any reporting unit.      We make judgments about the recoverability of purchased intangible assets with finite lives whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that an impairment may exist. Recoverability of purchased
intangible assets with finite lives is measured by comparing the carrying amount of the asset to the future undiscounted cash flows the asset is expected to generate. We review indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually or whenever
events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Recoverability of indefinite-lived intangible assets is measured by comparing the carrying amount of the asset to the future discounted cash flows the asset is
expected to generate. If the asset is considered to be impaired, the amount of any impairment is measured as the difference between the carrying value and the fair value of the impaired asset. Assumptions and estimates about future values and
remaining useful lives of our purchased intangible assets are complex and subjective. They can be affected by a variety of factors, including external factors such as industry and economic trends, and internal factors such as changes in our business
strategy and our internal forecasts. Our impairment charges related to purchased intangible assets were $164 million, $28 million, and $95 million during fiscal 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. Our ongoing consideration of all the factors
described previously could result in additional impairment charges in the future, which could adversely affect our net income.      Income Taxes
      We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our effective tax rates differ from the statutory
rate, primarily due to the tax impact of state taxes, foreign operations, research and development (R D) tax credits, tax audit settlements, nondeductible compensation, international realignments, and transfer pricing adjustments. Our effective
tax rate was 17.1%, 17.5%, and 20.3% in fiscal 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.      Significant judgment is required in evaluating our
uncertain tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. Although we believe our reserves are reasonable, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be different from that which is reflected in our
historical income tax provisions and accruals. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit or the refinement of an estimate. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is
different than the amounts recorded, such differences will impact the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. The provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that
are considered appropriate, as well as the related net interest.      Significant judgment is also required in determining any valuation allowance
recorded against deferred tax assets. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider all available evidence, including past operating results, estimates of future taxable income, and the feasibility of tax planning strategies. In the
event   
         48   

Table of Contents  

that we change our determination as to the amount of deferred tax assets that can be realized, we will adjust our valuation allowance with a corresponding impact to the provision for income taxes
in the period in which such determination is made.      Our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely impacted by
earnings being lower than anticipated in countries that have lower tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries that have higher tax rates; by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; by expiration of or lapses
in the R D tax credit laws; by transfer pricing adjustments including the effect of acquisitions on our intercompany R D cost-sharing arrangement and legal structure; by tax effects of nondeductible compensation; by tax costs related to
intercompany realignments; by changes in accounting principles; or by changes in tax laws and regulations including possible U.S. changes to the taxation of earnings of our foreign subsidiaries, the deductibility of expenses attributable
to foreign income, or the foreign tax credit rules. Significant judgment is required to determine the recognition and measurement attributes prescribed in the accounting guidance for uncertainty in income taxes. The accounting guidance for
uncertainty in income taxes applies to all income tax positions, including the potential recovery of previously paid taxes, which if settled unfavorably could adversely impact our provision for income taxes or additional paid-in capital. Further, as
a result of certain of our ongoing employment and capital investment actions and commitments, our income in certain countries is subject to reduced tax rates and in some cases is wholly exempt from tax. Our failure to meet these commitments could
adversely impact our provision for income taxes. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse
outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse impact on our operating results and
financial condition.       Loss Contingencies       We are subject to the possibility of various losses arising in the ordinary course of business. We consider the likelihood of loss or impairment of an asset or the incurrence of a liability, as well as
our ability to reasonably estimate the amount of loss, in determining loss contingencies. An estimated loss contingency is accrued when it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be
reasonably estimated. We regularly evaluate current information available to us to determine whether such accruals should be adjusted and whether new accruals are required.      Third parties, including customers, have in the past and may in the future assert claims or initiate litigation related to exclusive patent, copyright, trademark, and other intellectual property rights to
technologies and related standards that are relevant to us. These assertions have increased over time as a result of our growth and the general increase in the pace of patent claims assertions, particularly in the United States. If any infringement
or other intellectual property claim made against us by any third party is successful, or if we fail to develop non-infringing technology or license the proprietary rights on commercially reasonable terms and conditions, our business, operating
results, and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.   
         49   

Table of Contents  

    DISCUSSION OF FISCAL 2011, 2010, AND 2009       Fiscal 2011, 2010, and 2009 were 52, 53, and 52-week fiscal years, respectively.       Net Sales
      The following table presents the breakdown of net sales between product and service revenue (in millions, except percentages):   
   
      Fiscal 2011 Compared with Fiscal 2010        For fiscal 2011, as compared with fiscal 2010, net sales increased by 8%. Within total net sales growth, net product sales increased by 6%, while service revenue increased by 14%. Our product and service
revenue totals each reflected sales growth across each of our geographic segments. The sales increase was due to customer acceptance of the new product transitions taking place in our core business, sales growth in our New Products category, and the
strong performance of our services solutions.      We conduct business globally in numerous currencies. The direct effect of foreign currency
fluctuations on sales has not been material because our sales are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars. However, if the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to other currencies, such strengthening could have an indirect effect on our sales to the
extent it raises the cost of our products to non-U.S. customers and thereby reduces demand. A weaker U.S. dollar could have the opposite effect. However, the precise indirect effect of currency fluctuations is difficult to measure or predict because
our sales are influenced by many factors in addition to the impact of such currency fluctuations.      In addition to the impact of macroeconomic
factors, including a reduced IT spending environment and budget-driven reductions in spending by government entities, net sales by segment in a particular period may be significantly impacted by several factors related to revenue recognition,
including the complexity of transactions   
         50   

Table of Contents  

such as multiple-element arrangements; the mix of financing arrangements provided to our channel partners and customers; and final acceptance of the product, system, or solution, among other
factors. In addition, certain customers tend to make large and sporadic purchases, and the net sales related to these transactions may also be affected by the timing of revenue recognition, which in turn would impact the net sales of the relevant
segment. As has been the case in our Emerging Markets segment from time to time, customers require greater levels of financing arrangements, service, and support and this may occur in future periods, which may also impact the timing of the
recognition of revenue.        Fiscal 2010 Compared with Fiscal 2009        Net sales increased across all of our geographic segments in fiscal 2010 as compared with fiscal 2009. In our view, the sales increase in fiscal 2010 was a result of the global demand recovery during
fiscal 2010 in comparison to the weakness we experienced for most of fiscal 2009. We had an increase in both net product sales and service revenue in fiscal 2010 compared with fiscal 2009. From a customer market perspective, in fiscal 2010 we saw an
improved demand environment for capital expenditures and balanced growth across all of our customer markets.      Net Product Sales by Segment
      The following table presents the breakdown of net product sales by segment (in millions, except percentages):   
   
     United States and Canada         Fiscal 2011 Compared with Fiscal 2010        For fiscal 2011, as compared with fiscal
2010, net product sales in the United States and Canada segment increased by 5%. Net product sales increased 3% in the United States and increased 31% in Canada. The increase in net product sales was across most of our customer markets in the United
States and Canada segment, led by the net product sales growth in our commercial market, followed by smaller increases in net product sales growth in both the service provider and enterprise markets. Net product sales in the consumer market declined
during fiscal 2011 as we exited the Flip Video cameras business and experienced weakness in sales of our networked home products. Within the enterprise market, net product sales to the U.S. public sector decreased due to a decrease in sales to the
U.S. federal government, while sales to the state and local government submarket were flat. The challenges experienced in fiscal 2011 within the public sector submarket of our enterprise market may continue into fiscal 2012.   
    Fiscal 2010 Compared with Fiscal 2009        Net product sales in the United States and Canada segment increased during fiscal 2010 compared with fiscal 2009 due to the improvement in the economic environment in this segment. The increase in net
product sales   
         51   

Table of Contents  

compared with fiscal 2009 was across all of our customer markets in the United States and Canada segment, led by the commercial and enterprise markets. Within the enterprise market, net product
sales to the U.S. federal government increased as compared with fiscal 2009. Our net product sales in the consumer market for fiscal 2010 increased compared with fiscal 2009, primarily due to sales of Flip Video cameras from the acquisition of Pure
Digital, which we acquired in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. From a product perspective, the increase in fiscal 2010 net product sales in this segment was driven in large part by higher sales of our switching products.   
   European Markets         Fiscal 2011
Compared with Fiscal 2010        For fiscal 2011, as compared with fiscal 2010, net product sales in the European Markets segment increased
by 6%. The increase in net product sales in the European Markets segment was due to growth in the service provider and enterprise markets. Sales to the commercial market were flat, while sales in the consumer market declined for fiscal 2011, as
compared with fiscal 2010. From a country perspective, for fiscal 2011 as compared with fiscal 2010, net product sales increased by approximately 17% in France, 13% in the Netherlands, 2% in Germany, 1% in the United Kingdom, and were flat in Italy.
       Fiscal 2010 Compared with Fiscal 2009        The slight increase in net product sales in the European Markets segment in fiscal 2010 compared with fiscal 2009 was driven by increased sales across most of our customer markets in this segment, with
particular strength in the enterprise and commercial markets. From a country perspective, net product sales increased in the United Kingdom and France while decreasing for both Germany and Italy compared with fiscal 2009. Our European Markets
segment grew more slowly relative to other segments on a year-over-year basis, which we believe was attributable in part to the fact that many of the countries in this segment were among the last countries to begin experiencing the economic downturn
in fiscal 2009, and consequently some of these countries are recovering later. Product sales growth in this segment began to strengthen in the second half of fiscal 2010. During fiscal 2010 we did not see significant negative effects on our net
product sales in the European Markets segment from the economic and financial turmoil related to sovereign debt issues in certain European countries.       Emerging Markets         Fiscal 2011 Compared with Fiscal 2010     
  For fiscal 2011, as compared with fiscal 2010, net product sales in the Emerging Markets segment increased by 12%. The net product sales increase was led
by a sales increase in the commercial market followed by sales increases in the service provider and enterprise markets. Net product sales in the consumer market declined for fiscal 2011, as compared with fiscal 2010. From a country perspective, net
product sales increased by approximately 63% in Russia, 20% in Brazil, and 8% in Mexico.        Fiscal 2010 Compared with Fiscal 2009 
      Net product sales in the Emerging Markets segment increased, primarily as a result of increased product sales across all of our customer
markets, with the exception of the consumer market. We experienced a return to stronger year-over-year sales growth in the second half of fiscal 2010, led by Brazil, Mexico, and Russia.       Asia Pacific Markets         Fiscal 2011 Compared with Fiscal 2010     
  For fiscal 2011, as compared with fiscal 2010, net product sales in our Asia Pacific Markets segment increased by 10%. The increase was led by sales
growth in the commercial and enterprise markets and to a lesser extent sales growth in the service provider market. Net product sales in the consumer market declined for fiscal 2011, as   
         52   

Table of Contents  

compared with fiscal 2010. During fiscal 2011 we experienced weakness within our public sector market in our Asia Pacific Markets segment. We may continue to experience challenging conditions in
the public sector market in fiscal 2012. From a country perspective, net product sales increased by approximately 13% in India, 11% in China, 8% in Australia, and 7% in Japan.        Fiscal 2010 Compared with Fiscal 2009        The increase in net product sales in the Asia
Pacific Markets segment in fiscal 2010 compared with fiscal 2009 was attributable to increased product sales to our enterprise, commercial, and service provider markets in this segment. In fiscal 2010 we experienced strength in most countries,
including China, Australia and Japan, each of which is among the largest countries in this segment.       Net Product Sales by Groups of Similar
Products       In addition to the primary view on a geographic basis, we also prepare financial information related to groups of similar
products and customer markets for various purposes. Effective as of the first quarter of fiscal 2011, we have regrouped our presentation of products and technologies formerly grouped as either Advanced Technologies or Other into two new categories
called New Products and Other Products. The New Products category includes some products that had previously been grouped in the category called Advanced Technology products and also includes some products that had previously been in the category
called Other. The New Products category consists of the following subcategories: video connected home (networked home, Pure Digital products, video systems, and cable products); collaboration (unified communications and Cisco TelePresence);
security; wireless; and data center (application networking services, storage, and Cisco Unified Computing System products). The Other Products category consists primarily of optical networking products and emerging technology products.   
  The following table presents net sales for groups of similar products (in millions, except percentages):   
   
     Routers    
    Fiscal 2011 Compared with Fiscal 2010        We categorize our routers primarily as high-end, midrange, and low-end routers. For fiscal 2011 as compared with fiscal 2010, growth in sales of our Routers product category was driven by an 8%, or $334
million, increase in sales of our high-end routers. Within high-end router products, the increase was driven by higher sales of Cisco Aggregation Services Routers (ASR) 5000 products from our December 2009 acquisition of Starent and higher sales of
the Cisco ASR 1000 and Cisco ASR 9000 products. These increases were partially offset by lower sales of Cisco 12000 Series Routers and Cisco 7600 Series Routers. For fiscal 2011, midrange and low-end routers each increased sales by 2%, or $16
million, and $30 million, respectively, compared with fiscal 2010. Small office routing experienced a small revenue decline.   
         53   

Table of Contents  

     Fiscal 2010 Compared with Fiscal 2009        Our sales of routers increased in our high-end category in fiscal 2010 by 10%, or $409 million, while sales of routers declined in both the midrange and low-end categories by 11% and 5%, respectively.
Within the high-end router category, the increase was driven by higher sales of the Cisco CRS-1 Carrier Routing System, Cisco 7600 Series Routers, and Cisco ASR 1000 and 9000 products, and the inclusion of the Cisco ASR 5000 products from our
acquisition of Starent, partially offset by lower sales of Cisco 12000 Series Routers. Our decline in sales of midrange and low-end routers was primarily due to a decline in sales of our integrated services routers.   
   Switches         Fiscal 2011 Compared
with Fiscal 2010        Net product sales in our Switches product category were relatively flat in fiscal 2011 compared with fiscal 2010,
which was due to the combined effect of continuing transitions taking place in our product portfolio, lower public sector spending, and the impact of increased competitive pressures. Since approximately 25% of our switching business is derived from
sales to the public sector, reductions in public sector spending in developed markets around the world could continue to present challenges for our switching sales performance. Within our Switches product category, higher sales of LAN
fixed-configuration switches partially offset lower sales of modular switches. Sales of LAN fixed-configuration switches increased 3%, or $240 million, while sales of modular switches decreased 4%, or $275 million. The increase in LAN
fixed-configuration switches was primarily due to increased sales of Cisco Catalyst 2960 Series Switches and Cisco Nexus 2000 and 5000 Series Switches, partially offset by decreased sales of Cisco Catalyst 3560 and 3750 Series Switches. The decrease
in sales of modular switches was primarily due to decreased sales of Cisco Catalyst 6500 Series Switches, partially offset by increased sales of Cisco Nexus 7000 and Cisco Catalyst 4500 Series Switches.   
    Fiscal 2010 Compared with Fiscal 2009        The increase in net product sales related to switches in fiscal 2010 compared with fiscal 2009 was due primarily to higher sales of our modular and LAN fixed-configuration switches of approximately $882
million and $649 million, respectively. The increase in sales of modular switches was primarily due to the increased sales of our Cisco Nexus 7000 and Cisco Catalyst 4500 Series Switches, partially offset by decreased sales of our Cisco Catalyst
6000 Series Switches. The increase in LAN fixed-configuration switches was primarily due to increased sales of Cisco Catalyst 2960 Series Switches and Cisco Nexus 5000 and 2000 Series Switches, partially offset by decreased sales of our Cisco
Catalyst 3560 Series Switches.      New Products         Fiscal 2011 Compared with Fiscal 2010         

Sales of collaboration products increased by 31%, or $972 million, primarily due to the inclusion of Tandberg sales within our Cisco TelePresence
systems product line following our fiscal 2010 third quarter acquisition of Tandberg, and a 4% increase in sales of unified communications products, primarily IP phones and collaborative web-based offerings.      

Sales of data center products increased by 44%, or $491 million, due to sales growth of over 273%, or $496 million, of Cisco Unified Computing System
products and due to storage sales growth of 9%, or $43 million, attributable to increased sales of our Cisco MDS 9000 product line. These increases were partially offset by a 12% decline in sales of application networking services products.

Sales of wireless products increased by 26%, or $303 million, which was primarily due to continued customer adoption of and migration to the Cisco
Unified Wireless Network architecture.          

Sales of video connected home products were relatively flat. Sales of service provider video products increased by 6%, or $208 million, as increased
sales of cable and cable modem products of 18% and      
         54   

Table of Contents  

55%, respectively, were offset by a sales decline in video systems of 1%. The increased sales of service provider video products were partially offset by lower sales of virtual home products, due
to a decline of 26% in sales of networked home products and due to an 11% decline in sales of Flip Video cameras, attributable to our exit of the video camera business in the third quarter of fiscal 2011.      

Sales of security products decreased by 8%, or $143 million. Our decreased sales of security products were the result of lower sales of module and line
cards related to our routers and LAN switches, partially offset by increased sales of our web and email security products.      
    Fiscal 2010 Compared with Fiscal 2009         

Sales of video connected home products increased by approximately $359 million due to increased sales of $317 million of Flip Video cameras
attributable to our Pure Digital acquisition in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, along with a $248 million increase in sales of cable products. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $133 million in sales of networked home
products, primarily due to lower sales of routers and adapters, and due to a decline of $57 million in sales of video systems, primarily attributable to lower sales for digital set-top boxes.      

Sales of collaboration products increased by approximately $556 million due to an increase of $293 million in sales of unified communications products,
primarily due to higher sales of IP phones and associated software, and higher sales of our web-based collaboration offerings. The increase in collaboration products was also due to a sales increase of $263 million in Cisco TelePresence systems
products, which was primarily attributable to our acquisition of Tandberg completed at the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2010.          

Sales of security products increased by approximately $189 million. Our increased sales of security products were a result of increased sales of our
web and email security products as well as our security appliance products, each of which integrates multiple technologies (including virtual private network (VPN), firewall, and intrusion-prevention services) on one platform, partially offset by
lower sales of module and line-cards related to our routers and LAN switches.          

Sales of data center products increased by approximately $249 million due to an increase of $181 million in sales of Cisco Unified Computing System
products and an increase of $68 million in sales of storage area networking products. The increase in sales of storage products resulted primarily from higher sales of our Cisco MDS 9000 product line. Sales of application networking services
declined; however, the decline was offset by higher server virtualization sales.          

Sales of wireless products increased by approximately $174 million, primarily due to increases in the customer adoption of and migration to the Cisco
Unified Wireless Network architecture.          Other Products         Fiscal 2011 Compared with Fiscal 2010        The increase in Other Product revenue during
fiscal 2011, as compared with fiscal 2010, was primarily due to a 19% increase in sales of optical networking products and a 17% increase in emerging technology products.        Fiscal 2010 Compared with Fiscal 2009        The increase in Other Products revenue in
fiscal 2010 compared with fiscal 2009 was primarily due to a 99% increase in sales of emerging technology products, partially offset by a 1% decline in sales of optical networking products.   
         55   

Table of Contents  

    Net Service Sales by Segment       The following table presents the breakdown of service revenue by segment (in millions, except percentages):       
      Fiscal 2011 Compared with Fiscal 2010        Net service revenue increased across all of our geographic segments, with Emerging Markets and Asia Pacific Markets reporting strong revenue growth. Technical support services revenue increased 12%, and
advanced services, which relates to consulting support services for specific network needs, experienced 21% revenue growth. Technical support service revenue increased across all of our geographic segments with particular strength in Emerging
Markets and Asia Pacific Markets. Growth in each of our United States and Canada and our European Markets segments also contributed to the overall technical support service revenue growth. Renewals and technical support service contract initiations
associated with recent product sales have resulted in a new installed base of equipment being serviced, which was the primary driver for these increases. We experienced revenue growth in advanced services across each of our geographic segments, with
strong growth in our Asia Pacific Markets, European Markets, and Emerging Markets segments, followed by slower growth in our United States and Canada segment. Total service revenue growth also benefited from a full year of service revenue
attributable to our acquisitions of Tandberg and Starent during fiscal 2010.        Fiscal 2010 Compared with Fiscal 2009     
  Net service revenue increased across all of our geographic segments in fiscal 2010, with particular strength in our Asia Pacific Markets. The increase in
total service revenue was due to growth from technical support services as well as increased revenue from advanced services. Technical support service revenue increased across all of our geographic segments, with solid growth in our Asia Pacific
Markets and European Markets segments. In fiscal 2010, we experienced advanced services revenue growth across each of our geographic segments except for our Emerging Markets segment. Total service revenue growth in fiscal 2010 also benefited from
incremental revenue from our acquisitions during fiscal 2010 of Tandberg and Starent. Renewals and technical support service contract initiations associated with product sales during fiscal 2010 have resulted in a new installed base of equipment
being serviced, contributing to these increases.   
         56   

Table of Contents  

    Gross Margin       The following table presents the gross margin for products and services (in millions, except percentages):       
     Product Gross Margin         Fiscal 2011 Compared with Fiscal 2010        The following table summarizes the key
factors that contributed to the change in product gross margin percentage from fiscal 2010 to fiscal 2011:       
    In fiscal 2011, product gross margin decreased by 3.7 percentage points. The decrease was primarily due to the impact of
higher sales discounts, rebates, and unfavorable product pricing which were driven by normal market factors and by the geographic mix of product revenue. These factors impacted most of our customer markets and all of our geographic segments.
Additionally, our product gross margin was negatively impacted by the shift in the mix of products sold as a result of revenue declines in our higher margin switching products coupled with revenue increases from our lower margin Cisco Unified
Computing System products. Higher year-over-year impairment charges related to acquisition-related intangible assets and higher restructuring and other charges, both primarily in the consumer business, also contributed to the decline in our product
gross margin percentage. These negative factors were partially offset by lower overall manufacturing costs and by slightly higher shipment volume. The lower overall manufacturing costs were in part due to favorable component pricing, continued
operational efficiency in manufacturing operations, and value engineering. Value engineering is the process by which production costs are reduced through component redesign, board configuration, test processes, and transformation processes.
     Our future gross margins could be impacted by our product mix and by further growth in sales of products that have lower gross margins, such
as Cisco Unified Computing System products. Our gross margins may also be impacted by the geographic mix of our revenue or, as was the case in fiscal 2011 and 2010, by increased sales discounts, rebates, and product pricing, which may be
attributable to competitive factors. Additionally, our manufacturing-related costs may be negatively impacted by constraints in our supply chain. If any of the preceding factors that impact our gross margins are adversely affected in future periods,
our product and service gross margins could continue to decline.   
         57   

Table of Contents  

     Fiscal 2010 Compared with Fiscal 2009        The following table summarizes the key factors that contributed to the change in product gross margin percentage from fiscal 2009 to fiscal 2010:   
   
    Product gross margin for fiscal 2010 increased by 0.2 percentage points compared with fiscal 2009, due primarily to lower
overall manufacturing costs driven by strong operational efficiency in manufacturing operations, value engineering, and a reduction in other manufacturing-related costs. The product gross margin for fiscal 2010 also benefited from the increase in
shipment volume. A favorable product mix contributed slightly to the increase in product gross margin percentage. Fiscal 2010 product gross margin was negatively impacted by sales discounts, rebates, and product pricing, which were driven by normal
market factors, as well as the geographic mix of product revenue. The impact from sales discounts, rebates and product pricing was within our expected range.       Service Gross Margin         Fiscal 2011 Compared with Fiscal 2010     
  Our service gross margin percentage increased by 1.5 percentage points for fiscal 2011, as compared with fiscal 2010, with both technical support services
and advanced services experiencing higher gross margins. The increase was primarily due to higher sales volume. Partially offsetting the volume increases were unfavorable mix impacts, primarily due to advanced services representing a higher
proportion of service revenue in fiscal 2011 and due to increased service delivery costs. Gross margin in technical support services increased primarily as a result of increased sales volume and lower headcount-related cost impacts. These benefits
were partially offset by increased support service delivery costs, particularly from outside services. Advanced services gross margin increased primarily due to strong volume growth partially offset by higher delivery team costs, which were
partially headcount related. Our revenue from advanced services may increase to a higher proportion of total service revenue due to our continued focus on providing comprehensive support to our customers  networking devices, applications, and
infrastructures.      Our service gross margin normally experiences some fluctuations due to various factors such as the timing of contract
initiations in our renewals, our strategic investments in headcount, and resources to support the overall service business. Other factors include the mix of service offerings, as the gross margin from our advanced services is typically lower than
the gross margin from technical support services.        Fiscal 2010 Compared with Fiscal 2009     
  Our service gross margin percentage was unchanged from fiscal 2009 due to higher margins for technical support services offset by a decline in the gross
margin for advanced services. The increase in technical support service gross margin in fiscal 2010 from fiscal 2009 was primarily a result of increased volume. Technical support margins will experience some variability due to various factors such
as the timing of technical support service contract initiations and renewals as well as the timing of our strategic investments in headcount and resources to support this business. The decrease in advanced services gross margin in fiscal 2010 from
fiscal 2009 was primarily due to increased headcount costs, partially offset by higher volume.   
         58   

Table of Contents  

    Gross Margin by Segment       The following table presents the total gross margin for each segment (in millions, except percentages):       

(1)      
    The unallocated corporate items include the effects of amortization and impairments of acquisition-related intangible assets, share-based compensation
expense, and other asset impairments and restructurings. We do not allocate these items to the gross margin for each segment because management does not include such information in measuring the performance of the operating segments.
          Fiscal 2011 Compared with Fiscal 2010        For fiscal 2011, as compared with fiscal 2010, the gross margin percentage across all geographic segments declined primarily due to higher sales discounts, rebates, and unfavorable pricing, as well as due
to a product mix shift. These declines were partially offset by the impacts from increased shipment volume and lower overall manufacturing costs across all geographic segments. The gross margin percentage for a particular segment may fluctuate, and
period-to-period changes in such percentages may or may not be indicative of a trend for that segment. Our product and service gross margins may be impacted by economic downturns or uncertain economic conditions as well as our movement into new
market opportunities, and could decline if any of the factors that impact our gross margins are adversely affected in future periods.   
    Fiscal 2010 Compared with Fiscal 2009        In fiscal 2010, the gross margin percentage in the United States and Canada segment declined compared with fiscal 2009, primarily due to higher sales discounts and a lower service gross margin. The
decline was partially offset by the impacts from increased shipment volume and lower overall manufacturing costs. The gross margin percentage in the European Markets segment increased during fiscal 2010 compared with fiscal 2009 due primarily to
lower overall manufacturing costs, increased shipment volume and favorable product mix. The increase in this segment was partially offset by the impact of higher sales discounts. In fiscal 2010, the gross margin percentage in the Emerging Markets
segment increased compared with fiscal 2009 due primarily to lower overall manufacturing costs, partially offset by the impact of higher sales discounts. The gross margin percentage in the Asia Pacific Markets segment increased during fiscal 2010
compared with fiscal 2009, due primarily to higher shipment volume and lower overall manufacturing costs. Gross margin in the Asia Pacific Markets segment also benefited from favorable mix shifts in Japan. Partially offsetting this increase was the
impact of higher sales discounts. For each of our segments, the negative impact of sales discounts, rebates and product pricing was driven by normal market factors and was within our expected range.   
   Factors That May Impact Net Sales and Gross Margin       Net product sales may continue to be affected by factors, including global economic downturns and related market uncertainty, that have resulted in reduced or cautious spending in our global enterprise,
service provider, and commercial markets; changes in the geopolitical environment and global economic conditions; competition,   
         59   

Table of Contents  

including price-focused competitors from Asia, especially from China; new product introductions; sales cycles and product implementation cycles; changes in the mix of our customers between
service provider and enterprise markets; changes in the mix of direct sales and indirect sales; variations in sales channels; and final acceptance criteria of the product, system, or solution as specified by the customer. Sales to the service
provider market have been and may be in the future characterized by large and sporadic purchases, especially relating to our router sales and sales of certain products within our New Products category. In addition, service provider customers
typically have longer implementation cycles; require a broader range of services, including network design services; and often have acceptance provisions that can lead to a delay in revenue recognition. Certain of our customers in the Emerging
Markets segment also tend to make large and sporadic purchases, and the net sales related to these transactions may similarly be affected by the timing of revenue recognition. As we focus on new market opportunities, customers may require greater
levels of financing arrangements, service, and support, especially in the Emerging Markets segment, which in turn may result in a delay in the timing of revenue recognition. To improve customer satisfaction, we continue to focus on managing our
manufacturing lead-time performance, which may result in corresponding reductions in order backlog. A decline in backlog levels could result in more variability and less predictability in our quarter-to-quarter net sales and operating results.
     Net product sales may also be adversely affected by fluctuations in demand for our products, especially with respect to telecommunications
service providers and Internet businesses, whether or not driven by any slowdown in capital expenditures in the service provider market; price and product competition in the communications and information technology industry; introduction and market
acceptance of new technologies and products; adoption of new networking standards; and financial difficulties experienced by our customers. We may, from time to time, experience manufacturing issues that create a delay in our suppliers  ability
to provide specific components, resulting in delayed shipments. To the extent that manufacturing issues and any related component shortages result in delayed shipments in the future, and particularly in periods when we and our suppliers are
operating at higher levels of capacity, it is possible that revenue for a quarter could be adversely affected if such matters are not remediated within the same quarter. For additional factors that may impact net product sales, see  Part I,
Item 1A. Risk Factors.       Our distributors and retail partners participate in various cooperative marketing and other programs.
Increased sales to our distributors and retail partners generally result in greater difficulty in forecasting the mix of our products and, to a certain degree, the timing of orders from our customers. We recognize revenue for sales to our
distributors and retail partners generally based on a sell-through method using information provided by them, and we maintain estimated accruals and allowances for all cooperative marketing and other programs.   
  Product gross margin may be adversely affected in the future by changes in the mix of products sold, including periods of increased growth of some of our
lower margin products; introduction of new products, including products with price-performance advantages; our ability to reduce production costs; entry into new markets, including markets with different pricing structures and cost structures, as a
result of internal development or through acquisitions; changes in distribution channels; price competition, including competitors from Asia, especially those from China; changes in geographic mix of our product sales; the timing of revenue
recognition and revenue deferrals; sales discounts; increases in material or labor costs, including share-based compensation expense; excess inventory and obsolescence charges; warranty costs; changes in shipment volume; loss of cost savings due to
changes in component pricing; effects of value engineering; inventory holding charges; and the extent to which we successfully execute on our strategy and operating plans. Additionally, our manufacturing-related costs may be negatively impacted by
constraints in our supply chain. Service gross margin may be impacted by various factors such as the change in mix between technical support services and advanced services; the timing of technical support service contract initiations and renewals;
share-based compensation expense; and the timing of our strategic investments in headcount and resources to support this business.   
         60   

Table of Contents  

    Research and Development (R D), Sales and Marketing, and General and Administrative (G A)
Expenses       R D, sales and marketing, and G A expenses are summarized in the following table (in millions, except percentages):
      
    Fiscal 2010 had an extra week compared with fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2009. We estimate that the extra week contributed
approximately $150 million of additional research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expense in fiscal 2010. In fiscal 2012 we plan to reduce our annualized expense run rate by approximately $1 billion. The
year-over-year changes within operating expenses, including the effects of foreign currency exchange rates, net of hedging, are summarized by line item as follows:       R D Expenses         Fiscal 2011 Compared with Fiscal 2010     
  The increase in R D expenses for fiscal 2011, as compared with fiscal 2010, was primarily due to higher headcount-related expenses, higher contracted
services, and increased depreciation and equipment expenditures. The increase in depreciation expense was partially acquisition related. We continue to invest in R D in order to bring a broad range of products to market in a timely fashion. If
we believe that we are unable to enter a particular market in a timely manner with internally developed products, we may purchase or license technology from other businesses, or we may partner with or acquire businesses as an alternative to internal
R D.        Fiscal 2010 Compared with Fiscal 2009        The slight increase in R D expenses for fiscal 2010 was primarily due to higher headcount-related expenses, including increased variable compensation expense and the impact of acquisitions, higher
share-based compensation expense, and the impact of the extra week in fiscal 2010. Partially offsetting the increase in R D expenses in fiscal 2010 were lower acquisition-related compensation expenses associated with milestone achievements from
prior period acquisitions, and the absence in fiscal 2010 of the enhanced early retirement and limited workforce reduction charges incurred during fiscal 2009.       Sales and Marketing Expenses         Fiscal 2011 Compared with Fiscal 2010
       Sales and marketing expenses for fiscal 2011 increased compared with fiscal 2010 due to an increase of $851 million in sales expenses
and an increase of $179 million in marketing expenses. Both the sales expense and the marketing expense components of the category increased for fiscal 2011 due to higher headcount-related expenses, as well as higher outside services costs, higher
depreciation expense, and increased share-based compensation expense. Additionally, marketing expenses for fiscal 2011 increased due to higher advertisement expenses.   
         61   

Table of Contents  

     Fiscal 2010 Compared with Fiscal 2009        Sales and marketing expenses increased in fiscal 2010 compared with fiscal 2009 due to an increase of $222 million in sales expenses and an increase of $116 million in marketing expenses. Both the sales
expense and the marketing expense components of the category increased during fiscal 2010 due to higher headcount-related expenses, including higher variable compensation expense, higher share-based compensation expense, and the impact of the extra
week in fiscal 2010.       G A Expenses         Fiscal 2011 Compared with Fiscal 2010        The decrease in G A expenses in fiscal
2011, as compared with fiscal 2010, was due to lower real estate-related charges in fiscal 2011 and the absence of non-income tax-related expenses (such as fees and licenses), which were included in fiscal 2010. Partially offsetting these items were
higher headcount-related expenses, higher outside services costs for operational support areas, and increased equipment, depreciation, and rent expenses.        Fiscal 2010 Compared with Fiscal 2009        The increase in G A expenses in fiscal
2010, compared with fiscal 2009 was in part attributable to approximately $130 million of higher real estate-related charges related to impairments and other charges related to excess facilities. Additionally, G A expenses in fiscal 2010
increased due to higher share-based compensation expense, higher headcount-related expenses, acquisition-related expenses, and higher information technology expenses, as well as the impact of the extra week in fiscal 2010.   
    Effect of Foreign Currency        In
fiscal 2011, foreign currency fluctuations, net of hedging, increased the combined R D, sales and marketing, and G A expenses by $53 million, or approximately 0.3%, compared with fiscal 2010. In fiscal 2010, foreign currency fluctuations,
net of hedging, increased the combined R D, sales and marketing, and G A expenses by $34 million, or approximately 0.2%, compared with fiscal 2009.       Headcount         Fiscal 2011 Compared with Fiscal 2010     
  For fiscal 2011, our headcount increased by 1,111 employees, the increase being attributable to targeted hiring as part of our investment in growth
initiatives, partially offset by the impacts of our voluntary early retirement program and our restructuring activities, which began to reduce our headcount in late fiscal 2011. We expect our headcount to decrease in the near term as part of
targeted cost-cutting initiatives, which include the workforce reduction announced in July 2011. Additionally, we also expect our headcount in fiscal 2012 to decrease by approximately 5,000 employees upon the planned completion in fiscal 2012 of the
sale of our Juarez, Mexico manufacturing operations.        Fiscal 2010 Compared with Fiscal 2009     
  For fiscal 2010, our headcount increased by approximately 5,150 employees, which was attributable to the acquisitions of Tandberg and Starent along with
targeted hiring as part of our investment in growth initiatives.   
         62   

Table of Contents  

    Share-Based Compensation Expense       The following table presents share-based compensation expense (in millions):       
    The increase in share-based compensation expense for fiscal 2011 was due primarily to a change in vesting periods from
five to four years for awards granted beginning in fiscal 2009, the timing of annual employee grants, and the overall growth in headcount and number of share-based awards granted on a year-over-year basis. Share-based compensation expense increased
for fiscal 2010 compared with fiscal 2009 due primarily to the effects of straight-line vesting compared with accelerated vesting for options granted prior to fiscal 2006, a change in vesting periods from five to four years for awards granted
beginning in fiscal 2009, and the impact of the extra week in fiscal 2010. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   
   Amortization of Purchased Intangible Assets       The following table presents the amortization of purchased intangible assets included in operating expenses (in millions):       

    For fiscal 2011, as compared with fiscal 2010, the increase in the amortization of purchased intangible assets was due to
impairment charges included in operating expenses of $92 million in fiscal 2011, partially offset by lower amortization due to certain purchased intangible assets having become fully amortized. The impairment charges were primarily due to declines
in estimated fair value as a result of reductions in expected future cash flows associated with certain of our consumer products. For fiscal 2010, the decrease in the amortization of purchased intangible assets included in operating expenses was
primarily due to lower impairment charges in fiscal 2010 as compared with fiscal 2009, partially offset by increased amortization of purchased intangible assets from acquisitions completed during fiscal 2010. For additional information regarding
purchased intangible assets, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.      The fair value of acquired technology and patents, as well
as acquired technology under development, is determined at acquisition date primarily using the income approach, which discounts expected future cash flows to present value. The discount rates used in the present value calculations are typically
derived from a weighted-average cost of capital analysis and then adjusted to reflect risks inherent in the development lifecycle as appropriate. We consider the pricing model for products related to these acquisitions to be standard within the
high-technology communications industry, and the applicable discount rates represent the rates that market participants would use for valuation of such intangible assets.   
         63   

Table of Contents  

    Restructuring and Other Charges       In fiscal 2011, we incurred within operating expenses restructuring charges of $799 million. These charges included $453 million related to a voluntary early retirement program for eligible employees in
the United States and Canada; $247 million related to employee severance for other employees subject to our reduction of our work force; and $71 million related to the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets, primarily as a result of the
pending sale of our Juarez, Mexico manufacturing operations. We also recorded charges within operating expenses of $28 million related to the consolidation of excess facilities and other activities. We announced in July 2011 that we expected to take
up to $1.3 billion in pretax charges as part of our expense reduction actions. We incurred charges of $728 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 (included as part of the $799 million discussed above) related to these announcements. We
expect the remaining charges to be incurred during fiscal 2012.      Interest and Other Income, Net    
   Interest Income (Expense), Net  The following table summarizes interest income and interest expense (in millions):   
   
      Fiscal 2011 Compared with Fiscal 2010        Interest income increased slightly in fiscal 2011 due to increased income from financing receivables offsetting the effect of lower average interest rates on our portfolio of cash, cash equivalents, and
fixed income investments. The increase in interest expense in fiscal 2011, as compared with fiscal 2010, was due to higher average debt balances during fiscal 2011 attributable to our senior debt issuance in March 2011. Partially offsetting the
impact of higher average debt balances during fiscal 2011 is the effect of lower average interest rates on our debt during fiscal 2011.   
    Fiscal 2010 Compared with Fiscal 2009        The decrease in interest income in fiscal 2010 compared with fiscal 2009 was due to lower average interest rates, partially offset by higher average total cash and cash equivalents and fixed income
security balances in fiscal      2010. The increase in interest expense in fiscal 2010, compared with fiscal 2009, was primarily due to additional
interest expense related to our senior debt issuances in November 2009 and February 2009.       Other Income (Loss), Net  The components of
other income (loss), net, are summarized as follows (in millions):       
 
         64   

Table of Contents  

     Fiscal 2011 Compared with Fiscal 2010        The increase in total net gains on available-for-sale investments in fiscal 2011 compared with fiscal 2010 was primarily attributable to higher gains on publicly traded equity securities, partially offset
by lower gains on fixed income securities in fiscal 2011. These changes were the result of market conditions and the timing of sales of these securities. See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the unrealized gains and losses on
investments.      For fiscal 2011 as compared with fiscal 2010, the decline in net gains on investments in privately held companies was due to
lower net equity method gains and lower gains on sales. The decline was partially offset by lower impairment charges on investments in privately held companies. Impairment charges on investments in privately held companies were $10 million and $25
million for fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively.      The change in other gains and (losses), net for fiscal 2011 as compared with fiscal 2010 was
primarily due to fiscal 2011 experiencing lower gains from customer lease terminations, higher donations expense, and unfavorable foreign exchange impacts.        Fiscal 2010 Compared with Fiscal 2009        For fiscal 2010, the increase in net gains on
available-for-sale investments was due to the absence of impairment charges on these securities during fiscal 2010. For fiscal 2009, the net gains and losses on fixed income securities included impairment charges of $219 million and net gains on
publicly traded equity securities included impairment charges of $39 million.      The change in net gains (losses) on investments in privately
held companies in fiscal 2010, compared with fiscal 2009, was primarily due to higher realized gains and lower impairment charges in fiscal 2010. Net losses on investments in privately held companies included impairment charges of $25 million in
fiscal 2010 compared with $85 million in fiscal 2009.      Other gains (losses), net for fiscal 2010 increased due primarily to gains resulting
from customer operating lease terminations.       Provision for Income Taxes         Fiscal 2011 Compared with Fiscal 2010        The provision for income taxes resulted in an
effective tax rate of 17.1% for fiscal 2011, compared with 17.5% for fiscal 2010. During fiscal 2010, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (the  Ninth Circuit ) withdrew its prior holding and reaffirmed the 2005 U.S. Tax Court
ruling in  Xilinx, Inc. v. Commissioner . The net 0.4 percentage point decrease in the effective tax rate between fiscal years was attributable to the absence in fiscal 2011 of this tax benefit of $158 million, or 1.7 percentage points, offset
by other items including the tax benefit of $188 million, or 2.5 percentage points, related to the retroactive reinstatement of the U.S. federal R D credit.      Our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely impacted by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries that have lower tax rates and higher than anticipated in
countries that have higher tax rates. Our provision for income taxes does not include provisions for U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes associated with the repatriation of undistributed earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that we
intend to reinvest indefinitely in our foreign subsidiaries. If these earnings were distributed to the United States in the form of dividends or otherwise, or if the shares of the relevant foreign subsidiaries were sold or otherwise transferred, we
would be subject to additional U.S. income taxes (subject to an adjustment for foreign tax credits) and foreign withholding taxes. Further, as a result of certain of our ongoing employment and capital investment actions and commitments, our income
in certain countries is subject to reduced tax rates and in some cases is wholly exempt from tax. Our failure to meet these commitments could adversely impact our provision for income taxes.   
         65   

Table of Contents  

   For a full reconciliation of our effective tax rate to the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% and for
further explanation of our provision for income taxes, see Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.        Fiscal 2010 Compared
with Fiscal 2009        The provision for income taxes resulted in an effective tax rate of 17.5% for fiscal 2010, compared with an effective
tax rate of 20.3% for fiscal 2009. As discussed above, during fiscal 2010 the Ninth Circuit withdrew its prior holding and reaffirmed the 2005 U.S. Tax Court ruling in  Xilinx, Inc. v. Commissioner . This final decision effectively reversed the
corresponding tax charge in fiscal 2009. The net 2.8 percentage point decrease in the effective tax rate between fiscal years was primarily attributable to this benefit and the absence in fiscal 2010 of the corresponding charge from fiscal 2009,
partially offset by the absence in fiscal 2010 of the fiscal 2009 tax benefit of $106 million, or 1.4 percentage points, related to the retroactive portion of the U.S. federal R D credit reinstatement.   
   LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES       The
following sections discuss the effects of changes in our balance sheet, contractual obligations, other commitments, and the stock repurchase program on our liquidity and capital resources.       Balance Sheet and Cash Flows        Cash and Cash Equivalents and Investments  The
following table summarizes our cash and cash equivalents and investments (in millions):       
    The increase in cash and cash equivalents and investments was primarily the result of cash provided by operations of
$10.1 billion, a slight decrease from $10.2 billion in fiscal 2010, and debt issuances of $1.5 billion, net of repayments. These increases were partially offset by the repurchase of common stock (net of the issuance of common stock related to
employee stock incentive plans) of $5.1 billion, capital expenditures of $1.2 billion, and cash dividends paid of $0.7 billion.      The slight
decrease in cash provided by operating activities in fiscal 2011 was primarily the result of a decrease in net income and the unfavorable impact to cash provided by operating activities from increased financing receivables, partially offset by the
favorable impact to cash provided by operating activities from lower accounts receivable.      Our total in cash and cash equivalents and
investments held outside of the United States in various foreign subsidiaries was $39.8 billion and $33.2 billion as of July 30, 2011 and July 31, 2010, respectively. The remaining balance held in the United States as of July 30, 2011
and July 31, 2010 was $4.8 billion and $6.7 billion, respectively. Under current tax laws and regulations, if cash and cash equivalents and investments held outside the United States were to be distributed to the United States in the form of
dividends or otherwise, we would be subject to additional U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes.      We maintain an investment
portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. We classify our investments as short-term investments based on their nature and their availability for use in current operations. We believe the overall credit quality of our portfolio is strong,
with our cash equivalents and our fixed income investment   
         66   

Table of Contents  

portfolio consisting primarily of high quality investment-grade securities. We believe that our strong cash and cash equivalents and investments position allows us to use our cash resources for
strategic investments to gain access to new technologies, for acquisitions, for customer financing activities, for working capital needs, and for the repurchase of shares of common stock and dividends.   
  We expect that cash provided by operating activities may fluctuate in future periods as a result of a number of factors, including fluctuations in our
operating results, the rate at which products are shipped during the quarter (which we refer to as shipment linearity), the timing and collection of accounts receivable and financing receivables, inventory and supply chain management, deferred
revenue, excess tax benefits resulting from share-based compensation, and the timing and amount of tax and other payments. For additional discussion, see  Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors  in this report.   
   Accounts Receivable, Net  The following table summarizes our accounts receivable, net (in millions), and DSO:   
   
    Our accounts receivable net, as of July 30, 2011 declined by approximately 5% compared with the end of fiscal 2010.
Our DSO as of July 30, 2011 was lower by 3 days compared with the end of fiscal 2010. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, our cash collections were strong, and both product and services billings linearity improved, particularly with
respect to the timing of product shipments.      Services billings have traditionally had the effect of increasing DSO due in part to the timing
of billings which in comparison to product billings, have a larger proportion billed in the latter part of the quarter. As services revenues have increased as a percentage of our total revenue, this has contributed to a higher DSO level in
comparison to levels we experienced in past years. We believe that the current DSO level is in line with levels we expect in the near future.   
   Inventories and Purchase Commitments with Contract Manufacturers and Suppliers  The following table summarizes our inventories and purchase
commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers (in millions, except annualized inventory turns):       
    Inventories as of July 30, 2011 increased by 12% from our balance at the end of fiscal 2010, while for the same
period purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers were flat. On a combined basis, inventories and purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers increased by 3% from the balance at the end of fiscal 2010. We
believe our inventory and purchase commitments are in line with our current demand forecasts.      The inventory increase was due to higher levels
of distributor inventory and higher deferred cost of sales. Our inventories have decreased from the levels we experienced in the first half of fiscal 2011. In the third quarter of fiscal 2011 we announced a restructuring of our consumer business,
and as a result we lowered inventory levels for our consumer products. We also lowered inventory in certain parts of our cable set-top business. Our finished goods consist of distributor inventory and deferred cost of sales and manufactured finished
goods. Distributor inventory and deferred cost of sales are related to unrecognized revenue on shipments to distributors and retail partners as well as shipments to customers. Manufactured finished goods consist primarily of build-to-order and
  
         67   

Table of Contents  

build-to-stock products. All inventories are accounted for at the lower of cost or market. Inventory is written down based on excess and obsolete inventories determined primarily by future demand
forecasts. Inventory write-downs are measured as the difference between the cost of the inventory and market, based upon assumptions about future demand, and are charged to the provision for inventory, which is a component of our cost of sales.
     Our ending balance for purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers reflects improvement and stabilization in lead times
and the mitigation of many of the constraints at our component suppliers that we experienced in fiscal 2010. Due to the earthquake in Japan and resulting industry-wide component supply constraints, we made increased commitments to secure our
near-term supply needs. Offsetting these increases in purchase commitments were actions we have taken related to the restructuring of our consumer business. While we may experience longer than normal lead times in the future, our lead times to
customers improved on nearly all of our products during fiscal 2011 and as of the end of fiscal 2011 were within a normal range for nearly all of our products.      We purchase components from a variety of suppliers and use several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products. During the normal course of business, in order to manage
manufacturing lead times and help ensure adequate component supply, we enter into agreements with contract manufacturers and suppliers that allow them to procure inventory based upon criteria as defined by us or that establish the parameters
defining our requirements and our commitment to securing manufacturing capacity. A significant portion of our reported purchase commitments arising from these agreements are firm, noncancelable, and unconditional commitments. In certain instances,
these agreements allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to firm orders being placed. Our purchase commitments are for short-term product manufacturing requirements as well as for
commitments to suppliers to secure manufacturing capacity.      We record a liability, included in other current liabilities, for firm,
noncancelable, and unconditional purchase commitments for quantities in excess of our future demand forecasts consistent with the valuation of our excess and obsolete inventory. The purchase commitments for inventory are expected to be primarily
fulfilled within one year.      Inventory and supply chain management remain areas of focus as we balance the need to maintain supply chain
flexibility to help ensure competitive lead times with the risk of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements. We believe the amount of our inventory and purchase commitments is appropriate for our
revenue levels.       Financing Receivables and Guarantees  We measure our net balance sheet exposure position related to our financing
receivables and financing guarantees by reducing the total of gross financing receivables and financing guarantees by the associated allowances for credit loss and deferred revenue. As of July 30, 2011, our net balance sheet exposure position
related to financing receivables and financing guarantees was as follows (in millions):       
      Financing Receivables   Gross financing receivables less unearned income have increased by 33% compared with
the end of fiscal 2010, driven by a 49% increase in gross financed service contracts, a 30% increase in gross lease receivables, and an 18% increase in gross loan receivables. We provide financing to certain end-user customers
  
         68   

Table of Contents  

and channel partners to enable sales of our products, services, and networking solutions. These financing arrangements include leases, financed service contracts, and loans. Arrangements related
to leases are generally collateralized by a security interest in the underlying assets. Lease receivables include sales-type and direct-financing leases. We also provide certain qualified customers financing for long-term service contracts, which
primarily relate to technical support services. Our loan financing arrangements may include not only financing the acquisition of our products and services but also providing additional funds for other costs associated with network installation and
integration of our products and services. We expect to continue to expand the use of our financing programs in the near term.        Financing
Guarantees   In the normal course of business, third parties may provide financing arrangements to our customers and channel partners under financing programs. The financing arrangements to customers provided by third parties are related to
leases and loans and typically have terms of up to three years. In some cases, we provide guarantees to third parties for these lease and loan arrangements. The financing arrangements to channel partners consist of revolving short-term financing
provided by third parties, generally with payment terms ranging from 60 to 90 days. In certain instances, these financing arrangements result in a transfer of our receivables to the third party. The receivables are de-recognized upon transfer,
as these transfers qualify as true sales, and we receive payments for the receivables from the third party based on our standard payment terms. These financing arrangements facilitate the working capital requirements of the channel partners, and in
some cases, we guarantee a portion of these arrangements. We could be called upon to make payments under these guarantees in the event of nonpayment by the channel partners or end-user customers. Historically, our payments under these arrangements
have been immaterial. Where we provide a guarantee, we defer the revenue associated with the channel partner and end-user financing arrangement in accordance with revenue recognition policies, or we record a liability for the fair value of the
guarantees. In either case, the deferred revenue is recognized as revenue when the guarantee is removed. During fiscal 2011, the level of guarantees required by our financing partners decreased, resulting in lower deferred revenue associated with
our financing guarantees.        Deferred Revenue Related to Financing Receivables and Guarantees   The majority of the deferred revenue
in the preceding table is related to financed service contracts. The revenue related to financed service contracts, which primarily relates to technical support services, is deferred and included in deferred service revenue. The revenue related to
financed service contracts is recognized ratably over the period during which the related services are to be performed. A portion of the revenue related to lease and loan receivables is also deferred and included in deferred product revenue based on
revenue recognition criteria.       Borrowings         Senior Notes   The following table summarizes the principal amount of our senior notes (in millions):       
 
         69   

Table of Contents  

   Interest is payable semiannually on each class of the senior fixed-rate notes, each of which is redeemable
by us at any time, subject to a make-whole premium. Interest is payable quarterly on the floating rate notes. We were in compliance with all debt covenants as of July 30, 2011. In March 2011, we issued $1.25 billion of senior floating interest
rate notes due 2014, $2.0 billion of 1.625% fixed-rate senior notes due 2014, and $750 million of 3.15% fixed-rate senior notes due 2017, for an aggregate principal amount of $4.0 billion. To achieve our interest rate risk management objectives, we
entered into interest rate swaps with an aggregate notional amount of $2.75 billion designated as fair value hedges of the senior fixed-rate notes included in the March 2011 debt issuance. In effect, these interest rate swaps convert the fixed
interest rates of the fixed-rate senior notes to floating interest rates based on LIBOR. The gains and losses related to the changes in the fair value of the interest rate swaps substantially offset changes, attributable to market interest rates, in
the fair value of the hedged portion of the underlying debt.      In addition, in February 2011 we repaid $3.0 billion of fixed-rate senior notes
upon their maturity.        Commercial Paper   In the third quarter of fiscal 2011 we established a short-term debt financing program of
up to $3.0 billion through the issuance of commercial paper notes. As of July 30, 2011, we had commercial paper notes of $500 million outstanding under this program.        Other Notes and Borrowings   Other notes and borrowings include notes and credit facilities with a number of financial institutions that are available to certain of our foreign subsidiaries.
The amount of borrowings outstanding under these arrangements was $88 million and $59 million as of July 30, 2011 and July 31, 2010, respectively.        Credit Facility   We have a credit agreement with certain institutional lenders that provides for a $3.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility that is scheduled to expire on
August 17, 2012. Any advances under the credit agreement will accrue interest at rates that are equal to, based on certain conditions, either (i) the higher of the Federal Funds rate plus 0.50% or Bank of America s  prime
rate  as announced from time to time or (ii) LIBOR plus a margin that is based on our senior debt credit ratings as published by Standard   Poor s Ratings Services and Moody s Investors Service, Inc. The credit agreement
requires that we comply with certain covenants, including that we maintain an interest coverage ratio as defined in the agreement.      We may
also, upon the agreement of either the then-existing lenders or additional lenders not currently parties to the agreement, increase the commitments under the credit facility by up to an additional $1.9 billion and/or extend the expiration date of
the credit facility up to August 15, 2014. As of July 30, 2011, we were in compliance with the required interest coverage ratio and the other covenants, and we had not borrowed any funds under the credit facility.   
   Deferred Revenue  The following table presents the breakdown of deferred revenue (in millions):   
   
    The increase in deferred service revenue reflects the impact of new contract initiations and renewals, partially offset
by the ongoing amortization of deferred service revenue. The increase in deferred product revenue was   
         70   

Table of Contents  

primarily related to an increase in shipments not having met revenue recognition criteria as of July 30, 2011, partially offset by lower unrecognized revenue from two-tier distributors due
to the timing of cash receipts from two-tier distributors.       Contractual Obligations    
  The impact of contractual obligations on our liquidity and capital resources in future periods should be analyzed in conjunction with the factors that
impact our cash flows from operations discussed previously. In addition, we plan for and measure our liquidity and capital resources through an annual budgeting process. The following table summarizes our contractual obligations at July 30,
2011 (in millions):       
      Operating Leases   We lease office space in several U.S. locations. Outside the United States, larger leased
sites are located in Australia, Belgium, China, Germany, India, Israel, Italy, Japan, Norway, and the United Kingdom. We also lease equipment and vehicles. Operating lease amounts include future minimum lease payments under all our noncancelable
operating leases with an initial term in excess of one year.        Purchase Commitments with Contract Manufacturers and Suppliers   We
purchase components from a variety of suppliers and use several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products. A significant portion of our reported estimated purchase commitments arising from these agreements are firm,
noncancelable, and unconditional commitments. We record a liability for firm, noncancelable, and unconditional purchase commitments for quantities in excess of our future demand forecasts consistent with the valuation of our excess and obsolete
inventory. See further discussion in  Inventories and Purchase Commitments with Contract Manufacturers and Suppliers.  As of July 30, 2011, the liability for these purchase commitments was $168 million and is recorded in other current
liabilities and is not included in the preceding table.        Purchase Obligations   Purchase obligations represent an estimate of all
open purchase orders and contractual obligations in the ordinary course of business, other than commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers, for which we have not received the goods or services. Although open purchase orders are considered
enforceable and legally binding, the terms generally allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to the delivery of goods or performance of services.   
    Long-Term Debt   The amount of long-term debt in the preceding table represents the principal amount of the respective debt instruments. See
Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.        Other Long-Term Liabilities   Other long-term liabilities include noncurrent
income taxes payable, accrued liabilities for deferred compensation, noncurrent deferred tax liabilities, and certain other long-term liabilities. Due to the uncertainty in the timing of future payments, our noncurrent income taxes payable of
approximately $1.2 billion and noncurrent deferred tax liabilities of $264 million were presented as one aggregated amount in the total column on a separate line in the preceding table. Noncurrent income taxes payable include uncertain tax positions
(see Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements) partially offset by payments.   
         71   

Table of Contents  

    Other Commitments       In connection with our business combinations and asset purchases, we have agreed to pay certain additional amounts contingent upon the achievement of agreed-upon technology, development, product, or other
milestones or continued employment with us of certain employees of acquired entities. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   
  We also have certain funding commitments primarily related to our investments in privately held companies and venture funds, some of which are based on
the achievement of certain agreed-upon milestones, and some of which are required to be funded on demand. The funding commitments were $192 million as of July 30, 2011, compared with $279 million as of July 31, 2010.   
   Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements       We
consider our investments in unconsolidated variable interest entities to be off-balance sheet arrangements. In the ordinary course of business, we have investments in privately held companies and provide financing to certain customers. These
privately held companies and customers may be considered to be variable interest entities. We evaluate on an ongoing basis our investments in these privately held companies and customer financings and we have determined that as of July 30, 2011
there were no material unconsolidated variable interest entities.      In fiscal 2010, Cisco and EMC Corporation ( EMC ), together with
VMware, Inc. ( VMware ) formed the Virtual Computing Environment coalition and invested in Acadia Enterprises LLC ( Acadia ), a joint venture with EMC in which VMware and Intel also invested. During fiscal 2011, the Virtual
Computing Environment coalition and Acadia were combined into a single entity and renamed the Virtual Computing Environment Company ( VCE ). As of July 30, 2011, our cumulative investment in the combined VCE entity was approximately
$100 million and we owned approximately 35% of the outstanding equity. We account for our investment in VCE under the equity method, and accordingly our carrying value in VCE has been reduced by $79 million, which reflects our cumulative share of
VCE s losses primarily in fiscal 2011. Over the next 12 months, as VCE scales its operations, we expect that we will make additional investments in VCE and may incur additional losses, in proportion to our ownership percentage.   
  On an ongoing basis, we reassess our investments in privately held companies and customer financings to determine if they are variable interest entities
and if we would be regarded as the primary beneficiary pursuant to the applicable accounting guidance. As a result of this ongoing assessment, we may be required to make additional disclosures or consolidate these entities. Because we may not
control these entities, we may not have the ability to influence these events.      We provide financing guarantees, which are generally for
various third-party financing arrangements extended to our channel partners and end-user customers. We could be called upon to make payments under these guarantees in the event of nonpayment by the channel partners or end-user customers. See the
previous discussion of these financing guarantees under  Financing Receivables and Guarantees.        Securities Lending
      We periodically engage in securities lending activities with certain of our available-for-sale investments. These transactions are
accounted for as a secured lending of the securities, and the securities are typically loaned only on an overnight basis. The average balance of securities lending for fiscal 2011 and 2010 was $1.6 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively. We require
collateral equal to at least 102% of the fair market value of the loaned security and that the collateral be in the form of cash or liquid, high-quality assets. We engage in these secured lending transactions only with highly creditworthy
counterparties, and the associated portfolio custodian has agreed to indemnify us against any collateral losses. As of July 30, 2011 and July 31, 2010, we had no   
         72   

Table of Contents  

outstanding securities lending transactions. We believe these arrangements do not present a material risk or impact to our liquidity requirements. We did not experience any losses in connection
with the secured lending of securities during the periods presented.       Stock Repurchase Program and Dividends    
  In September 2001, our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program. As of July 30, 2011, our Board of Directors had authorized an
aggregate repurchase of up to $82 billion of common stock under this program, and the remaining authorized repurchase amount was $10.2 billion with no termination date. The stock repurchase activity under the stock repurchase program, reported based
on the trade date is summarized as follows (in millions, except per-share amounts):       
    During fiscal 2011, cash dividends of $0.12 per share, or $658 million, were declared on our outstanding common stock and
paid during the same period. Any future dividends will be subject to the approval of our Board of Directors.       Liquidity and Capital
Resource Requirements       Based on past performance and current expectations, we believe our cash and cash equivalents, investments, cash
generated from operations and ability to access capital markets and committed credit lines will satisfy, through at least the next 12 months, our liquidity requirements, both in total and domestically, including the following: working capital needs,
capital expenditures, investment requirements, stock repurchases, cash dividends, contractual obligations, commitments, principal and interest payments on debt, future customer financings, and other liquidity requirements associated with our
operations. There are no other transactions, arrangements, or relationships with unconsolidated entities or other persons that are reasonably likely to materially affect the liquidity and the availability of, as well as our requirements for capital
resources.   
         73   

Table of Contents  

Item 7A.   
   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk         Our financial position is exposed to a variety of risks, including interest rate risk, equity price risk, and foreign currency exchange risk.       Interest Rate Risk        Fixed Income Securities    
  We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. Our primary objective for holding fixed income securities is to achieve an
appropriate investment return consistent with preserving principal and managing risk. At any time, a sharp rise in market interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our fixed income investment portfolio. Conversely,
declines in interest rates, including the impact from lower credit spreads, could have a material adverse impact on interest income for our investment portfolio. We may utilize derivative instruments designated as hedging instruments to achieve our
investment objectives. We had no outstanding hedging instruments for our fixed income securities as of July 30, 2011. Our fixed income investments are held for purposes other than trading. Our fixed income investments are not leveraged as of
July 30, 2011. See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We monitor our interest rate and credit risks, including our credit exposures to specific rating categories and to individual issuers. As of July 30, 2011, approximately
75% of our fixed income securities balance consists of U.S. government and U.S. government agency securities. We believe the overall credit quality of our portfolio is strong.      The following tables present the hypothetical fair values of our fixed income securities, including the hedging effects when applicable, as a result of selected potential market decreases and increases in
interest rates. The market changes reflect immediate hypothetical parallel shifts in the yield curve of plus or minus 50 basis points ( BPS ), plus 100 BPS, and plus 150 BPS. Due to the low interest rate environment at the end of each of
fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009, we did not believe a parallel shift of minus 100 BPS or minus 150 BPS was relevant. The hypothetical fair values as of July 30, 2011 and July 31, 2010 are as follows (in millions):   
   
    There were no impairment charges on our investments in fixed income securities for fiscal 2011 or 2010. For fiscal 2009
we had impairment charges of $219 million on investments in fixed income securities.       Debt    
  As of July 30, 2011, we had $16.0 billion in principal amount of senior notes outstanding, which consisted of $1.25 billion floating-rate notes and
$14.75 billion fixed-rate notes. The carrying amount of the senior notes was $16.2 billion, and the related fair value was $17.4 billion, which fair value is based on market prices. As of July 30, 2011, a hypothetical 50 BPS increase or
decrease in market interest rates would change the fair value of the fixed-rate debt, excluding the $4.25 billion of hedged debt, by a decrease or increase of $0.5 billion, respectively. However, this hypothetical change in interest rates would not
impact the interest expense on the fixed-rate debt, which is not hedged.   
         74   

Table of Contents  

    Equity Price Risk       The fair value of our equity investments in publicly traded companies is subject to market price volatility. We may hold equity securities for strategic purposes or to diversify our overall investment
portfolio. Our equity portfolio consists of securities with characteristics that most closely match the Standard   Poor s 500 Index or NASDAQ Composite Index. These equity securities are held for purposes other than trading. To manage
our exposure to changes in the fair value of certain equity securities, we may enter into equity derivatives designated as hedging instruments.   
   Publicly Traded Equity Securities       The
following tables present the hypothetical fair values of publicly traded equity securities as a result of selected potential decreases and increases in the price of each equity security in the portfolio, excluding hedged equity securities, if any.
Potential fluctuations in the price of each equity security in the portfolio of plus or minus 10%, 20%, and 30% were selected based on potential near-term changes in those security prices. The hypothetical fair values as of July 30, 2011 and
July 31, 2010 are as follows (in millions):       
    There were no significant impairment charges on our investments in publicly traded equity securities in fiscal 2011 while
there was no such impairment charge in 2010. For fiscal 2009 impairment charges on our investments in publicly traded equity securities were $39 million.       Investments in Privately Held Companies       We have also invested in privately held companies.
These investments are recorded in other assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheets and are accounted for using primarily either the cost or the equity method. As of July 30, 2011, the total carrying amount of our investments in privately held
companies was $796 million, compared with $756 million at July 31, 2010. Some of the privately held companies in which we invested are in the startup or development stages. These investments are inherently risky because the markets for the
technologies or products these companies are developing are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. We could lose our entire investment in these companies. Our evaluation of investments in privately held companies is based on the
fundamentals of the businesses invested in , including, among other factors, the nature of their technologies and potential for financial return. Our impairment charges on investments in privately held companies were $10 million, $25 million, and
$85 million for fiscal 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.   
         75   

Table of Contents  

    Foreign Currency Exchange Risk       Our foreign exchange forward and option contracts are summarized as follows (in millions):       
    We conduct business globally in numerous currencies. The direct effect of foreign currency fluctuations on sales has not
been material because our sales are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars. However, if the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to other currencies, such strengthening could have an indirect effect on our sales to the extent it raises the cost of our
products to non-U.S. customers and thereby reduces demand. A weaker U.S. dollar could have the opposite effect. However, the precise indirect effect of currency fluctuations is difficult to measure or predict because our sales are influenced by many
factors in addition to the impact of such currency fluctuations.      Approximately 70% of our operating expenses are U.S.-dollar denominated.
Foreign currency fluctuations, net of hedging, increased our operating expenses by approximately 0.3% in fiscal 2011 compared with fiscal 2010 and 0.2% in fiscal 2010 compared with fiscal 2009. To reduce variability in operating expenses and service
cost of sales caused by non-U.S.-dollar denominated operating expenses and costs, we hedge certain foreign currency forecasted transactions with currency options and forward contracts. These hedging programs are not designed to provide foreign
currency protection over long time horizons. In designing a specific hedging approach, we consider several factors, including offsetting exposures, significance of exposures, costs associated with entering into a particular hedge instrument, and
potential effectiveness of the hedge. The gains and losses on foreign exchange contracts mitigate the effect of currency movements on our operating expenses and service cost of sales.      We also enter into foreign exchange forward and option contracts to reduce the short-term effects of foreign currency fluctuations on receivables, investments, and payables that are denominated in
currencies other than the functional currencies of the entities. The market risks associated with these foreign currency receivables, investments, and payables relate primarily to variances from our forecasted foreign currency transactions and
balances. Our forward and option contracts generally have the following maturities:       

Maturities  

Forward and option contracts forecasted transactions related to operating expenses and service cost of sales   

Up to 18 months  

Forward contracts current assets and liabilities   

Up to 3 months  

Forward contracts net investments in foreign subsidiaries   

Up to 6 months  

Forward contracts long-term customer financings   

Up to 2 years  

Forward contracts investments   

Up to 2 years  
       
    We do not enter into foreign exchange forward or option contracts for trading purposes.   
         76   

Table of Contents  

Item 8.   
   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data          Index to Consolidated Financial Statements        
 
         77   

Table of Contents  

     Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   
   To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Cisco Systems, Inc.:       In our opinion, the consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated statements of operations, of cash flows and of equity listed in the accompanying index present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of Cisco Systems, Inc. and its subsidiaries at July 30, 2011 and July 31, 2010, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended July 30, 2011 in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement schedule appearing under Item 15(a)(2) presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set
forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of July 30, 2011, based on
criteria established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company s management is responsible for these financial statements and
financial statement schedule, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management s Report on
Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements, on the financial statement schedule, and on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated
audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the
amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial
reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the
assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.   
  As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted new accounting rules for revenue recognition and business
combinations in 2010 and other-than-temporary impairments of debt securities in 2009.      A company s internal control over financial
reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the
assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures
of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of
the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.      Because of its inherent limitations, internal
control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.     

San Jose, California      September 13, 2011   
         78   

Table of Contents  

   Reports of Management       Statement of Management s Responsibility       Cisco s management has always assumed
full accountability for maintaining compliance with our established financial accounting policies and for reporting our results with objectivity and the highest degree of integrity. It is critical for investors and other users of the Consolidated
Financial Statements to have confidence that the financial information that we provide is timely, complete, relevant, and accurate. Management is responsible for the fair presentation of Cisco s Consolidated Financial Statements, prepared in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, and has full responsibility for their integrity and accuracy.      Management, with oversight by Cisco s Board of Directors, has established and maintains a strong ethical climate so that our affairs are conducted to the highest standards of personal and corporate
conduct. Management also has established an effective system of internal controls. Cisco s policies and practices reflect corporate governance initiatives that are compliant with the listing requirements of NASDAQ and the corporate governance
requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.      We are committed to enhancing shareholder value and fully understand and embrace our
fiduciary oversight responsibilities. We are dedicated to ensuring that our high standards of financial accounting and reporting, as well as our underlying system of internal controls, are maintained. Our culture demands integrity and we have the
highest confidence in our processes, our internal controls and our people, who are objective in their responsibilities and who operate under the highest level of ethical standards.         Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting       Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for Cisco. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Internal control over financial reporting includes
those policies and procedures that: (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with authorizations
of management and directors of the Company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the Company s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.      Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
     Management (with the participation of the principal executive officer and principal financial officer) conducted an evaluation of the
effectiveness of Cisco s internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in  Internal Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on this
evaluation, management concluded that Cisco s internal control over financial reporting was effective as of July 30, 2011. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, has audited the effectiveness of
Cisco s internal control over financial reporting and has issued a report on Cisco s internal control over financial reporting, which is included in their report on the preceding page.   

John T. Chambers  

Frank A. Calderoni   
 
  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer   
 
  September 14, 2011  

September 14, 2011   
 
         79   

Table of Contents  

Consolidated Balance Sheets   
   (in millions, except par value)       
 
   See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   
         80   

Table of Contents  

Consolidated Statements of Operations   
   (in millions, except per-share amounts)       
 
   See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   
         81   

Table of Contents  

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows   
   (in millions)       
 
   See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   
         82   

Table of Contents  

Consolidated Statements of Equity   
   (in millions)      
     Supplemental Information       In September 2001, the Company s Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program. As of July 30, 2011, the Company s Board of Directors had authorized an aggregate repurchase of up
to $82 billion of common stock under this program with no termination date. For additional information regarding stock repurchases, see Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The stock repurchases since the inception of this program and
the related impacts on Cisco shareholders  equity are summarized in the following table (in millions):       
 
   See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   
         83   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    
      1. Basis of Presentation    
   The fiscal year for Cisco Systems, Inc. (the  Company  or  Cisco ) is the 52 or 53 weeks ending on the last
Saturday in July. Fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2009 were each 52-week fiscal years, while fiscal 2010 was a 53-week fiscal year. The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Cisco and its subsidiaries. All significant intercompany
accounts and transactions have been eliminated. The Company conducts business globally and is primarily managed on a geographic basis in the following segments: United States and Canada, European Markets, Emerging Markets, and Asia Pacific Markets.
The Emerging Markets segment includes Eastern Europe, Latin America, the Middle East and Africa, and Russia and the Commonwealth of Independent States.      The Company consolidates its investment in a venture fund managed by SOFTBANK Corp. and its affiliates ( SOFTBANK ) as the Company is the primary beneficiary. The noncontrolling interests
attributed to SOFTBANK are presented as a separate component from the Company s equity in the equity section of the Consolidated Balance Sheets. SOFTBANK s share of the earnings in the venture fund is not presented separately in the
Consolidated Statements of Operations and is included in other income (loss), net, as this amount is not material for any of the fiscal years presented.      Certain reclassifications have been made to amounts for prior years in order to conform to the current year s presentation, which include the reallocation of share-based compensation expense within
operating expenses due to a refinement of the underlying categories of expenses. The Company has evaluated subsequent events through the date that the financial statements were issued.   
      2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies    
    (a) Cash and Cash Equivalents  The Company considers all highly liquid investments purchased with an original or remaining
maturity of less than three months at the date of purchase to be cash equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents are maintained with various financial institutions.       (b) Available-for-Sale Investments  The Company classifies its investments in both fixed income securities and publicly traded equity securities as available-for-sale investments. Fixed income
securities primarily consist of U.S. government securities, U.S. government agency securities, non-U.S. government and agency securities, corporate debt securities, and asset-backed securities. These available-for-sale investments are primarily held
in the custody of a major financial institution. The specific identification method is used to determine the cost basis of fixed income securities sold. The weighted-average method is used to determine the cost basis of publicly traded equity
securities sold. These investments are recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses on these investments, to the extent the investments are unhedged, are included as a separate component of accumulated other
comprehensive income (AOCI), net of tax. The Company classifies its investments as current based on the nature of the investments and their availability for use in current operations.       (c) Other-than-Temporary Impairments on Investments  Effective at the beginning of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, the Company was required to evaluate its fixed income securities for impairments
in connection with an updated accounting standard. Under this updated standard, if the fair value of a debt security is less than its amortized cost, the Company assesses whether the impairment is other than temporary. An impairment is considered
other than temporary if (i) the Company has the intent to sell the security, (ii) it is more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell the security before recovery of the entire amortized cost basis, or (iii) the
Company does not expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the security. If impairment is considered other than temporary based on condition (i) or (ii) described above, the entire difference between the amortized cost and the
fair value of the debt security is recognized in earnings. If an impairment is considered other than temporary based on condition (iii), the amount representing credit losses (defined as the difference between the present value of the cash flows
expected to be collected and the amortized cost basis of the debt   
         84   

Table of Contents  

security) will be recognized in earnings and the amount relating to all other factors will be recognized in OCI. Upon the adoption of the updated accounting standard, the Company recorded a
cumulative effect adjustment of $49 million, which resulted in an increase to the balance of retained earnings with a corresponding decrease to OCI. Prior to the adoption of this accounting standard, the Company recognized impairment charges on
fixed income securities using the impairment policy as is currently applied to publicly traded equity securities, as discussed below.      The
Company recognizes an impairment charge on publicly traded equity securities when a decline in the fair value of its investments in publicly traded equity securities below the cost basis is judged to be other than temporary. The Company considers
various factors in determining whether a decline in the fair value of these investments is other than temporary, including the length of time and extent to which the fair value of the security has been less than the Company s cost basis, the
financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, and the Company s intent and ability to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value.   
  Investments in privately held companies are included in other assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and are primarily accounted for using either the
cost or equity method. The Company monitors these investments for impairments and makes appropriate reductions in carrying values if the Company determines that an impairment charge is required based primarily on the financial condition and
near-term prospects of these companies.       (d) Inventories  Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost is computed using
standard cost, which approximates actual cost, on a first-in, first-out basis. The Company provides inventory write-downs based on excess and obsolete inventories determined primarily by future demand forecasts. The write-down is measured as the
difference between the cost of the inventory and market based upon assumptions about future demand and charged to the provision for inventory, which is a component of cost of sales. At the point of the loss recognition, a new, lower cost basis for
that inventory is established, and subsequent changes in facts and circumstances do not result in the restoration or increase in that newly established cost basis. In addition, the Company records a liability for firm, noncancelable, and
unconditional purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers for quantities in excess of the Company s future demand forecasts consistent with its valuation of excess and obsolete inventory.   
   (e) Allowance for Doubtful Accounts  The allowance for doubtful accounts is based on the Company s assessment of the collectibility of
customer accounts. The Company regularly reviews the allowance by considering factors such as historical experience, credit quality, age of the accounts receivable balances, and economic conditions that may affect a customer s ability to pay.
Trade receivables are written off at the point when they are considered uncollectible.       (f) Financing Receivables  The Company provides
financing arrangements, including leases, financed service contracts, and loans, for certain qualified end-user customers to build, maintain, and upgrade their networks. Lease receivables primarily represent sales-type and direct-financing leases.
Leases have on average a four-year term and are usually collateralized by a security interest in the underlying assets while loan receivables generally have terms of up to three years. Financed service contracts typically have terms of one to three
years and primarily relate to technical support services.      The Company determines the adequacy of its allowance for credit loss by assessing
the risks and losses inherent in its financing receivables that are disaggregated by portfolio segment and class. The portfolio segment is based on the financing transactions offered by the Company: lease receivables, loan receivables, and financed
service contracts and other. The financing receivables are further disaggregated by class based on their risk characteristics. The two classes of receivables that the Company has identified are Established Markets and Growth Markets. The Growth
Markets class consists of countries in the Company s Emerging Markets segment as well as China and India, and the Established Markets class consists of the remaining geographies in which the Company has financing receivables. See Note 7.
  
         85   

Table of Contents  

   The Company determines the allowance for credit loss for each class of financing receivables by applying the
loss factor based on a given internal credit risk rating assigned to each financing receivables class. The loss factor is developed using external data as benchmarks, such as the external long-term historical loss rates and expected default rates
that are published annually by a major third party credit-rating agency. Internal credit risk rating is derived by taking into consideration various customer-specific factors and macroeconomic conditions. These factors include the strength of the
customer s business and financial performance, the quality of the customer s banking relationships, the Company s specific historical experience with the customer, the performance and outlook of the customer s industry, the
customer s legal and regulatory environment, the potential sovereign risk of the geographic locations in which the customer is operating, and independent third-party evaluations. Such factors are updated regularly or when facts and
circumstances indicate that an update is deemed necessary. The Company s internal credit risk ratings are categorized as 1 through 10 with the lowest credit risk rating representing the highest quality financing receivables.   
  Receivables with a risk rating of 8 or higher are deemed to be impaired and are subject to impairment evaluation. When evaluating lease and loan
receivables and the earned portion of financed service contracts for possible impairment, the Company considers historical experience, credit quality, age of the receivable balances, and economic conditions that may affect a customer s ability
to pay. When the Company, based on current information and events, determines that it is probable that all amounts due, including scheduled interest payments, pursuant to the contractual terms of the financing agreement are unable to be collected,
the financing receivable is considered impaired. All such outstanding amounts, including any accrued interest, are assessed at the customer level and will be fully reserved. Financing receivables are written off at the point when they are considered
uncollectible and all outstanding balances, including any previously earned but uncollected interest income, will be reversed and charged against earnings. The Company does not typically have any partially written-off financing receivables.
     Outstanding financing receivables that are aged 31 days or more from the contractual payment date are considered past due. The Company does
not accrue interest on financing receivables that are considered impaired or more than 90 days past due unless either the receivable has not been collected due to administrative reasons or the receivable is well secured. Financing receivables may be
placed on non-accrual status earlier if, in management s opinion, a timely collection of the full principal and interest becomes uncertain. After a financing receivable has been categorized as non-accrual, interest will be recognized when cash
is received. A financing receivable may be returned to accrual status after all of the customer s delinquent balances of principal and interest have been settled and the customer remains current for an appropriate period.   
  The Company facilitates third-party financing arrangements for channel partners, consisting of revolving short-term financing, generally with payment
terms ranging from 60 to 90 days. In certain instances, these financing arrangements result in a transfer of the Company s receivables to the third party. The receivables are derecognized upon transfer, as these transfers qualify as true sales,
and the Company receives a payment for the receivables from the third party based on the Company s standard payment terms. These financing arrangements facilitate the working capital requirements of the channel partners and, in some cases, the
Company guarantees a portion of these arrangements. The Company also provides financing guarantees for third-party financing arrangements extended to end-user customers related to leases and loans, which typically have terms of up to three years.
The Company could be called upon to make payments under these guarantees in the event of nonpayment by the channel partners or end-user customers. Deferred revenue relating to these financing arrangements is recorded in accordance with revenue
recognition policies or for the fair value of the financing guarantees.   
         86   

Table of Contents  

    (g) Depreciation and Amortization  Property and equipment are stated at cost, less accumulated
depreciation or amortization, whenever applicable. Depreciation and amortization are computed using the straight-line method, generally over the following periods:       

Period    

Buildings  
      
  25 years   
 
  Building improvements  
      
  10 years   
 
  Furniture and fixtures  
      
  5 years   
 
  Leasehold improvements  
      
  Shorter of remaining lease term or 5 years   
 
  Computer equipment and related software  
      
  30 to 36 months   
 
  Production, engineering, and other equipment  
      
  Up to 5 years   
 
  Operating lease assets  
      
  Based on lease term generally up to 3 years   
     (h) Business Combinations  Upon adoption of revised accounting guidance for business combinations beginning with
business combinations completed in the first quarter of fiscal 2010, the Company (i) applies the expanded definition of  business  and  business combination  as prescribed by the revised guidance ii) recognizes assets
acquired, liabilities assumed and noncontrolling interests (including goodwill) measured at fair value at the acquisition date with subsequent changes to the fair value of such assets acquired and liabilities assumed recognized in earnings after the
expiration of the measurement period, a period not to exceed 12 months from the acquisition date; (iii) recognizes acquisition-related expenses and acquisition-related restructuring costs in earnings; and (iv) capitalizes in-process
research and development (IPR D) at fair value as an indefinite-lived intangible asset that will be assessed for impairment thereafter. Upon completion of development, the R D intangible asset will be amortized over its estimated useful
life.       (i) Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets  Goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis in the fourth fiscal quarter
and, when specific circumstances dictate, between annual tests. When impaired, the carrying value of goodwill is written down to fair value. The goodwill impairment test involves a two-step process. The first step, identifying a potential
impairment, compares the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step would need to be conducted; otherwise, no further steps are
necessary as no potential impairment exists. The second step, measuring the impairment loss, compares the implied fair value of the reporting unit goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. Any excess of the reporting unit goodwill carrying
value over the respective implied fair value is recognized as an impairment loss. Purchased intangible assets with finite lives are carried at cost, less accumulated amortization. Amortization is computed over the estimated useful lives of the
respective assets, generally two to seven years. See  Long-Lived Assets  below for the Company s policy regarding impairment testing of purchased intangible assets with finite lives. Purchased intangible assets with indefinite lives
are assessed for potential impairment annually or when events or circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts might be impaired.       (j)
Long-Lived Assets  Long-lived assets that are held and used by the Company are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable. Determination of
recoverability of long-lived assets is based on an estimate of the undiscounted future cash flows resulting from the use of the asset and its eventual disposition. Measurement of an impairment loss for long-lived assets that management expects to
hold and use is based on the difference between the fair value of the asset and its carrying value. Long-lived assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell.   
   (k) Derivative Instruments  The Company recognizes derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities and measures those instruments at fair
value. The accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative depends on the intended use of the derivative and the resulting designation. For a derivative instrument designated as a fair value hedge, the gain or loss is recognized in earnings
in the period of change together with the offsetting loss or gain on the hedged item attributed to the risk being hedged. For a derivative instrument designated as a cash flow   
         87   

Table of Contents  

hedge, the effective portion of the derivative s gain or loss is initially reported as a component of AOCI and subsequently reclassified into earnings when the hedged exposure affects
earnings. The ineffective portion of the gain or loss is reported in earnings immediately. For derivative instruments that are not designated as accounting hedges, changes in fair value are recognized in earnings in the period of change. The Company
records derivative instruments in the statements of cash flows to operating, investing or financing activities consistent with the cash flows of the hedged item.       (l) Foreign Currency Translation  Assets and liabilities of non-U.S. subsidiaries that operate in a local currency environment, where that local currency is the functional currency, are translated
to U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date, with the resulting translation adjustments directly recorded to a separate component of AOCI. Income and expense accounts are translated at average exchange rates during the
year. Remeasurement adjustments are recorded in other income (loss), net. The effect of foreign currency exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents was not material for any of the years presented.   
   (m) Concentrations of Risk  Cash and cash equivalents are maintained with several financial institutions. Deposits held with banks may exceed the
amount of insurance provided on such deposits. Generally, these deposits may be redeemed upon demand and are maintained with financial institutions with reputable credit and therefore bear minimal credit risk. The Company seeks to mitigate its
credit risks by spreading such risks across multiple counterparties and monitoring the risk profiles of these counterparties.      The Company
performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers and, with the exception of certain financing transactions, does not require collateral from its customers. The Company receives certain of its components from sole suppliers. Additionally, the
Company relies on a limited number of contract manufacturers and suppliers to provide manufacturing services for its products. The inability of a contract manufacturer or supplier to fulfill supply requirements of the Company could materially impact
future operating results.       (n) Revenue Recognition  The Company recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists,
delivery has occurred, the fee is fixed or determinable, and collectibility is reasonably assured. In instances where final acceptance of the product, system, or solution is specified by the customer, revenue is deferred until all acceptance
criteria have been met. For hosting arrangements, the Company recognizes subscription revenue ratably over the subscription period, while usage revenue is recognized based on utilization. Technical support services revenue is deferred and recognized
ratably over the period during which the services are to be performed, which is typically from one to three years. Advanced services revenue is recognized upon delivery or completion of performance.   
  The Company uses distributors that stock inventory and typically sell to systems integrators, service providers, and other resellers. In addition,
certain products are sold through retail partners. The Company refers to this as its two-tier system of sales to the end customer. Revenue from distributors and retail partners generally is recognized based on a sell-through method using information
provided by them. Distributors and retail partners participate in various cooperative marketing and other programs, and the Company maintains estimated accruals and allowances for these programs. The Company accrues for warranty costs, sales
returns, and other allowances based on its historical experience. Shipping and handling fees billed to customers are included in net sales, with the associated costs included in cost of sales.   
  In October 2009, the FASB amended the accounting standards for revenue recognition to remove from the scope of industry-specific software revenue
recognition guidance tangible products containing software components and nonsoftware components that function together to deliver the product s essential functionality. In October 2009, the FASB also amended the accounting standards for
multiple-deliverable revenue arrangements to:       

(i)  
  provide updated guidance on whether multiple deliverables exist, how the deliverables in an arrangement should be separated, and how consideration should be allocated;
    
         88   

Table of Contents  

(ii)  
  require an entity to allocate revenue in an arrangement using estimated selling prices (ESP) of deliverables if a vendor does not have vendor-specific objective
evidence of selling price (VSOE) or third-party evidence of selling price (TPE); and         

(iii)  
  eliminate the use of the residual method and require an entity to allocate revenue using the relative selling price method.     
  The Company elected to early adopt this accounting guidance at the beginning of its first quarter of fiscal 2010 on a prospective basis for applicable
transactions originating or materially modified after July 25, 2009. This guidance does not generally change the units of accounting for the Company s revenue transactions. Most products and services qualify as separate units of
accounting and the revenue is recognized when the applicable revenue recognition criteria are met. The Company s arrangements generally do not include any provisions for cancellation, termination, or refunds that would significantly impact
recognized revenue.      Many of the Company s products have both software and nonsoftware components that function together to deliver the
products  essential functionality. The Company s product offerings fall into the following categories: Routers, Switches, New Products, and Other Products. The Other Products category includes optical networking and emerging technology
items. The Company also provides technical support and advanced services. The Company has a broad customer base that encompasses virtually all types of public and private entities, including enterprise businesses, service providers, commercial
customers, and consumers. The Company and its salesforce are not organized by product divisions and the Company s products and services can be sold standalone or together in various combinations across the Company s geographic segments or
customer markets. For example, service provider arrangements are typically larger in scale with longer deployment schedules and involve the delivery of a variety of product technologies, including high-end routing, video and network management
software, and other product technologies along with technical support and advanced services. The Company s enterprise and commercial arrangements are typically unique for each customer and smaller in scale and may include network infrastructure
products such as routers and switches or collaboration technologies such as unified communications and Cisco TelePresence systems products along with technical support services. Consumer products, which constitute a small portion of the
Company s overall business, are sold in standalone arrangements directly to distributors and retailers without support, as customers generally only require repair or replacement of defective products or parts under warranty.   
  The Company enters into revenue arrangements that may consist of multiple deliverables of its product and service offerings due to the needs of its
customers. For example, a customer may purchase routing products along with a contract for technical support services. This arrangement would consist of multiple elements, with the products delivered in one reporting period and the technical support
services delivered across multiple reporting periods. Another customer may purchase networking products along with advanced service offerings, in which all the elements are delivered within the same reporting period. In addition, distributors and
retail partners purchase products or technical support services on a standalone basis for resale to an end user or for purposes of stocking certain products, and these transactions would not result in a multiple element arrangement. For transactions
entered into prior to the first quarter of fiscal 2010, the Company primarily recognized revenue based on software revenue recognition guidance. For the vast majority of the Company s arrangements involving multiple deliverables, such as sales
of products with services, the entire fee from the arrangement was allocated to each respective element based on its relative selling price, using VSOE. In the limited circumstances when the Company was not able to determine VSOE for all of the
deliverables of the arrangement, but was able to obtain VSOE for any undelivered elements, revenue was allocated using the residual method. Under the residual method, the amount of revenue allocated to delivered elements equaled the total
arrangement consideration less the aggregate selling price of any undelivered elements, and no revenue was recognized until all elements without VSOE had been delivered. If VSOE of any undelivered items did not exist, revenue from the entire
arrangement was initially deferred and recognized at the earlier of (i) delivery of those elements for which VSOE did not exist or (ii) when VSOE could be established. However, in limited cases where technical support services were the
only undelivered element without VSOE, the entire arrangement fee was recognized ratably as a single unit of accounting over the technical services contractual period. The residual and ratable revenue recognition
  
         89   

Table of Contents  

methods were generally used in a limited number of arrangements containing products within the New Products category, such as Cisco TelePresence systems. Several of these technologies are sold as
solution offerings, whereas products or services are not sold on a standalone basis.      In many instances, products are sold separately in
standalone arrangements as customers may support the products themselves or purchase support on a time-and-materials basis. Advanced services are sometimes sold in standalone engagements such as general consulting, network management, or security
advisory projects and technical support services are sold separately through renewals of annual contracts. As a result, for substantially all of the arrangements with multiple deliverables pertaining to routing and switching products and related
services, as well as most arrangements containing products within the New Products and Other Products categories, the Company has used and intends to continue using VSOE to allocate the selling price to each deliverable. Consistent with its
methodology under previous accounting guidance, the Company determines VSOE based on its normal pricing and discounting practices for the specific product or service when sold separately. In determining VSOE, the Company requires that a substantial
majority of the selling prices for a product or service fall within a reasonably narrow pricing range, generally evidenced by approximately 80% of such historical standalone transactions falling within plus or minus 15% of the median rates. In
addition, the Company considers the geographies in which the products or services are sold, major product and service groups and customer classifications, and other environmental or marketing variables in determining VSOE.   
  In certain limited instances, the Company is not able to establish VSOE for all deliverables in an arrangement with multiple elements. This may be due to
the Company infrequently selling each element separately, not pricing products within a narrow range, or only having a limited sales history, such as in the case of certain products within the New Products and Other Products categories. When VSOE
cannot be established, the Company attempts to establish selling price of each element based on TPE. TPE is determined based on competitor prices for similar deliverables when sold separately. Generally, the Company s go-to-market strategy
typically differs from that of its peers and its offerings contain a significant level of customization and differentiation such that the comparable pricing of products with similar functionality cannot be obtained. Furthermore, the Company is
unable to reliably determine what similar competitor products  selling prices are on a standalone basis. Therefore, the Company is typically not able to determine TPE.      When the Company is unable to establish selling price using VSOE or TPE, the Company uses ESP in its allocation of arrangement consideration. The objective of ESP is to determine the price at which the
Company would transact a sale if the product or service were sold on a standalone basis. ESP is generally used for new or highly customized offerings and solutions or offerings not priced within a narrow range, and it applies to a small proportion
of the Company s arrangements with multiple deliverables.      The Company determines ESP for a product or service by considering multiple
factors, including, but not limited to, geographies, market conditions, competitive landscape, internal costs, gross margin objectives, and pricing practices. The determination of ESP is made through consultation with and formal approval by the
Company s management, taking into consideration the go-to-market strategy.      The Company regularly reviews VSOE, TPE and ESP, and
maintains internal controls over the establishment and updates of these estimates. There were no material impacts during the fiscal year nor does the Company currently expect a material impact in the near term from changes in VSOE, TPE or ESP.
     The Company s arrangements with multiple deliverables may have a standalone software deliverable that is subject to the existing
software revenue recognition guidance. In these cases, revenue for the software is generally recognized upon shipment or electronic delivery. The revenue for these multiple-element arrangements is allocated to the software deliverable and the
nonsoftware deliverables based on the relative selling prices of all of the deliverables in the arrangement using the hierarchy in the new revenue accounting guidance. In the limited circumstances where the Company cannot determine VSOE or TPE of
the selling price for all of the deliverables in the arrangement, including the software deliverable, ESP is used for the purposes of performing this allocation.   
         90   

Table of Contents  

    (o) Advertising Costs  The Company expenses all advertising costs as incurred. Advertising costs
included within sales and marketing expenses were approximately $325 million, $290 million, and $165 million for fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.       (p) Share-Based Compensation Expense  The Company measures and recognizes the compensation expense for all share-based awards made to employees and directors including employee stock options and
employee stock purchases related to the Employee Stock Purchase Plan ( employee stock purchase rights ) based on estimated fair values. The fair value of employee stock options is estimated on the date of grant using a lattice-binomial
option-pricing model ( lattice-binomial model ) and for employee stock purchase rights the Company estimates the fair value using the Black-Scholes model. Prior to the initial declaration of a quarterly cash dividend on March 17,
2011, the fair value of share-based awards was measured based on an expected dividend yield of 0% as the Company did not historically pay cash dividends on its common stock. For awards granted on or subsequent to March 17, 2011, the Company
used an annualized dividend yield based on the per share dividend declared by its Board of Directors. The value of awards that are ultimately expected to vest is recognized as expense over the requisite service periods. Because share-based
compensation expense is based on awards ultimately expected to vest, it has been reduced for forfeitures.       (q) Software Development Costs
 Software development costs required to be capitalized for software sold, leased, or otherwise marketed have not been material to date. Software development costs required to be capitalized for internal use software have also not been material to
date.       (r) Income Taxes  Income tax expense is based on pretax financial accounting income. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are
recognized for the expected tax consequences of temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts. Valuation allowances are recorded to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that will more likely
than not be realized.      The Company accounts for uncertainty in income taxes using a two-step approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain
tax positions. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related
appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely of being realized upon settlement. The Company classifies the liability for unrecognized tax benefits as
current to the extent that the Company anticipates payment (or receipt) of cash within one year. Interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions are recognized in the provision for income taxes.   
   (s) Computation of Net Income per Share  Basic net income per share is computed using the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding
during the period. Diluted net income per share is computed using the weighted-average number of common shares and dilutive potential common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted shares outstanding include the dilutive effect of in-the-money
options, unvested restricted stock, and restricted stock units. The dilutive effect of such equity awards is calculated based on the average share price for each fiscal period using the treasury stock method. Under the treasury stock method, the
amount the employee must pay for exercising stock options, the amount of compensation cost for future service that the Company has not yet recognized, and the amount of tax benefits that would be recorded in additional paid-in capital when the award
becomes deductible are collectively assumed to be used to repurchase shares.       (t) Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities  The
Company uses a qualitative approach in assessing the consolidation requirement for variable interest entities. The approach focuses on identifying which enterprise has the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact the variable
interest entity s economic performance and which enterprise has the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits from the variable interest entity. In the event that the Company is the primary beneficiary of a variable interest
entity, the assets, liabilities, and results of operations of the variable interest entity will be included in the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements.   
         91   

Table of Contents  

    (u) Use of Estimates  The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes. Estimates are used for the
following, among others:       

Revenue recognition          

Allowances for receivables and sales returns          

Inventory valuation and liability for purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers      

Warranty costs          

Share-based compensation expense          

Fair value measurements and other-than-temporary impairments      

Goodwill and purchased intangible asset impairments          

Income taxes          

Loss contingencies         The
actual results experienced by the Company may differ materially from management s estimates.       (v) Recent Accounting Standards or
Updates Not Yet Effective       In May 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued an accounting standard update to provide
guidance on achieving a consistent definition of and common requirements for measurement of and disclosure concerning fair value as between U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards. This accounting standard update is effective for
the Company beginning in the third quarter of fiscal 2012. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on its Consolidated Financial Statements but does not expect it will have a material impact.   
  In June 2011, the FASB issued an accounting standard update to provide guidance on increasing the prominence of items reported in other comprehensive
income. This accounting standard update eliminates the option to present components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of equity and requires that the total of comprehensive income, the components of net income, and the
components of other comprehensive income be presented either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. It is also required to present on the face of the financial statements
reclassification adjustments for items that are reclassified from other comprehensive income to net income in the statement(s) where the components of net income and the components of other comprehensive income are presented. This accounting
standard update is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2013.      In August 2011, the FASB approved a revised
accounting standard update intended to simplify how an entity tests goodwill for impairment. The amendment will allow an entity to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is necessary to perform the two-step quantitative goodwill
impairment test. An entity no longer will be required to calculate the fair value of a reporting unit unless the entity determines, based on a qualitative assessment, that it is more likely than not that its fair value is less than its carrying
amount. This accounting standard update will be effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2013 and early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on its
Consolidated Financial Statements.   
      3. Business Combinations    
   The Company completed six business combinations during fiscal 2011. A summary of the allocation of the total purchase consideration is
presented as follows (in millions):       
 
         92   

Table of Contents  

   The total purchase consideration related to the Company s business combinations completed during fiscal
2011 consisted of either cash consideration or cash consideration along with vested share-based awards assumed. Total cash and cash equivalents acquired from business combinations completed during fiscal 2011 were approximately $7 million.
     Total transaction costs related to business combination activities during fiscal 2011 and 2010 were $10 million and $32 million,
respectively, which were expensed as incurred and recorded as G A expenses. The Company continues to evaluate certain assets and liabilities related to business combinations completed during the period. Additional information, which
existed as of the acquisition date but was at that time unknown to the Company, may become known to the Company during the remainder of the measurement period, a period not to exceed 12 months from the acquisition date. Changes to amounts recorded
as assets or liabilities may result in a corresponding adjustment to goodwill.      The goodwill generated from the Company s business
combinations completed during the year ended July 30, 2011 is primarily related to expected synergies. The goodwill is not deductible for U.S. federal income tax purposes.       Fiscal 2010 and 2009       Allocation of the purchase consideration for business combinations
completed in fiscal 2010 is summarized as follows (in millions):       
    Allocation of the purchase consideration for business combinations completed in fiscal 2009 is summarized as follows (in
millions):       
    The Consolidated Financial Statements include the operating results of each business combination from the date of
acquisition. Pro forma results of operations for the acquisitions completed during fiscal 2011, 2010, and 2009 have not been presented because the effects of the acquisitions, individually and in the aggregate, were not material to the
Company s financial results.   
         93   

Table of Contents  

4. Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets    
    (a) Goodwill       The
following tables present the goodwill allocated to the Company s reportable segments as of July 30, 2011 and July 31, 2010, as well as the changes to goodwill during fiscal 2011 and 2010 (in millions):   
   
    In the preceding tables,  Other  includes foreign currency translation and purchase accounting adjustments for
both fiscal 2011 and 2010. In fiscal 2011,  Other  also includes a goodwill reduction of $63 million related to the pending sale of the Company s manufacturing operations in Juarez, Mexico, and an adjustment related to a divestiture.
The goodwill reduction was included in restructuring and other charges. See Note 5.       (b) Purchased Intangible Assets    
  The following tables present details of the Company s intangible assets acquired through business combinations completed during fiscal 2011 and 2010
(in millions, except years):       

FINITE LIVES  

INDEFINITE LIVES  

TOTAL  

TECHNOLOGY  

CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS  

OTHER  

IPR D  

Fiscal 2011    
     
  Weighted- Average Useful Life (in Years)  

Amount  

Weighted- Average Useful Life (in Years)  

Amount  

Weighted- Average Useful Life (in Years)  

Amount  

Amount  

Amount  

Total    

4.8   

$   
   92   

6.4   

$   
   16   

2.5   

$   
   1   

$   
   5   

$   
   114   

94   

Table of Contents  

   The following tables present details of the Company s purchased intangible assets (in millions):

Purchased intangible assets include intangible assets acquired through business combinations as well as through direct
purchases or licenses.      The following table presents the amortization of purchased intangible assets (in millions):   
   
    Amortization of purchased intangible assets for fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009 included impairment charges of approximately
$164 million, $28 million and $95 million, respectively. For fiscal 2011, the impairment charges were categorized as $97 million impairment in technology assets, $40 million impairment in customer relationships, and $27 million impairment in other.
These impairments were primarily due to declines in the estimated fair value of intangible assets associated with certain of the Company s consumer products as a result of reductions in the expected future cash flows of such consumer products,
and a portion of these impairment charges was recorded under restructuring and other charges upon the Company s decision to exit its Flip Video cameras product line. The fair value for purchased intangible assets for which the carrying amount
was not deemed to be recoverable was determined using the future discounted cash flows that the assets were expected to generate. For fiscal 2010 and 2009, the impairment charges were due to reductions in expected future cash flows related to
certain of the Company s technologies and customer relationships, and were recorded as amortization of purchased intangible assets.   
         95   

Table of Contents  

   For purchased intangible assets with finite lives, the estimated future amortization expense as of
July 30, 2011 is as follows (in millions):       
 
      5. Restructuring and Other Charges    
   In the second half of fiscal 2011, the Company initiated a number of key, targeted actions to address several areas in its business
model intended to accomplish the following: simplify and focus the Company s organization and operating model; align the Company s cost structure given transitions in the marketplace; divest or exit underperforming operations; and deliver
value to the Company s shareholders. The Company is taking these actions to align its business based on its five foundational priorities: leadership in its core business (routing, switching, and associated services) which includes comprehensive
security and mobility solutions; collaboration; data center virtualization and cloud; video; and architectures for business transformation. The following table summarizes the activity related to the restructuring and other charges (in millions):
      
    As part of the Company s plan to reduce its operating expenses, the Company announced during fiscal 2011 its intent
to reduce its global workforce across all functions by approximately 6,500 employees, which includes approximately 2,100 employees who elected to participate in a voluntary early retirement program. This global workforce reduction represents
approximately 9% of the Company s regular full-time workforce. The employee severance charge incurred during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 was approximately $214 million and was related to approximately 2,600 employees, most of whom are
expected to exit in early fiscal 2012. The remaining employee severance charges during fiscal 2011 were related to the restructuring of the Company s consumer business that began during the third quarter of fiscal 2011.   
  The Company also incurred a charge of approximately $63 million related to a reduction to goodwill as a result of the pending sale of its Juarez
manufacturing operations. See Note 4. Approximately 5,000 employees of this manufacturing operation will be transferred to the buyer upon completion of the transaction, which is expected to occur in fiscal 2012. In connection with the restructuring
of the Company s consumer business related to the exit of the Flip Video cameras product line in fiscal 2011, the Company recorded an intangible asset impairment of $8 million. See Note 4.   
  The charges included in  Other  were primarily related to the consolidation of excess facilities and other charges associated with the
realignment and restructuring of the Company s consumer business.   
         96   

Table of Contents  

   During fiscal 2011, the Company also recorded charges of $124 million, primarily related to inventory and
supply chain charges in connection with the Company s consumer restructuring activities and the exiting of its Flip Video cameras product line, which were recorded in cost of sales and not included in the preceding table.   
      6. Balance Sheet Details    
   The following tables provide details of selected balance sheet items (in millions):   

97   

Table of Contents  

7. Financing Receivables and Guarantees    
    (a) Financing Receivables       Financing receivables primarily consist of lease receivables, loan receivables, and financed service contracts and other. Lease receivables represent sales-type and direct-financing leases resulting from
the sale of the Company s and complementary third-party products and are typically collateralized by a security interest in the underlying assets. Lease receivables consist of arrangements with terms of four years on average while loan
receivables generally have terms of up to three years. The financed service contracts and other category includes financing receivables related to technical support and other services, as well as an insignificant amount of receivables related to
financing of certain indirect costs associated with leases. Revenue related to the technical support services is typically deferred and included in deferred service revenue and is recognized ratably over the period during which the related services
are to be performed, which typically ranges from one to three years.      A summary of the Company s financing receivables is presented as
follows (in millions):      

Contractual maturities of the gross lease receivables at July 30, 2011 are summarized as follows (in millions):

98   

Table of Contents  

   Actual cash collections may differ from the contractual maturities due to early customer buyouts,
refinancings, or defaults.       

(b)   
   Credit Quality of Financing Receivables      
  Financing receivables categorized by the Company s internal credit risk rating for each portfolio segment and class as of July 30, 2011 are
summarized as follows (in millions):       
    Credit risk ratings of 1 through 4 correspond to investment-grade ratings, while credit risk ratings of 5 and 6
correspond to non-investment-grade ratings. Credit risk ratings of 7 and higher correspond to substandard ratings and constitute a relatively small portion of the Company s financing receivables. The credit risk profile of the Company s
financing receivables as of July 30, 2011 is not materially different than the credit risk profile as of July 31, 2010.      In
circumstances when collectability is not deemed reasonably assured, the associated revenue is deferred in accordance with the Company s revenue recognition policies, and the related allowance for credit loss, if any, is included in deferred
revenue. The Company also records deferred revenue associated with financing receivables when there are remaining performance obligations, as it does for financed service contracts. The total of the allowances for credit loss and the deferred
revenue associated with total financing receivables as of July 30, 2011 was $2,793 million, compared with a gross financing receivables balance (net of unearned income) of $6,966 million as of July 30, 2011. The losses that the Company has
incurred historically with respect to its financing receivables have been immaterial and consistent with the performance of an investment-grade portfolio.      As of July 30, 2011, the portion of the portfolio that was deemed to be impaired, generally with a credit risk rating of 8 or higher, was immaterial. The total net write-offs of financing receivables
were not material for fiscal 2011. During fiscal 2011, the Company did not modify any financing receivables.   
         99   

Table of Contents  

   The following table presents the aging analysis of financing receivables by portfolio segment and class as
of July 30, 2011 (in millions):       

(      1)   
        Past due financing
receivables are those that are 31 days or more past due according to their contractual payment terms. The data in the preceding table are presented by contract and the aging classification of each contract is based on the oldest outstanding
receivable, and therefore past due amounts also include unbilled and current receivables within the same contract. Effective in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, the presentation of the aging table excludes pending adjustments on billed tax
assessment in certain international markets.      

(2)      
    The balance of either unbilled or current financing receivables included in the greater-than-90 days past due category for lease receivables, loan
receivables, and financed service contracts and other was $116 million, $15 million, and $230 million as of July 30, 2011, respectively.         The aging profile of the Company s financing receivables as of July 30, 2011 is not materially different than that of July 31, 2010. As of July 30, 2011, the Company had financing
receivables of $50 million, net of unbilled or current receivables from the same contract, that were in the greater than 90 days past due category but remained on accrual status. A financing receivable may be placed on non-accrual status earlier if,
in management s opinion, a timely collection of the full principal and interest becomes uncertain.   
         100

Table of Contents  

    (c) Allowance for Credit Loss Rollforward       The activity for fiscal 2011 related to the allowances for credit loss and the related financing receivables as of July 30, 2011 are summarized as follows (in millions):   
   
    Financing receivables that were individually evaluated for impairment during fiscal 2011 were not material and therefore
are not presented separately in the preceding table.       (d) Financing Guarantees       In the ordinary course of business, the Company provides financing guarantees that are for various third-party financing arrangements extended to channel partners and end-user customers.   
   Channel Partner Financing Guarantees  The Company facilitates arrangements for third-party financing extended to channel partners, consisting of
revolving short-term financing, generally with payment terms ranging from 60 to 90 days. These financing arrangements facilitate the working capital requirements of the channel partners, and, in some cases, the Company guarantees a portion of these
arrangements. The volume of channel partner financing was $18.2 billion, $17.2 billion and $14.2 billion for fiscal 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. The balance of the channel partner financing subject to guarantees was $1.4 billion as of each
July 30, 2011 and July 31, 2010.       End-User Financing Guarantees  The Company also provides financing guarantees for
third-party financing arrangements extended to end-user customers related to leases and loans that typically have terms of up to three years. The volume of financing provided by third parties for leases and loans on which the Company has provided
guarantees was $1.2 billion for fiscal 2011, $944 million for fiscal 2010, and $1.2 billion for fiscal 2009. For the periods presented, payments under these guarantee arrangements were not material.   
   Financing Guarantee Summary  The aggregate amount of financing guarantees outstanding at July 30, 2011 and July 31, 2010, representing
the total maximum potential future payments under financing arrangements with third parties, and the related deferred revenue are summarized in the following table (in millions):   

101

Table of Contents  

8. Investments    
    (a) Summary of Available-for-Sale Investments       The following tables summarize the Company s available-for-sale investments (in millions):       

(1)      
    Includes corporate securities that are guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC).      

(2)      
    Includes agency and corporate securities that are guaranteed by non-U.S. governments.      
   (b) Gains and Losses on Available-for-Sale Investments       The following tables present the gross and net realized gains (losses) related to the Company s available-for-sale investments (in millions):   

102

Table of Contents  

   There were no significant impairment charges on available-for-sale investments for the year ended
July 30, 2011. There was no impairment charge for the year ended July 31, 2010 while for the year ended July 25, 2009, net losses on fixed income securities and net gains on publicly traded equity securities included impairment
charges of $219 million and $39 million, respectively. The impairment charges for fiscal 2009 were due to a decline in the fair value of the investments below their cost basis that were judged to be other than temporary and were recorded as a
reduction to the amortized cost of the respective investments.      The following table summarizes the activity related to credit losses for fixed
income securities (in millions):       
    The following tables present the breakdown of the available-for-sale investments with gross unrealized losses and the
duration that those losses had been unrealized at July 30, 2011 and July 31, 2010 (in millions):       

(1)      
    Includes corporate securities that are guaranteed by the FDIC.      

(2)      
    Includes agency and corporate securities that are guaranteed by non-U.S. governments.      
         103

Table of Contents  

   For fixed income securities that have unrealized losses as of July 30, 2011, the Company has determined
that (i) it does not have the intent to sell any of these investments and (ii) it is not more likely than not that it will be required to sell any of these investments before recovery of the entire amortized cost basis. In addition, as of
July 30, 2011, the Company anticipates that it will recover the entire amortized cost basis of such fixed income securities and has determined that no other-than-temporary impairments associated with credit losses were required to be recognized
during the year ended July 30, 2011.      The Company has evaluated its publicly traded equity securities as of July 30, 2011 and has
determined that there was no indication of other-than-temporary impairments in the respective categories of unrealized losses. This determination was based on several factors, which include the length of time and extent to which fair value has been
less than the cost basis, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, and the Company s intent and ability to hold the publicly traded equity securities for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in
market value.       (c) Maturities of Fixed Income Securities       The following table summarizes the maturities of the Company s fixed income securities at July 30, 2011 (in millions):   
   
    Actual maturities may differ from the contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or prepay
certain obligations.       (d) Securities Lending       The Company periodically engages in securities lending activities with certain of its available-for-sale investments. These transactions are accounted for as a secured lending of the securities, and the
securities are typically loaned only on an overnight basis. The average balance of securities lending for fiscal 2011 and 2010 was $1.6 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively. The Company requires collateral equal to at least 102% of the fair market
value of the loaned security in the form of cash or liquid, high-quality assets. The Company engages in these secured lending transactions only with highly creditworthy counterparties, and the associated portfolio custodian has agreed to indemnify
the Company against any collateral losses. The Company did not experience any losses in connection with the secured lending of securities during the years presented. As of July 30, 2011 and July 31, 2010, the Company had no outstanding
securities lending transactions.   
      9. Fair Value    
   Fair value is defined as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly
transaction between market participants at the measurement date. When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required or permitted to be recorded at fair value, the Company considers the principal or most advantageous
market in which it would transact, and it considers assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability.   
         104

Table of Contents  

    (a) Fair Value Hierarchy       The accounting guidance for fair value measurement requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. The standard
establishes a fair value hierarchy based on the level of independent, objective evidence surrounding the inputs used to measure fair value. A financial instrument s categorization within the fair value hierarchy is based upon the lowest level
of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. The fair value hierarchy is as follows:       Level 1     
Level 1 applies to assets or liabilities for which there are quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.       Level
2      Level 2 applies to assets or liabilities for which there are inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets;
quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in markets with insufficient volume or infrequent transactions (less active markets); or model-derived valuations in which significant inputs are observable or can be derived principally from, or
corroborated by, observable market data.       Level 3      Level 3 applies to assets or liabilities for which there are
unobservable inputs to the valuation methodology that are significant to the measurement of the fair value of the assets or liabilities.   
   (b) Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis       Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of July 30, 2011 and July 31, 2010 were as follows (in millions):   

(1)      
    Includes corporate securities that are guaranteed by the FDIC.      

(2)      
    Includes agency and corporate securities that are guaranteed by non-U.S. governments.      
         105

Table of Contents  

   Level 2 fixed income securities are priced using quoted market prices for similar instruments or nonbinding
market prices that are corroborated by observable market data. The Company uses inputs such as actual trade data, benchmark yields, broker/dealer quotes, and other similar data, which are obtained from quoted market prices, independent pricing
vendors, or other sources, to determine the ultimate fair value of these assets and liabilities. The Company uses such pricing data as the primary input to make its assessments and determinations as to the ultimate valuation of its investment
portfolio and has not made, during the periods presented, any material adjustments to such inputs. The Company is ultimately responsible for the financial statements and underlying estimates. The Company s derivative instruments are primarily
classified as Level 2, as they are not actively traded and are valued using pricing models that use observable market inputs. The Company did not have any transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements during either fiscal 2011 or
2010.      Level 3 assets include asset-backed securities and certain derivative instruments, the values of which are determined based on
discounted cash flow models using inputs that the Company could not corroborate with market data.      The following tables present a
reconciliation for all assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) for the years ended July 30, 2011 and July 31, 2010 (in millions):   

106

Table of Contents  

    (c) Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis    
  The following tables present the Company s financial instruments and nonfinancial assets that were measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis
during the indicated periods and the related recognized gains and losses for the periods (in millions):       
    The assets in the preceding tables were classified as Level 3 assets because the Company used unobservable inputs to
value them, reflecting the Company s assessment of the assumptions market participants would use in pricing these assets due to the absence of quoted market prices and the inherent lack of liquidity. These assets were measured at fair value due
to events or circumstances the Company identified as having significantly impacted the fair value during the respective indicated periods.   
  The fair value for investments in privately held companies was measured using financial metrics, comparison to other private and public companies, and
analysis of the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuers, including recent financing activities and their capital structure as well as other economic variables. The impairment as a result of the evaluation for the investments in
privately held companies was recorded to other income (loss), net.      The fair value for purchased intangible assets for which the carrying
amount was not deemed to be recoverable was determined using the future discounted cash flows that the assets are expected to generate. The difference between the estimated fair value and the carrying value of the assets was recorded as an
impairment charge, which was included in product cost of sales and operating expenses as applicable. See Note 4.      The fair value of property
held for sale was measured using discounted cash flow techniques.   
         107

Table of Contents  

   The loss related to the manufacturing operations held for sale was primarily related to a reduction in
goodwill related to the pending sale of the Company s set-top box manufacturing operations in Juarez, Mexico. See Note 5. This goodwill reduction represents the difference between the carrying value and the implied fair value of the
goodwill associated with the disposal group being evaluated.       (d) Other       The fair value of certain of the Company s financial instruments that are not measured at fair value, including accounts receivable, accounts payable, accrued compensation and other current
liabilities, approximates the carrying amount because of their short maturities. In addition, the fair value of the Company s loan receivables and financed service contracts also approximates the carrying amount. The fair value of the
Company s debt is disclosed in Note 10 and was determined using quoted market prices for those securities.   
      10. Borrowings    
    (a) Short-Term Debt    
  The following table summarizes the Company s short-term debt (in millions, except percentages):   
   
    In fiscal 2011 the Company established a short-term debt financing program of up to $3.0 billion through the issuance of
commercial paper notes. The Company used the proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper notes for general corporate purposes, including repayment of matured debt. The outstanding commercial paper as of July 30, 2011 had a maturity date of
approximately three months or less.      The Company repaid senior fixed-rate notes upon their maturity in fiscal 2011 for an aggregate principal
amount of $3.0 billion. Other notes and borrowings in the preceding table consist of notes and credit facilities established with a number of financial institutions that are available to certain foreign subsidiaries of the Company. These notes and
credit facilities are subject to various terms and foreign currency market interest rates pursuant to individual financial arrangements between the financing institution and the applicable foreign subsidiary.   
  As of July 30, 2011, the estimated fair value of the short-term debt approximates its carrying value due to the short maturities.   
         108

Table of Contents  

    (b) Long-Term Debt       The following table summarizes the Company s long-term debt (in millions, except percentages):       
    In March 2011, the Company issued senior notes for an aggregate principal amount of $4.0 billion, including $1.25 billion
of senior floating interest rate notes due 2014, $2.0 billion of 1.625% fixed-rate senior notes due 2014, and $750 million of 3.15% fixed-rate senior notes due 2017. To achieve its interest rate risk management objectives, the Company entered into
interest rate swaps with a notional amount of $2.75 billion designated as fair value hedges of the fixed-rate senior notes included in the March 2011 debt issuance. In effect, these swaps convert the fixed interest rates of the fixed-rate notes to
floating interest rates based on LIBOR. The gains and losses related to changes in the fair value of the interest rate swaps substantially offset changes in the fair value of the hedged portion of the underlying debt that are attributable to the
changes in market interest rates. See Note 11.      The effective rates for the fixed-rate debt include the interest on the notes, the
accretion of the discount, and, if applicable, adjustments related to hedging. Based on market prices, the fair value of the Company s long-term debt was $17.4 billion as of July 30, 2011. Interest is payable semiannually on each class of
the senior fixed-rate notes and payable quarterly on the floating-rate notes. Each of the senior fixed-rate notes is redeemable by the Company at any time, subject to a make-whole premium.     The senior notes rank at par with the issued commercial paper notes, as well as any other commercial paper notes that may be issued in the future pursuant to the short-term debt financing program, as
discussed earlier under  Short-Term Debt.  The Company was in compliance with all debt covenants as of July 30, 2011.      Future
principal payments for long-term debt as of July 30, 2011 are summarized as follows (in millions):       
 
         109

Table of Contents  

    (c) Credit Facility       The Company has a credit agreement with certain institutional lenders providing for a $3.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility that is scheduled to expire on August 17, 2012. Any advances
under the credit agreement will accrue interest at rates that are equal to, based on certain conditions, either (i) the higher of the Federal Funds rate plus 0.50% or Bank of America s  prime rate  as announced from time to time
or (ii) LIBOR plus a margin that is based on the Company s senior debt credit ratings as published by Standard   Poor s Ratings Services and Moody s Investors Service, Inc. The credit agreement requires the Company to
comply with certain covenants, including that it maintain an interest coverage ratio as defined in the agreement. The Company was in compliance with the required interest coverage ratio and the other covenants as of July 30, 2011.   
  The Company may also, upon the agreement of either the then-existing lenders or additional lenders not currently parties to the agreement, increase the
commitments under the credit facility by up to an additional $1.9 billion and/or extend the expiration date of the credit facility up to August 15, 2014. As of July 30, 2011, the Company had not borrowed any funds under the credit
facility.   
      11. Derivative Instruments    
    (a) Summary of Derivative Instruments       The Company uses derivative instruments primarily to manage exposures to foreign currency exchange rate, interest rate, and equity price risks. The Company s primary objective in holding derivatives
is to reduce the volatility of earnings and cash flows associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, and equity prices. The Company s derivatives expose it to credit risk to the extent that the counterparties may
be unable to meet the terms of the agreement. The Company does, however, seek to mitigate such risks by limiting its counterparties to major financial institutions. In addition, the potential risk of loss with any one counterparty resulting from
this type of credit risk is monitored. Management does not expect material losses as a result of defaults by counterparties.      The fair values
of the Company s derivative instruments and the line items on the Consolidated Balance Sheets to which they were recorded are summarized as follows (in millions):       

110

Table of Contents  

   The effects of the Company s cash flow hedging instruments on other comprehensive income (OCI) and the
Consolidated Statements of Operations are summarized as follows (in millions):       
    During the years ended July 30, 2011, July 31, 2010, and July 25, 2009, the amounts recognized in earnings
on derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges related to the ineffective portion were not material, and the Company did not exclude any component of the changes in fair value of the derivative instruments from the assessment of hedge
effectiveness. As of July 30, 2011, the Company estimates that approximately $18 million of net derivative gains related to its cash flow hedges included in AOCI will be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months.
     The effect on the Consolidated Statements of Operations of derivative instruments designated as fair value hedges and the underlying hedged
items is summarized as follows (in millions):       
    The effect on the Consolidated Statements of Operations of derivative instruments not designated as hedges is summarized
as follows (in millions):       
 
         111

Table of Contents  

   The notional amounts of the Company s outstanding derivatives are summarized as follows (in millions):
      
     (b) Foreign Currency Exchange Risk       The Company conducts business globally in numerous currencies. Therefore, it is exposed to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. To limit the exposure related to foreign currency changes,
the Company enters into foreign currency contracts. The Company does not enter into such contracts for trading purposes.      The Company hedges
foreign currency forecasted transactions related to certain operating expenses and service cost of sales with currency options and forward contracts. These currency option and forward contracts, designated as cash flow hedges, generally have
maturities of less than 18 months. The Company assesses effectiveness based on changes in total fair value of the derivatives. The effective portion of the derivative instrument s gain or loss is initially reported as a component of AOCI and
subsequently reclassified into earnings when the hedged exposure affects earnings. The ineffective portion, if any, of the gain or loss is reported in earnings immediately. During the fiscal years presented, the Company did not discontinue any cash
flow hedge for which it was probable that a forecasted transaction would not occur.      The Company enters into foreign exchange forward and
option contracts to reduce the short-term effects of foreign currency fluctuations on assets and liabilities such as foreign currency receivables, including long-term customer financings, investments, and payables. These derivatives are not
designated as hedging instruments. Gains and losses on the contracts are included in other income (loss), net, and substantially offset foreign exchange gains and losses from the remeasurement of intercompany balances or other current assets,
investments, or liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the reporting entity.      The Company hedges
certain net investments in its foreign subsidiaries with forward contracts, which generally have maturities of up to six months. The Company recognized a loss of $10 million in OCI for the effective portion of its net investment hedges for the year
ended July 30, 2011.       (c) Interest Rate Risk        Interest Rate Derivatives, Investments  The Company s primary objective for holding fixed income securities is to achieve an appropriate investment return consistent with preserving principal
and managing risk. To realize these objectives, the Company may utilize interest rate swaps or other derivatives designated as fair value or cash flow hedges. As of July 30, 2011 and July 31, 2010 the Company did not have any outstanding
interest rate derivatives related to its fixed income securities.       Interest Rate Derivatives Designated as Fair Value Hedge, Long-Term
Debt  In fiscal 2011, the Company entered into interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges related to fixed-rate senior notes that were issued in March 2011 and are due in 2014 and 2017. In fiscal 2010, the Company entered into interest
rate swaps designated as fair value hedges for a portion of senior fixed-rate notes that were issued in 2006 and are due in 2016. Under these interest rate swaps, the Company receives fixed-rate interest payments and makes interest payments based on
LIBOR plus a fixed number of basis points. The effect of such swaps is to convert the fixed   
         112

Table of Contents  

interest rates of the senior fixed-rate notes to floating interest rates based on LIBOR. The gains and losses related to changes in the fair value of the interest rate swaps are included in
interest expense and substantially offset changes in the fair value of the hedged portion of the underlying debt that are attributable to the changes in market interest rates. The fair value of the interest rate swaps was reflected in other assets.
      Interest Rate Derivatives Designated as Cash Flow Hedge, Long-Term Debt  In fiscal 2010, the Company entered into contracts related to
interest rate derivatives designated as cash flow hedges, with an aggregate notional amount of $3.7 billion to hedge against interest rate movements in connection with its anticipated issuance of senior notes. These derivative instruments were
settled in connection with the actual issuance of the senior notes. The effective portion of these hedges was recorded to AOCI, net of tax, and is being amortized to interest expense over the respective lives of the notes.   
   (d) Equity Price Risk       The Company may
hold equity securities for strategic purposes or to diversify its overall investment portfolio. The publicly traded equity securities in the Company s portfolio are subject to price risk. To manage its exposure to changes in the fair value of
certain equity securities, the Company may enter into equity derivatives that are designated as fair value hedges. The changes in the value of the hedging instruments are included in other income (loss), net, and offset the change in the fair value
of the underlying hedged investment. In addition, the Company periodically manages the risk of its investment portfolio by entering into equity derivatives that are not designated as accounting hedges. The changes in the fair value of these
derivatives were also included in other income (loss), net. The Company did not have any equity derivatives outstanding related to its investment portfolio at July 30, 2011 and July 31, 2010.   
  The Company is also exposed to variability in compensation charges related to certain deferred compensation obligations to employees. Although
not designated as accounting hedges, the Company utilizes derivatives such as total return swaps to economically hedge this exposure.       (e)
Credit-Risk-Related Contingent Features       Certain derivative instruments are executed under agreements that have provisions requiring the
Company and counterparty to maintain a specified credit rating from certain credit rating agencies. If the Company s or counterparty s credit rating falls below a specified credit rating, either party has the right to request collateral on
the derivatives  net liability position. Such provisions did not affect the Company s financial position as of July 30, 2011 and July 31, 2010.   
      12. Commitments and Contingencies    
    (a) Operating Leases    
  The Company leases office space in several U.S. locations. Outside the United States, larger leased sites include sites in Australia, Belgium, China,
Germany, India, Israel, Italy, Japan, Norway, and the United Kingdom. Rent expense totaled $428 million, $364 million, and $328 million in fiscal 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. The Company also leases equipment and vehicles. Future minimum
lease payments under all noncancelable operating leases with an initial term in excess of one year as of July 30, 2011 are as follows (in millions):       
 
         113

Table of Contents  

    (b) Purchase Commitments with Contract Manufacturers and Suppliers    
  The Company purchases components from a variety of suppliers and uses several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for its products.
During the normal course of business, in order to manage manufacturing lead times and help ensure adequate component supply, the Company enters into agreements with contract manufacturers and suppliers that either allow them to procure inventory
based upon criteria as defined by the Company or that establish the parameters defining the Company s requirements. A significant portion of the Company s reported purchase commitments arising from these agreements consists of firm,
noncancelable, and unconditional commitments. In certain instances, these agreements allow the Company the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust the Company s requirements based on its business needs prior to firm orders being placed. As of
July 30, 2011 and July 31, 2010, the Company had total purchase commitments for inventory of $4.313 billion and $4.319 billion, respectively.      The Company records a liability for firm, noncancelable, and unconditional purchase commitments for quantities in excess of its future demand forecasts consistent with the valuation of the Company s
excess and obsolete inventory. As of July 30, 2011 and July 31, 2010, the liability for these purchase commitments was $168 million and $135 million, respectively, and was included in other current liabilities.   
   (c) Other Commitments       In connection
with the Company s business combinations and asset purchases, the Company has agreed to pay certain additional amounts contingent upon the achievement of certain agreed-upon-technology, development, product, or other milestones or the continued
employment with the Company of certain employees of the acquired entities. The Company recognized such compensation expense of $127 million, $120 million, and $291 million during fiscal 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. The largest component of
such compensation expense during the fiscal years presented was related to milestone payments made to former noncontrolling interest holders of Nuova Systems, Inc., the remaining interest of which the Company purchased in fiscal 2008. As of
July 30, 2011, the Company estimated that future compensation expense and contingent consideration of up to $59 million may be required to be recognized pursuant to the applicable business combination and asset purchase agreements.   
  The Company also has certain funding commitments, primarily related to its investments in privately held companies and venture funds, some of which are
based on the achievement of certain agreed-upon milestones, and some of which are required to be funded on demand. The funding commitments were $192 million and $279 million as of July 30, 2011 and July 31, 2010, respectively.   
   (d) Variable Interest Entities       In the
ordinary course of business, the Company has investments in privately held companies and provides financing to certain customers. These privately held companies and customers may be considered to be variable interest entities. The Company evaluates
on an ongoing basis its investments in these privately held companies and its customer financings and has determined that as of July 30, 2011 there were no material unconsolidated variable interest entities.   
  In fiscal 2010, Cisco and EMC Corporation ( EMC ), together with VMware, Inc. ( VMware ) formed the Virtual Computing Environment
coalition. Similarly, the Company s investment in Acadia Enterprises LLC ( Acadia ), a joint venture with EMC in which VMware and Intel have also invested, is designed to pave the way for new delivery models in cloud computing
solutions. During fiscal 2011, the Virtual Computing Environment coalition and Acadia were combined into a single entity and renamed The Virtual Computing Environment Company ( VCE ). As of July 30, 2011, the Company s cumulative
investment in the combined VCE entity was approximately $100 million and it owned approximately 35% of the outstanding equity. The Company accounts for its investment in VCE under the equity method, and accordingly the Company s carrying value
in VCE has been reduced by $79 million, reflecting its cumulative share of VCE s losses primarily in fiscal 2011. Over the   
         114

Table of Contents  

next 12 months, as VCE scales its operations, the Company expects that it will make additional investments in VCE and may incur additional losses proportionate with the Company s ownership
percentage.       (e) Product Warranties and Guarantees       The following table summarizes the activity related to product warranty liability during fiscal 2011 and 2010 (in millions):   
   
    The Company accrues for warranty costs as part of its cost of sales based on associated material product costs, labor
costs for technical support staff, and associated overhead. The Company s products are generally covered by a warranty for periods ranging from 90 days to five years, and for some products the Company provides a limited lifetime warranty.
     In the normal course of business, the Company indemnifies other parties, including customers, lessors, and parties to other transactions with
the Company, with respect to certain matters. The Company has agreed to hold the other parties harmless against losses arising from a breach of representations or covenants or out of intellectual property infringement or other claims made against
certain parties. These agreements may limit the time within which an indemnification claim can be made and the amount of the claim. In addition, the Company has entered into indemnification agreements with its officers and directors, and the
Company s bylaws contain similar indemnification obligations to the Company s agents. It is not possible to determine the maximum potential amount under these indemnification agreements due to the Company s limited history with prior
indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Historically, payments made by the Company under these agreements have not had a material effect on the Company s operating results, financial
position, or cash flows.      The Company also provides financing guarantees, which are generally for various third-party financing arrangements
to channel partners and other end-user customers. See Note 7. The Company s other guarantee arrangements as of July 30, 2011 that are subject to recognition and disclosure requirements were not material.   
   (f) Legal Proceedings       Brazilian
authorities have investigated the Company s Brazilian subsidiary and certain of its current and former employees, as well as a Brazilian importer of the Company s products, and its affiliates and employees, relating to alleged evasion of
import taxes and alleged improper transactions involving the subsidiary and the importer. Brazilian tax authorities have assessed claims against the Company s Brazilian subsidiary based on a theory of joint liability with the Brazilian importer
for import taxes and related penalties. In addition to claims asserted during prior fiscal years by Brazilian federal tax authorities, tax authorities from the Brazilian state of Sao Paulo asserted similar claims on the same legal basis during the
second quarter of fiscal 2011.      The asserted claims by Brazilian federal tax authorities are for calendar years 2003 through 2007 and the
asserted claims by the tax authorities from the state of Sao Paulo, are for calendar years 2005 through 2007. The total asserted claims by Brazilian state and federal tax authorities aggregated to approximately $522 million for the alleged evasion
of import taxes, approximately $860 million for interest, and approximately $2.4 billion for various penalties, all determined using an exchange rate as of July 30, 2011. The Company has completed a thorough review of the matter and believes
the asserted tax claims against it are without merit, and the Company   
         115

Table of Contents  

intends to defend the claims vigorously. While the Company believes there is no legal basis for its alleged liability, due to the complexities and uncertainty surrounding the judicial process in
Brazil and the nature of the claims asserting joint liability with the importer, the Company is unable to determine the likelihood of an unfavorable outcome against it and is unable to reasonably estimate a range of loss, if any. The Company does
not expect a final judicial determination for several years.      On March 31, 2011, a purported shareholder class action lawsuit was filed
in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California against the Company and certain of its officers and directors. A second lawsuit with substantially similar allegations was filed with the same court on April 12, 2011
against the Company and certain of its officers and directors. The lawsuits are purportedly brought on behalf of those who purchased the Company s publicly traded securities between May 12, 2010 and February 9, 2011, and between
February 3, 2010 and February 9, 2011, respectively. Plaintiffs allege that defendants made false and misleading statements during quarterly earnings calls, purport to assert claims for violations of the federal securities laws, and seek
unspecified compensatory damages and other relief. The Company believes the claims are without merit and intends to defend the actions vigorously. While the Company believes there is no legal basis for liability, due to the uncertainty surrounding
the litigation process, the Company is unable to reasonably estimate a range of loss, if any, at this time.      Beginning in April 2011,
purported shareholder derivative lawsuits were filed in both the United States District Court for the Northern District of California and the California Superior Court for the County of Santa Clara against the Company s Board of Directors and
several of its officers for allowing management to make allegedly false statements during earnings calls. The Company s management of its stock repurchase program is also alleged to have breached a fiduciary duty. The complaints include claims
for violation of the federal securities laws, breach of fiduciary duty, aiding and abetting breaches of fiduciary duty, waste of corporate assets, unjust enrichment, and violations of the California Corporations Code. The complaint seeks
compensatory damages, disgorgement, and other relief.      In addition, the Company is subject to legal proceedings, claims, and litigation
arising in the ordinary course of business, including intellectual property litigation. While the outcome of these matters is currently not determinable, the Company does not expect that the ultimate costs to resolve these matters will have a
material adverse effect on its consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.   
      13. Shareholders  Equity    
    (a) Stock Repurchase Program       In September 2001, the Company s Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program. As of July 30, 2011, the Company s Board of Directors had authorized an aggregate repurchase of up
to $82 billion of common stock under this program and the remaining authorized repurchase amount was $10.2 billion with no termination date. A summary of the stock repurchase activity under the stock repurchase program, reported based on the trade
date, is summarized as follows (in millions, except per-share amounts):       
       
         116

Table of Contents  

   The purchase price for the shares of the Company s stock repurchased is reflected as a reduction to
shareholders  equity. The Company is required to allocate the purchase price of the repurchased shares as (i) a reduction to retained earnings until retained earnings are zero and then as an increase to accumulated deficit and (ii) a
reduction of common stock and additional paid-in capital. Issuance of common stock and the tax benefit related to employee stock incentive plans are recorded as an increase to common stock and additional paid-in capital.   
   (b) Cash Dividends on Shares of Common Stock       During fiscal 2011, cash dividends of $0.12 per share, or $658 million, were declared and paid on the Company s outstanding common stock. Any future dividends will be subject to the approval of the
Company s Board of Directors.       (c) Other Repurchases of Common Stock       For the years ended July 30, 2011 and July 31, 2010, the Company repurchased approximately 9.5 million and 5.6 million shares, or $183 million and $130 million of common stock,
respectively, in settlement of employee tax withholding obligations due upon the vesting of restricted stock or stock units.       (d) Preferred
Stock       Under the terms of the Company s Articles of Incorporation, the Board of Directors may determine the rights, preferences, and
terms of the Company s authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock.       (e) Comprehensive Income    
  The components of comprehensive income, net of tax, are as follows (in millions):   

117

Table of Contents  

   The components of AOCI, net of tax, are summarized as follows (in
millions):       
 
      14. Employee Benefit Plans    
    (a) Employee Stock Incentive Plans        Stock Incentive Plan Program Description   As of July 30, 2011, the Company had five stock incentive plans: the 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  2005 Plan  the 1996 Stock
Incentive Plan (the  1996 Plan  the 1997 Supplemental Stock Incentive Plan (the  Supplemental Plan  the Cisco Systems, Inc. SA Acquisition Long-Term Incentive Plan (the  SA Acquisition Plan  and the Cisco Systems,
Inc. WebEx Acquisition Long-Term Incentive Plan (the  WebEx Acquisition Plan ). In addition, the Company has, in connection with the acquisitions of various companies, assumed the share-based awards granted under stock incentive plans of
the acquired companies or issued share-based awards in replacement thereof. Share-based awards are designed to reward employees for their long-term contributions to the Company and provide incentives for them to remain with the Company. The number
and frequency of share-based awards are based on competitive practices, operating results of the Company, government regulations, and other factors. Since the inception of the stock incentive plans, the Company has granted share-based awards to a
significant percentage of its employees, and the majority has been granted to employees below the vice president level. The Company s primary stock incentive plans are summarized as follows:   
    2005 Plan    As amended on November 15, 2007, the maximum number of shares issuable under the 2005 Plan over its term is
559 million shares plus the amount of any shares underlying awards outstanding on November 15, 2007 under the 1996 Plan, the SA Acquisition Plan, and the WebEx Acquisition Plan that are forfeited or are terminated for any other reason
before being exercised or settled. If any awards granted under the 2005 Plan are forfeited or are terminated for any other reason before being exercised or settled, then the shares underlying the awards will again be available under the 2005 Plan.
     Prior to November 12, 2009, the number of shares available for issuance under the 2005 Plan was reduced by 2.5 shares for each share
awarded as a stock grant or stock unit. Pursuant to an amendment approved by the Company s shareholders on November 12, 2009, following that amendment the number of shares available for issuance under the 2005 Plan is reduced by 1.5 shares
for each share awarded as a stock grant or a stock unit, and any shares underlying awards outstanding under the 1996 Plan, the SA Acquisition Plan, and the WebEx Acquisition Plan that expire unexercised at the end of their maximum terms become
available for reissuance under the 2005 Plan. The 2005 Plan permits the granting of stock options, stock, stock units, and stock appreciation rights to employees (including employee directors and officers), consultants of the Company and its
subsidiaries and affiliates, and non-employee directors of the Company. Stock options and stock appreciation rights granted under the 2005 Plan have an exercise price of at least 100% of the fair market value of the underlying stock on the grant
date and prior to November 12, 2009 have an expiration date no later than nine years from the grant date. The expiration date for stock options and stock appreciation rights granted subsequent to the amendment approved on November 12, 2009
shall be no later than ten years from the grant date. The stock options will generally become exercisable for 20% or 25% of the option shares one year from the date of grant and then ratably over the following 48 or 36 months, respectively. Stock
grants and stock units will generally vest with respect to 20% or 25% of the shares covered by the grant on each of the first through fifth or fourth anniversaries of the date of the grant, respectively. The Compensation and Management Development
Committee of the Board of Directors has the discretion to use different vesting schedules. Stock appreciation rights may be   
         118

Table of Contents  

awarded in combination with stock options or stock grants, and such awards shall provide that the stock appreciation rights will not be exercisable unless the related stock options or stock
grants are forfeited. Stock grants may be awarded in combination with non-statutory stock options, and such awards may provide that the stock grants will be forfeited in the event that the related non-statutory stock options are exercised.
       1996 Plan    The 1996 Plan expired on December 31, 2006, and the Company can no longer make equity awards under
the 1996 Plan. The maximum number of shares issuable over the term of the 1996 Plan was 2.5 billion shares. Stock options granted under the 1996 Plan have an exercise price of at least 100% of the fair market value of the underlying stock on the
grant date and expire no later than nine years from the grant date. The stock options generally become exercisable for 20% or 25% of the option shares one year from the date of grant and then ratably over the following 48 or 36 months, respectively.
Certain other grants have utilized a 60-month ratable vesting schedule. In addition, the Board of Directors, or other committees administering the plan, have the discretion to use a different vesting schedule and have done so from time to time.
       Supplemental Plan    The Supplemental Plan expired on December 31, 2007, and the Company can no longer make equity
awards under the Supplemental Plan. Officers and members of the Company s Board of Directors were not eligible to participate in the Supplemental Plan. Nine million shares were reserved for issuance under the Supplemental Plan.   
    Acquisition Plans    In connection with the Company s acquisitions of Scientific-Atlanta, Inc.
( Scientific-Atlanta ) and WebEx Communications, Inc. ( WebEx ), the Company adopted the SA Acquisition Plan and the WebEx Acquisition Plan, respectively, each effective upon completion of the applicable acquisition. These plans
constitute assumptions, amendments, restatements, and renamings of the 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan of Scientific-Atlanta and the WebEx Communications, Inc. Amended and Restated 2000 Stock Incentive Plan, respectively. The plans permit the grant of
stock options, stock, stock units, and stock appreciation rights to certain employees of the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates who had been employed by Scientific-Atlanta or its subsidiaries or WebEx or its subsidiaries, as applicable. As
a result of the shareholder approval of the amendment and extension of the 2005 Plan, as of November 15, 2007, the Company will no longer make stock option grants or direct share issuances under either the SA Acquisition Plan or the WebEx
Acquisition Plan.       (b) Employee Stock Purchase Plan       The Company has an Employee Stock Purchase Plan, which includes its subplan, the International Employee Stock Purchase Plan (together, the  Purchase Plan ), under which 471.4 million shares
of the Company s common stock have been reserved for issuance as of July 30, 2011. Effective July 1, 2009, eligible employees are offered shares through a 24-month offering period, which consists of four consecutive 6-month purchase
periods. Employees may purchase a limited number of shares of the Company s stock at a discount of up to 15% of the lesser of the market value at the beginning of the offering period or the end of each 6-month purchase period. The
Purchase Plan is scheduled to terminate on January 3, 2020. The Company issued 34 million, 27 million, and 28 million shares under the Purchase Plan in fiscal 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. As of July 30, 2011,
122 million shares were available for issuance under the Purchase Plan.   
         119

Table of Contents  

    (c) Summary of Share-Based Compensation Expense    
  Share-based compensation expense consists primarily of expenses for stock options, stock purchase rights, restricted stock, and restricted stock units
granted to employees. The following table summarizes share-based compensation expense (in millions):       
    As of July 30, 2011, the total compensation cost related to unvested share-based awards not yet recognized was $2.9
billion, which is expected to be recognized over approximately 2.2 years on a weighted-average basis. The income tax benefit for share-based compensation expense was $444 million, $415 million, and $317 million for fiscal 2011, 2010, and 2009,
respectively.       (d) Share-Based Awards Available for Grant            A summary of share-based awards available for grant is as follows (in millions):       

Share-Based Awards   Available for 
Grant  

BALANCE AT JULY 26, 2008   

362  

Options granted and assumed   

(14  
  )   
 
    Restricted stock, stock units, and other share-based awards granted and assumed   

(140  
  )   
 
    Share-based awards canceled/forfeited/expired   

38  

Additional shares reserved   

7  

BALANCE AT JULY 25, 2009   

253  

Options granted and assumed   

(15  
  )   
 
    Restricted stock, stock units, and other share-based awards granted and assumed   

(81  
  )   
 
    Share-based awards canceled/forfeited/expired   

123  

Additional shares reserved   

15  

BALANCE AT JULY 31, 2010    

295   

Restricted stock, stock units, and other share-based awards granted and 
assumed    

(84   
   )    
 
     Share-based awards canceled/forfeited/expired    

42   

Additional shares reserved    

2   

BALANCE AT JULY 30, 2011    

255   

As reflected in the preceding table, for each share awarded as restricted stock or subject to a restricted stock unit
award under the 2005 Plan, beginning November 15, 2007 and prior to November 12, 2009, an equivalent of 2.5 shares was deducted from the available share-based award balance. Effective as of November 12, 2009, the equivalent number of
shares was revised to 1.5 shares for each share awarded as restricted stock or subject to a restricted stock unit award under the 2005 Plan beginning on this date.   
         120

Table of Contents  

    (e) Restricted Stock and Stock Unit Awards       A summary of the restricted stock and stock unit activity is as follows (in millions, except per-share amounts):       
    Certain of the restricted stock units awarded in fiscal 2011 were contingent on the future achievement of financial
performance metrics.      Prior to the initial declaration of a quarterly cash dividend on March 17, 2011, the fair value of restricted stock
units was measured based on the grant date share price reduced by the present value of the dividend using an expected dividend yield of 0%, as the Company did not historically pay cash dividends on its common stock. For awards granted on or
subsequent to March 17, 2011, the Company used an annualized dividend yield based on the per-share dividends declared by its Board of Directors.       (f) Stock Option Awards       A summary of the stock option activity is as follows (in millions,
except per-share amounts):       

121

Table of Contents  

   The following table summarizes significant ranges of outstanding and exercisable stock options as of
July 30, 2011 (in millions, except years and share prices):      
    The aggregate intrinsic value in the preceding table represents the total pretax intrinsic value, based on the
Company s closing stock price of $15.97 as of July 29, 2011, which would have been received by the option holders had those option holders exercised their stock options as of that date. The total number of in-the-money stock options
exercisable as of July 30, 2011 was 57 million. As of July 31, 2010, 606 million outstanding stock options were exercisable and the weighted-average exercise price was $20.51.       (g) Valuation of Employee Stock Purchase Rights and Employee Stock Options       The valuation
of employee stock purchase rights and the underlying assumptions being used are summarized as follows:       
    The valuation of employee stock options and the underlying assumptions being used are summarized as follows:   
   
    The Company estimates on the date of grant the value of employee stock purchase rights using the Black-Scholes model and
the value of employee stock options using a lattice-binomial model. The determination of the fair   
         122

Table of Contents  

value of employee stock options and employee stock purchase rights is impacted by the Company s stock price on the date of grant as well as assumptions regarding a number of highly complex
and subjective variables.      The Company used the implied volatility for traded options (with contract terms corresponding to the expected life
of the employee stock purchase rights) on the Company s stock as the expected volatility assumption required in the Black-Scholes model. The implied volatility is more representative of future stock price trends than historical volatility. The
risk-free interest rate assumption is based upon observed interest rates appropriate for the term of the Company s employee stock purchase rights. The dividend yield assumption is based on the history and expectation of dividend payouts at the
grant date. Prior to the initial declaration of a quarterly cash dividend on March 17, 2011, the fair value of employee stock purchase rights and employee stock options was measured based on an expected dividend yield of 0% as the Company did
not historically pay cash dividends on its common stock. For awards granted on or subsequent to March 17, 2011, the Company used an annualized dividend yield based on the per-share dividend declared by its Board of Directors.   
  The lattice-binomial model is more capable of incorporating the features of the Company s employee stock options, such as the vesting provisions and
various restrictions including restrictions on transfer and hedging, among others, and the options are often exercised prior to their contractual maturity. The use of the lattice-binomial model requires extensive actual employee exercise behavior
data for the relative probability estimation purpose, and a number of complex assumptions as presented in the preceding table. The Company used the implied volatility for two-year traded options on the Company s stock as the expected volatility
assumption required in the lattice-binomial model. The implied volatility is more representative of future stock price trends than historical volatility. The risk-free interest rate assumption is based upon observed interest rates appropriate for
the term of the Company s employee stock options. The dividend yield assumption is based on the history and expectation of dividend payouts at the grant date. The estimated kurtosis and skewness are technical measures of the distribution of
stock price returns, which affect expected employee stock option exercise behaviors, and are based on the Company s stock price return history as well as consideration of various academic analyses. The expected life of employee stock options is
a derived output of the lattice-binomial model, which represents the weighted-average period the stock options are expected to remain outstanding.      The Company uses third-party analyses to assist in developing the assumptions used in, as well as calibrating, its lattice-binomial and Black-Scholes models. The Company is responsible for determining the
assumptions used in estimating the fair value of its share-based payment awards. The Company s determination of the fair value of share-based payment awards is affected by assumptions regarding a number of highly complex and subjective
variables. These variables include, but are not limited to, the Company s expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards and actual and projected employee stock option exercise behaviors. Option-pricing models were developed for
use in estimating the value of traded options that have no vesting or hedging restrictions and are fully transferable. Because the Company s employee stock options have certain characteristics that are significantly different from traded
options, and because changes in the subjective assumptions can materially affect the estimated value, in management s opinion the existing valuation models may not provide an accurate measure of the fair value or be indicative of the fair value
that would be observed in a willing buyer/willing seller market for the Company s employee stock options.       (h) Employee 401(k) Plans
      The Company sponsors the Cisco Systems, Inc. 401(k) Plan (the  Plan ) to provide retirement benefits for its employees. As
allowed under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code, the Plan provides for tax-deferred salary contributions for eligible employees. Effective January 1, 2009, the Plan allows employees to contribute from 1% to 75% of their annual
compensation to the Plan on a pretax and after-tax basis, and effective January 1, 2011, the Plan also allows Roth contributions. Employee contributions are limited to a maximum annual amount as set periodically by the Internal Revenue Code.
Effective January 1, 2009, the Company matches pretax employee contributions up to 100% of the first 4.5% of eligible earnings that are contributed by employees. Therefore, the maximum matching contribution that the Company may allocate to each
participant s account will not exceed $11,025 for the 2011 calendar year due to the $245,000 annual limit on eligible earnings imposed by   
         123

Table of Contents  

the Internal Revenue Code. All matching contributions vest immediately. The Company s matching contributions to the Plan totaled $239 million, $210 million, and $202 million in fiscal 2011,
2010, and 2009, respectively.      The Plan allows employees who meet the age requirements and reach the Plan contribution limits to make a
catch-up contribution not to exceed the lesser of 75% of their eligible compensation or the limit set forth in the Internal Revenue Code. The catch-up contributions are not eligible for matching contributions. In addition, the Plan provides for
discretionary profit-sharing contributions as determined by the Board of Directors. Such contributions to the Plan are allocated among eligible participants in the proportion of their salaries to the total salaries of all participants. There were no
discretionary profit-sharing contributions made in fiscal 2011, 2010, or 2009.      The Company also sponsors other 401(k) plans that arose from
acquisitions of other companies. The Company s contributions to these plans were not material to the Company on either an individual or aggregate basis for any of the fiscal years presented.   
   (i) Deferred Compensation Plans       The
Cisco Systems, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan (the  Deferred Compensation Plan ), a nonqualified deferred compensation plan, became effective in 2007. As required by applicable law, participation in the Deferred Compensation Plan is
limited to a select group of the Company s management employees. Under the Deferred Compensation Plan, which is an unfunded and unsecured deferred compensation arrangement, a participant may elect to defer base salary, bonus, and/or
commissions, pursuant to such rules as may be established by the Company, up to the maximum percentages for each deferral election as described in the plan. The Company may also, at its discretion, make a matching contribution to the employee under
the Deferred Compensation Plan. A matching contribution equal to 4.5% of eligible compensation in excess of the Internal Revenue Code limit for qualified plans for calendar year 2011 that is deferred by participants under the Deferred Compensation
Plan (with a $1.5 million cap on eligible compensation) will be made to eligible participants  accounts at the end of calendar year 2011. The deferred compensation liability under the Deferred Compensation Plan, together with a deferred
compensation plan assumed from Scientific-Atlanta, was approximately $375 million and $280 million as of July 30, 2011 and July 31, 2010, respectively, and was recorded primarily in other long-term liabilities.   
      15. Income Taxes    
    (a) Provision for Income Taxes       The provision for income taxes consists of the following (in millions):       
 
         124

Table of Contents  

   Income before provision for income taxes consists of the following (in millions):   
   
    The items accounting for the difference between income taxes computed at the federal statutory rate and the provision for
income taxes consist of the following:       
    In the second quarter of fiscal 2011, the Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization, and Job Creation Act of
2010 reinstated the U.S. federal R D tax credit, retroactive to January 1, 2010. As a result, the tax provision in fiscal 2011 includes a tax benefit of $65 million related to the R D tax credit for fiscal 2010.   
  During fiscal 2010, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (the  Ninth Circuit ) withdrew its prior holding and reaffirmed the 2005
U.S. Tax Court ruling in  Xilinx, Inc. v. Commissioner . This final decision impacted the tax treatment of share-based compensation expenses for the purpose of determining intangible development costs under a company s research and
development cost sharing arrangement. While the Company was not a named party to the case, this decision resulted in a change in the Company s tax benefits recognized in its financial statements. As a result of the decision, the Company
recognized in fiscal 2011 a combined tax benefit of $724 million, of which $158 million was recorded as a reduction to the provision for income taxes and $566 million was recorded as an increase to additional paid-in capital. These tax benefits
effectively reversed the related charges that the Company incurred during fiscal 2009. The tax provision in fiscal 2009 also included a net tax benefit of $106 million, related to the R D tax credit for fiscal 2008, as a result of the Tax
Extenders and Alternative Minimum Tax Relief Act of 2008 which reinstated the U.S. federal R D tax credit retroactive to January 1, 2008.      U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes associated with the repatriation of earnings of foreign subsidiaries were not provided for on a cumulative total of $36.7 billion of undistributed earnings
for certain foreign subsidiaries as of the end of fiscal 2011. The Company intends to reinvest these earnings indefinitely in its foreign subsidiaries. If these earnings were distributed to the United States in the form of dividends or otherwise, or
if the shares of the relevant foreign subsidiaries were sold or otherwise transferred, the Company would be subject to additional U.S. income taxes (subject to an adjustment for foreign tax credits) and foreign withholding taxes. Determination of
the amount of unrecognized deferred income tax liability related to these earnings is not practicable.      As a result of certain employment and
capital investment actions, the Company s income in certain foreign countries is subject to reduced tax rates and in some cases is wholly exempt from taxes. A portion of these tax incentives will expire at the end of fiscal 2015 and the
majority of the remaining balance will expire at the end of fiscal 2025. As of the end of the respective fiscal years, the gross income tax benefits attributable to these tax incentives were estimated to be $1.3 billion ($0.24 per diluted share) in
fiscal 2011, $1.7 billion ($0.30 per diluted share) in fiscal 2010, and $1.3 billion ($0.22 per diluted share) in fiscal 2009. These gross income tax benefits for the respective years were partially offset by accruals of U.S. income taxes on
undistributed earnings.   
         125

Table of Contents  

    (b) Unrecognized Tax Benefits       The aggregate changes in the balance of gross unrecognized tax benefits were as follows (in millions):       
    As of July 30, 2011, $2.6 billion of the unrecognized tax benefits would affect the effective tax rate if realized.
During fiscal 2011, the Company recognized $38 million of net interest expense and $9 million of penalties. During fiscal 2010, the Company recognized $167 million of net interest income and $5 million of penalties. The Company s total accrual
for interest and penalties was $214 million and $167 million as of the end of fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. The Company is no longer subject to U.S. federal income tax audit for returns covering tax years through fiscal 2001. With limited
exceptions, the Company is no longer subject to state and local or foreign income tax audits for returns covering tax years through fiscal 1997.      During fiscal 2010, the Ninth Circuit withdrew its prior holding and reaffirmed the 2005 U.S. Tax Court ruling in  Xilinx, Inc. v. Commissioner . As a result of this final decision in fiscal 2010,
the Company decreased the amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits by approximately $220 million and decreased the amount of accrued interest by $218 million, which effectively reversed a similar amount that was recorded as an increase in the
unrecognized tax benefits during fiscal 2009 as a result of the Ninth Circuit s initial decision.      The Company regularly engages in
discussions and negotiations with tax authorities regarding tax matters in various jurisdictions. The Company believes it is reasonably possible that certain federal, foreign, and state tax matters may be concluded in the next 12 months. Specific
positions that may be resolved include issues involving transfer pricing and various other matters. The Company estimates that the unrecognized tax benefits at July 30, 2011 could be reduced by approximately $350 million in the next 12 months.
      (c) Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities       The following table presents the breakdown between current and noncurrent net deferred tax assets (in millions):       
 
         126

Table of Contents  

   The components of the deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows (in millions):   
   
    As of July 30, 2011, the Company s federal, state, and foreign net operating loss carryforwards for income tax
purposes were $334 million, $1.7 billion, and $298 million, respectively. If not utilized, the federal net operating loss carryforwards will begin to expire in fiscal 2019, the state net operating loss carryforwards will begin to expire in fiscal
2012, and the foreign net operating loss carryforwards will begin to expire in fiscal 2012. As of July 30, 2011, the Company s federal and state tax credit carryforwards for income tax purposes were approximately $5 million and $531
million, respectively. If not utilized, the federal and state tax credit carryforwards will begin to expire in fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2012, respectively.   
      16. Segment Information and Major Customers    
   The Company designs, manufactures, and sells Internet Protocol (IP)-based networking and other products related to the communications
and IT industry and provides services associated with these products and their use. Cisco product categories consist of Routers, Switches, New Products, and Other Products. These products, primarily integrated by Cisco IOS Software, link
geographically dispersed local-area networks (LANs), metropolitan-area networks (MANs) and wide-area networks (WANs).       (a) Net Sales and
Gross Margin by Segment       The Company conducts business globally and is primarily managed on a geographic basis. As of July 30, 2011, the
Company had four geographic segments, which consisted of United States and Canada, European Markets, Emerging Markets, and Asia Pacific Markets, as presented in the following tables. As the Company strives for faster decision making with greater
accountability and alignment to support the Company s emerging countries and the five foundational priorities as discussed in Note 5, beginning in fiscal 2012, the Company will organize into the following three geographic segments: The
Americas; Europe, Middle East, and Africa ( EMEA  and Asia Pacific, Japan, and China ( APJC ).      The Company s
management makes financial decisions and allocates resources based on the information it receives from its internal management system. Sales are attributed to a geographic segment based on the ordering
  
         127

Table of Contents  

location of the customer. The Company does not allocate research and development, sales and marketing, or general and administrative expenses to its geographic segments in this internal
management system because management does not include the information in its measurement of the performance of the operating segments. In addition, the Company does not allocate amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, share-based
compensation expense, charges related to asset impairments and restructurings, and certain other charges to the gross margin for each segment because management does not include this information in its measurement of the performance of the operating
segments.      Summarized financial information by segment for fiscal 2011, 2010, and 2009, based on the Company s internal management system
and as utilized by the Company s Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM), is as follows (in millions):       

(2)      
    The unallocated corporate items include the effects of amortization and impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets, share-based compensation
expense, and charges related to asset impairments and restructurings.          (b) Net Sales for Groups of Similar Products and
Services       The following table presents net sales for groups of similar products and services (in millions):   
   
    The New Products category consists of products related to collaboration, data center, security, wireless, and video
connected home. The Other category consists primarily of optical networking products and emerging technologies.   
         128

Table of Contents  

    (c) Additional Segment Information       The majority of the Company s assets, excluding cash and cash equivalents and investments, as of July 30, 2011 and July 31, 2010 was attributable to its U.S. operations. The Company s
total cash and cash equivalents and investments held outside of the United States in various foreign subsidiaries were $39.8 billion and $33.2 billion as of July 30, 2011 and July 31, 2010, respectively, and the remaining $4.8 billion
and $6.7 billion at the respective year ends was held in the United States. In fiscal 2011, 2010, and 2009, no single customer accounted for 10% or more of the Company s net sales.      Property and equipment information is based on the physical location of the assets. The following table presents property and equipment information for geographic areas (in millions):   

17. Net Income per Share    
   The following table presents the calculation of basic and diluted net income per share (in millions, except per-share amounts):
      
    Employee equity share options, unvested shares, and similar equity instruments granted by the Company are treated as
potential common shares outstanding in computing diluted earnings per share. Diluted shares outstanding include the dilutive effect of in-the-money options, unvested restricted stock, and restricted stock units. The dilutive effect of such equity
awards is calculated based on the average share price for each fiscal period using the treasury stock method. Under the treasury stock method, the amount the employee must pay for exercising stock options, the amount of compensation cost for future
service that the Company has not yet recognized, and the amount of tax benefits that would be recorded in additional paid-in capital when the award becomes deductible are collectively assumed to be used to repurchase shares.   

         129

Table of Contents  

      Supplementary Financial Data (Unaudited)    
  (in millions, except per-share amounts)       

Stock Market Information       Cisco common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol CSCO. The following table lists the high and low sales prices for each period indicated:   

130

Table of Contents  

Item 9.   
   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosures      
  None.      

Item 9A.   
   Controls and Procedures          Evaluation of
Disclosure Controls and Procedures       Based on our management s evaluation (with the participation of our principal executive officer
and principal financial officer), as of the end of the period covered by this report, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (the  Exchange Act )) are effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed,
summarized and reported within the time periods specified in Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms and is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as
appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.       Internal Control over Financial Reporting    
  Management s report on our internal control over financial reporting and the report of our independent registered public accounting firm on our
internal control over financial reporting are set forth, respectively, on page 79 under the caption  Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  and on page 78 of this report.   
  There was no change in our internal control over financial reporting during our fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.       

Item 9B.   
   Other Information      
  None.      PART
III        

Item 10.   
   Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance         The information required by this item relating to our directors and nominees is included under the captions  Proposal No. 1: Election of Directors General,    Business
Experience and Qualifications of Nominees,  and   Board Committees and Meetings Nomination and Governance Committee  in our Proxy Statement related to the 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein by
reference.      The information required by this item regarding our Audit Committee is included under the caption  Proposal
No. 1: Election of Directors Board Committees and Meetings  in our Proxy Statement related to the 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference.   
  Pursuant to General Instruction G(3) of Form 10-K, the information required by this item relating to our executive officers is included
under the caption  Executive Officers of the Registrant  in Part I of this report.      The information required by this
item regarding compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Act of 1934 is included under the caption  Ownership of Securities Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  in our Proxy Statement related to the 2011
Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference.   
         131

Table of Contents  

   We have adopted a code of ethics that applies to our principal executive officer and all
members of our finance department, including the principal financial officer and principal accounting officer. This code of ethics, which consists of the  Special Ethics Obligations for Employees with Financial Reporting Responsibilities 
section of our Code of Business Conduct that applies to employees generally, is posted on our website. The Internet address for our website is  www.cisco.com  , and the code of ethics may be found from our main webpage by clicking first on
 About Cisco  and then on  Corporate Governance  under  Investor Relations,  next on  Code of Business Conduct  under  Corporate Governance,  and finally on  Special Ethics Obligations for
Employees with Financial Reporting Responsibilities.       We intend to satisfy any disclosure requirement under
Item 5.05 of Form 8-K regarding an amendment to, or waiver from, a provision of this code of ethics by posting such information on our website, on the webpage found by clicking through to  Code of Business Conduct  as specified above.

Item 11.   
   Executive Compensation      
  The information appearing under the headings  Proposal No. 1: Election of Directors Director Compensation  and
 Executive Compensation and Related Information  in our Proxy Statement related to the 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.   

Item 12.   
   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters      
  The information required by this item relating to security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management is included under the
caption  Ownership of Securities,  and the information required by this item relating to securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans is included under the caption  Proposal No. 2: Approval of the Amendment
and Restatement of the 2005 Stock Incentive Plan,  in each case in our Proxy Statement related to the 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, and is incorporated herein by reference.   

Item 13.   
   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence         The information required by this item relating to review, approval or ratification of transactions with related persons is included under the caption  Certain Relationships and Related
Transactions,  and the information required by this item relating to director independence is included under the caption  Proposal No. 1: Election of Directors Independent Directors,  in each case in our Proxy Statement
related to the 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, and is incorporated herein by reference.       

Item 14.   
   Principal Accountant Fees and Services         The information required by this item is included under the captions  Proposal No. 5: Ratification of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Principal Accountant Fees and
Services  and  Policy on Audit Committee Pre-Approval of Audit and Permissible Non-Audit Services of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  in our Proxy Statement related to the 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, and is
incorporated herein by reference.  
         132

Table of Contents  

    PART IV          Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules        

(a)  
      
  1.  
      
  Financial Statements   

See the  Index to Consolidated Financial Statements  on page 77 of this report.    

2.  
      
  Financial Statement Schedule   

See  Schedule II Valuation and Qualifying Accounts  on page 134 of this report.    

3.  
      
  Exhibits   

See the  Index to Exhibits  immediately following the signature page of this
report.    
 
         133

Table of Contents  

    SCHEDULE II          VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS        (in
millions)        

*  
  Other includes the impact of foreign exchange and certain immaterial reclassifications.     
         134

Table of Contents  

      SIGNATURES    
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this
Report on Form 10-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.       

September 14, 2011  

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.   

/ S /    J OHN  T.
C HAMBERS            

John T. Chambers    

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer    
     POWER OF ATTORNEY       KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints John T. Chambers and Frank A. Calderoni, jointly and severally, his attorney-in-fact, each with
the full power of substitution, for such person, in any and all capacities, to sign any and all amendments to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and to file the same, with all exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith, with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto said attorney-in-fact and agent full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done in connection therewith, as fully to all intents and
purposes as he might do or could do in person hereby ratifying and confirming all that each of said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or his substitute, may do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.   
  Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Report on Form 10-K has been signed below by the following
persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.       

Signature    
      
     Title    
     
     Date     

/ S /    J OHN  T.
C HAMBERS               John T. Chambers    
      
    Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Director  
  (Principal Executive Officer)   
     
  September 14, 2011   

/ S /    F RANK  A.
C ALDERONI               Frank A. Calderoni    
      
    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  
  (Principal Financial Officer)   
     
  September 14, 2011   

/ S /    P RAT  S.
B HATT               Prat S. Bhatt    
      
    Vice President and Corporate Controller  
  (Principal Accounting Officer)   
     
  September 14, 2011   

/ S /    C AROL  A.
B ARTZ               Carol A. Bartz    
      
    Lead Independent Director   
     
  September 14, 2011   

/ S /    M. M ICHELE 
B URNS               M. Michele Burns    
      
    Director   
     
  September 14, 2011   

/ S /    M ICHAEL  D.
C APELLAS               Michael D. Capellas    
      
    Director   
     
  September 14, 2011   

/ S /    L ARRY  R.
C ARTER               Larry R. Carter    
      
    Director   
     
  September 14, 2011    
         135

Table of Contents  

Signature    
      
     Title    
     
     Date     

/ S /    B RIAN  L.
H ALLA               Brian L. Halla    
      
    Director   
     
  September 14, 2011   

/ S /    J OHN  L.
H ENNESSY               Dr. John L. Hennessy    
      
    Director   
     
  September 14, 2011   

/ S /    R ICHARD  M.
K OVACEVICH               Richard M. Kovacevich    
      
    Director   
     
  September 14, 2011   

/ S /    R ODERICK  C.
M C G EARY               Roderick C. McGeary    

Director   
     
  September 14, 2011   

Arun Sarin    
      
    Director   

/ S /    S TEVEN  M.
W EST               Steven M. West    
      
    Director   
     
  September 14, 2011   

Jerry Yang    
      
    Director   

136

Table of Contents  

    INDEX TO EXHIBITS    

Table of Contents  

Table of Contents  

Exhibit   
   Number    
      
     Exhibit Description    
      
     Incorporated by Reference    
      
     Filed Herewith    

Form   
      
   File No.   
      
   Exhibit   
      
   Filing Date   

31.1   
      
  Rule 13a 14(a)/15d 14(a) Certification of Principal Executive Officer  

X  

31.2   
      
  Rule 13a 14(a)/15d 14(a) Certification of Principal Financial Officer  

X  

32.1   
      
  Section 1350 Certification of Principal Executive Officer  

X  

32.2   
      
  Section 1350 Certification of Principal Financial Officer  

X  

101.INS**   
      
  XBRL Instance Document  

X  

101.SCH**   
      
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document  

X  

101.CAL**   
      
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document  

X  

101.DEF**   
      
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document  

X  

101.LAB**   
      
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document  

X  

101.PRE**   
      
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document  

X  

*  
  Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.     

**  
  XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language) information is furnished and not filed herewith, is not a part of a registration statement or Prospectus for purposes of
sections 11 or 12 of the Securities Act of 1933, is deemed not filed for purposes of section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and otherwise is not subject to liability under these sections.     

<EX-10.1>
 2
 d202951dex101.htm
 CISCO SYSTEMS, INC. 2005 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN

Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan 

Exhibit 10.1        CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.        2005 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN    
   AS AMENDED AND RESTATED        EFFECTIVE AS OF NOVEMBER 12, 2009   

SECTION 1.   

INTRODUCTION   

1  

SECTION 2.   

DEFINITIONS   

1  

(a)  
     
      Affiliate     

1  

(b)  
     
      Award     

1  

(c)  
     
      Board     

1  

(d)  
     
      Cashless Exercise     

1  

(e)  
     
      Cause     

2  

(f)  
     
      Change In Control     

2  

(g)  
     
      Code     

2  

(h)  
     
      Committee     

2  

(i)  
     
      Common Stock     

2  

(j)  
     
      Company     

2  

(k)  
     
      Consultant     

2  

(l)  
     
      Corporate Transaction     

3  

(m)  
     
      Covered Employees     

3  

(n)  
     
      Director     

3  

(o)  
     
      Disability     

3  

(p)  
     
      Employee     

3  

(q)  
     
      Exchange Act     

3  

(r)  
     
      Exercise Price     

3  

(s)  
     
      Fair Market Value     

3  

(t)  
     
      Fiscal Year     

4  

(u)  
     
      Grant     

4  

(v)  
     
      Incentive Stock Option  or  ISO     

4  

(w)  
     
      Key Employee     

4  

(x)  
     
      Non-Employee Director     

4  

(y)  
     
      Nonstatutory Stock Option  or  NSO     

4  

(z)  
     
      Option     

4  

(aa)  
     
      Optionee     

4  

(bb)  
     
      Parent     

4  

(cc)  
     
      Participant     

4  

(dd)  
     
      Performance Goal     

5  

(ee)  
     
      Performance Period     

5  

(ff)  
     
      Plan     

5  

(gg)  
     
      Previous Plan Award     

5  

(hh)  
     
      Re-Price     

5  

(ii)  
     
      SAR Agreement     

5  

(jj)  
     
      SEC     

5  

(kk)  
     
      Section 16 Persons     

5  

(ll)  
     
      Securities Act     

5  

(mm)  
     
      Service     

5  

(nn)  
     
      Share     

6  

(oo)  
     
      Stock Appreciation Right  or  SAR     

6  

(pp)  
     
      Stock Grant     

6  

(qq)  
     
      Stock Grant Agreement     

6  

(rr)  
     
      Stock Option Agreement     

6  

(ss)  
     
      Stock Unit     

6  

(tt)  
     
      Stock Unit Agreement     

6  

(uu)  
     
      Subsidiary     

6  

(vv)  
     
      10-Percent Shareholder     

6  

SECTION 3.   

ADMINISTRATION   

7  

(a)  
     
     Committee Composition    

7  

(b)  
     
     Authority of the Committee    

7  

(c)  
     
     Indemnification    

8  

SECTION 4.   

GENERAL   

8  

(a)  
     
     General Eligibility    

8  

(b)  
     
     Incentive Stock Options    

8  

(c)  
     
     Restrictions on Shares    

8  

(d)  
     
     Beneficiaries    

8  

(e)  
     
     Performance Conditions    

9  

(f)  
     
     No Rights as a Shareholder    

9  

(g)  
     
     Termination of Service    

9  

(h)  
     
     Director Fees    

9  

SECTION 5.   

SHARES SUBJECT TO PLAN AND SHARE LIMITS   

10  

(a)  
     
     Basic Limitations    

10  

-ii-

(b)  
     
     Additional Shares    

10  

(c)  
     
     Dividend Equivalents    

10  

(d)  
     
     Share Limits    

10  

SECTION 6.   

TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF OPTIONS   

11  

(a)  
     
     Stock Option Agreement    

11  

(b)  
     
     Number of Shares    

11  

(c)  
     
     Exercise Price    

11  

(d)  
     
     Exercisability and Term    

11  

(e)  
     
     Modifications or Assumption of Options    

12  

(f)  
     
     Assignment or Transfer of Options    

12  

SECTION 7.   

PAYMENT FOR OPTION SHARES   

12  

SECTION 8.   

TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS   

13  

(a)  
     
     SAR Agreement    

13  

(b)  
     
     Number of Shares    

13  

(c)  
     
     Exercise Price    

13  

(d)  
     
     Exercisability and Term    

13  

(e)  
     
     Exercise of SARs    

13  

(f)  
     
     Modification or Assumption of SARs    

14  

(g)  
     
     Assignment or Transfer of SARs    

14  

SECTION 9.   

TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR STOCK GRANTS   

14  

(a)  
     
     Amount and Form of Awards    

14  

(b)  
     
     Stock Grant Agreement    

14  

(c)  
     
     Payment for Stock Grants    

15  

(d)  
     
     Vesting Conditions    

15  

(e)  
     
     Assignment or Transfer of Stock Grants    

15  

(f)  
     
     Voting and Dividend Rights    

15  

(g)  
     
     Modification or Assumption of Stock Grants    

15  

SECTION 10.   

TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF STOCK UNITS   

16  

(a)  
     
     Stock Unit Agreement    

16  

(b)  
     
     Number of Shares    

16  

(c)  
     
     Payment for Stock Units    

16  

-iii-

-iv-

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.    
   2005 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN        AS AMENDED AND RESTATED       (Effective as of November 12, 2009)   
     SECTION 1.   INTRODUCTION  .       The Company s shareholders approved the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated and effective on November 15, 2007. The Company s Board of Directors approved
an amendment and restatement of the Plan; provided that, the amendment and restatement of the Plan shall become effective upon its approval by Company shareholders. If the Company s shareholders do not approve the amendment and restatement of
the Plan, Awards will be made under the Plan as approved by shareholders on November 15, 2007.      The purpose of the Plan is
to promote the long-term success of the Company and the creation of shareholder value by offering Key Employees an opportunity to share in such long-term success by acquiring a proprietary interest in the Company.   
  The Plan seeks to achieve this purpose by providing for discretionary long-term incentive Awards in the form of Options (which may
constitute Incentive Stock Options or Nonstatutory Stock Options), Stock Appreciation Rights, Stock Grants, and Stock Units.   
  The Plan shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of California (except its choice-of-law
provisions).      Capitalized terms shall have the meaning provided in Section 2 unless otherwise provided in this Plan or any
related Stock Option Agreement, SAR Agreement, Stock Grant Agreement or Stock Unit Agreement.         SECTION 2.
  DEFINITIONS  .         (a)  Affiliate  means any entity other than a Subsidiary,
if the Company and/or one or more Subsidiaries own not less than 50% of such entity.        (b)
 Award  means any award of an Option, SAR, Stock Grant or Stock Unit under the Plan.        (c)
 Board  means the Board of Directors of the Company, as constituted from time to time.        (d)
 Cashless Exercise  means, to the extent that a Stock Option Agreement so provides and as permitted by applicable law, a program approved by the Committee in which payment may be made all or in part by delivery (on a form prescribed by the
Committee) of an irrevocable direction to a securities broker to sell Shares and to deliver all or part of the sale proceeds to the Company in payment of the aggregate Exercise Price and, if   
         -1-

applicable, the amount necessary to satisfy the Company s withholding obligations at the minimum statutory withholding rates, including, but not limited to, U.S. federal and state income
taxes, payroll taxes, and foreign taxes, if applicable.        (e)  Cause  means, except as may
otherwise be provided in a Participant s employment agreement or Award agreement, a conviction of a Participant for a felony crime or the failure of a Participant to contest prosecution for a felony crime, or a Participant s misconduct,
fraud or dishonesty (as such terms are defined by the Committee in its sole discretion), or any unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential information or trade secrets, in each case as determined by the Committee, and the Committee s
determination shall be conclusive and binding.        (f)  Change In Control  except as may
otherwise be provided in a Participant s employment agreement or Award agreement, means the occurrence of any of the following:      (i) A change in the composition of the Board over a period of thirty-six consecutive months or less such that a majority of the Board members ceases, by reason of one or more contested elections for Board
membership, to be comprised of individuals who either (A) have been Board members continuously since the beginning of such period or (B) have been elected or nominated for election as Board members during such period by at least a majority
of the Board members described in clause (A) who were still in office at the time the Board approved such election or nomination; or      (ii) The acquisition, directly or indirectly, by any person or related group of persons (other than the Company or a person that directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is under common
control with, the Company) of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) of securities of the Company representing more than 35% of the total combined voting power of the Company s then outstanding securities
pursuant to a tender or exchange offer made directly to the Company s shareholders which the Board does not recommend such shareholders accept.        (g)  Code  means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the regulations and interpretations promulgated thereunder.   
    (h)  Committee  means a committee described in Section 3.   
    (i)  Common Stock  means the Company s common stock.   
    (j)  Company  means Cisco Systems, Inc., a California corporation.   
    (k)  Consultant  means an individual who performs bona fide services to the Company, a Parent, a
Subsidiary or an Affiliate, other than as an Employee or Director or Non-Employee Director.   
         -2-

(l)  Corporate Transaction  except as may otherwise be
provided in a Participant s employment agreement or Award agreement, means the occurrence of any of the following shareholder approved transactions:      (i) The consummation of a merger or consolidation of the Company with or into another entity or any other corporate reorganization, if more than 50% of the combined voting power of the continuing or
surviving entity s securities outstanding immediately after such merger, consolidation or other reorganization is owned by persons who were not shareholders of the Company immediately prior to such merger, consolidation or other reorganization;
or      (ii) The sale, transfer or other disposition of all or substantially all of the Company s assets.
     A transaction shall not constitute a Corporate Transaction if its sole purpose is to change the state of the Company s
incorporation or to create a holding company that will be owned in substantially the same proportions by the persons who held the Company s securities immediately before such transactions.   
    (m)  Covered Employees  means those persons who are subject to the limitations of Code
Section 162(m).        (n)  Director  means a member of the Board who is also an Employee.
       (o)  Disability  means that the Key Employee is classified as disabled under a long-term
disability policy of the Company or, if no such policy applies, the Key Employee is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death
or which has lasted or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months.   
    (p)  Employee  means an individual who is a common-law employee of the Company, a Parent, a
Subsidiary or an Affiliate.        (q)  Exchange Act  means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
as amended.        (r)  Exercise Price  means, in the case of an Option, the amount for which a
Share may be purchased upon exercise of such Option, as specified in the applicable Stock Option Agreement.  Exercise Price,  in the case of a SAR, means an amount, as specified in the applicable SAR Agreement, which is subtracted from the
Fair Market Value in determining the amount payable upon exercise of such SAR.        (s)  Fair
Market Value  means the market price of a Share as determined in good faith by the Committee. The Fair Market Value shall be determined by the following:   
         -3-

(i) If the Shares were traded over-the-counter or listed with NASDAQ on the
date in question, then the Fair Market Value shall be equal to the last transaction price quoted by the NASDAQ system for the date in question or (ii) if the Common Stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange or the American Stock Exchange
on the date in question, the Fair Market Value is the closing selling price for the Common Stock as such price is officially quoted in the composite tape of transactions on the exchange determined by the Committee to be the primary market for the
Common Stock for the date in question; provided, however, that if there is no such reported price for the Common Stock for the date in question under (i) or (ii), then such price on the last preceding date for which such price exists shall be
determinative of Fair Market Value.      If neither (i) or (ii) are applicable, then the Fair Market Value shall be
determined by the Committee in good faith on such basis as it deems appropriate.      Whenever possible, the determination of Fair
Market Value by the Committee shall be based on the prices reported in the Western Edition of  The Wall Street Journal . Such determination shall be conclusive and binding on all persons.   
    (t)  Fiscal Year  means the Company s fiscal year.   
    (u)  Grant  means any grant of an Award under the Plan.   
    (v)  Incentive Stock Option  or  ISO  means an incentive stock option described in Code
Section 422.        (w)  Key Employee  means an Employee, Director, Non-Employee Director
or Consultant who has been selected by the Committee to receive an Award under the Plan.        (x)
 Non-Employee Director  means a member of the Board who is not an Employee.        (y)
 Nonstatutory Stock Option  or  NSO  means a stock option that is not an ISO.   
    (z)  Option  means an ISO or NSO granted under the Plan entitling the Optionee to purchase Shares.
       (aa)  Optionee  means an individual, estate or other entity that holds an Option.
       (bb)  Parent  means any corporation (other than the Company) in an unbroken chain of
corporations ending with the Company, if each of the corporations other than the Company owns stock possessing 50% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of the other corporations in such chain. A corporation that
attains the status of a Parent on a date after the adoption of the Plan shall be considered a Parent commencing as of such date.   
    (cc)  Participant  means an individual or estate or other entity that holds an Award.   
         -4-

(dd)  Performance Goal  means an objective formula or
standard determined by the Committee with respect to each Performance Period utilizing one or more of the following factors and any objectively verifiable adjustment(s) thereto permitted and preestablished by the Committee in accordance with Code
Section 162(m): (i) operating income; (ii) earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization; (iii) earnings; (iv) cash flow; (v) market share; (vi) sales; (vii) revenue; (viii) profits
before interest and taxes; (ix) expenses; (x) cost of goods sold; (xi) profit/loss or profit margin; (xii) working capital; (xiii) return on capital, equity or assets; (xiv) earnings per share; (xv) economic value
added; (xvi) stock price; (xvii) price/earnings ratio; (xviii) debt or debt-to-equity; (xix) accounts receivable; (xx) writeoffs; (xxi) cash; (xxii) assets; (xxiii) liquidity; (xxiv) operations;
(xxv) intellectual property (e.g., patents); (xxvi) product development; (xxvii) regulatory activity; (xxviii) manufacturing, production or inventory; (xxix) mergers and acquisitions or divestitures; (xxx) financings;
and/or (xxxi) customer satisfaction, each with respect to the Company and/or one or more of its affiliates or operating units. Awards issued to persons who are not Covered Employees may take into account other factors (including subjective
factors).        (ee)  Performance Period  means any period not exceeding 36 months as
determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion. The Committee may establish different Performance Periods for different Participants, and the Committee may establish concurrent or overlapping Performance Periods.   
    (ff)  Plan  means this Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan as amended and restated, and as
it may be further amended from time to time.        (gg)  Previous Plan Award  means any award
of an Option, SAR, Stock Grant or Stock Unit under the Cisco Systems, Inc. 1996 Stock Incentive Plan, the Cisco Systems, Inc. SA Acquisition Long-Term Incentive Plan or the Cisco Systems, Inc. WebEx Acquisition Long-Term Incentive Plan.   
    (hh)  Re-Price  means that the Company has lowered or reduced the Exercise Price of outstanding
Options and/or outstanding SARs for any Participant(s), whether through amendment, cancellation, or replacement grants, or any other means.        (ii)  SAR Agreement  means the agreement described in Section 8 evidencing each Award of a Stock Appreciation Right.   
    (jj)  SEC  means the Securities and Exchange Commission.   
    (kk)  Section 16 Persons  means those officers, directors or other persons who are subject to
Section 16 of the Exchange Act.        (ll)  Securities Act  means the Securities Act of
1933, as amended.        (mm)  Service  means service as an Employee, Director, Non-Employee
Director or Consultant. A Participant s Service does not terminate when continued service crediting   
         -5-

is required by applicable law. However, for purposes of determining whether an Option is entitled to continuing ISO status, a common-law employee s Service will be treated as terminating
ninety (90) days after such Employee went on leave, unless such Employee s right to return to active work is guaranteed by law or by a contract. Service terminates in any event when the approved leave ends, unless such Employee immediately
returns to active work. The Committee determines which leaves count toward Service, and when Service terminates for all purposes under the Plan. Further, unless otherwise determined by the Committee, a Participant s Service shall not be deemed
to have terminated merely because of a change in the capacity in which the Participant provides service to the Company, a Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate, or a transfer between entities (the Company or any Parent, Subsidiary, or Affiliate); provided
that there is no interruption or other termination of Service.        (nn)  Share  means one
share of Common Stock.        (oo)  Stock Appreciation Right  or  SAR  means a stock
appreciation right awarded under the Plan.        (pp)  Stock Grant  means Shares awarded under
the Plan.        (qq)  Stock Grant Agreement  means the agreement described in Section 9
evidencing each Award of a Stock Grant.        (rr)  Stock Option Agreement  means the agreement
described in Section 6 evidencing each Award of an Option.        (ss)  Stock Unit  means a
bookkeeping entry representing the equivalent of one Share, as awarded under the Plan.        (tt)
 Stock Unit Agreement  means the agreement described in Section 
10 evidencing each Award of a Stock Unit.        (uu)  Subsidiary  means any corporation (other
than the Company) in an unbroken chain of corporations beginning with the Company, if each of the corporations other than the last corporation in the unbroken chain owns stock possessing 50% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes
of stock in one of the other corporations in such chain. A corporation that attains the status of a Subsidiary on a date after the adoption of the Plan shall be considered a Subsidiary commencing as of such date.   
    (vv)  10-Percent Shareholder  means an individual who owns more than 10% of the total combined voting
power of all classes of outstanding stock of the Company, its Parent or any of its Subsidiaries. In determining stock ownership, the attribution rules of Section 424(d) of the Code shall be applied.   
         -6-

SECTION 3.   ADMINISTRATION  .    
    (a) Committee Composition. The Board or a Committee appointed by the Board shall administer the Plan. Unless
the Board provides otherwise, the Company s Compensation   Management Development Committee shall be the Committee. Members of the Committee shall serve for such period of time as the Board may determine and shall be subject to removal
by the Board at any time. The Board may also at any time terminate the functions of the Committee and reassume all powers and authority previously delegated to the Committee.      The Committee shall have membership composition which enables (i) Awards to Section 16 Persons to qualify as exempt from liability under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act and
(ii) Awards to Covered Employees to qualify as performance-based compensation as provided under Code Section 162(m).   
  The Board may also appoint one or more separate committees of the Board, each composed of two or more directors of the Company who need
not qualify under Rule 16b-3 or Code Section 162(m), that may administer the Plan with respect to Key Employees who are not Section 16 Persons or Covered Employees, respectively, may grant Awards under the Plan to such Key Employees and
may determine all terms of such Awards.      Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board shall constitute the Committee and shall
administer the Plan with respect to Non-Employee Directors, shall grant Awards under the Plan to such Non-Employee Directors, and shall determine all terms of such Awards.        (b) Authority of the Committee. Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall have full authority and sole discretion to take any actions it deems necessary or
advisable for the administration of the Plan. Such actions shall include:      (i) selecting Key Employees who are
to receive Awards under the Plan;      (ii) determining the type, number, vesting requirements and other features
and conditions of such Awards and amending such Awards;      (iii) correcting any defect, supplying any omission,
or reconciling any inconsistency in the Plan or any Award agreement;      (iv) accelerating the vesting, or
extending the post-termination exercise term, of Awards at any time and under such terms and conditions as it deems appropriate;      (v) interpreting the Plan;      (vi) making all other decisions
relating to the operation of the Plan; and      (vii) adopting such plans or subplans as may be deemed necessary or
appropriate to provide for the participation by Key Employees of the Company and its Subsidiaries and Affiliates who reside outside the U.S., which plans and/or subplans shall be attached hereto as Appendices.   
         -7-

The Committee may adopt such rules or guidelines as it deems appropriate to implement the
Plan. The Committee s determinations under the Plan shall be final and binding on all persons.   
    (c) Indemnification. To the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, each member of the Committee, or of the
Board, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Company against and from (i) any loss, cost, liability, or expense that may be imposed upon or reasonably incurred by him or her in connection with or resulting from any claim, action, suit,
or proceeding to which he or she may be a party or in which he or she may be involved by reason of any action taken or failure to act under the Plan or any Stock Option Agreement, SAR Agreement, Stock Grant Agreement or Stock Unit Agreement, and
(ii) from any and all amounts paid by him or her in settlement thereof, with the Company s approval, or paid by him or her in satisfaction of any judgment in any such claim, action, suit, or proceeding against him or her, provided he or
she shall give the Company an opportunity, at its own expense, to handle and defend the same before he or she undertakes to handle and defend it on his or her own behalf. The foregoing right of indemnification shall not be exclusive of any other
rights of indemnification to which such persons may be entitled under the Company s Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws, by contract, as a matter of law, or otherwise, or under any power that the Company may have to indemnify them or hold them
harmless.         SECTION 4.   GENERAL  .    
    (a) General Eligibility. Only Employees, Directors, Non-Employee Directors and Consultants shall be eligible
for designation as Key Employees by the Committee, in its sole discretion.        (b) Incentive Stock
Options. Only Key Employees who are common-law employees of the Company, a Parent or a Subsidiary shall be eligible for the grant of ISOs. In addition, a Key Employee who is a 10-Percent Shareholder shall not be eligible for the grant of an ISO
unless the requirements set forth in Section 422(c)(5) of the Code are satisfied.        (c)
Restrictions on Shares. Any Shares issued pursuant to an Award shall be subject to such rights of repurchase, rights of first refusal and other transfer restrictions as the Committee may determine, in its sole discretion. Such restrictions shall
apply in addition to any restrictions that may apply to holders of Shares generally and shall also comply to the extent necessary with applicable law. In no event shall the Company be required to issue fractional Shares under this Plan.   
    (d) Beneficiaries. Unless stated otherwise in an Award agreement, a Participant may designate one or more
beneficiaries with respect to an Award by timely filing the prescribed form with the Company. A beneficiary designation may be changed by filing the prescribed form with the Company at any time before the Participant s death. If no beneficiary
was designated or if no designated beneficiary survives the Participant, then   
         -8-

after a Participant s death any vested Award(s) shall be transferred or distributed to the Participant s estate.        (e) Performance Conditions. The Committee may, in its discretion, include performance conditions in an Award or grant an Award upon the satisfaction of performance conditions.
If performance conditions are included in Awards to Covered Employees, then such Awards may be subject to the achievement of Performance Goals established by the Committee. Such Performance Goals shall be established and administered pursuant to the
requirements of Code Section 162(m). Before any Shares underlying an Award or any Award payments subject to Performance Goals are released to a Covered Employee with respect to a Performance Period, the Committee shall certify in writing that
the Performance Goals for such Performance Period have been satisfied. Awards with performance conditions that are granted to Key Employees who are not Covered Employees need not comply with the requirements of Code Section 162(m).   
    (f) No Rights as a Shareholder. A Participant, or a transferee of a Participant, shall have no rights as a
shareholder with respect to any Common Stock covered by an Award until such person has satisfied all of the terms and conditions to receive such Common Stock, has satisfied any applicable withholding or tax obligations relating to the Award and the
Shares have been issued (as evidenced by an appropriate entry on the books of the Company or a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company).        (g) Termination of Service. Unless the applicable Award agreement or, with respect to Participants who reside in the U.S., the applicable employment agreement provides
otherwise, the following rules shall govern the vesting, exercisability and term of outstanding Awards held by a Participant in the event of termination of such Participant s Service (in all cases subject to the expiration term of the Option or
SAR as applicable): (i) upon termination of Service for any reason, all unvested portions of any outstanding Awards shall be immediately forfeited without consideration and the vested portions of any outstanding Stock Units shall be settled
upon termination; (ii) if the Service of a Participant is terminated for Cause, then all unexercised Options and SARs, unvested portions of Stock Units and unvested portions of Stock Grants shall terminate and be forfeited immediately without
consideration; (iii) if the Service of a Participant is terminated for any reason other than for Cause, death, or Disability, then the vested portion of his or her then-outstanding Options and/or SARs may be exercised by such Participant or his
or her personal representative within three months after the date of such termination; or (iv) if the Service of a Participant is terminated due to death or Disability, the vested portion of his or her then-outstanding Options and/or SARs may
be exercised within eighteen months after the date of termination of Service.        (h) Director Fees.
Each Non-Employee Director may elect to receive a Stock Grant or Stock Unit under the Plan in lieu of payment of a portion of his or her regular annual retainer based on the Fair Market Value of the Shares on the date any regular annual retainer
would otherwise be paid. For purposes of the Plan, a Non-Employee Director s regular annual retainer shall not include any additional retainer paid in connection with service on any committee of the Board or paid for any other reason. Such an
election   
         -9-

may be for any dollar or percentage amount equal to at least 25% of the Non-Employee Director s regular annual retainer (up to a limit of 100% of the Non-Employee Director s regular
annual retainer). The election must be made prior to the beginning of the annual board of directors cycle which shall be any twelve month continuous period designated by the Board. Any amount of the regular annual retainer not elected to be received
as a Stock Grant or Stock Unit shall be payable in cash in accordance with the Company s standard payment procedures. Shares granted under this Section 4(h) shall otherwise be subject to the terms of the Plan applicable to Non-Employee
Directors or to Participants generally (other than provisions specifically applying only to Employees).         SECTION
5.   SHARES SUBJECT TO PLAN AND SHARE LIMITS  .         (a) Basic Limitations. The stock
issuable under the Plan shall be authorized but unissued Shares. The aggregate number of Shares reserved for Awards under the Plan shall not exceed 559,000,000 Shares, subject to adjustment pursuant to Section 11. Shares issued as Stock Grants
or pursuant to Stock Units will count against the Shares available for issuance under the Plan as 1.5 Shares for every 1 Share issued in connection with the Award.        (b) Additional Shares. If Awards are forfeited or are terminated for any other reason before being exercised or settled, then the Shares underlying such Awards, plus the number
of additional Shares, if any, that counted against Shares available for issuance under the Plan in respect thereof at the time of Grant, shall again become available for Awards under the Plan. If a Previous Plan Award is forfeited or is terminated
for any other reason before being exercised or settled, then the Shares underlying such Previous Plan Award shall again become available for Awards under this Plan. SARs shall be counted in full against the number of Shares available for issuance
under the Plan, regardless of the number of Shares issued upon settlement of the SARs.        (c) Dividend
Equivalents. Any dividend equivalents distributed under the Plan shall not be applied against the number of Shares available for Awards.        (d) Share Limits.      (i)  Limits on
Options .   Subject to adjustment pursuant to Section 11, no Key Employee shall receive Options to purchase Shares during any Fiscal Year covering in excess of 5,000,000 Shares and the aggregate maximum number of Shares that may be
issued in connection with ISOs shall be 559,000,000 Shares.      (ii)  Limits on SARs.  Subject to adjustment
pursuant to Section 11, no Key Employee shall receive Awards of SARs during any Fiscal Year covering in excess of 5,000,000 Shares and the aggregate maximum number of Shares that may be issued in connection with SARs shall be 559,000,000
Shares.   
         -10-

(iii)  Limits on Stock Grants and Stock Units.  Subject to adjustment
pursuant to Section 11, no Key Employee shall receive Stock Grants or Stock Units during any Fiscal Year covering, in the aggregate, in excess of 5,000,000 Shares.   
  (iv)  Limits on Awards to Non-Employee Directors.  Subject to adjustment pursuant to Section 11, no Non-Employee
Director shall receive Awards during any Fiscal Year covering, in the aggregate, in excess of 50,000 Shares; provided that any Shares received pursuant to an election under Section 4(h) shall not count against such limit.   
     SECTION 6.   TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF OPTIONS  .    
    (a) Stock Option Agreement. Each Grant of an Option under the Plan shall be evidenced and governed exclusively
by a Stock Option Agreement between the Optionee and the Company. Such Option shall be subject to all applicable terms and conditions of the Plan and may be subject to any other terms and conditions that are not inconsistent with the Plan and that
the Committee deems appropriate for inclusion in a Stock Option Agreement (including without limitation any performance conditions). The provisions of the various Stock Option Agreements entered into under the Plan need not be identical. The Stock
Option Agreement shall also specify whether the Option is an ISO or an NSO.        (b) Number of Shares.
Each Stock Option Agreement shall specify the number of Shares that are subject to the Option and shall be subject to adjustment of such number in accordance with Section 11.   
    (c) Exercise Price. An Option s Exercise Price shall be established by the Committee and set forth in a
Stock Option Agreement. The Exercise Price of an Option shall not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value (110% for ISO grants to 10-Percent Shareholders) on the date of Grant.   
    (d) Exercisability and Term. Each Stock Option Agreement shall specify the date when all or any installment of
the Option is to become exercisable. The Stock Option Agreement shall also specify the term of the Option; provided that the term of an Option shall in no event exceed ten years from the date of Grant. Unless the applicable Stock Option Agreement
provides otherwise, each Option shall vest and become exercisable with respect to 20% of the Shares subject to the Option upon completion of one year of Service measured from the vesting commencement date, the balance of the Shares subject to the
Option shall vest and become exercisable in forty-eight equal installments upon completion of each month of Service thereafter, and the term of the Option shall be ten years from the date of Grant. A Stock Option Agreement may provide for
accelerated vesting in the event of the Participant s death, Disability, or other events. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, no Option can be exercised after the expiration date provided in the applicable Stock Option Agreement
and no Option may provide that, upon exercise of the Option, a new Option will automatically be granted.   
         -11-

(e) Modifications or Assumption of Options. Within the
limitations of the Plan, the Committee may modify, extend or assume outstanding options or may accept the cancellation of outstanding options (whether granted by the Company or by another issuer) in return for the grant of new Options for the same
or a different number of Shares, at the same or a different Exercise Price, and with the same or different vesting provisions. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence or anything to the contrary herein, the Committee may not Re-Price outstanding
Options unless there is approval by the Company shareholders and, unless a modification is necessary or desirable to comply with any applicable law, regulation or rule, such modification of an Option shall not, without the consent of the
Optionee, impair his or her rights or obligations under such Option.        (f) Assignment or Transfer of
Options. Except as otherwise provided in the applicable Stock Option Agreement and then only to the extent permitted by applicable law, no Option shall be transferable by the Optionee other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.
Except as otherwise provided in the applicable Stock Option Agreement, an Option may be exercised during the lifetime of the Optionee only by the Optionee or by the guardian or legal representative of the Optionee. No Option or interest therein may
be assigned, pledged or hypothecated by the Optionee during his or her lifetime, whether by operation of law or otherwise, or be made subject to execution, attachment or similar process.         SECTION 7.   PAYMENT FOR OPTION SHARES  .       The entire Exercise Price of Shares issued upon exercise of Options shall be payable in cash at the time when such Shares are purchased, except as follows and if so provided for in an applicable Stock
Option Agreement:      (i) Surrender of Stock. Payment for all or any part of the Exercise Price or Options may be
made with Shares which have already been owned by the Optionee; provided that the Committee may, in its sole discretion, require that Shares tendered for payment be previously held by the Optionee for a minimum duration. Such Shares shall be valued
at their Fair Market Value.      (ii) Cashless Exercise. Payment for all or any part of the Exercise Price may be
made through Cashless Exercise at the Committee s sole discretion.      (iii) Other Forms of Payment. Payment
for all or any part of the Exercise Price may be made in any other form that is consistent with applicable laws, regulations and rules and approved by the Committee.      In the case of an ISO granted under the Plan, payment shall be made only pursuant to the express provisions of the applicable Stock Option Agreement. The Stock Option Agreement may specify that payment
may be made in any form(s) described in this   
         -12-

Section 7. In the case of an NSO granted under the Plan, the Committee may, in its discretion at any time, accept payment in any form(s) described in this Section 7.   
     SECTION 8.   TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS  .    
    (a) SAR Agreement. Each Grant of a SAR under the Plan shall be evidenced and governed exclusively by a SAR
Agreement between the Participant and the Company. Such SAR shall be subject to all applicable terms and conditions of the Plan and may be subject to any other terms and conditions that are not inconsistent with the Plan and that the Committee deems
appropriate for inclusion in a SAR Agreement (including without limitation any performance conditions). A SAR Agreement may provide for a maximum limit on the amount of any payout notwithstanding the Fair Market Value on the date of exercise of the
SAR. The provisions of the various SAR Agreements entered into under the Plan need not be identical. SARs may be granted in consideration of a reduction in the Participant s compensation.   
    (b) Number of Shares. Each SAR Agreement shall specify the number of Shares to which the SAR pertains and shall
be subject to adjustment of such number in accordance with Section 11.        (c) Exercise Price.
Each SAR Agreement shall specify the Exercise Price which shall be established by the Committee. The Exercise Price of a SAR shall not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value on the date of Grant.   
    (d) Exercisability and Term. Each SAR Agreement shall specify the date when all or any installment of the SAR
is to become exercisable. The SAR Agreement shall also specify the term of the SAR which shall not exceed ten years from the date of Grant. Unless the applicable SAR Agreement provides otherwise, each SAR shall vest and become exercisable with
respect to 20% of the Shares subject to the SAR upon completion of one year of Service measured from the vesting commencement date, the balance of the Shares subject to the SAR shall vest and become exercisable in forty-eight equal installments upon
completion of each month of Service thereafter, and the term of the SAR shall be ten years from the date of Grant. A SAR Agreement may provide for accelerated vesting in the event of the Participant s death, Disability, or other events. SARs
may be awarded in combination with Options or Stock Grants, and such an Award shall provide that the SARs will not be exercisable unless the related Options or Stock Grants are forfeited. A SAR may be included in an ISO only at the time of Grant but
may be included in an NSO at the time of Grant or at any subsequent time, but not later than six months before the expiration of such NSO. No SAR may provide that, upon exercise of the SAR, a new SAR will automatically be granted.   
    (e) Exercise of SARs. If, on the date when a SAR expires, the Exercise Price under such SAR is less than the
Fair Market Value on such date but any portion of such SAR has not been exercised or surrendered, then such SAR shall automatically be deemed to be exercised as of such date with respect to such portion. Upon exercise of a SAR, the
  
         -13-

Participant (or any person having the right to exercise the SAR) shall receive from the Company (i) Shares, (ii) cash or (iii) any combination of Shares and cash, as the Committee
shall determine at the time of Grant of the SAR, in its sole discretion. The amount of cash and/or the Fair Market Value of Shares received upon exercise of SARs shall, in the aggregate, be equal to the amount by which the Fair Market Value (on the
date of exercise) of the Shares subject to the SARs exceeds the Exercise Price of those Shares.        (f)
Modification or Assumption of SARs. Within the limitations of the Plan, the Committee may modify, extend or assume outstanding stock appreciation rights or may accept the cancellation of outstanding stock appreciation rights (including stock
appreciation rights granted by another issuer) in return for the grant of new SARs for the same or a different number of Shares, at the same or a different Exercise Price, and with the same or different vesting provisions. Notwithstanding the
preceding sentence or anything to the contrary herein, the Committee may not Re-Price outstanding SARs unless there is approval by the Company shareholders and, unless a modification is necessary or desirable to comply with any applicable
law, regulation or rule, such modification of a SAR shall not ,  without the consent of the Participant, impair his or her rights or obligations under such SAR.        (g) Assignment or Transfer of SARs. Except as otherwise provided in the applicable SAR Agreement and then only to the extent permitted by applicable law, no SAR shall be
transferable by the Participant other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. Except as otherwise provided in the applicable SAR Agreement, a SAR may be exercised during the lifetime of the Participant only by the Participant or by
the guardian or legal representative of the Participant. No SAR or interest therein may be assigned, pledged or hypothecated by the Participant during his or her lifetime, whether by operation of law or otherwise, or be made subject to execution,
attachment or similar process.         SECTION 9.   TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR STOCK GRANTS    . 
       (a) Amount and Form of Awards. Awards under this Section 9 may be granted in the form of a
Stock Grant. Each Stock Grant Agreement shall specify the number of Shares to which the Stock Grant pertains and shall be subject to adjustment of such number in accordance with Section 11. A Stock Grant may also be awarded in combination with
NSOs, and such an Award may provide that the Stock Grant will be forfeited in the event that the related NSOs are exercised.       
 (b) Stock Grant Agreement. Each Stock Grant awarded under the Plan shall be evidenced and governed exclusively by a Stock Grant Agreement between the Participant and the Company. Each Stock Grant shall be subject to all applicable terms and conditions
 of the Plan and may be subject to any other terms and conditions that are not inconsistent with the Plan and that the Committee deems appropriate for inclusion in the applicable Stock Grant Agreement (including without limitation any performance
  
         -14-

conditions). The provisions of the various Stock Grant Agreements entered into under the Plan need not be identical.        (c) Payment for Stock Grants. Stock Grants may be issued with or without cash consideration or any other form of legally permissible consideration approved by the Committee.
       (d) Vesting Conditions. Each Stock Grant may or may not be subject to vesting. Any such vesting
provision may provide that Shares shall vest based on Service over time or shall vest, in full or in installments, upon satisfaction of performance conditions specified in the Stock Grant Agreement which may include Performance Goals pursuant to
Section 4(e). Unless the applicable Stock Grant Agreement provides otherwise, each Stock Grant shall vest with respect to 20% of the Shares subject to the Stock Grant upon completion of each year of Service on each of the first through fifth
annual anniversaries of the vesting commencement date. A Stock Grant Agreement may provide for accelerated vesting in the event of the Participant s death, Disability, or other events.   
    (e) Assignment or Transfer of Stock Grants. Except as provided in the applicable Stock Grant Agreement, and
then only to the extent permitted by applicable law, a Stock Grant awarded under the Plan shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily,
involuntarily or by operation of law. Any act in violation of this Section 9(e) shall be void. However, this Section 9(e) shall not preclude a Participant from designating a beneficiary who will receive any vested outstanding Stock Grant
Awards in the event of the Participant s death, nor shall it preclude a transfer of vested Stock Grant Awards by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.        (f) Voting and Dividend Rights. The holder of a Stock Grant awarded under the Plan shall have the same voting, dividend and other rights as the Company s other
shareholders. A Stock Grant Agreement, however, may require that the holder of such Stock Grant invest any cash dividends received in additional Shares subject to the Stock Grant. Such additional Shares subject to the Stock Grant shall be subject to
the same conditions and restrictions as the Stock Grant with respect to which the dividends were paid. Such additional Shares subject to the Stock Grant shall not reduce the number of Shares available for issuance under Section 5.   
    (g) Modification or Assumption of Stock Grants. Within the limitations of the Plan, the Committee may modify or
assume outstanding stock grants or may accept the cancellation of outstanding stock grants (including stock granted by another issuer) in return for the grant of new Stock Grants for the same or a different number of Shares and with the same or
different vesting provisions. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence or anything to the contrary herein, the Committee may not modify an outstanding Stock Grant such that the modification shall, without the consent of the Participant, impair his or
her rights or obligations under such Stock Grant, unless such modification is necessary or desirable to comply with any applicable law, regulation or rule.   
         -15-

SECTION 10.   TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF STOCK UNITS  .  
        (a) Stock Unit Agreement. Each grant of Stock Units under the Plan shall be evidenced and
governed exclusively by a Stock Unit Agreement between the Participant and the Company. Such Stock Units shall be subject to all applicable terms and conditions of the Plan and may be subject to any other terms and conditions that are not
inconsistent with the Plan and that the Committee deems appropriate for inclusion in the applicable Stock Unit Agreement (including without limitation any performance conditions). The provisions of the various Stock Unit Agreements entered into
under the Plan need not be identical. Stock Units may be granted in consideration of a reduction in the Participant s other compensation.        (b) Number of Shares. Each Stock Unit Agreement shall specify the number of Shares to which the Stock Unit Grant pertains and shall be subject to adjustment of such number in
accordance with Section 11.        (c) Payment for Stock Units. Stock Units shall be issued without
consideration.        (d) Vesting Conditions. Each Award of Stock Units may or may not be subject to
vesting. Any such vesting provision may provide that Shares shall vest based on Service over time or shall vest, in full or in installments, upon satisfaction of performance conditions specified in the Stock Unit Agreement which may include
Performance Goals pursuant to Section 4(e). Unless the applicable Stock Unit Agreement provides otherwise, each Stock Unit shall vest with respect to 20% of the Shares subject to the Stock Unit upon completion of each year of Service on each of
the first through fifth annual anniversaries of the vesting commencement date. A Stock Unit Agreement may provide for accelerated vesting in the event of the Participant s death, Disability, or other events.   
    (e) Voting and Dividend Rights. The holders of Stock Units shall have no voting rights. Prior to settlement or
forfeiture, any Stock Unit awarded under the Plan may, at the Committee s discretion, carry with it a right to dividend equivalents. Such right entitles the holder to be credited with an amount equal to all cash dividends paid on one Share
while the Stock Unit is outstanding. Dividend equivalents may be converted into additional Stock Units. Settlement of dividend equivalents may be made in the form of cash, in the form of Shares, or in a combination of both. Prior to distribution,
any dividend equivalents which are not paid shall be subject to the same conditions and restrictions as the Stock Units to which they attach.        (f) Form and Time of Settlement of Stock Units. Settlement of vested Stock Units may be made in the form of (a) cash, (b) Shares or (c) any combination of both,
as determined by the Committee at the time of the grant of the Stock Units, in its sole discretion. Methods of converting Stock Units into cash may include (without limitation) a method based on the average Fair Market Value of Shares over a series
of trading days. Vested Stock Units may be settled in a lump sum or in installments. The distribution may occur or commence when the vesting conditions applicable to the Stock Units have been   

         -16-

satisfied or have lapsed, or it may be deferred, in accordance with applicable law, to any later date. The amount of a deferred distribution may be increased by an interest factor or by dividend
equivalents. Until an Award of Stock Units is settled, the number of such Stock Units shall be subject to adjustment pursuant to Section 11.        (g) Creditors  Rights. A holder of Stock Units shall have no rights other than those of a general creditor of the Company. Stock Units represent an unfunded and unsecured
obligation of the Company, subject to the terms and conditions of the applicable Stock Unit Agreement.       
 (h) Modification or Assumption of Stock Units. Within the limitations of the Plan, the Committee may modify or assume outstanding stock units or may accept the cancellation of outstanding stock units (including stock units granted by another
issuer) in return for the grant of new Stock Units for the same or a different number of Shares and with the same or different vesting provisions. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence or anything to the contrary herein, the Committee may not
modify an outstanding Stock Unit such that the modification shall, without the consent of the Participant, impair his or her rights or obligations under such Stock Unit, unless such modification is necessary or desirable to comply with any
applicable law, regulation or rule.        (i) Assignment or Transfer of Stock Units. Except as provided
in the applicable Stock Unit Agreement, and then only to the extent permitted by applicable law, Stock Units shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether
voluntarily, involuntarily or by operation of law. Any act in violation of this Section 10(i) shall be void. However, this Section 10(i) shall not preclude a Participant from designating a beneficiary who will receive any outstanding
vested Stock Units in the event of the Participant s death, nor shall it preclude a transfer of vested Stock Units by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.         SECTION 11.   PROTECTION AGAINST DILUTION  .         (a) Adjustments. In the event of a subdivision of the outstanding Shares, a declaration of a dividend payable in Shares, a declaration of a dividend payable in a form other
than Shares in an amount that has a material effect on the price of Shares, a combination or consolidation of the outstanding Shares (by reclassification or otherwise) into a lesser number of Shares, a recapitalization, a spin-off or a similar
occurrence, the Committee shall make appropriate adjustments to the following:      (i) the number of Shares and
the kind of shares or securities available for future Awards under Section       (ii) the limits on Awards
specified in Section    
         -17-

(iii) the number of Shares and the kind of shares or securities covered by
each outstanding Award; or      (iv) the Exercise Price under each outstanding SAR or Option.   
    (b) Participant Rights. Except as provided in this Section 11, a Participant shall have no rights by
reason of any issue by the Company of stock of any class or securities convertible into stock of any class, any subdivision or consolidation of shares of stock of any class, the payment of any stock dividend or any other increase or decrease in the
number of shares of stock of any class. If by reason of an adjustment pursuant to this Section 11 a Participant s Award covers additional or different shares of stock or securities, then such additional or different shares and the Award in
respect thereof shall be subject to all of the terms, conditions and restrictions which were applicable to the Award and the Shares subject to the Award prior to such adjustment.   
    (c) Fractional Shares. Any adjustment of Shares pursuant to this Section 11 shall be rounded down to the
nearest whole number of Shares. Under no circumstances shall the Company be required to authorize or issue fractional shares and no consideration shall be provided as a result of any fractional shares not being issued or authorized.   
     SECTION 12.   EFFECT OF A CORPORATE TRANSACTION  .    
    (a) Corporate Transaction. In the event that the Company is a party to a Corporate Transaction, outstanding
Awards shall be subject to the applicable agreement of merger, reorganization, or sale of assets. Such agreement may provide, without limitation, for the assumption or substitution of outstanding Options, SARs, or Stock Units by the surviving
corporation or its parent, for the assumption of outstanding Stock Grant Agreements by the surviving corporation or its parent, for the replacement of outstanding Options, SARs, and Stock Units with a cash incentive program of the surviving
corporation which preserves the spread existing on the unvested portions of such outstanding Awards at the time of the transaction and provides for subsequent payout in accordance with the same vesting provisions applicable to those Awards, for
accelerated vesting of outstanding Awards, or for the cancellation of outstanding Options, SARs, and Stock Units, with or without consideration, in all cases without the consent of the Participant.   
    (b) Acceleration. The Committee may determine, at the time of grant of an Award or thereafter, that such Award
shall become fully vested as to all Shares subject to such Award in the event that a Corporate Transaction or a Change in Control occurs. Unless otherwise provided in the applicable Award agreement, in the event that a Corporate Transaction occurs
and any outstanding Options, SARs or Stock Units are not assumed, substituted, or replaced with a cash incentive program pursuant to Section 12(a) or any outstanding Stock Grant Agreements are not assumed pursuant to Section 12(a), then
such Awards shall fully vest and be fully exercisable immediately prior to such Corporate Transaction. Immediately following the consummation of a Corporate Transaction, all   
         -18-

outstanding Options, SARs and Stock Units shall terminate and cease to be outstanding, except to the extent that they are assumed by the surviving corporation or its parent.   
    (c) Dissolution. To the extent not previously exercised or settled, Options, SARs and Stock Units shall
terminate immediately prior to the dissolution or liquidation of the Company.         SECTION 13.   LIMITATIONS
ON RIGHTS  .         (a) No Entitlements. A Participant s rights, if any, in respect of or
in connection with any Award is derived solely from the discretionary decision of the Company to permit the individual to participate in the Plan and to benefit from a discretionary Award. By accepting an Award under the Plan, a Participant
expressly acknowledges that there is no obligation on the part of the Company to continue the Plan and/or grant any additional Awards. Any Award granted hereunder is not intended to be compensation of a continuing or recurring nature, or part of a
Participant s normal or expected compensation, and in no way represents any portion of a Participant s salary, compensation, or other remuneration for purposes of pension benefits, severance, redundancy, resignation or any other purpose.
     Neither the Plan nor any Award granted under the Plan shall be deemed to give any individual a right to remain an employee,
consultant or director of the Company, a Parent, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate. The Company and its Parents and Subsidiaries and Affiliates reserve the right to terminate the Service of any person at any time, and for any reason, subject to
applicable laws, the Company s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws and a written employment agreement (if any), and such terminated person shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived any claim to damages or specific performance for breach of
contract or dismissal, compensation for loss of office, tort or otherwise with respect to the Plan or any outstanding Award that is forfeited and/or is terminated by its terms or to any future Award.   
    (b) Shareholders  Rights. A Participant shall have no dividend rights, voting rights or other rights as a
shareholder with respect to any Shares covered by his or her Award prior to the issuance of such Shares (as evidenced by an appropriate entry on the books of the Company or a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company). No adjustment shall be
made for cash dividends or other rights for which the record date is prior to the date when such Shares are issued, except as expressly provided in Section 11.        (c) Regulatory Requirements. Any other provision of the Plan notwithstanding, the obligation of the Company to issue Shares or other securities under the Plan shall be subject
to all applicable laws, rules and regulations and such approval by any regulatory body as may be required. The Company reserves the right to restrict, in whole or in part, the delivery of Shares or other securities pursuant to any Award prior to the
satisfaction of all legal requirements relating to the issuance of such Shares or other securities, to   
         -19-

their registration, qualification or listing or to an exemption from registration, qualification or listing.         SECTION 14.   WITHHOLDING TAXES  .        
 (a) General. A Participant shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Company for the satisfaction of any withholding tax obligations that arise in connection with his or her Award. The Company shall not be required to issue any Shares or make any
 cash payment under the Plan until such obligations are satisfied.        (b) Share Withholding. If a
public market for the Company s Shares exists, the Committee may permit a Participant to satisfy all or part of his or her withholding or income tax obligations by having the Company withhold all or a portion of any Shares that otherwise would
be issued to him or her or by surrendering or attesting to all or a portion of any Shares that he or she previously acquired. Such Shares shall be valued based on the value of the actual trade or, if there is none, the Fair Market Value as of the
previous day. Any payment of taxes by assigning Shares to the Company may be subject to restrictions, including, but not limited to, any restrictions required by rules of the SEC. The Committee may, in its discretion, also permit a Participant to
satisfy withholding or income tax obligations related to an Award through Cashless Exercise or through a sale of Shares underlying the Award.   
     SECTION 15.   DURATION AND AMENDMENTS  .    
    (a) Term of the Plan. The Plan shall become effective upon its approval by Company shareholders. The Plan
shall terminate at the Company s 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and may be terminated on any earlier date pursuant to this Section 15.        (b) Right to Amend or Terminate the Plan. The Board may amend or terminate the Plan at any time and for any reason. The termination of the Plan, or any amendment thereof, shall
not impair the rights or obligations of any Participant under any Award previously granted under the Plan without the Participant s consent, unless such modification is necessary or desirable to comply with any applicable law, regulation or
rule. No Awards shall be granted under the Plan after the Plan s termination. An amendment of the Plan shall be subject to the approval of the Company s shareholders only to the extent such approval is otherwise required by applicable
laws, regulations or rules.   
         -20-

SECTION 16.   EXECUTION  .    
  To record the adoption of the Plan by the Board, the Company has caused its duly authorized officer to execute this Plan on behalf of the
Company.        

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.    

By:  

Mark Chandler   
 
  Title:  
     
  Senior Vice President, Legal Services, General Counsel and Secretary   

-21-

(For Grants Prior to September 2008)    
   CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.         NOTICE OF GRANT OF STOCK OPTION        Notice is hereby given of the following option
grant (the  Option ) made to purchase shares of Cisco Systems, Inc. (the  Company ) common stock:      Optionee:

Grant Date:

Type of Option:  
     
             Incentive Stock Option  

Nonstatutory Stock Option  

Grant Number:

Number of Option Shares:

shares   
  Exercise Price: $               per share   
  Vesting Commencement Date:

Expiration Date:

Exercise Schedule        The Option shall vest and become exercisable with respect to (i) twenty percent (20%) of the Option Shares upon Optionee s completion of one (1) year of Service measured from the
Vesting Commencement Date and (ii) the balance of the Option Shares in a series of forty-eight (48) successive equal monthly installments upon Optionee s completion of each additional month of Service over the forty-eight (48)-month
period measured from the first annual anniversary of the Vesting Commencement Date. In no event shall the Option vest and become exercisable for any additional Option Shares after Optionee s cessation of Service.   
  Should Optionee request a reduction to his or her work commitment to less than thirty (30) hours per week, then the Committee shall have the right,
to extend the period over which the Option shall thereafter vest and become exercisable for the Option Shares during the remainder of the Option term. The decision whether or not to approve Optionee s request for any reduced work commitment
shall be at the sole discretion of the Company. In no event shall any extension of the Exercise Schedule for the Option Shares result in the extension of the Expiration Date of the Option.      Optionee understands and agrees that the Option is offered subject to and in accordance with the terms of the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). Optionee further agrees
to be bound by the terms of the Plan and the terms of the Option as set forth in the Stock Option Agreement attached hereto.        No
Employment or Service Contract  . Nothing in this Notice or in the attached Stock Option Agreement or in the Plan shall confer upon Optionee any right to continue in Service for any period of specific duration or interfere with or otherwise
restrict in any way the rights of the Company (or any Parent or Subsidiary employing or retaining Optionee) or of Optionee, which rights are hereby expressly reserved by each, to terminate Optionee s Service at any time for any reason, with or
without cause.        Definitions  . All capitalized terms in this Notice shall have the meaning assigned to them in this Notice, the
attached Stock Option Agreement or the Plan.   

STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT     
    Recitals        A. The Board has
adopted the Plan for the purpose of retaining the services of selected Employees, non-employee members of the Board or of the board of directors of any Parent or Subsidiary and Consultants and other independent advisors who provide services to the
Company (or any Parent or Subsidiary).      B. Optionee is to render valuable services to the Company (or a Parent or Subsidiary), and this
Agreement is executed pursuant to, and is intended to carry out the purposes of, the Plan in connection with the Company s grant of an option to Optionee.      C. All capitalized terms in this Agreement shall have the meaning assigned to them in this Agreement, the attached Notice of Grant of Stock Option (the   Notice ), or the Plan.   
   NOW, THEREFORE , it is hereby agreed as follows:       1.    Grant of Option  . The Company hereby grants to Optionee, as of the Grant Date, an option to purchase up to the number of Option Shares specified in the Notice. The Option Shares
shall be purchasable from time to time during the Option term specified in Paragraph 2 at the Exercise Price specified in the Notice.   
   2.    Option Term  . This Option shall have a maximum term of nine (9) years measured from the Grant Date and shall accordingly
expire at the close of business on the Expiration Date, unless sooner terminated in accordance with Paragraph 4, 5 or 6.       3. 
  Non-Transferability  . This Option shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by operation of law.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, should the Optionee die while holding this Option, then this Option shall be transferred in accordance with Optionee s will or the laws of descent and distribution.   
   4.    Dates of Exercise  . This Option shall vest and become exercisable for the Option Shares in one or more installments as specified
in the Notice. As the Option becomes exercisable for such installments, those installments shall accumulate and the Option shall remain exercisable for the accumulated installments until the Expiration Date or sooner termination of the Option term
under Paragraph 5 or 6. As an administrative matter, the exercisable portion of this Option may only be exercised until the close of the Nasdaq Global Select Market on the Expiration Date or the earlier termination date under Paragraph 5 or 6 or, if
such date is not a trading day on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, the last trading day before such date. Any later attempt to exercise this Option will not be honored. For example, if Optionee ceases to remain in Service as provided in Paragraph
5(i) and the date three (3) months from the date of cessation is Monday, July 4 (a holiday on which the Nasdaq Global Select Market is closed), Optionee must exercise the exercisable portion of this Option by 4 pm Eastern Daylight Time on
Friday, July 1.   

5.    Cessation of Service  . The Option term specified in Paragraph 2 shall terminate (and
this Option shall cease to be outstanding) prior to the Expiration Date should any of the following provisions become applicable:      (i) Should Optionee cease to remain in Service for any reason (other than death, Disability or Cause) while this Option is outstanding, then Optionee shall have a period of three (3) months
(commencing with the date of such cessation of Service) during which to exercise this Option, but in no event shall this Option be exercisable at any time after the Expiration Date.   
  (ii) If Optionee dies while this Option is outstanding, then the personal representative of Optionee s estate or the person or
persons to whom the Option is transferred pursuant to Optionee s will or in accordance with the laws of descent and distribution shall have the right to exercise this Option. Such right shall lapse, and this Option shall cease to be
outstanding, upon the earlier of (A) the expiration of the eighteen (18)- month period measured from the date of Optionee s death or (B) the Expiration Date.      (iii) Should Optionee cease Service by reason of Disability while this Option is outstanding, then Optionee shall have a period of eighteen (18) months (commencing with the date of such cessation of
Service) during which to exercise this Option, but in no event shall this Option be exercisable at any time after the Expiration Date.      (iv) Optionee s date of cessation of Service shall mean the date upon which Optionee ceases active performance of services for the Company following the provision of such notification of termination
or resignation from Service and shall be determined solely by this Agreement and without reference to any other agreement, written or oral, including Optionee s contract of employment, and shall not otherwise include any period of notice of
termination of employment, whether expressed or implied.      (v) During the limited period of post-Service exercisability, this
Option may not be exercised in the aggregate for more than the number of vested Option Shares for which the Option is exercisable at the time of Optionee s cessation of Service. Upon the expiration of such limited exercise period or (if
earlier) upon the Expiration Date, this Option shall terminate and cease to be outstanding for any vested Option Shares for which the Option has not been exercised. However, this Option shall, immediately upon Optionee s cessation of Service
for any reason, terminate and cease to be outstanding with respect to any Option Shares in which Optionee is not otherwise at that time vested or for which this Option is not otherwise at that time exercisable.   
  (vi) Should Optionee s Service be terminated for Cause or should Optionee otherwise engage in activities constituting Cause while
this Option is outstanding, then this Option shall terminate immediately and cease to remain outstanding. In the event Optionee s Service with the Company is suspended pending an investigation of whether Optionee s Service will be
terminated for Cause, all Optionee s rights under the Option, including the right to exercise the Option, shall be suspended during the investigation period.   
         2   

6.      Special Acceleration of Option     
  (a) This Option, to the extent outstanding at the time of a Corporate Transaction but not otherwise fully vested and exercisable, shall
automatically accelerate so that this Option shall, immediately prior to the effective date of the Corporate Transaction, become vested and exercisable for all of the Option Shares at the time subject to this Option and may be exercised for any or
all of those Option Shares as fully-vested Shares. No such acceleration of this Option, however, shall occur if and to the extent: (i) this Option is, in connection with the Corporate Transaction, either assumed by the successor corporation (or
parent thereof) or replaced with a comparable option to purchase shares of the capital stock of the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or (ii) this Option is replaced with a cash incentive program of the successor corporation which
preserves the spread existing on the unvested Option Shares at the time of the Corporate Transaction (the excess of the Fair Market Value of those Option Shares over the aggregate Exercise Price payable for such Shares) and provides for subsequent
pay-out in accordance with the same Exercise Schedule set forth in the Notice. The determination of option comparability under clause (i) shall be made by the Committee, and such determination shall be final, binding and conclusive.   
  (b) Immediately following the effective date of the Corporate Transaction, this Option shall terminate and cease to be outstanding,
except to the extent assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) in connection with the Corporate Transaction.   
  (c) If this Option is assumed in connection with a Corporate Transaction, then the Committee shall appropriately adjust the number of
shares and the kind of shares or securities covered by the Option and the Exercise Price immediately after such Corporate Transaction, provided the aggregate Exercise Price shall remain the same.   
  (d) This Option, to the extent outstanding at the time of a Change in Control but not otherwise fully vested and exercisable, shall
automatically accelerate so that this Option shall, immediately prior to the effective date of the Change in Control, become vested and exercisable for all of the Option Shares at the time subject to this Option and may be exercised for any or all
of those Option Shares as fully-vested Shares. This Option shall remain so exercisable until the Expiration Date or sooner termination of the Option term.      (e) This Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Company to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve,
liquidate or sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets.   
         3   

7.    Adjustment in Option Shares  . In the event of a subdivision of the outstanding
Shares, a declaration of a dividend payable in Shares, a declaration of a dividend payable in a form other than Shares in an amount that has a material effect on the price of Shares, a combination or consolidation of the outstanding Shares (by
reclassification or otherwise) into a lesser number of Shares, a recapitalization, a spin-off or a similar occurrence, appropriate adjustments shall be made to (i) the total number and/or kind of shares or securities subject to this Option and
(ii) the Exercise Price in order to reflect such change and thereby preclude a dilution or enlargement of benefits hereunder.       8. 
  Shareholder Rights  . The holder of this Option shall not have any shareholder rights with respect to the Option Shares until such person shall have exercised the Option, paid the Exercise Price and become a holder of record of the
purchased Shares.       9.    Manner of Exercising Option  .   
  (a) In order to exercise this Option with respect to all or any part of the Option Shares for which this Option is at the time
exercisable, Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising the Option) must take the following actions:      (i) Pay the
aggregate Exercise Price for the purchased Shares in one or more of the following forms:      (A) cash or check which, in the
Company s sole discretion, shall be made payable to a Company-designated brokerage firm or the Company;      (B) as
permitted by applicable law, through a special sale and remittance procedure pursuant to which Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising the Option) shall concurrently provide irrevocable written instructions (I) to a
Company-designated brokerage firm (or in the case of an executive officer or Board member of the Company, an Optionee-designated brokerage firm) to effect the immediate sale of the purchased Shares and remit to the Company, out of the sale proceeds
available on the settlement date, sufficient funds to cover the aggregate Exercise Price payable for the purchased Shares plus, if applicable, the amount necessary to satisfy the Company s withholding obligations at the minimum statutory
withholding rates and (II) to the Company to deliver the certificates for the purchased Shares directly to such brokerage firm in order to complete the sale transaction; and      (C) a promissory note payable to the Company, but only to the extent authorized by the Committee in accordance with Paragraph 13.      (ii) Furnish to the Company appropriate documentation that the person or persons exercising the Option (if other than Optionee) have the right to exercise this Option.   
  (iii) Make appropriate arrangements with the Company (or Parent or Subsidiary employing or retaining Optionee) for the satisfaction of
all tax withholding requirements applicable to the Option exercise.   
         4   

(b) As soon as practical after the exercise date, the Company shall issue to or on behalf of
Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising this Option) the purchased Option Shares (as evidenced by an appropriate entry on the books of the Company or a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company), subject to the appropriate legends
and/or stop transfer instructions.      (c) In no event may this Option be exercised for any fractional Shares.   
  (d) Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan, this Agreement or any other agreement to the contrary, if at the time this Option
is exercised, Optionee is indebted to the Company (or any Parent or Subsidiary) for any reason, the following actions shall be taken, as deemed appropriate by the Committee:      (i) any Shares to be issued upon such exercise shall automatically be pledged against Optionee s outstanding indebtedness; and   
  (ii) if this Option is exercised in accordance with subparagraph 9(a)(i)(B) above, the after tax proceeds of the sale of Optionee s
Shares shall automatically be applied to the outstanding balance of Optionee s indebtedness.       10.    Compliance with Laws and
Regulations  .      (a) The exercise of this Option and the issuance of the Option Shares upon such exercise shall be subject
to compliance by the Company and Optionee with all applicable laws, regulations and rules relating thereto, including all applicable regulations of any stock exchange (or the Nasdaq Global Select Market, if applicable) on which the Shares may be
listed for trading at the time of such exercise and issuance.      (b) The inability of the Company to obtain approval from any
regulatory body having authority deemed by the Company to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any Shares pursuant to this Option shall relieve the Company of any liability with respect to the non-issuance or sale of the Shares as to
which such approval shall not have been obtained. The Company, however, shall use its best efforts to obtain all such approvals.       11. 
  Successors and Assigns  . Except to the extent otherwise provided in Paragraphs 3 and 6, the provisions of this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and be binding upon, the Company and its successors and assigns and Optionee,
Optionee s assigns and the legal representatives, heirs and legatees of Optionee s estate.       12.    Notices  . Any
notice required or permitted under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed sufficient when delivered personally or sent by confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the U.S.
mail, as certified or registered mail, with postage prepaid, and addressed to the Company at the Company s principal corporate offices or to the Optionee at the address maintained for the Optionee in the Company s records or, in either
case, as subsequently modified by written notice to the other party.   
         5   

13.    Financing  . The Committee may, in its absolute discretion and without any obligation
to do so, permit Optionee to pay the Exercise Price for the purchased Option Shares by delivering a full-recourse promissory note payable to the Company. The terms of any such promissory note (including the interest rate, the requirements for
collateral and the terms of repayment) shall be established by the Committee in its sole discretion.       14.    Construction  .
The Notice, this Agreement, and the Option evidenced hereby (a) are made and granted pursuant to the Plan and are in all respects limited by and subject to the terms of the Plan, and (b) constitute the entire agreement between Optionee and
the Company on the subject matter hereof and supercede all proposals, written or oral, and all other communications between the parties related to the subject matter. All decisions of the Committee with respect to any question or issue arising under
the Notice, this Agreement or the Plan shall be conclusive and binding on all persons having an interest in this Option.       15. 
  Governing Law  . The interpretation, performance and enforcement of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California without resort to the conflict of laws principles thereof.   
   16.    Excess Shares  . If the Option Shares covered by this Agreement exceed, as of the Grant Date, the number of Shares which may
without shareholder approval be issued under the Plan, then this Option shall be void with respect to those excess shares, unless shareholder approval of an amendment sufficiently increasing the number of Shares issuable under the Plan is obtained
in accordance with the provisions of the Plan and all applicable laws, regulations and rules.       17.    Additional Terms Applicable to
an Incentive Stock Options  . In the event this Option is designated an Incentive Stock Option in the Notice, the following terms and conditions shall also apply to the Option:   
  (a) This Option shall cease to qualify for favorable tax treatment as an Incentive Stock Option if (and to the extent) this Option is
exercised for one or more Option Shares: (A) more than three (3) months after the date Optionee ceases to be an Employee for any reason other than death or Disability or (B) more than twelve (12) months after the date Optionee
ceases to be an Employee by reason of Disability.      (b) Even if this Option is designated as an Incentive Stock Option, if the
Shares subject to this Option (and all other Incentive Stock Options granted to Optionee by the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary, including under other plans of the Company) that first become exercisable in any calendar year have an aggregate
Fair Market Value (determined for each Share as of the date of grant of the option covering such Share) in excess of $100,000, the Shares in excess of $100,000 shall be treated as subject to a Nonstatutory Stock Option in accordance all applicable
laws, regulations and rules.   
         6   

18.    Leave of Absence .  Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, the following
provisions shall apply upon the Optionee s commencement of an authorized leave of absence:      (a) The Exercise Schedule in
effect under the Notice shall be frozen as of the first day of the authorized leave, and this Option shall not become exercisable for any additional installments of the Option Shares during the period Optionee remains on such leave.   
  (b) If the Option is designated as an Incentive Stock Option in the Notice and if the leave of absence continues for more than ninety
(90) days, then this Option shall automatically convert to a Nonstatutory Stock Option at the end of the three (3)-month period measured from the ninety-first (91st) day of such leave, unless the Optionee s right to return to active
work is guaranteed by law or by a contract.      (c) In no event shall this Option become exercisable for any additional Option
Shares or otherwise remain outstanding if Optionee does not resume Service prior to the Expiration Date of the Option term.       19. 
  Further Instruments  . The parties agree to execute such further instruments and to take such further action as may be reasonably necessary to carry out the purposes and intent of this Agreement.   
   20.    Authorization to Release Necessary Personal Information  .   
  (a) Optionee hereby authorizes and directs Optionee s employer to collect, use and transfer in electronic or other form, any personal
information (the  Data ) regarding Optionee s employment, the nature and amount of Optionee s compensation and the fact and conditions of Optionee s participation in the Plan (including, but not limited to, Optionee s
name, home address, telephone number, date of birth, social security number (or any other social or national identification number), salary, nationality, job title, number of Shares held and the details of all options or any other entitlement to
Shares awarded, cancelled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding) for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing Optionee s participation in the Plan. Optionee understands that the Data may be transferred to the Company or any
of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, including any requisite transfer to a broker or other third party assisting with the exercise of Options under the Plan or with
whom Shares acquired upon exercise of this Option or cash from the sale of such shares may be deposited. Optionee acknowledges that recipients of the Data may be located in different countries, and those countries may have data privacy laws and
protections different from those in the country of Optionee s residence. Furthermore, Optionee acknowledges and understands that the transfer of the Data to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties is necessary for
Optionee s participation in the Plan.      (b) Optionee may at any time withdraw the consents herein, by
  
         7   

contacting Optionee s local human resources representative in writing. Optionee further acknowledges that withdrawal of consent may affect Optionee s ability to exercise or realize
benefits from the Option, and Optionee s ability to participate in the Plan.       21.    No Entitlement or Claims for
Compensation  .      (a) Optionee s rights, if any, in respect of or in connection with this Option or any other Award
is derived solely from the discretionary decision of the Company to permit Optionee to participate in the Plan and to benefit from a discretionary Award. By accepting this Option, Optionee expressly acknowledges that there is no obligation on the
part of the Company to continue the Plan and/or grant any additional Awards to Optionee. This Option is not intended to be compensation of a continuing or recurring nature, or part of Optionee s normal or expected compensation, and in no way
represents any portion of a Optionee s salary, compensation, or other remuneration for purposes of pension benefits, severance, redundancy, resignation or any other purpose.   
  (b) Neither the Plan nor this Option or any other Award granted under the Plan shall be deemed to give Optionee a right to remain an
Employee, Consultant or director of the Company, a Parent or a Subsidiary or an Affiliate. The Company and its Parents and Subsidiaries and Affiliates reserve the right to terminate the Service of Optionee at any time, with or without cause, and for
any reason, subject to applicable laws, the Company s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws and a written employment agreement (if any), and Optionee shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived any claim to damages or specific performance for
breach of contract or dismissal, compensation for loss of office, tort or otherwise with respect to the Plan, this Option or any outstanding Award that is forfeited and/or is terminated by its terms or to any future Award.   
  (c) Optionee agrees that the Company may require Options granted hereunder be exercised with, and the Option Shares held by, a broker
designated by the Company. In addition, Optionee agrees that his or her rights hereunder shall be subject to set-off by the Company for any valid debts the Optionee owes to the Company.   
         8   

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.    
    NOTICE OF GRANT OF STOCK OPTION        Notice is hereby given of the following option grant (the  Option ) made to purchase shares of Cisco Systems, Inc. (the  Company ) common stock:   
  Optionee:

Grant Date:

Type of
Option: U.S. Nonstatutory Stock Option      Grant Number:

Number of Option Shares:

shares      Exercise Price:
$               per share      First Vest Date:

Expiration Date:

Exercise Schedule  .   So long as
Optionee s Service continues, the Option shall vest and become exercisable with respect to (i)                        percent
(      %) of the option shares, as set forth above (the  Option Shares ) on the First Vest Date as set forth above and (ii) the balance of the Option Shares in
                       installments upon Optionee s completion of each additional
                       of Service over the
                       period measured from the 
                      First Vest Date. In no event shall the Option vest and become exercisable for any additional Option Shares after
Optionee s cessation of Service.      Should Optionee request a reduction to his or her work commitment to less than thirty (30) hours
per week, then the Company shall have the right to extend the period over which the Option shall thereafter vest and become exercisable for the Option Shares during the remainder of the Option term to the extent permitted under local law. In no
event shall any extension of the exercise schedule, as set forth above ( Exercise Schedule ) for the Option Shares result in the extension of the expiration date, as set forth above, ( Expiration Date ) of the Option.   
  Optionee understands and agrees that the Option is offered subject to and in accordance with the terms of the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive
Plan (the  Plan ). Optionee further agrees to be bound by the terms of the Plan and the terms of the Option as set forth in the Stock Option Agreement (the  Agreement ) attached hereto.   
    No Employment or Service Contract  . Nothing in this Notice or in the attached Agreement or in the Plan shall confer upon Optionee any right
to continue in Service for any period of specific duration or interfere with or otherwise restrict in any way the rights of the Company (or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate employing or retaining Optionee) or of Optionee, which rights are hereby
expressly reserved by each, to terminate Optionee s Service at any time for any reason, with or without cause to the extent permissible under local law.        Definitions  .   All capitalized terms in this Notice shall have the meaning assigned to them in this Notice, the attached Agreement or the Plan.   

STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT     
    Recitals        A. The Board has
adopted the Plan for the purpose of retaining the services of selected Employees, non-employee members of the Board and Consultants.      B.
Optionee is to render valuable services to the Company (or a Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate), and this Agreement is executed pursuant to, and is intended to carry out the purposes of, the Plan in connection with the Company s grant of an
option to Optionee.      C. All capitalized terms in this Agreement shall have the meaning assigned to them in this Agreement, the attached Notice
of Grant of Stock Option (the  Notice ), or the Plan.       NOW, THEREFORE , it is hereby agreed as follows:   
   1.    Grant of Option  . The Company hereby grants to Optionee, as of the grant date, as set forth in the Notice, (the  Grant
Date ) an option to purchase up to the number of Option Shares specified in the Notice. The Option Shares shall be purchasable from time to time during the Option term specified in Paragraph 2 at the Exercise Price specified in the Notice.
      2.    Option Term  . This Option shall have a maximum term of
                       years [not to exceed ten (10) years] measured from the Grant Date and shall accordingly expire at the close of
business on the Expiration Date, unless sooner terminated in accordance with Paragraph 4, 5 or 6.       3.
   Non-Transferability  . This Option shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by operation of law.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, should the Optionee die while holding this Option, then this Option shall be transferred in accordance with Optionee s will or the laws of descent and distribution.   
   4.    Dates of Exercise  . This Option shall vest and become exercisable for the Option Shares in one or more installments as specified
in the Notice. As the Option becomes exercisable for such installments, those installments shall accumulate and the Option shall remain exercisable for the accumulated installments until the Expiration Date or sooner termination of the Option term
under Paragraph 5 or 6. As an administrative matter, the exercisable portion of this Option may only be exercised until the close of the Nasdaq Global Select Market on the Expiration Date or the earlier termination date under Paragraph 5 or 6 or, if
such date is not a trading day on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, the last trading day before such date. Any later attempt to exercise this Option will not be honored. For example, if Optionee ceases to remain in Service as provided in Paragraph
5(i) and the date three (3) months from the date of cessation is Monday, July 4 (a holiday on which the Nasdaq Global Select Market is closed), Optionee must exercise the exercisable portion of this Option by 4:00 p.m. Eastern Daylight
Time on Friday, July 1.   

5.    Cessation of Service  . The Option term specified in Paragraph 2 shall terminate (and
this Option shall cease to be outstanding) prior to the Expiration Date should any of the following provisions become applicable:      (i) Should Optionee cease to remain in Service for any reason (other than death, Disability or Cause and whether or not in breach of local labor laws) while this Option is outstanding, then Optionee shall
have a period of three (3) months (commencing with the date of such cessation of Service) during which to exercise this Option, but in no event shall this Option be exercisable at any time after the Expiration Date.   
  (ii) If Optionee dies while this Option is outstanding, then the Optionee s designated beneficiary or, if no beneficiary was
designated or properly designated or, if no designated beneficiary survives the Optionee, the Optionee s estate (to the extent reasonably determinable) or other individual or entity entitled to receive the Option under applicable local law
shall have the right to exercise this Option. Such right shall lapse, and this Option shall cease to be outstanding, upon the earlier of (A) the expiration of the eighteen (18) month period measured from the date of Optionee s death
or (B) the Expiration Date. Optionee may only make a beneficiary designation with respect to this Option if the Company has approved a process or procedure for such beneficiary designation for the local jurisdiction within which Optionee
performs services for the Company or a Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate. If no such beneficiary designation process or procedure has been approved by the Company, then, in the event of Optionee s death, this Option may only be exercised by the
Optionee s estate (to the extent reasonably determinable) or other individual or entity entitled to receive the Option under applicable local law.      (iii) Should Optionee cease Service by reason of Disability while this Option is outstanding, then Optionee shall have a period of eighteen (18) months (commencing with the date of such cessation of
Service) during which to exercise this Option, but in no event shall this Option be exercisable at any time after the Expiration Date.      (iv) During the limited period of post-Service exercisability, this Option may not be exercised in the aggregate for more than the number of vested Option Shares for which the Option is exercisable at the
date the Optionee ceases to actively provide Service (not extended by any notice period mandated under local law). Upon the expiration of such limited exercise period or (if earlier) upon the Expiration Date, this Option shall terminate and cease to
be outstanding for any vested Option Shares for which the Option has not been exercised. However, this Option shall, immediately as of the date the Optionee ceases to actively provide Service for any reason, terminate and cease to be outstanding
with respect to any Option Shares in which Optionee is not otherwise at that time vested or for which this Option is not otherwise at that time exercisable.      (v) Should Optionee s Service be terminated for Cause or should Optionee otherwise engage in activities constituting Cause while this Option is
  
         2   

outstanding, then this Option shall terminate immediately and cease to remain outstanding. In the event Optionee s Service is suspended pending an investigation of whether Optionee s
Service will be terminated for Cause, all Optionee s rights under the Option, including the right to exercise the Option, shall be suspended during the investigation period.   
  (vi) For purposes of this Paragraph 5, in the event of Optionee s cessation of Service, Optionee s right to receive additional
options or to vest in the Option will end as of the date the Optionee is no longer actively providing Service and will not be extended by any notice period mandated under local law ( e.g ., active Service would not include any period of
 garden leave  or similar period pursuant to local law); the Company shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when an Optionee is no longer actively providing Service for purposes of this Option.   
   6.    Special Acceleration of Option   .       (a) This Option, to the extent outstanding at the time of a Corporate Transaction but not otherwise fully vested and exercisable, shall automatically accelerate so that this Option shall, immediately
prior to the effective date of the Corporate Transaction, become vested and exercisable for all of the Option Shares at the time subject to this Option and may be exercised for any or all of those Option Shares as fully-vested Shares. No such
acceleration of this Option, however, shall occur if and to the extent: (i) this Option is, in connection with the Corporate Transaction, either assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or replaced with a comparable option to
purchase shares of the capital stock of the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or (ii) this Option is replaced with a cash incentive program of the successor corporation which preserves the spread existing on the unvested Option Shares
at the time of the Corporate Transaction (the excess of the Fair Market Value of those Option Shares over the aggregate Exercise Price payable for such Shares) and provides for subsequent pay-out in accordance with the same Exercise Schedule set
forth in the Notice. The determination of option comparability under clause (i) shall be made by the Committee, and such determination shall be final, binding and conclusive.   
  (b) Immediately following the effective date of the Corporate Transaction, this Option shall terminate and cease to be outstanding,
except to the extent assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) in connection with the Corporate Transaction.   
  (c) If this Option is assumed in connection with a Corporate Transaction, then the Committee shall appropriately adjust the number of
shares and the kind of shares or securities covered by the Option and the Exercise Price immediately after such Corporate Transaction, provided the aggregate Exercise Price shall remain the same.   
  (d) This Option, to the extent outstanding at the time of a Change in Control but not otherwise fully vested and exercisable, shall
automatically accelerate so that this Option shall, immediately prior to the effective date of the Change in Control,   
         3   

become vested and exercisable for all of the Option Shares at the time subject to this Option and may be exercised for any or all of those Option Shares as fully-vested Shares. This Option shall
remain so exercisable until the Expiration Date or sooner termination of the Option term.      (e) This Agreement shall not in any
way affect the right of the Company to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate or sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets.   
   7.    Adjustment in Option Shares  . In the event of a subdivision of the outstanding Shares, a declaration of a dividend payable in
Shares, a declaration of a dividend payable in a form other than Shares in an amount that has a material effect on the price of Shares, a combination or consolidation of the outstanding Shares (by reclassification or otherwise) into a lesser number
of Shares, a recapitalization, a spin-off or a similar occurrence, appropriate adjustments shall be made to (i) the total number and/or kind of shares or securities subject to this Option and (ii) the Exercise Price in order to reflect
such change and thereby preclude a dilution or enlargement of benefits hereunder.       8.    Shareholder Rights  . The holder of
this Option shall not have any shareholder rights with respect to the Option Shares until such person shall have exercised the Option, paid the Exercise Price and become a holder of record of the purchased Shares.   
   9.    Manner of Exercising Option  .      (a) In order to exercise this Option with respect to all or any part of the Option Shares for which this Option is at the time exercisable, Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising the Option)
must take the following actions:      (i) Pay the aggregate Exercise Price for the purchased Shares in one or more of the following
forms:      (A) cash or check which, in the Company s sole discretion, shall be made payable to a Company-designated
brokerage firm or the Company; and      (B) as permitted by applicable law, through a special sale and remittance procedure
pursuant to which Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising the Option) shall concurrently provide irrevocable written instructions (I) to a Company-designated brokerage firm (or in the case of an executive officer or Board member of
the Company, an Optionee-designated brokerage firm) to effect the immediate sale of the purchased Shares and remit to the Company, out of the sale proceeds available on the settlement date, sufficient funds to cover the aggregate Exercise Price
payable for the purchased Shares plus, if applicable, the amount necessary to satisfy the Company s (or a Parent s, Subsidiary s or Affiliate s) withholding obligations   
         4   

(including income tax, social taxes or insurance contributions, payroll tax, payment on account or other tax items related to Optionee s participation in the Plan and legally applicable to
Optionee ( Tax-Related Items )) and (II) to the Company to deliver the purchased Shares directly to such brokerage firm in order to complete the sale transaction.      (ii) Furnish to the Company appropriate documentation that the person or persons exercising the Option (if other than Optionee) have the right to exercise this Option.   
  (iii) Make appropriate arrangements with the Company (or a Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate employing or retaining Optionee) for the
satisfaction of all withholding or other obligations related to Tax-Related Items applicable to the Option grant, vesting, exercise or the sale of Shares, as applicable.      (b) As soon as practical after the exercise date, the Company shall issue to or on behalf of Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising this Option) the purchased Option Shares, (as evidenced by
an appropriate entry on the books of the Company or a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company), subject to the appropriate legends and/or stop transfer instructions.      (c) In no event may this Option be exercised for any fractional Shares.      (d)
Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan, this Agreement or any other agreement to the contrary, if at the time this Option is exercised, Optionee is indebted to the Company (or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate) for any reason, the
following actions shall be taken, as deemed appropriate by the Committee:      (i) any Shares to be issued upon such exercise shall
automatically be pledged against Optionee s outstanding indebtedness; and      (ii) if this Option is exercised in accordance
with subparagraph 9(a)(i)(B) above, the after tax proceeds of the sale of Optionee s Shares shall automatically be applied to the outstanding balance of Optionee s indebtedness.       10.    Responsibility for Taxes  .      (a) Optionee authorizes the
Company and/or the Optionee s employer (the  Employer ) or their respective agents, at their discretion, to satisfy any obligations related to Tax-Related Items by one or a combination of the following: (1) withholding all
applicable Tax-Related Items from Optionee s wages or other cash compensation paid to Optionee by the Company and/or the Employer; (2) withholding from proceeds of the sale of Shares acquired upon exercise of the Option either through a
voluntary sale (specifically including where this Option is exercised in accordance with subparagraph 9(a)(i)(B) above) or through a mandatory sale arranged by the Company (on Optionee s behalf pursuant to this authorization); or
(3) withholding of Shares that would otherwise be issued upon exercise of the Option. To avoid financial accounting charges under applicable accounting guidance, the Company may withhold or account for Tax-Related
  
         5   

Items by considering applicable minimum statutory withholding rates or may take any other action required to avoid financial accounting charges under applicable accounting guidance. Finally,
Optionee must pay to the Company or the Employer any amount of Tax-Related Items that the Company or the Employer may be required to withhold or account for as a result of Optionee s participation in the Plan or Optionee s purchase of
Shares that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described. The Company may refuse to honor the exercise and refuse to issue or deliver the Shares or the proceeds of the sale of the Shares if Optionee fails to comply with Optionee s
obligations in connection with the Tax-Related Items as described in this Paragraph.      (b) Regardless of any action the Company
or the Employer takes with respect to any or all Tax-Related Items, Optionee acknowledges that the ultimate liability for all Tax-Related Items is and remains Optionee s responsibility and may exceed the amount actually withheld by the Company
or the Employer. Optionee further acknowledges that the Company and/or the Employer (1) make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax-Related Items in connection with any aspect of the Option, including the grant,
vesting or exercise of the Option, the subsequent sale of Shares acquired pursuant to such exercise and the receipt of any dividends; and (2) do not commit to and are under no obligation to structure the terms of the grant or any aspect of the
Option to reduce or eliminate Optionee s liability for Tax-Related Items or achieve any particular tax result. Further, if Optionee becomes subject to taxation in more than one jurisdiction between the Grant Date and the date of any relevant
taxable event, Optionee acknowledges that the Company and/or the Employer (or former employer, as applicable) may be required to withhold or account for Tax-Related Items in more than one jurisdiction.   
   11.    Compliance with Laws and Regulations  .      (a) The exercise of this Option and the issuance of the Option Shares upon such exercise shall be subject to compliance by the Company and Optionee with all applicable laws, regulations and rules relating
thereto, including all applicable regulations of any stock exchange (or the Nasdaq Global Select Market, if applicable) on which the Shares may be listed for trading at the time of such exercise and issuance and all applicable foreign laws.
     (b) The inability of the Company to obtain approval from any regulatory body having authority deemed by the Company to be
necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any Shares pursuant to this Option shall relieve the Company of any liability with respect to the non-issuance or sale of the Shares as to which such approval shall not have been obtained.   
   12.    Successors and Assigns  . Except to the extent otherwise provided in Paragraphs 3, 5 and 6, the provisions of this Agreement shall
inure to the benefit of, and be binding upon, the Company and its successors and assigns and Optionee, Optionee s assigns and the legal representatives, heirs and legatees of Optionee s estate.   
         6   

13.    Notices  . Any notice required or permitted under the terms of this Agreement shall
be in writing and shall be deemed sufficient when delivered personally or sent by confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the mail, as certified or registered mail, with postage prepaid, and
addressed to the Company at the Company s principal corporate offices or to the Optionee at the address maintained for the Optionee in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently modified by written notice to the other party.
      14.    Construction  . The Notice, this Agreement, and the Option evidenced hereby (a) are made and granted pursuant to
the Plan and are in all respects limited by and subject to the terms of the Plan, and (b) constitute the entire agreement between Optionee and the Company on the subject matter hereof and supercede all proposals, written or oral, and all other
communications between the parties related to the subject matter. All decisions of the Committee with respect to any question or issue arising under the Notice, this Agreement or the Plan shall be conclusive and binding on all persons having an
interest in this Option. The provisions of this Agreement are severable and if any one or more provisions are determined to be illegal or otherwise unenforceable, in whole or in part, the remaining provisions shall nevertheless be binding and
enforceable.       15.    Governing Law and Forum  . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws
of the State of California without regard to the conflict of laws principles thereof. For purposes of litigating any dispute that may arise directly or indirectly from this Agreement, the parties hereby submit and consent to litigation in the
exclusive jurisdiction of the State of California and agree that any such litigation shall be conducted only in the courts of California or the federal courts for the United States for the Northern District of California and no other courts.
      16.    Excess Shares  . If the Option Shares covered by this Agreement exceed, as of the Grant Date, the number of Shares
which may without shareholder approval be issued under the Plan, then this Option shall be void with respect to those excess shares, unless shareholder approval of an amendment sufficiently increasing the number of Shares issuable under the Plan is
obtained in accordance with the provisions of the Plan and all applicable laws, regulations and rules.       17.    Leave of
Absence  . Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, to the extent permitted by local law, the following provisions shall apply upon the Optionee s commencement of an authorized leave of absence:   
  (a) The Exercise Schedule in effect under the Notice shall be frozen as of the first day of the authorized leave, and this Option shall
not become exercisable for any additional installments of the Option Shares during the period Optionee remains on such leave.   
  (b) In no event shall this Option become exercisable for any additional Option Shares or otherwise remain outstanding if Optionee does
not resume Service prior to the Expiration Date of the Option term.   
         7   

18.    Further Instruments  . The parties agree to execute such further instruments and to
take such further action as may be reasonably necessary to carry out the purposes and intent of this Agreement.       19. 
  Authorization to Release and Transfer Necessary Personal Information  .        (a) Optionee hereby explicitly and
unambiguously consents to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of Optionee s personal information as described in this Agreement by and among, as applicable, the Employer, and the Company and its Parent, Subsidiaries
and Affiliates for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing Optionee s participation in the Plan.          (b) Optionee understands that the Company and the Employer may hold certain personal information about Optionee, including, but not limited to, Optionee s name, home address and telephone
number, date of birth, social insurance number (or any other social or national identification number), salary, nationality, job title, residency status, any Shares or directorships held in the Company, details of all options or any other
entitlement to Shares awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding (the  Data ) for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Optionee s participation in the Plan. Optionee understands that Data may
be transferred to the Company or any of its Parent, Subsidiaries or Affiliates, or to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, that these recipients may be located in Optionee s country or
elsewhere, including outside the European Economic Area, and that the recipient s country (e.g., the United States) may have different data privacy laws and protections than Optionee s country. Optionee understands that Optionee may
request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting Optionee s local human resources representative. Optionee authorizes the recipients to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in
electronic or other form, for the sole purposes of implementing, administering and managing Optionee s participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data to a broker or other third party assisting with the administration
of the Option under the Plan or with whom Shares acquired pursuant to these Options or cash from the sale of such Shares may be deposited. Furthermore, you acknowledge and understand that the transfer of the Data to the Company or any of its Parent,
Subsidiaries or Affiliates, or to any third parties is necessary for your participation in the Plan.          (c)
Optionee understands that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage Optionee s participation in the Plan. Optionee understands that Optionee may, at any time, view the Data, request additional
information about the storage and processing of the Data, require any necessary amendments to the Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein by contacting Optionee s local human resources representative in writing. Optionee further
acknowledges that withdrawal of consent may affect Optionee s ability to vest in or realize benefits from the Options, and Optionee s ability to participate in the Plan. For     

         8   

more information on the consequences of Optionee s refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, Optionee understands that Optionee may contact Optionee s local human resources
representative.         20.    No Entitlement or Claims for Compensation  .   
  (a) Optionee s rights, if any, in respect of or in connection with this Option or any other Award are derived solely from the
discretionary decision of the Company to permit Optionee to participate in the Plan and to benefit from a discretionary Award. The Plan may be amended, suspended or terminated by the Company at any time, unless otherwise provided in the Plan and
this Agreement. By accepting this Option, Optionee expressly acknowledges that there is no obligation on the part of the Company to continue the Plan and/or grant any additional Awards to Optionee or benefits in lieu of Options or any other Awards
even if Options have been granted repeatedly in the past. All decisions with respect to future Option grants, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Committee.      (b) This Option and the Shares subject to the Option are not intended to replace any pension rights or compensation and are not to be considered compensation of a continuing or recurring nature, or part
of Optionee s normal or expected compensation, and in no way represent any portion of Optionee s salary, compensation or other remuneration for any purpose, including but not limited to, calculating any severance, resignation, termination,
redundancy, dismissal, end of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits or similar payments, and in no event should be considered as compensation for, or relating in any way to, past services for the Company, the
Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate. The value of the Option and the Shares subject to the Option are an extraordinary item that do not constitute compensation of any kind for services of any kind rendered to the Company, the Employer or
any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate and which are outside the scope of Optionee s written employment agreement (if any).   
  (c) Optionee acknowledges that he or she is voluntarily participating in the Plan.   
  (d) Neither the Plan nor this Option or any other Award granted under the Plan shall be deemed to give Optionee a right to remain an
Employee, Consultant or director of the Company, a Parent, Subsidiary or an Affiliate. The Employer reserves the right to terminate the Service of Optionee at any time, with or without cause, and for any reason, subject to applicable laws, the
Company s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws and a written employment agreement (if any).      (e) The grant of the Option
and Optionee s participation in the Plan will not be interpreted to form an employment contract or relationship with the Company, the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate.   
  (f) The future value of the underlying Shares is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty. If the underlying Shares do not increase
in value, the Option   
         9   

will have no value. If Optionee exercises the Option and obtains Shares, the value of the
Shares acquired upon exercise may increase or decrease in value, even below the Exercise Price. Optionee also understands that neither the Company, nor the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate is responsible for any foreign exchange
fluctuation between the Employer s local currency and the United States Dollar that may affect the value of this Option.   
  (g) In consideration of the grant of the Option, no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages shall arise from forfeiture of the
Option resulting from termination of Optionee s Service by the Company or the Employer (for any reason whatsoever and whether or not in breach of local labor laws) and Optionee irrevocably releases the Company and the Employer from any such
claim that may arise; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to have arisen, Optionee shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived Optionee s entitlement to pursue such claim.   
  (h) Optionee agrees that the Company may require Options granted hereunder be exercised with, and the Option Shares held by, a broker
designated by the Company.      (i) Optionee agrees that his or her rights hereunder (if any) shall be subject to set-off by the
Company for any valid debts the Optionee owes to the Company.      (j) The Option and the benefits under the Plan, if any, will
not automatically transfer to another company in the case of a merger, take-over or transfer of liability.       21.    No Advice
Regarding Grant  . The Company and the Employer have not provided any tax, legal or financial advice, nor has the Company or the Employer made any recommendations regarding Optionee s participation in the Plan, or Optionee s
acquisition or sale of the underlying Shares. Optionee is hereby advised to consult with Optionee s own personal tax, legal and financial advisors regarding Optionee s participation in the Plan before taking any action related to the Plan.
      22.    Electronic Delivery  . The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to
Optionee s current or future participation in the Plan by electronic means or to request Optionee s consent to participate in the Plan by electronic means. Optionee hereby consents to receive such documents by electronic delivery and
agrees to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or a third party designated by the Company.       23.    Language  . If this Agreement or any other document related to the Plan is translated into a language other then English and the meaning of the translated version is different from
the English version, the English version will take precedence.       24.    Appendix  . Notwithstanding any provisions in this
Agreement, the Option shall be subject to any special terms and conditions set forth in any Appendix to this   
         10   

Agreement for Optionee s country of residence. Moreover, if Optionee relocates to one of the countries included in the Appendix, the special terms and conditions for such country will apply
to Optionee, to the extent the Company determines that the application of such terms and conditions is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local law or facilitate the administration of the Plan. The Appendix constitutes part of this
Agreement.       25.    Imposition of Other Requirements  . The Company reserves the right to impose other requirements on
Optionee s participation in the Plan, on the Option and on any Shares acquired under the Plan, to the extent the Company determines it is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local law or facilitate the administration of the Plan.
Optionee agrees to sign any additional agreements or undertakings that may be necessary to accomplish the foregoing. Furthermore, Optionee acknowledges that the laws of the country in which Optionee is working at the time of grant, vesting and
exercise of the Option or the sale of Shares received pursuant to this Agreement (including any rules or regulations governing securities, foreign exchange, tax, labor, or other matters) may subject Optionee to additional procedural or regulatory
requirements that Optionee is and will be solely responsible for and must fulfill.   
         11   

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.    
    STOCK GRANT AGREEMENT        This Stock Grant Agreement (the  Agreement ) is made and entered into as of the Grant Date (as defined below) by and between Cisco Systems, Inc., a California corporation (the
 Company ), and you pursuant to the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). The material terms of this Stock Grant Award are as follows:   

Employee ID:  

Grant Date:  

Grant Number:  

Restricted Shares:  

First Vest Date:  
      
                        , 20       (the first
annual anniversary of the vesting commencement date)   
    To the extent any capitalized terms used in this Agreement are not defined, they shall have the meaning ascribed to them
in the Plan. In the event of a conflict between the terms and provisions of the Plan and the terms and provisions of this Agreement, the Plan terms and provisions shall prevail.      In consideration of the mutual agreements herein contained and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties agree as follows:       1.    Restricted Shares  . Pursuant to the Plan, the Company hereby transfers to you, and you hereby accept from the Company, a Stock Grant Award consisting of the Restricted Shares, on
the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Plan.       2.    Vesting of Restricted Shares  . So long as your Service
continues, the Restricted Shares shall vest in accordance with the following schedule:                        percent
(      %) of the total number of Restricted Shares issued pursuant to this Agreement shall vest on the First Vest Date and on each annual anniversary thereafter, unless otherwise provided by the Plan or Section 3 below. In
the event of the termination of your Service for any reason, all unvested Restricted Shares shall be immediately forfeited without consideration. For purposes of facilitating the enforcement of the provisions of this Section 2, the Company may issue
stop-transfer instructions on the Restricted Shares to the Company s transfer agent, or otherwise hold the Restricted Shares in escrow, until the Restricted Shares have vested and you have satisfied all applicable obligations with respect to
the Restricted Shares, including any applicable tax withholding obligations set forth in Section 5 below. Any new, substituted or additional securities or other property which is issued or distributed with respect to the unvested Restricted Shares
shall be subject to the same terms and conditions as are applicable to the unvested Restricted Shares under this Agreement and the Plan.   
   3.    Special Acceleration   .       (a) To the extent the Restricted Shares are outstanding at the time of a Corporate Transaction, but not otherwise fully vested, such Restricted Shares shall automatically accelerate immediately prior to
the effective date of the Corporate Transaction and shall become vested in full at that time. No such acceleration, however, shall occur if   

and to the extent: (i) this Stock Grant Agreement is, in connection with the Corporate
Transaction, assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof), or (ii) the Restricted Shares are replaced with a cash incentive program of the successor corporation which preserves the Fair Market Value of the Restricted Shares at the time
of the Corporate Transaction and provides for subsequent pay-out in accordance with the vesting schedule set forth in Section 2 above.      (b) Immediately following the effective date of the Corporate Transaction, this Stock Grant Agreement shall terminate and cease to be outstanding, except to the extent assumed by the successor corporation
(or parent thereof) in connection with the Corporate Transaction.      (c) If this Stock Grant Agreement is assumed in connection
with a Corporate Transaction, then the Committee shall appropriately adjust the number of shares and the kind of shares or securities covered by this Stock Grant Agreement immediately after such Corporate Transaction.   
  (d) To the extent the Restricted Shares are outstanding at the time of a Change in Control but not otherwise fully vested, such
Restricted Shares shall automatically accelerate immediately prior to the effective date of the Change in Control and shall become vested in full at that time.      (e) This Stock Grant Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Company to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate,
dissolve, liquidate, sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets.       4.    Restriction on Election to Recognize Income
in the Year of Grant  . Under Section 83 of the Code, the Fair Market Value of the Restricted Shares on the date the Restricted Shares vest will be taxable as ordinary income at that time. You understand, acknowledge and agree that, as a
condition to the grant of this Award, you may not elect to be taxed at the time the Restricted Shares are acquired by filing an election under Section 83(b) of the Code with the Internal Revenue Service.   
   5.    Withholding Taxes  . You agree to make arrangements satisfactory to the Company for the satisfaction of any applicable withholding
tax obligations that arise in connection with the Restricted Shares which, at the sole discretion of the Company, may include (i) having the Company withhold Shares from the Restricted Shares held in escrow, or (ii) any other arrangement approved by
the Company, in any case, equal in value to the amount necessary to satisfy any such withholding tax obligation. Such Shares shall be valued based on the Fair Market Value as of the day prior to the date that the amount of tax to be withheld is to
be determined under applicable law. The Company shall not be required to release the Restricted Shares from the stop-transfer instructions or escrow unless and until such obligations are satisfied.   
   6.    Tax Advice  . You represent, warrant and acknowledge that the Company has made no warranties or representations to you with respect
to the income tax consequences of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and you are in no manner relying on the Company or the Company s representatives for an assessment of such tax consequences.   
         2   

YOU UNDERSTAND THAT THE TAX LAWS AND REGULATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGE. YOU SHOULD CONSULT YOUR OWN TAX
ADVISOR REGARDING ANY STOCK GRANT AWARD. NOTHING STATED HEREIN IS INTENDED OR WRITTEN TO BE USED, AND CANNOT BE USED, FOR THE PURPOSE OF AVOIDING TAXPAYER PENALTIES.       7.    Non-Transferability of Restricted Shares  . Restricted Shares which have not vested pursuant to Section 2 above shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned,
transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by the operation of law. However, this Section 7 shall not preclude you from designating a beneficiary who will receive any vested Restricted Shares
in the event of the your death, nor shall it preclude a transfer of vested Restricted Shares by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.       8.    Restriction on Transfer  . Regardless of whether the transfer or issuance of the Restricted Shares has been registered under the Securities Act or has been registered or qualified
under the securities laws of any state, the Company may impose additional restrictions upon the sale, pledge, or other transfer of the Restricted Shares (including the placement of appropriate legends on stock certificates and the issuance of
stop-transfer instructions to the Company s transfer agent) if, in the judgment of the Company and the Company s counsel, such restrictions are necessary in order to achieve compliance with the provisions of the Securities Act, the
securities laws of any state, or any other law.       9.    Stock Certificate Restrictive Legends   .  Stock certificates
evidencing the Restricted Shares may bear such restrictive legends as the Company and the Company s counsel deem necessary under applicable law or pursuant to this Agreement.       10.    Representations, Warranties, Covenants, and Acknowledgments  . You hereby agree that in the event the Company and the Company s counsel deem it necessary or advisable in the
exercise of their discretion, the transfer or issuance of the Restricted Shares may be conditioned upon you making certain representations, warranties, and acknowledgments relating to compliance with applicable securities laws.   
   11.    Voting and Other Rights  . Subject to the terms of this Agreement, you shall have all the rights and privileges of a shareholder
of the Company while the Restricted Shares are subject to stop-transfer instructions, or otherwise held in escrow, including the right to vote and to receive dividends (if any).       12.    Authorization to Release Necessary Personal Information  .   
  (a) You hereby authorize and direct your employer to collect, use and transfer in electronic or other form, any personal information (the
 Data ) regarding your employment, the nature and amount of your compensation and the facts and conditions of your participation in the Plan (including, but not limited to, your name, home address, telephone number, date of birth, social
security number (or any other social or national identification number), salary, nationality, job title, number of Shares held and the details of all Awards or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, cancelled, exercised, vested, unvested or
outstanding) for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. You understand that the Data may be transferred to the Company or   
         3   

any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, including any requisite transfer to a broker or other third party
assisting with the administration of this Stock Grant Award under the Plan or with whom Shares acquired pursuant to this Stock Grant Award or cash from the sale of such shares may be deposited. You acknowledge that recipients of the Data may be
located in different countries, and those countries may have data privacy laws and protections different from those in the country of your residence. Furthermore, you acknowledge and understand that the transfer of the Data to the Company or any of
its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties is necessary for your participation in the Plan.      (b) You may at any time withdraw
the consents herein by contacting your local human resources representative in writing. You further acknowledge that withdrawal of consent may affect your ability to exercise or realize benefits from this Stock Grant Award, and your ability to
participate in the Plan.       13.    No Entitlement or Claims for Compensation  .   
  (a) Your rights, if any, in respect of or in connection with this Stock Grant Award or any other Award is derived solely from the
discretionary decision of the Company to permit you to participate in the Plan and to benefit from a discretionary Award. By accepting this Stock Grant Award, you expressly acknowledge that there is no obligation on the part of the Company to
continue the Plan and/or grant any additional Awards to you. This Stock Grant Award is not intended to be compensation of a continuing or recurring nature, or part of your normal or expected compensation, and in no way represents any portion of a
your salary, compensation, or other remuneration for purposes of pension benefits, severance, redundancy, resignation or any other purpose.      (b) Neither the Plan nor this Stock Grant Award or any other Award granted under the Plan shall be deemed to give you a right to remain an Employee, Consultant or director of the Company, a Parent, a
Subsidiary or an Affiliate. The Company and its Parents and Subsidiaries and Affiliates reserve the right to terminate your Service at any time, with or without cause, and for any reason, subject to applicable laws, the Company s Articles 
 of Incorporation   and Bylaws and a written employment agreement (if any), and you shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived any claim to damages or specific performance for breach of contract or dismissal, compensation for loss of office,
tort or otherwise with respect to the Plan, this Stock Grant Award or any outstanding Award that is forfeited and/or is terminated by its terms or to any future Award.      (c) You agree that the Company may require that Restricted Shares be held by a broker designated by the Company. In addition, you agree that your rights hereunder shall be subject to set-off by the
Company for any valid debts you owe the Company.       14.    Governing Law  . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in
accordance with the laws of the State of California without regard to the conflict of laws principles thereof.       15. 
  Notices  . Any notice required or permitted under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed sufficient when delivered personally or sent by   
         4   

confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the U.S. mail, as certified or registered mail, with postage prepaid, and addressed to the Company at the
Company s principal corporate offices or to you at the address maintained for you in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently modified by written notice to the other party.   
   16.    Binding Effect  . Subject to the limitations set forth in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be binding upon, and inure to the
benefit of, the executors, administrators, heirs, legal representatives, successors, and assigns of the parties hereto.       17. 
  Severability  . If any provision of this Agreement is held to be unenforceable for any reason, it shall be adjusted rather than voided, if possible, in order to achieve the intent of the parties to the extent possible. In any event, all
other provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed valid and enforceable to the full extent possible.   
         5   

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.    
    PERFORMANCE-BASED STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT        This Performance-Based Stock Unit Agreement (the  Agreement ) is made and entered into as of the Grant Date (as defined below) by and between Cisco Systems, Inc., a California corporation (the
 Company ), and you pursuant to the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). The material terms of this Stock Unit Award are as follows:   

Employee ID:  

Grant Date:  

Grant Number:  

Target Amount of  
  Performance-Based Stock Units:     

Vest Date:  

To the extent any capitalized terms used in this Agreement are not defined, they shall have the meaning
ascribed to them in the Plan. In the event of a conflict between the terms and provisions of the Plan and the terms and provisions of this Agreement, the Plan terms and provisions shall prevail.   
  In consideration of the mutual agreements herein contained and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties agree as follows:
     1.   Performance-Based Stock Units  . Pursuant to the Plan, the Company hereby grants to you, [subject to the
approval by the stockholders of the Company of the amendment and restatement of the Plan,] and you hereby accept from the Company, Performance-Based Stock Units, each of which is a bookkeeping entry representing the equivalent in value of one
(1) Share, on the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Plan. The Target Amount of Performance-Based Stock Units stated above reflects the target number of Performance-Based Stock Units (the  Target Amount ). The number of
Performance-Based Stock Units ultimately paid out to you will range from               % to               % of the
Target Amount as determined based upon the Company s performance during the performance period against the performance goals as set forth in  Exhibit A .      2.   Vesting of Performance-Based Stock Units  . So long as your Service continues and subject to, and to the extent of, the satisfaction of the performance goals as set forth in  Exhibit
A , the Performance-Based Stock Units shall vest in accordance with the following schedule:
                                  
(              %) of the total number of Performance-Based Stock Units earned, if any, pursuant to the satisfaction of the performance goals in  Exhibit A  shall vest on the
Vest Date, unless otherwise provided by the Plan or Sections 3(b) or 4 below. If you take a leave of absence, the Company may, at its discretion and to the extent permitted under applicable local law, either suspend vesting during the period of
leave or pro-rate the Performance-Based Stock Units, notwithstanding the Company s Vesting Policy for Leaves of Absence. Prior to the time   

that the Performance-Based Stock Units are settled, you shall have no rights other than those of a general creditor of the Company. The Performance-Based Stock Units represent an unfunded and
unsecured obligation of the Company.      3.   Termination of Service  .   
  (a) Except as otherwise provided in Section 3(b) below or Section 4, in the event of the termination of your Service for any
reason (whether or not in breach of local labor laws), all unvested Performance-Based Stock Units shall be immediately forfeited without consideration. For purposes of the preceding sentence, your right to vest in the Performance-Based Stock Units
will terminate effective as of the date that you are no longer actively providing Service (or earlier upon your  Separation from Service  within the meaning of Code Section 409A) and will not be extended by any notice period mandated
under local law ( e.g. , active Service would not include a period of  garden leave  or similar period pursuant to local law); the Company shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when you are no longer actively providing
Service for purposes of the Performance-Based Stock Units.      (b) In the event that you resign or your Service is terminated for
any reason other than Cause on or after the date that (x) you have attained at least                           
(              ) years of age and (y) your years of Service is at least equal to
                           (             ) , and so long
such resignation or the termination of your Service occurs no earlier than the                    anniversary of the Grant Date (the satisfaction of the
aforementioned conditions is referred to herein as  Retirement    1   ), all unvested Performance-Based Stock Units may be earned pursuant to the satisfaction of the performance goals in  Exhibit A , shall vest in accordance with the vesting schedule set forth in
Section 2 above determined as if your Service had continued and shall be settled in accordance with Section 5(a); provided that any unsettled or unvested Performance-Based Stock Units shall be forfeited without consideration immediately
upon the breach of any of the following conditions:      (i) Unless prohibited by applicable law, you shall render, as an
independent advisor or consultant and not as an Employee, such advisory or consulting services to the Company (or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate) as shall reasonably be requested by the Company (or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate), and such
services shall not be terminated for Cause (for purposes of clarity, any request to provide such advisory or consulting services to the Company (or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate) shall not be considered a continuation of  Service 
unless the Company specifically provides that the continuation of services is a continuation of  Service  for purposes of this Section 3(b)).      (ii) For a period of                (          ) beginning on the date of your termination of
Service or during any period in which you provide independent advisory or consulting services to the Company (or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate), you shall not directly or indirectly, individually or on behalf of other persons or entities,
intentionally solicit or induce (a) any           

1      
          If you are subject to the employment protections of a country within the European Economic Area because you reside in such country or are otherwise subject thereto,  Retirement  shall mean your
years of Service is at least equal to                           
(              ), regardless of your age, and the provisions concerning Retirement shall apply to you so long as the termination of your Service occurs no earlier than the one-year
anniversary of the Grant Date. In all cases, years of Service shall be determined based on the date you originally provided Service. If you previously terminated Service, but subsequently returned to Service prior to the Grant Date, you will receive
credit for your prior Service.      
         2   

employee of the Company (or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate) to leave the employee s employment in order to accept employment with another person or entity or (b) any customer of
the Company (or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate) with whom you have worked in your capacity as an Employee prior to your termination of Service whose identity and/or any related information constitutes protected trade secrets (with such
customers determined as of the date of the termination of your Service, to retain or use any other person or entity for the purpose of rendering services in competition with the Company (or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate) or to purchase
products from any business which, in the opinion of the Company (or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate), competes with or is in conflict with the interests of the Company (or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate), in either case, unless these
restrictions are prohibited (whether in whole or in part) by applicable law.      (iii) For a period of
           (          ) beginning on the date of your termination of Service or during any period in which you provide independent advisory or consulting
services to the Company (or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate), you shall not render services for any organization or engage directly or indirectly in any business which, in the opinion of the Company, competes with or is in conflict with the
interests of the Company (or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate), unless this restriction is prohibited by applicable law.   
  (iv) You shall not, without prior written authorization from the Company, use or disclose any confidential information or trade secrets
concerning the Company (or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate), in each case as determined by the Committee, and the Committee s determination shall be conclusive and binding.   
  (c) Notwithstanding any provisions to the contrary in this Agreement, in the event of the termination of your Service for Cause or in the
event of the termination for Cause of any independent advisory or consulting services you may be providing as described in Section 3(b)(i), any unsettled or unvested Performance-Based Stock Units shall terminate and be forfeited immediately
without consideration.      4.   Special Acceleration  .   
  (a) To the extent the Performance-Based Stock Units are outstanding at the time of a Corporate Transaction, such Performance-Based Stock
Units shall automatically become vested in full at the Target Amount immediately prior to the effective date of the Corporate Transaction and settled in accordance with Section 5 below. No such accelerated vesting, however, shall occur if and
to the extent: (i) these Performance-Based Stock Units are, in connection with the Corporate Transaction, either assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or replaced with comparable performance-based stock units of the successor
corporation (or parent thereof), in each case, having a minimum payout equal to the Target Amount and preserving the settlement provisions set forth in Section 5 below or (ii) these Performance-Based Stock Units are replaced with a cash
incentive program of the successor corporation which complies with Code Section 409A and, at a minimum, preserves the fair market value of the Performance-Based Stock Units at the time of the Corporate Transaction (based on the Target Amount)
and provides for subsequent pay-out in accordance with the settlement provisions set forth in Section 5 below. The determination of the comparability of   
         3   

performance-based stock units under clause (i) shall be made by the Committee, and such determination shall be final, binding and conclusive.   
  (b) Immediately following the effective date of the Corporate Transaction, this Agreement shall terminate and cease to be outstanding,
except as set forth in Section 5 below with respect to the settlement of Performance-Based Stock Units or to the extent assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) in connection with the Corporate Transaction.   
  (c) If this Agreement is assumed in connection with a Corporate Transaction, then the Committee shall appropriately adjust the number of
units and the kind of shares or securities to be issued pursuant to this Agreement immediately after such Corporate Transaction.      (d) To the extent the Performance-Based Stock Units are outstanding at the time of a Change in Control, such Performance-Based Stock Units shall automatically accelerate immediately prior to the effective
date of the Change in Control and shall become vested in full at the Target Amount at that time and settled in accordance with Section 5 below.      (e) This Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Company to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve,
liquidate, sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets.      5.   Settlement of Performance-Based Stock
Units  .      (a)  General Settlement Terms . The Performance-Based Stock Units, to the extent earned and vested
hereunder (including, without limitation by reason of Retirement), shall be automatically settled in Shares on the Vest Date (which constitutes a fixed payment date for purposes of Code Section 409A) or, if earlier, upon the earliest to occur
of the settlement events set forth below or in the Company s Vesting Acceleration Policy for Death and Terminal Illness; it being understood that nothing herein shall limit the Company s ability to amend or terminate such policy in its
sole discretion and without your consent.      (b)  Corporate Transaction . If, as of the Grant Date, you have not satisfied
and it is not possible for you to satisfy the age and Service Retirement conditions with respect to this Performance-Based Stock Unit award and this Performance-Based Stock Unit award is not assumed or replaced as described in Section 4(a) in
connection with a Corporate Transaction, then the Performance-Based Stock Units shall be automatically settled in Shares immediately prior to the effective date of the Corporate Transaction instead of on the Vest Date.   
  (c)  Change in Control . In the event a Change in Control is consummated prior to the Vest Date and such Change in Control is a
permissible distribution event under Code Section 409A, the Performance-Based Stock Units shall be automatically settled in Shares immediately prior to the effective date of the Change in Control. In the event such Change in Control is not a
permissible distribution event under Code Section 409A, the Performance-Based Stock Units shall be automatically settled in Shares upon the earlier of (i) the Vest Date or (ii) your Separation from Service that occurs immediately
prior to or at any time after such Change in Control. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if, as of the Grant Date, you have not satisfied and it is not possible for you to satisfy the age and Service Retirement conditions with respect to this
  
         4   

Performance-Based Stock Unit award, then such settlement shall in all cases occur immediately prior the effective date of the Change in Control.   
  (d) The Company shall have no obligation to issue Shares pursuant to this Agreement unless and until you have satisfied any applicable
tax and/or other obligations pursuant to Section 6 below and such issuance otherwise complies with all applicable law.   
  (e) Notwithstanding anything in this Section 5 or in this Agreement, to the extent your Performance-Based Stock Units would
otherwise be settled upon your Separation from Service, such settlement shall instead occur upon the Company s first business day following the six-month anniversary of your Separation from Service.   
  6.   Taxes  .      (a) Regardless of any action the Company or your employer (the  Employer ) takes with respect to any and all income tax, social taxes or insurance contributions, payroll tax, payment on account
or other tax-related items related to your participation in the Plan and legally applicable to you ( Tax-Related Items ), you acknowledge that the ultimate liability for all Tax-Related Items with respect to the Performance-Based Stock
Units is and remains your responsibility and may exceed the amount actually withheld by the Company or the Employer. You further acknowledge that the Company and/or the Employer (i) make no representations or undertakings regarding the
treatment of any Tax-Related Items in connection with any aspect of the Performance-Based Stock Units, including the grant, vesting or settlement of the Performance-Based Stock Units, or the subsequent sale of any Shares acquired at vesting or the
receipt of any dividends with respect to such Shares; and (ii) do not commit to and are under no obligation to structure the terms or any aspect of the Performance-Based Stock Units to reduce or eliminate your liability for Tax-Related Items or
achieve any particular tax result. Further, if you become subject to taxation in more than one jurisdiction between the Grant Date and the date of any relevant taxable event, you acknowledge that the Company and/or the Employer (or former employer,
as applicable) may be required to withhold or account for Tax-Related Items in more than one jurisdiction.      (b) Prior to any
relevant tax, withholding or required deduction event, as applicable, you agree to make arrangements satisfactory to the Company for the satisfaction of any applicable tax, withholding, required deduction and payment on account obligations of the
Company and/or the Employer that arise in connection with the Performance-Based Stock Units. In this regard, you authorize the Company and/or the Employer, or their respective agents, at their discretion, to satisfy any obligations related to
Tax-Related Items by one or a combination of the following: (1) withholding from your wages or other cash compensation payable to you by the Company or the Employer; (2) withholding from proceeds of the sale of Shares acquired upon
settlement of the Performance-Based Stock Units either through a voluntary sale or through a mandatory sale arranged by the Company (on your behalf pursuant to this authorization); (3) withholding of Shares that would otherwise be issued upon
settlement of the Performance-Based Stock Units; or (4) requiring you to satisfy the liability for Tax-Related Items by means of any other arrangement approved by the Company. If the obligation for Tax-Related Items is satisfied by withholding
of Shares, for tax purposes, you are deemed to have been issued the full number of Shares subject to the vested Performance-Based Stock Units, notwithstanding that a number of   
         5   

the Shares are held back solely for the purpose of paying the Tax-Related Items due as a result of any aspect of your participation in the Plan. To avoid financial accounting charges under
applicable accounting guidance, the Company may withhold or account for Tax-Related Items by considering applicable minimum statutory rates or may take any other action required to avoid financial accounting charges under applicable accounting
guidance.      (c) Finally, you will pay to the Company or the Employer any amount of Tax-Related Items that the Company or the
Employer may be required to withhold or account for as a result of your participation in the Plan or your acquisition of Shares that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described. The Company shall not be required to issue or deliver Shares
pursuant to this Agreement unless and until such obligations are satisfied.      7.   Tax and Legal Advice  . You
represent, warrant and acknowledge that neither the Company nor your Employer have made any warranties or representations to you with respect to any Tax-Related Items, legal or financial consequences of the transactions contemplated by this
Agreement, and you are in no manner relying on the Company, your Employer s or the Company s or the Employer s representatives for an assessment of such consequences. YOU UNDERSTAND THAT THE LAWS GOVERNING THIS AWARD ARE SUBJECT TO
CHANGE. YOU SHOULD CONSULT YOUR OWN PROFESSIONAL TAX, LEGAL AND FINANCIAL ADVISOR REGARDING ANY PERFORMANCE-BASED STOCK UNITS. YOU UNDERSTAND THAT THE COMPANY AND YOUR EMPLOYER ARE NOT PROVIDING ANY TAX, LEGAL, OR FINANCIAL ADVICE, NOR IS THE
COMPANY OR YOUR EMPLOYER MAKING ANY RECOMMENDATION REGARDING YOUR ACCEPTANCE OF THIS AWARD. NOTHING STATED HEREIN IS INTENDED OR WRITTEN TO BE USED, AND CANNOT BE USED, FOR THE PURPOSE OF AVOIDING TAXPAYER OR OTHER PENALTIES.   
  8.   Non-Transferability of Performance-Based Stock Units  . Performance-Based Stock Units shall not be anticipated, assigned,
attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by operation of law.      9.   Restriction on Transfer  . Regardless of whether the transfer or issuance of the Shares to be issued pursuant to the Performance-Based Stock Units has been registered under the Securities
Act or has been registered or qualified under the securities laws of any state, the Company may impose additional restrictions upon the sale, pledge, or other transfer of the Shares (including the placement of appropriate legends on stock
certificates and the issuance of stop-transfer instructions to the Company s transfer agent) if, in the judgment of the Company and the Company s counsel, such restrictions are necessary in order to achieve compliance with the provisions
of the Securities Act, the securities laws of any state, or any other law including all applicable foreign laws.      10.
  Restrictive Legends and Stop-Transfer Instructions  . Stock certificates evidencing the Shares issued pursuant to the Performance-Based Stock Units may bear such restrictive legends and/or appropriate stop-transfer instructions may be
issued to the Company s transfer agent as the Company and the Company s counsel deem necessary under applicable law or pursuant to this Agreement.   
         6   

11.   Representations, Warranties, Covenants, and Acknowledgments  . You hereby
agree that in the event the Company and the Company s counsel deem it necessary or advisable in the exercise of their discretion, the transfer or issuance of the Shares issued pursuant to the Performance-Based Stock Units may be conditioned
upon you making certain representations, warranties, and acknowledgments relating to compliance with applicable laws.      12.
  Voting and Other Rights  . Subject to the terms of this Agreement, you shall not have any voting rights or any other rights and privileges of a stockholder of the Company unless and until the Performance-Based Stock Units are settled in
Shares. In addition, you shall not have any rights to dividend equivalent payments with respect to Performance-Based Stock Units.      13.   Authorization to Release and Transfer Necessary Personal Information  .          (a)   You hereby explicitly and unambiguously consent to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of your personal information as described in this Agreement by and
among, as applicable, the Employer, and the Company and its Parent, Subsidiaries and Affiliates for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan.     
      (b)   You understand that the Company and the Employer may hold certain personal information about you, including, but
not limited to, your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number (or any other social or national identification number), salary, nationality, job title, residency status, any Shares or directorships held in the
Company, details of all Performance-Based Stock Units or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding (the  Data ) for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing your
participation in the Plan. You understand that Data may be transferred to the Company or any of its Parent, Subsidiaries or Affiliates, or to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, that these
recipients may be located in your country or elsewhere, including outside the European Economic Area, and that the recipient s country (e.g., the United States) may have different data privacy laws and protections than your country. You
understand that you may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting your local human resources representative. You authorize the recipients to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data,
in electronic or other form, for the sole purposes of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data to a broker or other third party assisting with the administration of these
Performance-Based Stock Units under the Plan or with whom Shares acquired pursuant to these Performance-Based Stock Units or cash from the sale of such Shares may be deposited. Furthermore, you acknowledge and understand that the transfer of the
Data to the Company or any of its Parent, Subsidiaries or Affiliates, or to any third parties is necessary for your participation in the Plan.            (c)   You understand that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage your participation in the Plan. You understand that you may, at any time,
view the Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of the Data, require any necessary amendments to the Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein by contacting your local human resources representative in writing.
You     
         7   

further acknowledge that withdrawal of consent may affect your ability to vest in or realize benefits from these Performance-Based Stock Units, and your ability to participate in the Plan. For
more information on the consequences of your refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, you understand that you may contact your local human resources representative.     
  14.   No Entitlement or Claims for Compensation  .      (a) Your rights, if any, in respect of or in connection with these Performance-Based Stock Units or any other Award are derived solely from the discretionary decision of the Company to permit you to
participate in the Plan and to benefit from a discretionary Award. The Plan may be amended, suspended or terminated by the Company at any time, unless otherwise provided in the Plan and this Agreement. By accepting these Performance-Based Stock
Units, you expressly acknowledge that there is no obligation on the part of the Company to continue the Plan and/or grant any additional Performance-Based Stock Units to you or benefits in lieu of Restricted Stock Units, even if Performance-Based
Stock Units have been granted repeatedly in the past. All decisions with respect to future grants of Performance-Based Stock Units, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Committee.   
  (b) The Performance-Based Stock Units and the Shares subject to the Performance-Based Stock Units are not intended to replace any pension
rights or compensation and are not to be considered compensation of a continuing or recurring nature, or part of your normal or expected compensation, and in no way represent any portion of your salary, compensation or other remuneration for any
purpose, including but not limited to, calculating any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy, dismissal, end of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits or similar payments, and in no event should be
considered as compensation for, or relating in any way to, past services for the Company, the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate. The value of the Performance-Based Stock Units is an extraordinary item that does not constitute
compensation of any kind for services of any kind rendered to the Company, the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate and which is outside the scope of your written employment agreement (if any).   
  (c) You acknowledge that you are voluntarily participating in the Plan.   
  (d) Neither the Plan nor these Performance-Based Stock Units or any other Award granted under the Plan shall be deemed to give you a
right to remain an Employee, Consultant or director of the Company, a Parent, Subsidiary or an Affiliate. The Employer reserves the right to terminate your Service at any time, with or without cause, and for any reason, subject to applicable laws,
the Company s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws, and a written employment agreement (if any).      (e) The grant of the
Performance-Based Stock Units and your participation in the Plan will not be interpreted to form an employment contract or relationship with the Company, the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate.   
  (f) The future value of the underlying Shares is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty and if you vest in the Performance-Based
Stock Units and are issued Shares, the value of those Shares may increase or decrease. You also understand that neither the   
         8   

Company, nor the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate is responsible for any foreign exchange fluctuation between your Employer s local currency and the United States Dollar that
may affect the value of this Award.      (g) In consideration of the grant of the Performance-Based Stock Units, no claim or
entitlement to compensation or damages shall arise from forfeiture of the Performance-Based Stock Units resulting from termination of your Service by the Company or the Employer (for any reason whatsoever and whether or not in breach of local labor
laws) or from the Company s determination that performance goals have not been satisfied in whole or in part and you irrevocably release the Company and the Employer from any such claim that may arise; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any
such claim is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to have arisen, you shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived your entitlement to pursue such claim.      (h) You agree that the Company may require Shares received pursuant to the Performance-Based Stock Units to be held by a broker designated by the Company.   
  (i) You agree that your rights hereunder (if any) shall be subject to set-off by the Company for any valid debts you owe the Company.
     (j) The Performance-Based Stock Units and the benefits under the Plan, if any, will not automatically transfer to another
company in the case of a merger, take-over or transfer of liability.      15.   Governing Law and Forum  . This
Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California without regard to the conflict of laws principles thereof. For purposes of litigating any dispute that may arise directly or indirectly from this
Agreement, the parties hereby submit and consent to litigation in the exclusive jurisdiction of the State of California and agree that any such litigation shall be conducted only in the courts of California or the federal courts for the United
States for the Northern District of California and no other courts.      16.   Notices  . Any notice required or
permitted under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed sufficient when delivered personally or sent by confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the mail, as certified or
registered mail, with postage prepaid, and addressed to the Company at the Company s principal corporate offices or to you at the address maintained for you in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently modified by written
notice to the other party.      17.   Binding Effect  . Subject to the limitations set forth in this Agreement, this
Agreement shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the executors, administrators, heirs, legal representatives, successors, and assigns of the parties hereto.      18.   Severability  . If any provision of this Agreement is held to be unenforceable for any reason, it shall be adjusted rather than voided, if possible, in order to achieve the intent of the
parties to the extent possible. In any event, all other provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed valid and enforceable to the full extent possible.   
         9   

19.   Electronic Delivery  . The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to
deliver any documents related to your current or future participation in the Plan by electronic means or to request your consent to participate in the Plan by electronic means. You hereby consent to receive such documents by electronic delivery and
agree to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or a third party designated by the Company.      20.   Language  . If this Agreement or any other document related to the Plan is translated into a language other than English and the meaning of the translated version is different from the
English version, the English version will take precedence.      21.   Appendix  . Notwithstanding any provisions in this
Agreement, the Performance-Based Stock Units shall be subject to any special terms and conditions set forth in any Appendix to this Agreement for your country of residence. Moreover, if you relocate to one of the countries included in the Appendix,
the special terms and conditions for such country will apply to you, to the extent the Company determines that the application of such terms and conditions is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local law or facilitate the administration
of the Plan. The Appendix constitutes part of this Agreement.      22.   Imposition of Other Requirements  .   The
Company reserves the right to impose other requirements on your participation in the Plan, on the Performance-Based Stock Units and on any Shares acquired under the Plan, to the extent the Company determines it is necessary or advisable in order to
comply with local law or facilitate the administration of the Plan. You agree to sign any additional agreements or undertakings that may be necessary to accomplish the foregoing. Furthermore, you acknowledge that the laws of the country in which you
are working at the time of grant, vesting and settlement of the Performance-Based Stock Units or the sale of Shares received pursuant to this Agreement (including any rules or regulations governing securities, foreign exchange, tax, labor, or other
matters) may subject you to additional procedural or regulatory requirements that you are and will be solely responsible for and must fulfill.      23.   Acceptance of Agreement  . You must expressly accept the terms and conditions of your Performance-Based Stock Units as set forth in this Agreement by electronically accepting this
Agreement within 300 days after the Company sends this Agreement to you. If you do not accept your Performance-Based Stock Units in the manner instructed by the Company, your Performance-Based Stock Units will be subject to cancellation.   
  *    *    *    *   
  You acknowledge that by clicking on the   I agree   button below, you agree to be bound by the terms of this Agreement.
      PLEASE PRINT AND KEEP A COPY FOR YOUR RECORDS    
         10   

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.    
    STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT        This Stock Unit Agreement (the  Agreement ) is made and entered into as of the Grant Date (as defined below) by and between Cisco Systems, Inc., a California corporation
(the  Company ), and you pursuant to the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). The material terms of this Stock Unit Award are as follows:   

Employee ID:  

Grant Date:  

Grant Number:  

Restricted Stock Units:  

First Vest Date:    

To the extent any capitalized terms used in this Agreement are not defined, they shall have the meaning
ascribed to them in the Plan. In the event of a conflict between the terms and provisions of the Plan and the terms and provisions of this Agreement, the Plan terms and provisions shall prevail.   
  In consideration of the mutual agreements herein contained and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties agree as follows:
     1.   Restricted Stock Units  . Pursuant to the Plan, the Company hereby grants to you, and you hereby accept from
the Company, Restricted Stock Units, each of which is a bookkeeping entry representing the equivalent in value of one (1) Share, on the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Plan.   
  2.   Vesting of Restricted Stock Units  . So long as your Service continues, the Restricted Stock Units shall vest in
accordance with the following schedule:                    (      %) of the total number of Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to
this Agreement shall vest on the First Vest Date and on each            anniversary thereafter, unless otherwise provided by the Plan or Section 4 below. If you take a leave of absence, the Company
may, at its discretion, suspend vesting during the period of leave to the extent permitted under applicable local law. Prior to the time that the Restricted Stock Units are settled, you shall have no rights other than those of a general creditor of
the Company. The Restricted Stock Units represent an unfunded and unsecured obligation of the Company.      3.   Termination
of Service  . In the event of the termination of your Service for any reason (whether or not in breach of local labor laws), all unvested Restricted Stock Units shall be immediately forfeited without consideration. For purposes of the
preceding sentence, your right to vest in the Restricted Stock Units will terminate effective as of the date that you are no longer   

actively providing Service and will not be extended by any notice period mandated under local law ( e.g. , active Service would not include a period of  garden leave  or similar
period pursuant to local law); the Company shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when you are no longer actively providing Service for purposes of the Restricted Stock Units.   
  4.   Special Acceleration  .      (a) To the extent the Restricted Stock Units are outstanding at the time of a Corporate Transaction, such Restricted Stock Units shall automatically become vested in full immediately prior to the
effective date of the Corporate Transaction. No such accelerated vesting, however, shall occur if and to the extent: (i) these Restricted Stock Units are, in connection with the Corporate Transaction, either assumed by the successor corporation
(or parent thereof) or replaced with comparable restricted stock units of the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or (ii) these Restricted Stock Units are replaced with a cash incentive program of the successor corporation which complies
with Code Section 409A and preserves the fair market value of the Restricted Stock Units at the time of the Corporate Transaction and provides for subsequent pay-out in accordance with the settlement provisions set forth in Section 5
below. The determination of the comparability of restricted stock units under clause (i) shall be made by the Committee, and such determination shall be final, binding and conclusive.   
  (b) Immediately following the effective date of the Corporate Transaction, this Agreement shall terminate and cease to be outstanding,
except as set forth in Section 5 below with respect to the deferred settlement of Restricted Stock Units or to the extent assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) in connection with the Corporate Transaction.   
  (c) If this Agreement is assumed in connection with a Corporate Transaction, then the Committee shall appropriately adjust the number of
units and the kind of shares or securities to be issued pursuant to this Agreement immediately after such Corporate Transaction.      (d) To the extent the Restricted Stock Units are outstanding at the time of a Change in Control, such Restricted Stock Units shall automatically accelerate immediately prior to the effective date of the
Change in Control and shall become vested in full at that time and settled in accordance with Section 5 below.      (e) This
Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Company to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate, sell or transfer all or any part of its business or
assets.      5.   Settlement of Restricted Stock Units  . To the extent you are eligible but have not elected to defer
settlement of the Restricted Stock Units, the Restricted Stock Units shall be automatically settled in Shares upon vesting of such Restricted Stock Units, provided that the Company shall have no obligation to issue Shares pursuant to this Agreement
unless and until you have satisfied any applicable tax and/or other obligations pursuant to Section 6 below and such issuance otherwise complies with all applicable law. To the extent you are eligible but have elected to defer settlement of the
Restricted Stock Units, the vested portion of the Restricted Stock Units shall be settled in Shares upon the earlier of: (a) your separation from service within the meaning of Code Section 409A ( Separation from Service ) and
(b) the fixed payment date elected by you, if any, at the time of such deferral (which shall be the first business day of a year no earlier than five years   
         2   

after the year of the Grant Date in accordance with procedures approved by the Committee), provided that the Company shall have no obligation to issue Shares pursuant to this Agreement unless
such issuance complies with all applicable law. Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the extent your Restricted Stock Units would otherwise be settled upon your Separation from Service, such settlement shall instead occur upon the Company s first
business day following the six-month anniversary of your Separation from Service.      6.   Taxes  .   
  (a) Regardless of any action the Company or your employer (the  Employer ) takes with respect to any and all income tax, social
taxes or insurance contributions, payroll tax, payment on account or other tax-related items related to your participation in the Plan and legally applicable to you ( Tax-Related Items ), you acknowledge that the ultimate liability for all
Tax-Related Items with respect to the Restricted Stock Units is and remains your responsibility and may exceed the amount actually withheld by the Company or the Employer. You further acknowledge that the Company and/or the Employer (i) make no
representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax-Related Items in connection with any aspect of the Restricted Stock Units, including the grant, vesting or settlement of the Restricted Stock Units, or the subsequent sale of any
Shares acquired at vesting or the receipt of any dividends with respect to such Shares; and (ii) do not commit to and are under no obligation to structure the terms or any aspect of the Restricted Stock Units to reduce or eliminate your
liability for Tax-Related Items or achieve any particular tax result. Further, if you become subject to taxation in more than one jurisdiction between the Grant Date and the date of any relevant taxable event, you acknowledge that the Company and/or
the Employer (or former employer, as applicable) may be required to withhold or account for Tax-Related Items in more than one jurisdiction.      (b) Prior to any relevant tax, withholding or required deduction event, as applicable, you agree to make arrangements satisfactory to the Company for the satisfaction of any applicable tax, withholding,
required deduction and payment on account obligations of the Company and/or the Employer that arise in connection with the Restricted Stock Units. In this regard, you authorize the Company and/or the Employer, or their respective agents, at their
discretion, to satisfy any obligations related to Tax-Related Items by one or a combination of the following: (1) withholding from your wages or other cash compensation payable to you by the Company or the Employer; (2) withholding from
proceeds of the sale of Shares acquired upon settlement of the Restricted Stock Units either through a voluntary sale or through a mandatory sale arranged by the Company (on your behalf pursuant to this authorization); (3) withholding of Shares
that would otherwise be issued upon settlement of the Restricted Stock Units; or (4) requiring you to satisfy the liability for Tax-Related Items by means of any other arrangement approved by the Company. If the obligation for Tax-Related Items
is satisfied by withholding of Shares, for tax purposes, you are deemed to have been issued the full number of Shares subject to the vested Restricted Stock Units, notwithstanding that a number of the Shares are held back solely for the purpose of
paying the Tax-Related Items due as a result of any aspect of your participation in the Plan. To avoid financial accounting charges under applicable accounting guidance, the Company may withhold or account for Tax-Related Items by considering
applicable minimum statutory rates or may take any other action required to avoid financial accounting charges under applicable accounting guidance.   
         3   

(c) Finally, you will pay to the Company or the Employer any amount of Tax-Related Items
that the Company or the Employer may be required to withhold or account for as a result of your participation in the Plan or your acquisition of Shares that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described. The Company shall not be required to
issue or deliver Shares pursuant to this Agreement unless and until such obligations are satisfied.      7.   Tax and Legal
Advice  . You represent, warrant and acknowledge that neither the Company nor your Employer have made any warranties or representations to you with respect to any Tax-Related Items, legal or financial consequences of the transactions
contemplated by this Agreement, and you are in no manner relying on the Company, your Employer s or the Company s or the Employer s representatives for an assessment of such consequences. YOU UNDERSTAND THAT THE LAWS GOVERNING THIS
AWARD ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGE. YOU SHOULD CONSULT YOUR OWN PROFESSIONAL TAX, LEGAL AND FINANCIAL ADVISOR REGARDING ANY RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS. YOU UNDERSTAND THAT THE COMPANY AND YOUR EMPLOYER ARE NOT PROVIDING ANY TAX, LEGAL, OR FINANCIAL ADVICE, NOR
IS THE COMPANY OR YOUR EMPLOYER MAKING ANY RECOMMENDATION REGARDING YOUR ACCEPTANCE OF THIS AWARD. NOTHING STATED HEREIN IS INTENDED OR WRITTEN TO BE USED, AND CANNOT BE USED, FOR THE PURPOSE OF AVOIDING TAXPAYER OR OTHER PENALTIES.   
  8.   Non-Transferability of Restricted Stock Units  . Restricted Stock Units shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached,
garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by operation of law.      9.   Restriction on Transfer  . Regardless of whether the transfer or issuance of the Shares to be issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units has been registered under the Securities Act or
has been registered or qualified under the securities laws of any state, the Company may impose additional restrictions upon the sale, pledge, or other transfer of the Shares (including the placement of appropriate legends on stock certificates and
the issuance of stop-transfer instructions to the Company s transfer agent) if, in the judgment of the Company and the Company s counsel, such restrictions are necessary in order to achieve compliance with the provisions of the Securities
Act, the securities laws of any state, or any other law including all applicable foreign laws.      10.   Restrictive Legends
and Stop-Transfer Instructions  . Stock certificates evidencing the Shares issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units may bear such restrictive legends and/or appropriate stop-transfer instructions may be issued to the Company s
transfer agent as the Company and the Company s counsel deem necessary under applicable law or pursuant to this Agreement.   
  11.   Representations, Warranties, Covenants, and Acknowledgments  . You hereby agree that in the event the Company and the
Company s counsel deem it necessary or advisable in the exercise of their discretion, the transfer or issuance of the Shares issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units may be conditioned upon you making certain representations, warranties,
and acknowledgments relating to compliance with applicable laws.   
         4   

12.   Voting and Other Rights  . Subject to the terms of this Agreement, you shall
not have any voting rights or any other rights and privileges of a stockholder of the Company unless and until the Restricted Stock Units are settled in Shares. In addition, you shall not have any rights to dividend equivalent payments with respect
to Restricted Stock Units.      13.   Authorization to Release and Transfer Necessary Personal Information  .
     (a)   You hereby explicitly and unambiguously consent to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of
your personal information as described in this Agreement by and among, as applicable, the Employer, and the Company and its Parent, Subsidiaries and Affiliates for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation
in the Plan.        (b)   You understand that the Company and the Employer may hold certain personal information about
you, including, but not limited to, your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number (or any other social or national identification number), salary, nationality, job title, residency status, any Shares or
directorships held in the Company, details of all Restricted Stock Units or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding (the  Data ) for the purpose of implementing, administering and
managing your participation in the Plan. You understand that Data may be transferred to the Company or any of its Parent, Subsidiaries or Affiliates, or to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan,
that these recipients may be located in your country or elsewhere, including outside the European Economic Area, and that the recipient s country (e.g., the United States) may have different data privacy laws and protections than your country.
You understand that you may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting your local human resources representative. You authorize the recipients to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the
Data, in electronic or other form, for the sole purposes of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data to a broker or other third party assisting with the administration of
these Restricted Stock Units under the Plan or with whom Shares acquired pursuant to these Restricted Stock Units or cash from the sale of such Shares may be deposited. Furthermore, you acknowledge and understand that the transfer of the Data to the
Company or any of its Parent, Subsidiaries or Affiliates, or to any third parties is necessary for your participation in the Plan.        (c)   You understand that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage your participation in the Plan. You understand that you may, at any time, view the Data,
request additional information about the storage and processing of the Data, require any necessary amendments to the Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein by contacting your local human resources representative in writing. You further
acknowledge that withdrawal of consent may affect your ability to vest in or realize benefits from these Restricted Stock Units, and your ability to participate in the Plan. For more information on the consequences of your refusal to consent or
withdrawal of consent, you understand that you may contact your local human resources representative.        14.   No
Entitlement or Claims for Compensation  .   
         5   

(a) Your rights, if any, in respect of or in connection with these Restricted Stock Units or
any other Award are derived solely from the discretionary decision of the Company to permit you to participate in the Plan and to benefit from a discretionary Award. The Plan may be amended, suspended or terminated by the Company at any time, unless
otherwise provided in the Plan and this Agreement. By accepting these Restricted Stock Units, you expressly acknowledge that there is no obligation on the part of the Company to continue the Plan and/or grant any additional Restricted Stock Units to
you or benefits in lieu of Restricted Stock Units, even if Restricted Stock Units have been granted repeatedly in the past. All decisions with respect to future grants of Restricted Stock Units, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the
Committee.      (b) The Restricted Stock Units and the Shares subject to the Restricted Stock Units are not intended to replace
any pension rights or compensation and are not to be considered compensation of a continuing or recurring nature, or part of your normal or expected compensation, and in no way represent any portion of your salary, compensation or other remuneration
for any purpose, including but not limited to, calculating any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy, dismissal, end of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits or similar payments, and in no event
should be considered as compensation for, or relating in any way to, past services for the Company, the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate. The value of the Restricted Stock Units is an extraordinary item that does not constitute
compensation of any kind for services of any kind rendered to the Company, the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate and which is outside the scope of your written employment agreement (if any).   
  (c) You acknowledge that you are voluntarily participating in the Plan.   
  (d) Neither the Plan nor these Restricted Stock Units or any other Award granted under the Plan shall be deemed to give you a right to
remain an Employee, Consultant or director of the Company, a Parent, Subsidiary or an Affiliate. The Employer reserves the right to terminate your Service at any time, with or without cause, and for any reason, subject to applicable laws, the
Company s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws, and a written employment agreement (if any).      (e) The grant of the
Restricted Stock Units and your participation in the Plan will not be interpreted to form an employment contract or relationship with the Company, the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate.   
  (f) The future value of the underlying Shares is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty and if you vest in the Restricted Stock
Units and are issued Shares, the value of those Shares may increase or decrease. You also understand that neither the Company, nor the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate is responsible for any foreign exchange fluctuation between your
Employer s local currency and the United States Dollar that may affect the value of this Award.      (g) In consideration of
the grant of the Restricted Stock Units, no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages shall arise from forfeiture of the Restricted Stock Units   
         6   

resulting from termination of your Service by the Company or the Employer (for any reason whatsoever and whether or not in breach of local labor laws) and you irrevocably release the Company and
the Employer from any such claim that may arise; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to have arisen, you shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived your entitlement to pursue such claim.
     (h) You agree that the Company may require Shares received pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units to be held by a broker
designated by the Company.      (i) You agree that your rights hereunder (if any) shall be subject to set-off by the Company for
any valid debts you owe the Company.      (j) The Restricted Stock Units and the benefits under the Plan, if any, will not
automatically transfer to another company in the case of a merger, take-over or transfer of liability.      15.   Governing
Law and Forum  . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California without regard to the conflict of laws principles thereof. For purposes of litigating any dispute that may arise directly
or indirectly from this Agreement, the parties hereby submit and consent to litigation in the exclusive jurisdiction of the State of California and agree that any such litigation shall be conducted only in the courts of California or the federal
courts for the United States for the Northern District of California and no other courts.      16.   Notices  . Any
notice required or permitted under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed sufficient when delivered personally or sent by confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the
mail, as certified or registered mail, with postage prepaid, and addressed to the Company at the Company s principal corporate offices or to you at the address maintained for you in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently
modified by written notice to the other party.      17.   Binding Effect  . Subject to the limitations set forth in this
Agreement, this Agreement shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the executors, administrators, heirs, legal representatives, successors, and assigns of the parties hereto.   
  18.   Severability  . If any provision of this Agreement is held to be unenforceable for any reason, it shall be adjusted
rather than voided, if possible, in order to achieve the intent of the parties to the extent possible. In any event, all other provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed valid and enforceable to the full extent possible.   
  19.   Electronic Delivery  . The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to your current
or future participation in the Plan by electronic means or to request your consent to participate in the Plan by electronic means. You hereby consent to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agree to participate in the Plan through an
on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or a third party designated by the Company.   
         7   

20.   Language  . If this Agreement or any other document related to the Plan is
translated into a language other than English and the meaning of the translated version is different from the English version, the English version will take precedence.      21.   Appendix  . Notwithstanding any provisions in this Agreement, the Restricted Stock Units shall be subject to any special terms and conditions set forth in any Appendix to this Agreement
for your country of residence. Moreover, if you relocate to one of the countries included in the Appendix, the special terms and conditions for such country will apply to you, to the extent the Company determines that the application of such terms
and conditions is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local law or facilitate the administration of the Plan. The Appendix constitutes part of this Agreement.      22.   Imposition of Other Requirements  .   The Company reserves the right to impose other requirements on your participation in the Plan, on the Restricted Stock Units and on any Shares
acquired under the Plan, to the extent the Company determines it is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local law or facilitate the administration of the Plan. You agree to sign any additional agreements or undertakings that may be
necessary to accomplish the foregoing. Furthermore, you acknowledge that the laws of the country in which you are working at the time of grant, vesting and settlement of the Restricted Stock Units or the sale of Shares received pursuant to this
Agreement (including any rules or regulations governing securities, foreign exchange, tax, labor, or other matters) may subject you to additional procedural or regulatory requirements that you are and will be solely responsible for and must fulfill.
     23.   Acceptance of Agreement  . You must expressly accept the terms and conditions of your Restricted Stock Units
as set forth in this Agreement by electronically accepting this Agreement within 300 days after the Company sends this Agreement to you. If you do not accept your Restricted Stock Units in the manner instructed by the Company, your Restricted Stock
Units will be subject to cancellation.      *    *    *    *
     You acknowledge that by clicking on the   I agree   button below, you agree to be bound by the terms of this
Agreement.       PLEASE PRINT AND KEEP A COPY FOR YOUR RECORDS    
         8   

(For Grants Prior to September 2010)    
   CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.         STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT        This Stock Unit Agreement (the  Agreement ) is made
and entered into as of the Grant Date (as defined below) by and between Cisco Systems, Inc., a California corporation (the  Company ), and you pursuant to the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). The
material terms of this Stock Unit Award are as follows:       

Employee ID:                      

Grant Date:                      

Grant Number:                      

Restricted Stock
Units:                                         

First Vest Date:                    

To the extent any capitalized terms used in this Agreement are not defined, they shall have the meaning ascribed to them
in the Plan. In the event of a conflict between the terms and provisions of the Plan and the terms and provisions of this Agreement, the Plan terms and provisions shall prevail.      In consideration of the mutual agreements herein contained and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties agree as follows:       1.    Restricted Stock Units  . Pursuant to the Plan, the Company hereby grants to you, and you hereby accept from the Company, Restricted Stock Units, each of which is a bookkeeping entry
representing the equivalent in value of one (1) Share, on the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Plan.       2. 
  Vesting of Restricted Stock Units  . So long as your Service continues, the Restricted Stock Units shall vest in accordance with the following schedule:
                       percent (      %) of the total number of Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to this
Agreement shall vest on the First Vest Date and on each                        anniversary thereafter, unless otherwise provided by the Plan or
Section 4 below. If you take a leave of absence, the Company may, at its discretion, suspend vesting during the period of leave to the extent permitted under applicable local law. Prior to the time that the Restricted Stock Units are settled
upon vesting, you shall have no rights other than those of a general creditor of the Company. The Restricted Stock Units represent an unfunded and unsecured obligation of the Company.       3.    Termination of Service  . In the event of the termination of your Service for any reason (whether or not in breach of local labor laws), all unvested Restricted Stock Units shall be
immediately forfeited without consideration. For purposes of the preceding sentence, your right to vest in the Restricted Stock Units will terminate effective as of the date that you are no longer

actively providing Service and will not be extended by any notice period mandated under local law ( e.g. , active Service would not include a period of  garden leave  or similar
period pursuant to local law); the Company shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when you are no longer actively providing Service for purposes of the Restricted Stock Units.       4.    Special Acceleration  .      (a) To the extent the Restricted
Stock Units are outstanding at the time of a Corporate Transaction, such Restricted Stock Units shall automatically accelerate immediately prior to the effective date of the Corporate Transaction and shall become vested in full at that time. No such
acceleration, however, shall occur if and to the extent: (i) these Restricted Stock Units are, in connection with the Corporate Transaction, either assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or replaced with comparable restricted
stock units of the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or (ii) these Restricted Stock Units are replaced with a cash incentive program of the successor corporation which preserves the fair market value of the Restricted Stock Units at the
time of the Corporate Transaction and provides for subsequent pay-out in accordance with the vesting schedule set forth in Section 2 above. The determination of the comparability of restricted stock units under clause (i) shall be made by
the Committee, and such determination shall be final, binding and conclusive.      (b) Immediately following the effective date of
the Corporate Transaction, this Agreement shall terminate and cease to be outstanding, except to the extent assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) in connection with the Corporate Transaction.   
  (c) If this Agreement is assumed in connection with a Corporate Transaction, then the Committee shall appropriately adjust the number of
units and the kind of shares or securities to be issued pursuant to this Agreement immediately after such Corporate Transaction.      (d) To the extent the Restricted Stock Units are outstanding at the time of a Change in Control, such Restricted Stock Units shall automatically accelerate immediately prior to the effective date of the
Change in Control and shall become vested in full at that time.      (e) This Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of
the Company to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate, sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets.   
   5.    Settlement of Restricted Stock Units  . Restricted Stock Units shall be automatically settled in Shares upon vesting of such
Restricted Stock Units, provided that the Company shall have no obligation to issue Shares pursuant to this Agreement unless and until you have satisfied any applicable tax and/or other obligations pursuant to Section 6 below and such issuance
otherwise complies with all applicable law.       6.    Taxes  .   
  (a) Regardless of any action the Company or your employer (the  Employer ) takes with respect to any and all income tax, social
taxes or insurance contributions, payroll tax, payment on account or other tax-related items related to your participation in the Plan and legally   
         2   

applicable to you ( Tax-Related Items ), you acknowledge that the ultimate liability for all Tax-Related Items with respect to the Restricted Stock Units is and remains your
responsibility and may exceed the amount actually withheld by the Company or the Employer. You further acknowledge that the Company and/or the Employer (i) make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax-Related Items
in connection with any aspect of the Restricted Stock Units, including the grant, vesting or settlement of the Restricted Stock Units, or the subsequent sale of any Shares acquired at vesting or the receipt of any dividends with respect to such
Shares; and (ii) do not commit to and are under no obligation to structure the terms or any aspect of the Restricted Stock Units to reduce or eliminate your liability for Tax-Related Items or achieve any particular tax result. Further, if you
become subject to taxation in more than one jurisdiction between the Grant Date and the date of any relevant taxable event, you acknowledge that the Company and/or the Employer (or former employer, as applicable) may be required to withhold or
account for Tax-Related Items in more than one jurisdiction.      (b) Prior to any relevant tax, withholding or required deduction
event, as applicable, you agree to make arrangements satisfactory to the Company for the satisfaction of any applicable tax, withholding, required deduction and payment on account obligations of the Company and/or the Employer that arise in
connection with the Restricted Stock Units. In this regard, you authorize the Company and/or the Employer, or their respective agents, at their discretion, to satisfy any obligations related to Tax-Related Items by one or a combination of the
following: (1) withholding from your wages or other cash compensation payable to you by the Company or the Employer; (2) withholding from proceeds of the sale of Shares acquired upon settlement of the Restricted Stock Units either through
a voluntary sale or through a mandatory sale arranged by the Company (on your behalf pursuant to this authorization); (3) withholding of Shares that would otherwise be issued upon settlement of the Restricted Stock Units; or (4) requiring
you to satisfy the liability for Tax-Related Items by means of any other arrangement approved by the Company. If the obligation for Tax-Related Items is satisfied by withholding of Shares, for tax purposes, you are deemed to have been issued the
full number of Shares subject to the vested Restricted Stock Units, notwithstanding that a number of the Shares are held back solely for the purpose of paying the Tax-Related Items due as a result of any aspect of your participation in the Plan. To
avoid financial accounting charges under applicable accounting guidance, the Company may withhold or account for Tax-Related Items by considering applicable minimum statutory rates or may take any other action required to avoid financial accounting
charges under applicable accounting guidance.      (c) Finally, you will pay to the Company or the Employer any amount of
Tax-Related Items that the Company or the Employer may be required to withhold or account for as a result of your participation in the Plan or your acquisition of Shares that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described. The Company shall
not be required to issue or deliver Shares pursuant to this Agreement unless and until such obligations are satisfied.       7.    Tax
and Legal Advice  . You represent, warrant and acknowledge that neither the Company nor your Employer have made any warranties or representations to you with respect to any Tax-Related Items, legal or financial consequences of the transactions
contemplated by this Agreement, and you are in no manner relying on the Company, your Employer s or the Company s or the Employer s representatives for an assessment of such consequences. YOU UNDERSTAND THAT THE LAWS GOVERNING THIS
AWARD ARE SUBJECT TO   
         3   

CHANGE. YOU SHOULD CONSULT YOUR OWN PROFESSIONAL TAX, LEGAL AND FINANCIAL ADVISOR REGARDING ANY RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS. YOU UNDERSTAND THAT THE COMPANY AND YOUR EMPLOYER ARE NOT PROVIDING ANY
TAX, LEGAL, OR FINANCIAL ADVICE, NOR IS THE COMPANY OR YOUR EMPLOYER MAKING ANY RECOMMENDATION REGARDING YOUR ACCEPTANCE OF THIS AWARD. NOTHING STATED HEREIN IS INTENDED OR WRITTEN TO BE USED, AND CANNOT BE USED, FOR THE PURPOSE OF AVOIDING TAXPAYER
OR OTHER PENALTIES.       8.    Non-Transferability of Restricted Stock Units  . Restricted Stock Units shall not be anticipated,
assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by operation of law.       9.    Restriction on Transfer  . Regardless of whether the transfer or issuance of the Shares to be issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units has been registered under the Securities
Act or has been registered or qualified under the securities laws of any state, the Company may impose additional restrictions upon the sale, pledge, or other transfer of the Shares (including the placement of appropriate legends on stock
certificates and the issuance of stop-transfer instructions to the Company s transfer agent) if, in the judgment of the Company and the Company s counsel, such restrictions are necessary in order to achieve compliance with the provisions
of the Securities Act, the securities laws of any state, or any other law including all applicable foreign laws.       10.    Restrictive
Legends and Stop-Transfer Instructions  . Stock certificates evidencing the Shares issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units may bear such restrictive legends and/or appropriate stop-transfer instructions may be issued to the
Company s transfer agent as the Company and the Company s counsel deem necessary under applicable law or pursuant to this Agreement.   
   11.    Representations, Warranties, Covenants, and Acknowledgments  . You hereby agree that in the event the Company and the
Company s counsel deem it necessary or advisable in the exercise of their discretion, the transfer or issuance of the Shares issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units may be conditioned upon you making certain representations, warranties,
and acknowledgments relating to compliance with applicable laws.       12.    Voting and Other Rights  . Subject to the terms of
this Agreement, you shall not have any voting rights or any other rights and privileges of a stockholder of the Company unless and until the Restricted Stock Units are settled upon vesting. In addition, you shall not have any rights to dividend
equivalent payments with respect to unvested Restricted Stock Units.       13.    Authorization to Release and Transfer Necessary
Personal Information  .        (a)     You hereby explicitly and unambiguously consent to the collection, use
and transfer, in electronic or other form, of your personal information as described in this Agreement by and among, as applicable, the Employer, and the Company and its Parent, Subsidiaries and Affiliates for the exclusive purpose of implementing,
administering and managing your participation in the Plan.     
         4   

(b)     You understand that the Company and the Employer may hold certain
personal information about you, including, but not limited to, your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number (or any other social or national identification number), salary, nationality, job title, residency
status, any Shares or directorships held in the Company, details of all Restricted Stock Units or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding (the  Data ) for the purpose of implementing,
administering and managing your participation in the Plan. You understand that Data may be transferred to the Company or any of its Parent, Subsidiaries or Affiliates, or to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and
management of the Plan, that these recipients may be located in your country or elsewhere, including outside the European Economic Area, and that the recipient s country (e.g., the United States) may have different data privacy laws and
protections than your country. You understand that you may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting your local human resources representative. You authorize the recipients to receive, possess,
use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the sole purposes of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data to a broker or other third party
assisting with the administration of these Restricted Stock Units under the Plan or with whom Shares acquired pursuant to these Restricted Stock Units or cash from the sale of such Shares may be deposited. Furthermore, you acknowledge and understand
that the transfer of the Data to the Company or any of its Parent, Subsidiaries or Affiliates, or to any third parties is necessary for your participation in the Plan.          (c)     You understand that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage your participation in the Plan. You understand that you may, at any time,
view the Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of the Data, require any necessary amendments to the Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein by contacting your local human resources representative in writing.
You further acknowledge that withdrawal of consent may affect your ability to vest in or realize benefits from these Restricted Stock Units, and your ability to participate in the Plan. For more information on the consequences of your refusal to
consent or withdrawal of consent, you understand that you may contact your local human resources representative.        14.   No
Entitlement or Claims for Compensation  .      (a) Your rights, if any, in respect of or in connection with these Restricted
Stock Units or any other Award are derived solely from the discretionary decision of the Company to permit you to participate in the Plan and to benefit from a discretionary Award. The Plan may be amended, suspended or terminated by the Company at
any time, unless otherwise provided in the Plan and this Agreement. By accepting these Restricted Stock Units, you expressly acknowledge that there is no obligation on the part of the Company to continue the Plan and/or grant any additional
Restricted Stock Units to you or benefits in lieu of Restricted Stock Units, even if Restricted Stock Units have been granted repeatedly in the past. All decisions with respect to future grants of Restricted Stock Units, if any, will be at the sole
discretion of the Committee.   
         5   

(b) The Restricted Stock Units and the Shares subject to the Restricted Stock Units are not
intended to replace any pension rights or compensation and are not to be considered compensation of a continuing or recurring nature, or part of your normal or expected compensation, and in no way represent any portion of your salary, compensation
or other remuneration for any purpose, including but not limited to, calculating any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy, dismissal, end of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits or similar
payments, and in no event should be considered as compensation for, or relating in any way to, past services for the Company, the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate. The value of the Restricted Stock Units is an extraordinary item that
does not constitute compensation of any kind for services of any kind rendered to the Company, the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate and which is outside the scope of your written employment agreement (if any).   
  (c) You acknowledge that you are voluntarily participating in the Plan.   
  (d) Neither the Plan nor these Restricted Stock Units or any other Award granted under the Plan shall be deemed to give you a right to
remain an Employee, Consultant or director of the Company, a Parent, Subsidiary or an Affiliate. The Employer reserves the right to terminate your Service at any time, with or without cause, and for any reason, subject to applicable laws, the
Company s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws, and a written employment agreement (if any).      (e) The grant of the
Restricted Stock Units and your participation in the Plan will not be interpreted to form an employment contract or relationship with the Company, the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate.   
  (f) The future value of the underlying Shares is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty and if you vest in the Restricted Stock
Units and are issued Shares, the value of those Shares may increase or decrease. You also understand that neither the Company, nor the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate is responsible for any foreign exchange fluctuation between your
Employer s local currency and the United States Dollar that may affect the value of this Award.      (g) In consideration of
the grant of the Restricted Stock Units, no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages shall arise from forfeiture of the Restricted Stock Units resulting from termination of your Service by the Company or the Employer (for any reason
whatsoever and whether or not in breach of local labor laws) and you irrevocably release the Company and the Employer from any such claim that may arise; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is found by a court of competent jurisdiction
to have arisen, you shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived your entitlement to pursue such claim.      (h) You agree that the
Company may require Shares received pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units to be held by a broker designated by the Company.   
  (i) You agree that your rights hereunder (if any) shall be subject to set-off by the Company for any valid debts you owe the Company.
  
         6   

(j) The Restricted Stock Units and the benefits under the Plan, if any, will not
automatically transfer to another company in the case of a merger, take-over or transfer of liability.       15.    Governing Law and
Forum  . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California without regard to the conflict of laws principles thereof. For purposes of litigating any dispute that may arise directly or
indirectly from this Agreement, the parties hereby submit and consent to litigation in the exclusive jurisdiction of the State of California and agree that any such litigation shall be conducted only in the courts of California or the federal courts
for the United States for the Northern District of California and no other courts.       16.    Notices  . Any notice required or
permitted under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed sufficient when delivered personally or sent by confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the mail, as certified or
registered mail, with postage prepaid, and addressed to the Company at the Company s principal corporate offices or to you at the address maintained for you in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently modified by written
notice to the other party.       17.    Binding Effect  . Subject to the limitations set forth in this Agreement, this Agreement
shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the executors, administrators, heirs, legal representatives, successors, and assigns of the parties hereto.       18.    Severability  . If any provision of this Agreement is held to be unenforceable for any reason, it shall be adjusted rather than voided, if possible, in order to achieve the intent
of the parties to the extent possible. In any event, all other provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed valid and enforceable to the full extent possible.       19.    Electronic Delivery  . The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to your current or future participation in the Plan by electronic means or to
request your consent to participate in the Plan by electronic means. You hereby consent to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agree to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the
Company or a third party designated by the Company.       20.    Language  . If this Agreement or any other document related to the
Plan is translated into a language other than English and the meaning of the translated version is different from the English version, the English version will take precedence.       21.    Appendix  . Notwithstanding any provisions in this Agreement, the Restricted Stock Units shall be subject to any special terms and conditions set forth in any Appendix to this
Agreement for your country of residence. Moreover, if you relocate to one of the countries included in the Appendix, the special terms and conditions for such country will apply to you, to the extent the Company determines that the application of
such terms and conditions is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local law or facilitate the administration of the Plan. The Appendix constitutes part of this Agreement.   
         7   

22.    Imposition of Other Requirements  .   The Company reserves the right to impose
other requirements on your participation in the Plan, on the Restricted Stock Units and on any Shares acquired under the Plan, to the extent the Company determines it is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local law or facilitate the
administration of the Plan. You agree to sign any additional agreements or undertakings that may be necessary to accomplish the foregoing. Furthermore, you acknowledge that the laws of the country in which you are working at the time of grant,
vesting and settlement of the Restricted Stock Units or the sale of Shares received pursuant to this Agreement (including any rules or regulations governing securities, foreign exchange, tax, labor, or other matters) may subject you to additional
procedural or regulatory requirements that you are and will be solely responsible for and must fulfill.       23.    Acceptance of
Agreement  . You must expressly accept the terms and conditions of your Restricted Stock Units as set forth in this Agreement by electronically accepting this Agreement within 300 days after the Company sends this Agreement to you. If you do
not accept your Restricted Stock Units in the manner instructed by the Company, your Restricted Stock Units will be subject to cancellation.      *        *        *        *   
  You acknowledge that by clicking on the   I agree   button below, you agree to be bound by the terms of this Agreement.
      PLEASE PRINT AND KEEP A COPY FOR YOUR RECORDS    
         8   

(For Grants Prior to September 2008)    
   CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.         STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT        This Stock Unit Agreement (the  Agreement ) is made
and entered into as of the Grant Date (as defined below) by and between Cisco Systems, Inc., a California corporation (the  Company ), and you pursuant to the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). The
material terms of this Stock Unit Award are as follows:      Employee ID:

Grant Date:

Grant Number:

Restricted Stock Units:

First Vest Date:
                                          
                                (the first annual anniversary of the vesting commencement date)
     To the extent any capitalized terms used in this Agreement are not defined, they shall have the meaning ascribed to them in the Plan. In the
event of a conflict between the terms and provisions of the Plan and the terms and provisions of this Agreement, the Plan terms and provisions shall prevail.      In consideration of the mutual agreements herein contained and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties agree as follows:       1.    Restricted Stock Units  . Pursuant to the Plan, the Company hereby grants to you, and you hereby accept from the Company, Restricted Stock Units, each of which is a bookkeeping entry
representing the equivalent in value of one (1) Share, on the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Plan.       2.
   Vesting of Restricted Stock Units  . So long as your Service continues, the Restricted Stock Units shall vest in accordance with the following schedule: twenty percent (20%) of the total number of Restricted Stock Units granted
pursuant to this Agreement shall vest on the First Vest Date and on each annual anniversary thereafter, unless otherwise provided by the Plan or Section 4 below.       3.    Termination of Service  . In the event of the termination of your Service for any reason, all unvested Restricted Stock Units shall be immediately forfeited without consideration.
      4.    Special Acceleration  .      (a) To the extent the Restricted Stock Units are outstanding at the time of a Corporate Transaction, such Restricted Stock Units shall automatically accelerate immediately prior to the effective date of
the Corporate Transaction and shall become vested in full at that time. No such acceleration, however, shall occur if and to the extent: (i) these Restricted Stock Units are, in connection with the Corporate Transaction, either assumed by the
successor corporation (or parent thereof) or replaced with comparable restricted stock units of the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or (ii) these Restricted Stock Units are replaced with a cash incentive program of the successor
corporation which preserves the fair market value of the Restricted Stock Units at the time of the Corporate Transaction and provides for subsequent pay-out in accordance with the vesting schedule set forth in Section 2 above. The determination
of the comparability of restricted stock units under clause (i) shall be made by the Committee, and such determination shall be final, binding and conclusive   

(b) Immediately following the effective date of the Corporate Transaction, this Agreement
shall terminate and cease to be outstanding, except to the extent assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) in connection with the Corporate Transaction.      (c) If this Agreement is assumed in connection with a Corporate Transaction, then the Committee shall appropriately adjust the number of units and the kind of shares or securities to be issued pursuant to
this Agreement immediately after such Corporate Transaction.      (d) To the extent the Restricted Stock Units are outstanding at
the time of a Change in Control, such Restricted Stock Units shall automatically accelerate immediately prior to the effective date of the Change in Control and shall become vested in full at that time.   
  (e) This Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Company to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital
or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate, sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets.       5.
   Settlement of Restricted Stock Units  . Restricted Stock Units shall be automatically settled in Shares upon vesting of such Restricted Stock Units, provided that the Company shall have no obligation to issue Shares pursuant to this
Agreement unless and until you have satisfied any applicable tax withholding obligations pursuant to Section 6 below and such issuance otherwise complies with all applicable law.       6.    Withholding Taxes  . You agree to make arrangements satisfactory to the Company for the satisfaction of any applicable withholding tax obligations that arise in connection with the
Restricted Stock Units which, at the sole discretion of the Company, may include (i) having the Company withhold Shares from the settlement of the Restricted Stock Units, or (ii) any other arrangement approved by the Company, in any case,
equal in value to the amount necessary to satisfy any such withholding tax obligations. The Company shall not be required to issue Shares pursuant to this Agreement unless and until such obligations are satisfied.   
   7.    Tax Advice  . You represent, warrant and acknowledge that the Company has made no warranties or representations to you with respect
to the income tax consequences of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and you are in no manner relying on the Company or the Company s representatives for an assessment of such tax consequences. YOU UNDERSTAND THAT THE TAX LAWS AND
REGULATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGE. YOU SHOULD CONSULT YOUR OWN TAX ADVISOR REGARDING ANY RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS. NOTHING STATED HEREIN IS INTENDED OR WRITTEN TO BE USED, AND CANNOT BE USED, FOR THE PURPOSE OF AVOIDING TAXPAYER PENALTIES.   
   8.    Non-Transferability of Restricted Stock Units  . Restricted Stock Units shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished,
optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by operation of law.       9. 
  Restriction on Transfer  . Regardless of whether the transfer or issuance of the Shares to be issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units has been registered under the Securities Act or has been registered or qualified under the
securities laws of any state, the Company may impose additional restrictions upon the sale, pledge, or other transfer of the Shares   
         2   

(including the placement of appropriate legends on stock certificates and the issuance of stop-transfer instructions to the Company s transfer agent) if, in the judgment of the Company and
the Company s counsel, such restrictions are necessary in order to achieve compliance with the provisions of the Securities Act, the securities laws of any state, or any other law.       10.    Stock Certificate Restrictive Legends .  Stock certificates evidencing the Shares issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units may bear such restrictive legends as the Company and
the Company s counsel deem necessary under applicable law or pursuant to this Agreement.       11.    Representations, Warranties,
Covenants, and Acknowledgments  . You hereby agree that in the event the Company and the Company s counsel deem it necessary or advisable in the exercise of their discretion, the transfer or issuance of the Shares issued pursuant to the
Restricted Stock Units may be conditioned upon you making certain representations, warranties, and acknowledgments relating to compliance with applicable securities laws.       12.    Voting and Other Rights  . Subject to the terms of this Agreement, you shall not have any voting rights or any other rights and privileges of a stockholder of the Company unless and
until the Restricted Stock Units are settled upon vesting.       13.    Authorization to Release Necessary Personal Information  .
     (a) You hereby authorize and direct your employer to collect, use and transfer in electronic or other form, any personal
information (the  Data ) regarding your employment, the nature and amount of your compensation and the facts and conditions of your participation in the Plan (including, but not limited to, your name, home address, telephone number, date
of birth, social security number (or any other social or national identification number), salary, nationality, job title, number of Shares held and the details of all Awards or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, cancelled, exercised, vested,
unvested or outstanding) for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. You understand that the Data may be transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties assisting in the
implementation, administration and management of the Plan, including any requisite transfer to a broker or other third party assisting with the administration of these Restricted Stock Units under the Plan or with whom Shares acquired pursuant to
these Restricted Stock Units or cash from the sale of such shares may be deposited. You acknowledge that recipients of the Data may be located in different countries, and those countries may have data privacy laws and protections different from
those in the country of your residence. Furthermore, you acknowledge and understand that the transfer of the Data to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties is necessary for your participation in the Plan.   
  (b) Prior to the time that the Restricted Stock Units are settled upon vesting, you shall have no rights other than those of a general
creditor of the Company. The Restricted Stock Units represent an unfunded and unsecured obligation of the Company.      (c) You
may at any time withdraw the consents herein by contacting your local human resources representative in writing. You further acknowledge that withdrawal of consent may affect your ability to exercise or realize benefits from these Restricted Stock
Units, and your ability to participate in the Plan.       14.    No Entitlement or Claims for Compensation  .   
  (a) Your rights, if any, in respect of or in connection with these Restricted Stock Units or any other Award are derived solely from the
discretionary decision of the   
         3   

Company to permit you to participate in the Plan and to benefit from a discretionary Award. By accepting these Restricted Stock Units, you expressly acknowledge that there is no obligation on the
part of the Company to continue the Plan and/or grant any additional Awards to you. These Restricted Stock Units are not intended to be compensation of a continuing or recurring nature, or part of your normal or expected compensation, and in no way
represents any portion of a your salary, compensation, or other remuneration for purposes of pension benefits, severance, redundancy, resignation or any other purpose.      (b) Neither the Plan nor these Restricted Stock Units or any other Award granted under the Plan shall be deemed to give you a right to remain an Employee, Consultant or director of the Company, a Parent,
a Subsidiary or an Affiliate. The Company and its Parents and Subsidiaries and Affiliates reserve the right to terminate your Service at any time, with or without cause, and for any reason, subject to applicable laws, the Company s Articles of
Incorporation and Bylaws and a written employment agreement (if any), and you shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived any claim to damages or specific performance for breach of contract or dismissal, compensation for loss of office, tort or
otherwise with respect to the Plan, these Restricted Stock Units or any outstanding Award that is forfeited and/or is terminated by its terms or to any future Award.      (c) You agree that your rights hereunder shall be subject to set-off by the Company for any valid debts you owe the Company.       15.    Governing Law  . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California without regard to the conflict of laws principles thereof.
      16.    Notices  . Any notice required or permitted under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed
sufficient when delivered personally or sent by confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the U.S. mail, as certified or registered mail, with postage prepaid, and addressed to the Company at the
Company s principal corporate offices or to you at the address maintained for you in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently modified by written notice to the other party.   
   17.    Binding Effect  . Subject to the limitations set forth in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be binding upon, and inure to the
benefit of, the executors, administrators, heirs, legal representatives, successors, and assigns of the parties hereto.       18. 
  Severability  . If any provision of this Agreement is held to be unenforceable for any reason, it shall be adjusted rather than voided, if possible, in order to achieve the intent of the parties to the extent possible. In any event, all
other provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed valid and enforceable to the full extent possible.   
         4   

PERFORMANCE RSU LETTER      [Date]      [Name]      [Address]      [Address]      Dear                           :   
  [introductory text]      Your leadership team has
recommended that you receive a performance-based restricted stock unit (PRSU) right with a target of [                      ]. RSUs will be
granted after the end of FY[      ] based upon the satisfaction of an FY[      ] performance condition.      The right to receive a grant of a restricted stock unit depends on Cisco s satisfaction of certain
[                      ] targets for FY[      ]. Assuming those targets are met or exceeded, the restricted stock units
that you are granted will vest [                      ] percent on the date of grant and
[                      ] percent on each of the next [              ]
anniversaries of the date of grant thereafter, subject to your continued employment with Cisco or an affiliate on the applicable vesting date. On each vesting date, the vested units will be settled in Cisco common stock. In addition, in the unlikely
event that a corporate transaction or change in control (each as defined in Cisco s 2005 Stock Incentive Plan) is consummated during FY[      ] or prior to the Compensation and Management Development Committee s
Certification regarding satisfaction of the FY[      ] performance conditions, the performance-based restricted stock unit right will be deemed fully earned at target (100%) immediately prior to the effective date of
the corporate transaction or the change in control, as the case may be, and will be settled in fully vested Cisco common stock at that time.   
  Lastly, please note that, if you are employed outside the United States, the Compensation and Management Development Committee can grant the PRSU Right
to you, in its sole discretion, only if and as long as it is permitted and feasible to grant restricted stock units under the laws of the country in which you are employed. If local laws make the grant of restricted stock units illegal or
impractical, Cisco will let you know as soon as possible. You are under no obligation to accept the PRSU Right or any restricted stock units that may subsequently be granted to you.   

[concluding text]    

Sincerely,    

PERFORMANCE RSU LETTER   FISCAL 2008   
  [Date]      [Name]   
  [Address]      [Address]   
  Dear
                               :      [introductory text]      As an indicator of our confidence in you as a leader, recognizing your
current high level of performance as well as your future contributions, I want to tell you about the restricted stock unit component of our FY08 ongoing stock program. This component represents the right to receive a future grant of  restricted
stock units  (after the end of FY08) if an FY08 performance condition is satisfied. This right is referred to in this letter as the   performance-based   restricted stock unit right   (PRSU Right) .    
  I want to be the first to congratulate you on your leadership team recommending you for a  performance-based     restricted stock unit
right  having a target of  XX restricted stock units , which will be granted after the end of FY08 based upon the satisfaction of an FY08 performance condition, contingent on shareholder approval as described below. Since you may be eligible
to receive a grant of restricted stock units for the first time, I would like to review briefly the details of this program.      The right to
receive a grant of a restricted stock unit depends on Cisco s satisfaction of certain operating income growth targets for FY08. Assuming those targets are met or exceeded, the  restricted stock units  that you are granted will vest twenty
percent on the date of grant and twenty percent on each of the next four anniversaries of the date of grant thereafter, subject to your continued employment with Cisco or an affiliate on the applicable vesting date. Unlike stock options, there is no
monthly vesting for restricted stock units. On each vesting date, the vested units will be settled in Cisco common stock. In addition, in the unlikely event that a corporate transaction or change in control (each as defined in Cisco s 2005
Stock Incentive Plan) is consummated during FY08, the performance-based restricted stock unit right will be deemed fully earned at target (100%) immediately prior to the effective date of the corporate transaction or the change in control, as the
case may be, and will be settled in fully vested Cisco common stock at that time.      The PRSU Right and the right to receive restricted stock
units depends on our shareholders approving the amendment and extension of Cisco s 2005 Stock Incentive Plan at the 2007 annual meeting. In the unlikely event that our shareholders do not approve the amendment and extension of the 2005 Stock
Incentive Plan, you will not be eligible to receive any restricted stock units. However, at such time as the shareholders do approve a plan, the Compensation and Management Development Committee may make an equitable substitute stock award to you.
     Lastly, please note that, if you are employed outside the United States, the Compensation and Management Development Committee can grant the
PRSU Right to you, in its sole discretion, only if and as long as it is permitted and feasible to grant restricted stock units under the laws of the country in which you are employed. If local laws make the grant of restricted stock units illegal or
impractical, Cisco will let you know as soon as possible. You are under no obligation to accept the PRSU Right or any restricted stock units that may subsequently be granted to you.      [concluding text]       

Sincerely,   

John Chambers   
 
  Chairman   CEO, Cisco Systems   

A CTION  R EQUIRED : M UST   BE 
 RETURNED   BY  [INSERT APPROPRIATE DATE]        

Deferral Election for       Annual Equity Award        2005 Stock Incentive
Plan       

Name (Last, First,
Middle Initial)   
      
        Employee
Number    
    You may use this form to:       

Indicate the percentage of your annual restricted stock unit grant under the 2005 Stock Incentive Plan that you wish to defer. Your elected percentage
will apply to each vesting installment of such grant.          

Designate the settlement timing of the deferred portion of your vested annual restricted stock unit grant.      
   PLEASE REMEMBER THAT ONCE YOU MAKE AN ELECTION TO DEFER A RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT GRANT, YOU CANNOT REVOKE THAT ELECTION. 

D EFERRAL
  E LECTION          
      
    Please select if you wish to defer restricted stock units; fill in the appropriate
blanks.   

Restricted
Stock       Unit Grant    
      
  I elect to defer                   % (you may only insert 25%, 50%, 75%, or 100%) of my annual
restricted stock unit award anticipated to be granted under the 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ) on                       ,
201       (subject to my continued employment with the Company or the Employer). I understand that this elected percentage will apply to each vesting installment of this grant.   

S ETTLEMENT  D ATE *        
      
    Please complete this section to indicate settlement timing for the deferred portion of your
vested annual restricted stock unit grant. You may only choose one alternative.   

Separation of
Service           OR    
      
  I elect to defer the settlement of the deferred portion of my vested annual restricted stock unit grant to my Separation of Service (as defined in Section 409A of the Internal
Revenue Code).   

Date Specific
(subject       to earlier settlement       upon separation from       service)    
      
  I elect to defer the settlement of the deferred portion of my vested annual restricted stock unit grant to the earlier of (i) my Separation from Service; or (ii) the first business
day of 20               (insert a year no earlier than 5 years after the year of grant and no later than 15 years after the year of grant).   

*       Any vested portion of the deferred portion of my restricted stock unit
grant will be settled in shares of the Company s common stock.    

A CTION  R EQUIRED : M UST   BE 
 RETURNED   BY  [INSERT APPROPRIATE DATE]        

Deferral Election for       Annual Equity Award        2005 Stock Incentive
Plan      
    I understand:       

To the extent I do not elect to defer the settlement of my restricted stock unit grant, such portion of the restricted stock unit grant will be
automatically settled in shares of the Company s common stock upon the vesting of the restricted stock unit grant (subject to acceleration in certain cases), as more fully set forth in the Stock Unit Agreement.      

Any vested portion of the deferred restricted stock unit grant will be settled in shares of the Company s common stock as elected by me above.

If my Separation from Service occurs before my restricted stock unit grant vests, any unvested restricted stock units will be forfeited as of the date
my Separation from Service occurs.          

Any employment taxes that are due upon the vesting of my restricted stock unit grant (including the deferred portion of my grant) shall be deducted at
the time of vesting by one or a combination of the following:          

(1)  
  withholding from my wages or other cash compensation payable to me by the Company or the Employer;     

(2)  
  withholding from proceeds of the sale of shares acquired upon settlement of the restricted stock units either through a voluntary sale or through a mandatory sale
arranged by the Company (on my behalf pursuant to this authorization);         

(3)  
  withholding of shares that would otherwise be issued upon settlement of the restricted stock units; or     

(4)  
  requiring me to satisfy the liability for any employment taxes by means of any other arrangement approved by the Company.     

The receipt of shares of the Company s common stock pursuant to any restricted stock unit grant will be taxed as ordinary income to me based on
the value of the shares on the date the stock unit grant is settled and I receive shares of the Company s common stock. This is true whether or not I elect to defer settlement of my restricted stock units.      

The settlement of the deferred portion of my annual restricted stock unit grant upon my Separation from Service will be delayed for 6 months.
         ACKNOWLEDGED AND AGREED:        
      Signature of
Participant                                       
  Date   

(Beginning Fiscal 2009)    
   NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR INITIAL RSU GRANT        CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.         STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT     
  This Stock Unit Agreement (the  Agreement ) is made and entered into as of the Grant Date (as defined below) by and between Cisco Systems,
Inc., a California corporation (the  Company ), and you pursuant to the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). The material terms of this Stock Unit Award are as follows:   
  Grantee:

Grant Date:

Grant Number:

Restricted Stock Units:

First Vest Date:  

(the date of completion of the first year of service as a member of the Board measured from the initial election or appointment
date)   
    To the extent any capitalized terms used in this Agreement are not defined, they shall have the meaning ascribed to them
in the Plan. In the event of a conflict between the terms and provisions of the Plan and the terms and provisions of this Agreement, the Plan terms and provisions shall prevail.      In consideration of the mutual agreements herein contained and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties agree as follows:       1.    Restricted Stock Units  . Pursuant to the Plan, the Company hereby grants to you, and you hereby accept from the Company, Restricted Stock Units, each of which is a bookkeeping entry
representing the equivalent in value of one (1) Share, on the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Plan.       2. 
  Vesting of Restricted Stock Units  . So long as your service on the Board continues, the Restricted Stock Units shall vest in accordance with the following schedule: fifty percent (50%) of the total number of Restricted Stock Units
granted pursuant to this Agreement shall vest on the First Vest Date and upon your completion of each year of service as a member of the Board thereafter, unless otherwise provided by the Plan or Section 4 below.   
   3.    Termination of Service  . Except as provided in Section 4 below, in the event of the termination of your Board service for any
reason, all unvested Restricted Stock Units shall be immediately forfeited without consideration.       4.    Special
Acceleration  .      (a) To the extent the Restricted Stock Units are outstanding at the time of a Corporate Transaction or a
Change in Control, such Restricted Stock Units shall automatically accelerate immediately prior to the effective date of the Corporate Transaction or the Change in Control, as the case may be, and shall become vested in full at that time.

(b) If your service on the Board ceases as a result of your death or Disability, to the
extent the Restricted Stock Units are outstanding, such Restricted Stock Units shall automatically accelerate and shall become vested in full at that time.      (c) This Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Company to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve,
liquidate, sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets.       5.    Settlement of Restricted Stock Units  . To the
extent you have not elected to defer settlement of the Restricted Stock Units, the Restricted Stock Units shall be automatically settled in Shares upon vesting of such Restricted Stock Units, provided that the Company shall have no obligation to
issue Shares pursuant to this Agreement unless such issuance complies with all applicable law. To the extent you have elected to defer settlement of the Restricted Stock Units, the vested portion of the Restricted Stock Units shall be settled in
Shares upon your separation from service within the meaning of Code Section 409A ( Separation from Service ), provided that the Company shall have no obligation to issue Shares pursuant to this Agreement unless such issuance complies
with all applicable law.       6.    Tax Advice  . You represent, warrant and acknowledge that the Company has made no warranties
or representations to you with respect to the income tax consequences of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and you are in no manner relying on the Company or the Company s representatives for an assessment of such tax
consequences. YOU UNDERSTAND THAT THE TAX LAWS AND REGULATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGE. YOU SHOULD CONSULT YOUR OWN TAX ADVISOR REGARDING ANY RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS. NOTHING STATED HEREIN IS INTENDED OR WRITTEN TO BE USED, AND CANNOT BE USED, FOR THE
PURPOSE OF AVOIDING TAXPAYER PENALTIES.       7.    Non-Transferability of Restricted Stock Units  . Restricted Stock Units shall
not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by operation of law.       8.    Restriction on Transfer  . Regardless of whether the transfer or issuance of the Shares to be issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units has been registered under the Securities
Act or has been registered or qualified under the securities laws of any state, the Company may impose additional restrictions upon the sale, pledge, or other transfer of the Shares (including the placement of appropriate legends on stock
certificates and the issuance of stop-transfer instructions to the Company s transfer agent) if, in the judgment of the Company and the Company s counsel, such restrictions are necessary in order to achieve compliance with the provisions
of the Securities Act, the securities laws of any state, or any other law.   
         2   

9.    Stock Certificate Restrictive Legends .  Stock certificates evidencing the Shares
issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units may bear such restrictive legends as the Company and the Company s counsel deem necessary under applicable law or pursuant to this Agreement.   
   10.    Representations, Warranties, Covenants, and Acknowledgments  . You hereby agree that in the event the Company and the
Company s counsel deem it necessary or advisable in the exercise of their discretion, the transfer or issuance of the Shares issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units may be conditioned upon you making certain representations, warranties,
and acknowledgments relating to compliance with applicable securities laws.       11.    Voting and Other Rights  . Subject to the
terms of this Agreement, you shall not have any voting rights or any other rights and privileges of a shareholder of the Company unless and until the Restricted Stock Units are settled upon vesting.   
   12.    Authorization to Release Necessary Personal Information  .   
  (a) You hereby authorize and direct the Company to collect, use and transfer in electronic or other form, any personal information (the
 Data ) regarding your service, the nature and amount of your compensation and the facts and conditions of your participation in the Plan (including, but not limited to, your name, home address, telephone number, date of birth, social
security number (or any other social or national identification number), compensation, nationality, job title, number of Shares held and the details of all Awards or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, cancelled, exercised, vested, unvested or
outstanding) for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. You understand that the Data may be transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties assisting in the
implementation, administration and management of the Plan, including any requisite transfer to a broker or other third party assisting with the administration of these Restricted Stock Units under the Plan or with whom Shares acquired pursuant to
these Restricted Stock Units or cash from the sale of such shares may be deposited. You acknowledge that recipients of the Data may be located in different countries, and those countries may have data privacy laws and protections different from
those in the country of your residence. Furthermore, you acknowledge and understand that the transfer of the Data to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties is necessary for your participation in the Plan.   
  (b) Prior to the time that the Restricted Stock Units are settled upon vesting, you shall have no rights other than those of a general
creditor of the Company. The Restricted Stock Units represent an unfunded and unsecured obligation of the Company.      (c) You
may at any time withdraw the consents herein by contacting the Company s local human resources representative in writing. You further acknowledge that withdrawal of consent may affect your ability to exercise or realize benefits from these
Restricted Stock Units, and your ability to participate in the Plan.   
         3   

13.    No Entitlement or Claims for Compensation  .   
  (a) Your rights, if any, in respect of or in connection with these Restricted Stock Units or any other Award are derived solely from the
discretionary decision of the Company to permit you to participate in the Plan and to benefit from a discretionary Award. By accepting these Restricted Stock Units, you expressly acknowledge that there is no obligation on the part of the Company to
continue the Plan and/or grant any additional Awards to you. These Restricted Stock Units are not intended to be compensation of a continuing or recurring nature, or part of your normal or expected compensation, and in no way represents any portion
of a your compensation or other remuneration for purposes of pension benefits, severance, redundancy, resignation or any other purpose.      (b) Neither the Plan nor these Restricted Stock Units or any other Award granted under the Plan shall be deemed to give you a right to continue to serve on the Board of the Company for any period of
specific duration or interfere with or otherwise restrict in any way the rights of the Company or the Company s shareholders, which rights are hereby expressly reserved by each, to terminate your service on the Board at any time, for any
reason, with or without cause, in accordance with the provisions of applicable law, the Company s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws. You shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived any claim to damages or specific performance for breach of
contract or dismissal, compensation for loss of office, tort or otherwise with respect to the Plan, these Restricted Stock Units or any outstanding Award that is forfeited and/or is terminated by its terms or to any future Award.   
  (c) You agree that your rights hereunder shall be subject to set-off by the Company for any valid debts you owe the Company.   
   14.    Governing Law  . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California without
regard to the conflict of laws principles thereof.       15.    Notices  . Any notice required or permitted under the terms of this
Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed sufficient when delivered personally or sent by confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the U.S. mail, as certified or registered mail, with postage
prepaid, and addressed to the Company at the Company s principal corporate offices or to you at the address maintained for you in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently modified by written notice to the other party.
      16.    Binding Effect  . Subject to the limitations set forth in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be binding upon, and
inure to the benefit of, the executors, administrators, heirs, legal representatives, successors, and assigns of the parties hereto.   
   17.    Severability  . If any provision of this Agreement is held to be unenforceable for any reason, it shall be adjusted rather than
voided, if possible, in order to achieve the intent of the parties to the extent possible. In any event, all other provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed valid and enforceable to the full extent possible.   
         4   

(Beginning Fiscal 2009)    
   NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR ANNUAL RSU GRANT        CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.         STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT     
  This Stock Unit Agreement (the  Agreement ) is made and entered into as of the Grant Date (as defined below) by and between Cisco Systems,
Inc., a California corporation (the  Company ), and you pursuant to the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). The material terms of this Stock Unit Award are as follows:   
  Grantee:

Grant Date:

Grant Number:

Restricted
Stock Units:

Vest Date: The completion of one (1) year of Board service measured from the Grant Date.   
  To the extent any capitalized terms used in this Agreement are not defined, they shall have the meaning ascribed to them in the Plan. In the event of a
conflict between the terms and provisions of the Plan and the terms and provisions of this Agreement, the Plan terms and provisions shall prevail.      In consideration of the mutual agreements herein contained and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties agree as follows:       1.    Restricted Stock Units  . Pursuant to the Plan, the Company hereby grants to you, and you hereby accept from the Company, Restricted Stock Units, each of which is a bookkeeping entry
representing the equivalent in value of one (1) Share, on the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Plan.       2. 
  Vesting of Restricted Stock Units  . So long as your service on the Board continues, the Restricted Stock Units shall vest in accordance with the following schedule: one-hundred percent (100%) of the total number of Restricted Stock
Units granted pursuant to this Agreement shall vest on the Vest Date, unless otherwise provided by the Plan or Section 4 below.   
   3.    Termination of Service  . Except as provided in Section 4 below, in the event of the termination of your Board service for any
reason, all unvested Restricted Stock Units shall be immediately forfeited without consideration.       4.    Special
Acceleration  .      (a) To the extent the Restricted Stock Units are outstanding at the time of a Corporate Transaction or a
Change in Control, such Restricted Stock Units shall automatically accelerate immediately prior to the effective date of the Corporate Transaction or the Change in Control, as the case may be, and shall become vested in full at that time.

(b) If your service on the Board ceases as a result of your death or Disability, to the
extent the Restricted Stock Units are outstanding, such Restricted Stock Units shall automatically accelerate and shall become vested in full at that time.      (c) This Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Company to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve,
liquidate, sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets.       5.    Settlement of Restricted Stock Units  . To the
extent you have not elected to defer settlement of the Restricted Stock Units, the Restricted Stock Units shall be automatically settled in Shares upon vesting of such Restricted Stock Units, provided that the Company shall have no obligation to
issue Shares pursuant to this Agreement unless such issuance complies with all applicable law. To the extent you have elected to defer settlement of the Restricted Stock Units, the vested portion of the Restricted Stock Units shall be settled in
Shares upon your separation from service within the meaning of Code Section 409A ( Separation from Service ), provided that the Company shall have no obligation to issue Shares pursuant to this Agreement unless such issuance complies
with all applicable law.       6.    Tax Advice  . You represent, warrant and acknowledge that the Company has made no warranties
or representations to you with respect to the income tax consequences of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and you are in no manner relying on the Company or the Company s representatives for an assessment of such tax
consequences. YOU UNDERSTAND THAT THE TAX LAWS AND REGULATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGE. YOU SHOULD CONSULT YOUR OWN TAX ADVISOR REGARDING ANY RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS. NOTHING STATED HEREIN IS INTENDED OR WRITTEN TO BE USED, AND CANNOT BE USED, FOR THE
PURPOSE OF AVOIDING TAXPAYER PENALTIES.       7.    Non-Transferability of Restricted Stock Units  . Restricted Stock Units shall
not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by operation of law.       8.    Restriction on Transfer  . Regardless of whether the transfer or issuance of the Shares to be issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units has been registered under the Securities
Act or has been registered or qualified under the securities laws of any state, the Company may impose additional restrictions upon the sale, pledge, or other transfer of the Shares (including the placement of appropriate legends on stock
certificates and the issuance of stop-transfer instructions to the Company s transfer agent) if, in the judgment of the Company and the Company s counsel, such restrictions are necessary in order to achieve compliance with the provisions
of the Securities Act, the securities laws of any state, or any other law.   
         2   

9.    Stock Certificate Restrictive Legends .  Stock certificates evidencing the Shares
issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units may bear such restrictive legends as the Company and the Company s counsel deem necessary under applicable law or pursuant to this Agreement.   
   10.    Representations, Warranties, Covenants, and Acknowledgments  . You hereby agree that in the event the Company and the
Company s counsel deem it necessary or advisable in the exercise of their discretion, the transfer or issuance of the Shares issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units may be conditioned upon you making certain representations, warranties,
and acknowledgments relating to compliance with applicable securities laws.       11.    Voting and Other Rights  . Subject to the
terms of this Agreement, you shall not have any voting rights or any other rights and privileges of a shareholder of the Company unless and until the Restricted Stock Units are settled upon vesting.   
   12.    Authorization to Release Necessary Personal Information  .   
  (a) You hereby authorize and direct the Company to collect, use and transfer in electronic or other form, any personal information (the
 Data ) regarding your service, the nature and amount of your compensation and the facts and conditions of your participation in the Plan (including, but not limited to, your name, home address, telephone number, date of birth, social
security number (or any other social or national identification number), compensation, nationality, job title, number of Shares held and the details of all Awards or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, cancelled, exercised, vested, unvested or
outstanding) for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. You understand that the Data may be transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties assisting in the
implementation, administration and management of the Plan, including any requisite transfer to a broker or other third party assisting with the administration of these Restricted Stock Units under the Plan or with whom Shares acquired pursuant to
these Restricted Stock Units or cash from the sale of such shares may be deposited. You acknowledge that recipients of the Data may be located in different countries, and those countries may have data privacy laws and protections different from
those in the country of your residence. Furthermore, you acknowledge and understand that the transfer of the Data to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties is necessary for your participation in the Plan.   
  (b) Prior to the time that the Restricted Stock Units are settled upon vesting, you shall have no rights other than those of a general
creditor of the Company. The Restricted Stock Units represent an unfunded and unsecured obligation of the Company.      (c) You
may at any time withdraw the consents herein by contacting the Company s local human resources representative in writing. You further acknowledge that withdrawal of consent may affect your ability to exercise or realize benefits from these
Restricted Stock Units, and your ability to participate in the Plan.   
         3   

13.    No Entitlement or Claims for Compensation  .   
  (a) Your rights, if any, in respect of or in connection with these Restricted Stock Units or any other Award are derived solely from the
discretionary decision of the Company to permit you to participate in the Plan and to benefit from a discretionary Award. By accepting these Restricted Stock Units, you expressly acknowledge that there is no obligation on the part of the Company to
continue the Plan and/or grant any additional Awards to you. These Restricted Stock Units are not intended to be compensation of a continuing or recurring nature, or part of your normal or expected compensation, and in no way represents any portion
of a your compensation or other remuneration for purposes of pension benefits, severance, redundancy, resignation or any other purpose.      (b) Neither the Plan nor these Restricted Stock Units or any other Award granted under the Plan shall be deemed to give you a right to continue to serve on the Board of the Company for any period of
specific duration or interfere with or otherwise restrict in any way the rights of the Company or the Company s shareholders, which rights are hereby expressly reserved by each, to terminate your service on the Board at any time, for any
reason, with or without cause, in accordance with the provisions of applicable law, the Company s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws. You shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived any claim to damages or specific performance for breach of
contract or dismissal, compensation for loss of office, tort or otherwise with respect to the Plan, these Restricted Stock Units or any outstanding Award that is forfeited and/or is terminated by its terms or to any future Award.   
  (c) You agree that your rights hereunder shall be subject to set-off by the Company for any valid debts you owe the Company.   
   14.    Governing Law  . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California without
regard to the conflict of laws principles thereof.       15.    Notices  . Any notice required or permitted under the terms of this
Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed sufficient when delivered personally or sent by confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the U.S. mail, as certified or registered mail, with postage
prepaid, and addressed to the Company at the Company s principal corporate offices or to you at the address maintained for you in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently modified by written notice to the other party.
      16.    Binding Effect  . Subject to the limitations set forth in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be binding upon, and
inure to the benefit of, the executors, administrators, heirs, legal representatives, successors, and assigns of the parties hereto.   
   17.    Severability  . If any provision of this Agreement is held to be unenforceable for any reason, it shall be adjusted rather than
voided, if possible, in order to achieve the intent of the parties to the extent possible. In any event, all other provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed valid and enforceable to the full extent possible.   
         4   

(Prior to Fiscal 2009)    
   NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR INITIAL GRANT        CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.         NOTICE OF GRANT OF STOCK OPTION
       Notice is hereby given of the following option grant (the  Option ) made to purchase shares of Cisco Systems, Inc. (the
 Company ) common stock:      Optionee:

Grant Date:

Type of Option: Nonstatutory Stock Option      Grant Number:

Number of Option Shares:

shares      Exercise Price: $               per share      Expiration Date:

Date Exercisable: Immediately Exercisable        Vesting Schedule        The Option Shares shall initially be unvested and subject to
repurchase by the Company at the Exercise Price paid per share. Optionee shall acquire a vested interest in, and the Company s repurchase right shall accordingly lapse, with respect to, the Option Shares in a series of four (4) successive
equal annual installments upon Optionee s completion of each year of service as a member of the Board over the four (4) year period measured from the Grant Date. In no event shall any additional Option Shares vest after Optionee s
cessation of Board service.        REPURCHASE RIGHT . OPTIONEE HEREBY AGREES THAT ALL UNVESTED OPTION SHARES ACQUIRED UPON THE EXERCISE OF
THE OPTION SHALL NOT BE TRANSFERABLE AND SHALL BE SUBJECT TO REPURCHASE BY THE COMPANY, AT THE EXERCISE PRICE PAID PER SHARE, UPON OPTIONEE S TERMINATION OF SERVICE AS A MEMBER OF THE BOARD PRIOR TO VESTING IN THOSE SHARES. THE TERMS AND
CONDITIONS OF SUCH REPURCHASE RIGHT SHALL BE SPECIFIED IN A STOCK PURCHASE AGREEMENT, IN FORM AND SUBSTANCE SATISFACTORY TO THE COMPANY, EXECUTED BY OPTIONEE AT THE TIME OF THE OPTION EXERCISE.    
  Optionee understands and agrees that the Option is offered subject to and in accordance with the terms of the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive
Plan (the  Plan ). Optionee further agrees to be bound by the terms of the Plan and the terms of the Option as set forth in the Stock Option Agreement attached hereto.        No Service Contract  . Nothing in this Notice or in the attached Stock Option Agreement or in the Plan shall confer upon Optionee any right to continue to serve on the Board for any period of
specific duration or interfere with or otherwise restrict in any way the rights of the Company or the Company s shareholders, which rights are hereby expressly reserved by each, to terminate Optionee s service on the Board at any time, for
any reason, with or without cause, and in accordance with the provisions of applicable law.   

Definitions .  All capitalized terms in this Notice shall have the meaning assigned to them in
this Notice, the attached Stock Option Agreement or the Plan.       DATED: 
                          ,              

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.    

By:   

Title:   

OPTIONEE     

2   

STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT     
    Recitals        A. The Board has
adopted the Plan for the purpose of retaining the services of selected Employees, non-employee members of the Board or of the board of directors of any Parent or Subsidiary and Consultants and other independent advisors who provide services to the
Company (or any Parent or Subsidiary).      B. Optionee is to render valuable services to the Company (or a Parent or Subsidiary), and this
Agreement is executed pursuant to, and is intended to carry out the purposes of, the Plan in connection with the Company s grant of an option to Optionee.      C. All capitalized terms in this Agreement shall have the meaning assigned to them in this Agreement, the attached Notice of Grant of Stock Option (the   Notice ), or the Plan.   
   NOW, THEREFORE , it is hereby agreed as follows:       1.    Grant of Option  . The Company hereby grants to Optionee, as of the Grant Date, a Nonstatutory Stock Option to purchase up to the number of Option Shares specified in the Notice. The
Option Shares shall be purchasable from time to time during the Option term specified in Paragraph 2 at the Exercise Price specified in the Notice.       2.    Option Term  . This Option shall have a maximum term of nine (9) years measured from the Grant Date and shall accordingly expire at the close of business on the Expiration Date,
unless sooner terminated in accordance with Paragraph 4, 5, 6 or 7.       3.    Non-Transferability   .  This Option shall not
be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by operation of law. Notwithstanding the foregoing, should the Optionee die while holding
this Option, then this Option shall be transferred in accordance with Optionee s will or the laws of descent and distribution.       4. 
  Exercisability/Vesting  .      (a) This Option shall be immediately exercisable for any or all of the Option Shares,
whether or not the Option Shares are vested in accordance with the Vesting Schedule set forth in the Notice, and shall remain so exercisable until the Expiration Date or the sooner termination of the Option term under this Paragraph 4 or Paragraph
5, 6 or 7.      (b) Optionee shall, in accordance with the Vesting Schedule set forth in the Notice, vest in the Option Shares in
a series of installments over his or her period of Board service. Vesting in the Option Shares may be accelerated pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph 5, 6 or 7. In no event, however, shall any additional Option Shares vest following
Optionee s cessation of service as a Board member.      (c) As an administrative matter, the exercisable portion of this
Option may only be exercised until the close of the Nasdaq Global Select Market on the Expiration Date or   

the earlier termination date under Paragraph 5, 6 or 7 or, if such date is not a trading day
on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, the last trading day before such date. Any later attempt to exercise this Option will not be honored. For example, if Optionee ceases to remain in service as provided in Paragraph 5(a) and the date twelve
(12) months from the date of cessation is Monday, July 4 (a holiday on which the Nasdaq Global Select Market is closed), Optionee must exercise the exercisable portion of this Option by 4 pm Eastern Daylight Time on Friday, July 1.
      5.    Cessation of Board Service .  Should Optionee s service as a Board member cease while this Option remains
outstanding, then the Option term specified in Paragraph 2 shall terminate (and this Option shall cease to be outstanding) prior to the Expiration Date in accordance with the following provisions:   
  (a) Should Optionee cease to serve as a Board member for any reason (other than death or Disability) while this Option is outstanding,
then the period for exercising this Option shall be reduced to a twelve (12)-month period commencing with the date of such cessation of Board service, but in no event shall this Option be exercisable at any time after the Expiration Date. During
such limited period of exercisability, this Option may not be exercised in the aggregate for more than the number of Option Shares (if any) in which Optionee is vested on the date of his or her cessation of Board service. Upon the  earlier  of
(i) the expiration of such twelve (12)-month period or (ii) the specified Expiration Date, the Option shall terminate and cease to be exercisable with respect to any vested Option Shares for which the Option has not been exercised.
     (b) Should Optionee die during the twelve (12)-month period following his or her cessation of Board service and hold this
Option at the time of his or her death, then the personal representative of Optionee s estate or the person or persons to whom the Option is transferred pursuant to Optionee s will or in accordance with the laws of descent and distribution
shall have the right to exercise this Option for any or all of the Option Shares in which Optionee is vested at the time of Optionee s cessation of Board service (less any Option Shares purchased by Optionee after such cessation of Board
service but prior to death). Such right of exercise shall terminate, and this Option shall accordingly cease to be exercisable for such vested Option Shares, upon the  earlier  of (i) the expiration of the twelve (12)-month period measured
from the date of Optionee s cessation of Board service or (ii) the specified Expiration Date.      (c) Should Optionee
cease service as a Board member by reason of death or Disability, then all Option Shares at the time subject to this Option but not otherwise vested shall immediately vest in full so that Optionee (or the personal representative of Optionee s
estate or the person or persons to whom the Option is transferred upon Optionee s death) shall have the right to exercise this Option for any or all of the Option Shares as fully-vested shares of Common Stock at any time prior to the
 earlier  of (i) the expiration of the twelve (12)-month period measured from the date of Optionee s cessation of Board service or (ii) the specified Expiration Date.   
  (d) Upon Optionee s cessation of Board service for any reason other than death or Disability, this Option shall immediately
terminate and cease to be   
         2   

outstanding with respect to any and all Option Shares in which Optionee is not otherwise at
that time vested in accordance with the normal Vesting Schedule set forth in the Notice or the special vesting acceleration provisions of Paragraph 6 or 7 below.       6.    Corporate Transaction .       (a) In the event of a Corporate
Transaction, all Option Shares at the time subject to this Option but not otherwise vested shall automatically vest so that this Option shall, immediately prior to the specified effective date for the Corporate Transaction, become fully exercisable
for all of the Option Shares at the time subject to this Option and may be exercised for all or any portion of such shares as fully-vested shares of Common Stock. Immediately following the consummation of the Corporate Transaction, this Option shall
terminate and cease to be outstanding, except to the extent assumed by the successor corporation or its parent company.      (b)
If this Option is assumed in connection with a Corporate Transaction, then this Option shall be appropriately adjusted, immediately after such Corporate Transaction, to apply to the number and class of securities which would have been issuable to
Optionee in consummation of such Corporate Transaction had the Option been exercised immediately prior to such Corporate Transaction, and appropriate adjustments shall also be made to the Exercise Price,  provided  the aggregate Exercise Price
shall remain the same.       7.    Change In Control/Hostile Take-Over .    
  (a) All Option Shares subject to this Option at the time of a Change In Control but not otherwise vested shall automatically vest so that
this Option shall, immediately prior to the effective date of such Change In Control, become fully exercisable for all of the Option Shares at the time subject to this Option and may be exercised for all or any portion of such shares as fully-vested
shares of Common Stock. This Option shall remain exercisable for such fully-vested Option Shares until the  earliest  to occur of (i) the specified Expiration Date, (ii) the sooner termination of this Option in accordance with
Paragraph 4, 5 or 6 or (iii) the surrender of this Option under Paragraph 7(b).      (b) Optionee shall have an unconditional
right (exercisable during the thirty (30)-day period immediately following the consummation of a  Hostile Take-Over  (as defined below)) to surrender this Option to the Company in exchange for a cash distribution from the Company in an
amount equal to the excess of (i) the  Take-Over Price  (as defined below) of the Option Shares at the time subject to the surrendered Option (whether or not those Option Shares are otherwise at the time vested) over (ii) the
aggregate Exercise Price payable for such shares. This Paragraph 7(b) limited stock appreciation right shall in all events terminate upon the expiration or sooner termination of the Option term and may not be assigned or transferred by Optionee. For
purposes of this Option,  Hostile Take-Over  shall mean the acquisition, directly or indirectly, by any person or related group of persons (other than the Company or a person that directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is
under common control with, the Company) of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the Exchange Act) of securities possessing more than thirty five percent (35%) of the total combined voting power of the Company s
outstanding securities pursuant to a tender or exchange offer made directly to the   
         3   

Company s shareholders which the Board does not recommend such shareholders to accept.
Further, for purposes of this Option,  Take-Over Price  shall mean the greater of (i) the Fair Market Value on the date the Option is surrendered to the Company in connection with a Hostile Take-Over, or (ii) the highest reported
price per share of Common Stock paid by the tender offeror in effecting the Hostile Take-Over.      (c) To exercise the Paragraph
7(b) limited stock appreciation right, Optionee must, during the applicable thirty (30)-day exercise period, provide the Company with written notice of the option surrender in which there is specified the number of Option Shares as to which the
Option is being surrendered. Such notice must be accompanied by the return of Optionee s copy of this Agreement, together with any written amendments to such Agreement. The cash distribution shall be paid to Optionee within five
(5) business days following such delivery date. Upon receipt of such cash distribution, this Option shall be cancelled with respect to the shares subject to the surrendered Option (or the surrendered portion), and Optionee shall cease to have
any further right to acquire those Option Shares under this Agreement. The Option shall, however, remain outstanding for the balance of the Option Shares (if any) in accordance with the terms and provisions of this Agreement, and the Company shall
accordingly issue a new stock option agreement (substantially in the same form as this Agreement) for those remaining Option Shares.   
   8.    Adjustment in Option Shares  . In the event of a subdivision of the outstanding Shares, a declaration of a dividend payable in
Shares, a declaration of a dividend payable in a form other than Shares in an amount that has a material effect on the price of Shares, a combination or consolidation of the outstanding Shares (by reclassification or otherwise) into a lesser number
of Shares, a recapitalization, a spin-off or a similar occurrence, appropriate adjustments shall be made to (i) the total number and/or kind of shares or securities subject to this Option and (ii) the Exercise Price in order to reflect
such change and thereby preclude a dilution or enlargement of benefits hereunder.       9.    Shareholder Rights  . The holder of
this Option shall not have any shareholder rights with respect to the Option Shares until such person shall have exercised the Option, paid the Exercise Price and become a holder of record of the purchased Shares.   
   10.    Manner of Exercising Option  .      (a) In order to exercise this Option with respect to all or any part of the Option Shares for which this Option is at the time exercisable, Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising the Option)
must take the following actions:      (i) Pay the aggregate Exercise Price for the purchased Shares in one or more of the following
forms:      (A) cash or check which, in the Company s sole discretion, shall be made payable to a Company-designated
brokerage firm or the Company; and      (B) as permitted by applicable law, through a special sale and remittance procedure
pursuant to which Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising the Option) shall concurrently provide irrevocable written instructions (I) to a Company-designated   
         4   

brokerage firm (or in the case of an executive officer or Board member of the Company, an
Optionee-designated brokerage firm) to effect the immediate sale of the purchased Shares and remit to the Company, out of the sale proceeds available on the settlement date, sufficient funds to cover the aggregate Exercise Price payable for the
purchased Shares plus, if applicable, the amount necessary to satisfy the Company s withholding obligations at the minimum statutory withholding rates and (II) to the Company to deliver the certificates for the purchased Shares directly to such
brokerage firm in order to complete the sale transaction.      (ii) Furnish to the Company appropriate documentation that the
person or persons exercising the Option (if other than Optionee) have the right to exercise this Option.      (iii) Make
appropriate arrangements with the Company (or Parent or Subsidiary employing or retaining Optionee) for the satisfaction of all tax withholding requirements applicable to the Option exercise.   
  (iv) To the extent that the option is exercised for one or more unvested Option Shares, Optionee (or other person exercising the option)
shall deliver to the Secretary of the Company a purchase agreement for those unvested Option Shares.      (b) As soon as practical
after the exercise date, the Company shall issue to or on behalf of Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising this Option) the purchased Option Shares (as evidenced by an appropriate entry on the books of the Company or a duly authorized
transfer agent of the Company), subject to the appropriate legends and/or stop transfer instructions.      (c) In no event may
this Option be exercised for any fractional Shares.       11.    No Impairment of Rights  . This Agreement shall not in any way
affect the right of the Company to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise make changes in its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate or sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets. In
addition, nothing in this Agreement shall in any way be construed or interpreted so as to affect adversely or otherwise impair the right of the Company or the shareholders to remove Optionee from the Board at any time in accordance with the
provisions of applicable law.       12.    Compliance with Laws and Regulations  .   
  (a) The exercise of this Option and the issuance of the Option Shares upon such exercise shall be subject to compliance by the Company and
Optionee with all applicable laws, regulations and rules relating thereto, including all applicable regulations of any stock exchange (or the Nasdaq Global Select Market, if applicable) on which the Shares may be listed for trading at the time of
such exercise and issuance.      (b) The inability of the Company to obtain approval from any regulatory body having authority
deemed by the Company to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any Shares pursuant to this Option shall relieve the Company of any liability with respect to the non-issuance or sale of the Shares as to which such approval shall not have
been obtained. The Company, however, shall use its best efforts to obtain all such approvals.   
         5   

13.    Successors and Assigns  . Except to the extent otherwise provided in Paragraphs 3, 5,
6 and 7, the provisions of this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and be binding upon, the Company and its successors and assigns and Optionee, Optionee s assigns and the legal representatives, heirs and legatees of Optionee s
estate.       14.    Notices  . Any notice required or permitted under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be
deemed sufficient when delivered personally or sent by confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the U.S. mail, as certified or registered mail, with postage prepaid, and addressed to the Company at
the Company s principal corporate offices or to the Optionee at the address maintained for the Optionee in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently modified by written notice to the other party.   
   15.    Construction  . The Notice, this Agreement, and the Option evidenced hereby (a) are made and granted pursuant to the Plan and
are in all respects limited by and subject to the terms of the Plan, and (b) constitute the entire agreement between Optionee and the Company on the subject matter hereof and supercede all proposals, written or oral, and all other
communications between the parties related to the subject matter. All decisions of the Committee with respect to any question or issue arising under the Notice, this Agreement or the Plan shall be conclusive and binding on all persons having an
interest in this Option.       16.    Governing Law  . The interpretation, performance and enforcement of this Agreement shall be
governed by the laws of the State of California without resort to the conflict of laws principles thereof.       17.    Excess
Shares  . If the Option Shares covered by this Agreement exceed, as of the Grant Date, the number of Shares which may without shareholder approval be issued under the Plan, then this Option shall be void with respect to those excess shares,
unless shareholder approval of an amendment sufficiently increasing the number of Shares issuable under the Plan is obtained in accordance with the provisions of the Plan and all applicable laws, regulations and rules.   
   18.    Further Instruments  . The parties agree to execute such further instruments and to take such further action as may be reasonably
necessary to carry out the purposes and intent of this Agreement.   
         6   

(Prior to Fiscal 2009)    
   NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR ANNUAL GRANT        CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.         NOTICE OF GRANT OF STOCK OPTION
       Notice is hereby given of the following option grant (the  Option ) made to purchase shares of Cisco Systems, Inc. (the
 Company ) common stock:      Optionee:

Grant Date:

Type of Option: Nonstatutory Stock Option       

Grant  
  Number:

Number of Option Shares:

shares   
  Exercise Price: $               per share   
  Expiration Date:

Date Exercisable: Immediately Exercisable        Vesting Schedule        The Option Shares shall initially be unvested and subject to
repurchase by the Company at the Exercise Price paid per share. Optionee shall acquire a vested interest in, and the Company s repurchase right shall accordingly lapse, with respect to, the Option Shares in a series of two (2) successive
equal annual installments upon Optionee s completion of each year of service as a member of the Board over the two (2) year period measured from the Grant Date. In no event shall any additional Option Shares vest after Optionee s
cessation of Board service.        REPURCHASE RIGHT . OPTIONEE HEREBY AGREES THAT ALL UNVESTED OPTION SHARES ACQUIRED UPON THE EXERCISE OF
THE OPTION SHALL NOT BE TRANSFERABLE AND SHALL BE SUBJECT TO REPURCHASE BY THE COMPANY, AT THE EXERCISE PRICE PAID PER SHARE, UPON OPTIONEE S TERMINATION OF SERVICE AS A MEMBER OF THE BOARD PRIOR TO VESTING IN THOSE SHARES. THE TERMS AND
CONDITIONS OF SUCH REPURCHASE RIGHT SHALL BE SPECIFIED IN A STOCK PURCHASE AGREEMENT, IN FORM AND SUBSTANCE SATISFACTORY TO THE COMPANY, EXECUTED BY OPTIONEE AT THE TIME OF THE OPTION EXERCISE.    
  Optionee understands and agrees that the Option is offered subject to and in accordance with the terms of the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive
Plan (the  Plan ). Optionee further agrees to be bound by the terms of the Plan and the terms of the Option as set forth in the Stock Option Agreement attached hereto.        No Service Contract  . Nothing in this Notice or in the attached Stock Option Agreement or in the Plan shall confer upon Optionee any right to continue to serve on the Board for any period of
specific duration or interfere with or otherwise restrict in any way the rights of the Company or the Company s shareholders, which rights are hereby expressly reserved by each, to terminate Optionee s service on the Board at any time, for
any reason, with or without cause, and in accordance with the provisions of applicable law.   

Definitions .  All capitalized terms in this Notice shall have the meaning assigned to them in
this Notice, the attached Stock Option Agreement or the Plan.       DATED: 
                          ,              

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.    

By:  

Title:  

OPTIONEE     

2   

STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT     
    Recitals        A. The Board has
adopted the Plan for the purpose of retaining the services of selected Employees, non-employee members of the Board or of the board of directors of any Parent or Subsidiary and Consultants and other independent advisors who provide services to the
Company (or any Parent or Subsidiary).      B. Optionee is to render valuable services to the Company (or a Parent or Subsidiary), and this
Agreement is executed pursuant to, and is intended to carry out the purposes of, the Plan in connection with the Company s grant of an option to Optionee.      C. All capitalized terms in this Agreement shall have the meaning assigned to them in this Agreement, the attached Notice of Grant of Stock Option (the   Notice ), or the Plan.   
   NOW, THEREFORE , it is hereby agreed as follows:       1.    Grant of Option  . The Company hereby grants to Optionee, as of the Grant Date, a Nonstatutory Stock Option to purchase up to the number of Option Shares specified in the Notice. The
Option Shares shall be purchasable from time to time during the Option term specified in Paragraph 2 at the Exercise Price specified in the Notice.       2.    Option Term  . This Option shall have a maximum term of nine (9) years measured from the Grant Date and shall accordingly expire at the close of business on the Expiration Date,
unless sooner terminated in accordance with Paragraph 4, 5, 6 or 7.       3.    Non-Transferability  . This Option shall not be
anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by operation of law. Notwithstanding the foregoing, should the Optionee die while holding this
Option, then this Option shall be transferred in accordance with Optionee s will or the laws of descent and distribution.       4. 
  Exercisability/Vesting  .      (a) This Option shall be immediately exercisable for any or all of the Option Shares,
whether or not the Option Shares are vested in accordance with the Vesting Schedule set forth in the Notice, and shall remain so exercisable until the Expiration Date or the sooner termination of the Option term under this Paragraph 4 or Paragraph
5, 6 or 7.      (b) Optionee shall, in accordance with the Vesting Schedule set forth in the Notice, vest in the Option Shares in
a series of installments over his or her period of Board service. Vesting in the Option Shares may be accelerated pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph 5, 6 or 7. In no event, however, shall any additional Option Shares vest following
Optionee s cessation of service as a Board member.      (c) As an administrative matter, the exercisable portion of this
Option may only be exercised until the close of the Nasdaq Global Select Market on the Expiration Date or   

the earlier termination date under Paragraph 5, 6 or 7 or, if such date is not a trading day
on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, the last trading day before such date. Any later attempt to exercise this Option will not be honored. For example, if Optionee ceases to remain in service as provided in Paragraph 5(a) and the date twelve
(12) months from the date of cessation is Monday, July 4 (a holiday on which the Nasdaq Global Select Market is closed), Optionee must exercise the exercisable portion of this Option by 4 pm Eastern Daylight Time on Friday, July 1.
      5.    Cessation of Board Service  . Should Optionee s service as a Board member cease while this Option remains
outstanding, then the Option term specified in Paragraph 2 shall terminate (and this Option shall cease to be outstanding) prior to the Expiration Date in accordance with the following provisions:   
  (a) Should Optionee cease to serve as a Board member for any reason (other than death or Disability) while this Option is outstanding,
then the period for exercising this Option shall be reduced to a twelve (12)-month period commencing with the date of such cessation of Board service, but in no event shall this Option be exercisable at any time after the Expiration Date. During
such limited period of exercisability, this Option may not be exercised in the aggregate for more than the number of Option Shares (if any) in which Optionee is vested on the date of his or her cessation of Board service. Upon the  earlier  of
(i) the expiration of such twelve (12)-month period or (ii) the specified Expiration Date, the Option shall terminate and cease to be exercisable with respect to any vested Option Shares for which the Option has not been exercised.
     (b) Should Optionee die during the twelve (12)-month period following his or her cessation of Board service and hold this
Option at the time of his or her death, then the personal representative of Optionee s estate or the person or persons to whom the Option is transferred pursuant to Optionee s will or in accordance with the laws of descent and distribution
shall have the right to exercise this Option for any or all of the Option Shares in which Optionee is vested at the time of Optionee s cessation of Board service (less any Option Shares purchased by Optionee after such cessation of Board
service but prior to death). Such right of exercise shall terminate, and this Option shall accordingly cease to be exercisable for such vested Option Shares, upon the  earlier  of (i) the expiration of the twelve (12)-month period measured
from the date of Optionee s cessation of Board service or (ii) the specified Expiration Date.      (c) Should Optionee
cease service as a Board member by reason of death or Disability, then all Option Shares at the time subject to this Option but not otherwise vested shall immediately vest in full so that Optionee (or the personal representative of Optionee s
estate or the person or persons to whom the Option is transferred upon Optionee s death) shall have the right to exercise this Option for any or all of the Option Shares as fully-vested shares of Common Stock at any time prior to the
 earlier  of (i) the expiration of the twelve (12)-month period measured from the date of Optionee s cessation of Board service or (ii) the specified Expiration Date.   
  (d) Upon Optionee s cessation of Board service for any reason other than death or Disability, this Option shall immediately
terminate and cease to be   
         2   

outstanding with respect to any and all Option Shares in which Optionee is not otherwise at
that time vested in accordance with the normal Vesting Schedule set forth in the Notice or the special vesting acceleration provisions of Paragraph 6 or 7 below.       6.    Corporate Transaction  .      (a) In the event of a Corporate
Transaction, all Option Shares at the time subject to this Option but not otherwise vested shall automatically vest so that this Option shall, immediately prior to the specified effective date for the Corporate Transaction, become fully exercisable
for all of the Option Shares at the time subject to this Option and may be exercised for all or any portion of such shares as fully-vested shares of Common Stock. Immediately following the consummation of the Corporate Transaction, this Option shall
terminate and cease to be outstanding, except to the extent assumed by the successor corporation or its parent company.      (b)
If this Option is assumed in connection with a Corporate Transaction, then this Option shall be appropriately adjusted, immediately after such Corporate Transaction, to apply to the number and class of securities which would have been issuable to
Optionee in consummation of such Corporate Transaction had the Option been exercised immediately prior to such Corporate Transaction, and appropriate adjustments shall also be made to the Exercise Price,  provided  the aggregate Exercise Price
shall remain the same.       7.    Change In Control/Hostile Take-Over  .   
  (a) All Option Shares subject to this Option at the time of a Change In Control but not otherwise vested shall automatically vest so that
this Option shall, immediately prior to the effective date of such Change In Control, become fully exercisable for all of the Option Shares at the time subject to this Option and may be exercised for all or any portion of such shares as fully-vested
shares of Common Stock. This Option shall remain exercisable for such fully-vested Option Shares until the  earliest  to occur of (i) the specified Expiration Date, (ii) the sooner termination of this Option in accordance with
Paragraph 4, 5 or 6 or (iii) the surrender of this Option under Paragraph 7(b).      (b) Optionee shall have an unconditional
right (exercisable during the thirty (30)-day period immediately following the consummation of a  Hostile Take-Over  (as defined below)) to surrender this Option to the Company in exchange for a cash distribution from the Company in an
amount equal to the excess of (i) the  Take-Over Price  (as defined below) of the Option Shares at the time subject to the surrendered Option (whether or not those Option Shares are otherwise at the time vested) over (ii) the
aggregate Exercise Price payable for such shares. This Paragraph 7(b) limited stock appreciation right shall in all events terminate upon the expiration or sooner termination of the Option term and may not be assigned or transferred by Optionee. For
purposes of this Option,  Hostile Take-Over  shall mean the acquisition, directly or indirectly, by any person or related group of persons (other than the Company or a person that directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is
under common control with, the Company) of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the Exchange Act) of securities possessing more than thirty five percent (35%) of the total combined voting power of the Company s
outstanding securities pursuant to a tender or exchange offer made directly to the   
         3   

Company s shareholders which the Board does not recommend such shareholders to accept.
Further, for purposes of this Option,  Take-Over Price  shall mean the greater of (i) the Fair Market Value on the date the Option is surrendered to the Company in connection with a Hostile Take-Over, or (ii) the highest reported
price per share of Common Stock paid by the tender offeror in effecting the Hostile Take-Over.      (c) To exercise the Paragraph
7(b) limited stock appreciation right, Optionee must, during the applicable thirty (30)-day exercise period, provide the Company with written notice of the option surrender in which there is specified the number of Option Shares as to which the
Option is being surrendered. Such notice must be accompanied by the return of Optionee s copy of this Agreement, together with any written amendments to such Agreement. The cash distribution shall be paid to Optionee within five
(5) business days following such delivery date. Upon receipt of such cash distribution, this Option shall be cancelled with respect to the shares subject to the surrendered Option (or the surrendered portion), and Optionee shall cease to have
any further right to acquire those Option Shares under this Agreement. The Option shall, however, remain outstanding for the balance of the Option Shares (if any) in accordance with the terms and provisions of this Agreement, and the Company shall
accordingly issue a new stock option agreement (substantially in the same form as this Agreement) for those remaining Option Shares.   
   8.    Adjustment in Option Shares  . In the event of a subdivision of the outstanding Shares, a declaration of a dividend payable in
Shares, a declaration of a dividend payable in a form other than Shares in an amount that has a material effect on the price of Shares, a combination or consolidation of the outstanding Shares (by reclassification or otherwise) into a lesser number
of Shares, a recapitalization, a spin-off or a similar occurrence, appropriate adjustments shall be made to (i) the total number and/or kind of shares or securities subject to this Option and (ii) the Exercise Price in order to reflect
such change and thereby preclude a dilution or enlargement of benefits hereunder.       9.    Shareholder Rights  . The holder of
this Option shall not have any shareholder rights with respect to the Option Shares until such person shall have exercised the Option, paid the Exercise Price and become a holder of record of the purchased Shares.   
   10.    Manner of Exercising Option  .      (a) In order to exercise this Option with respect to all or any part of the Option Shares for which this Option is at the time exercisable, Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising the Option)
must take the following actions:      (i) Pay the aggregate Exercise Price for the purchased Shares in one or more of the following
forms:      (A) cash or check which, in the Company s sole discretion, shall be made payable to a Company-designated
brokerage firm or the Company; and      (B) as permitted by applicable law, through a special sale and remittance procedure
pursuant to which Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising the Option) shall concurrently provide irrevocable written instructions (I) to a Company-designated   
         4   

brokerage firm (or in the case of an executive officer or Board member of the Company, an
Optionee-designated brokerage firm) to effect the immediate sale of the purchased Shares and remit to the Company, out of the sale proceeds available on the settlement date, sufficient funds to cover the aggregate Exercise Price payable for the
purchased Shares plus, if applicable, the amount necessary to satisfy the Company s withholding obligations at the minimum statutory withholding rates and (II) to the Company to deliver the certificates for the purchased Shares directly to such
brokerage firm in order to complete the sale transaction.      (ii) Furnish to the Company appropriate documentation that the
person or persons exercising the Option (if other than Optionee) have the right to exercise this Option.      (iii) Make
appropriate arrangements with the Company (or Parent or Subsidiary employing or retaining Optionee) for the satisfaction of all tax withholding requirements applicable to the Option exercise.   
  (iv) To the extent that the option is exercised for one or more unvested Option Shares, Optionee (or other person exercising the option)
shall deliver to the Secretary of the Company a purchase agreement for those unvested Option Shares.      (b) As soon as practical
after the exercise date, the Company shall issue to or on behalf of Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising this Option) the purchased Option Shares (as evidenced by an appropriate entry on the books of the Company or a duly authorized
transfer agent of the Company), subject to the appropriate legends and/or stop transfer instructions.      (c) In no event may
this Option be exercised for any fractional Shares.       11.    No Impairment of Rights  . This Agreement shall not in any way
affect the right of the Company to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise make changes in its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate or sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets. In
addition, nothing in this Agreement shall in any way be construed or interpreted so as to affect adversely or otherwise impair the right of the Company or the shareholders to remove Optionee from the Board at any time in accordance with the
provisions of applicable law.       12.    Compliance with Laws and Regulations  .   
  (a) The exercise of this Option and the issuance of the Option Shares upon such exercise shall be subject to compliance by the Company and
Optionee with all applicable laws, regulations and rules relating thereto, including all applicable regulations of any stock exchange (or the Nasdaq Global Select Market, if applicable) on which the Shares may be listed for trading at the time of
such exercise and issuance.      (b) The inability of the Company to obtain approval from any regulatory body having authority
deemed by the Company to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any Shares pursuant to this Option shall relieve the Company of any liability with respect to the non-issuance or sale of the Shares as to which such approval shall not have
been obtained. The Company, however, shall use its best efforts to obtain all such approvals.   
         5   

13.    Successors and Assigns  . Except to the extent otherwise provided in Paragraphs 3, 5,
6 and 7, the provisions of this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and be binding upon, the Company and its successors and assigns and Optionee, Optionee s assigns and the legal representatives, heirs and legatees of Optionee s
estate.       14.    Notices  . Any notice required or permitted under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be
deemed sufficient when delivered personally or sent by confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the U.S. mail, as certified or registered mail, with postage prepaid, and addressed to the Company at
the Company s principal corporate offices or to the Optionee at the address maintained for the Optionee in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently modified by written notice to the other party.   
   15.    Construction  . The Notice, this Agreement, and the Option evidenced hereby (a) are made and granted pursuant to the Plan and
are in all respects limited by and subject to the terms of the Plan, and (b) constitute the entire agreement between Optionee and the Company on the subject matter hereof and supercede all proposals, written or oral, and all other
communications between the parties related to the subject matter. All decisions of the Committee with respect to any question or issue arising under the Notice, this Agreement or the Plan shall be conclusive and binding on all persons having an
interest in this Option.       16.    Governing Law  . The interpretation, performance and enforcement of this Agreement shall be
governed by the laws of the State of California without resort to the conflict of laws principles thereof.       17.    Excess
Shares  . If the Option Shares covered by this Agreement exceed, as of the Grant Date, the number of Shares which may without shareholder approval be issued under the Plan, then this Option shall be void with respect to those excess shares,
unless shareholder approval of an amendment sufficiently increasing the number of Shares issuable under the Plan is obtained in accordance with the provisions of the Plan and all applicable laws, regulations and rules.   
   18.    Further Instruments  . The parties agree to execute such further instruments and to take such further action as may be reasonably
necessary to carry out the purposes and intent of this Agreement.   
         6   

NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR STOCK GRANT    
   CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.         STOCK GRANT AGREEMENT        This Stock Grant Agreement (the  Agreement ) is
made and entered into as of the Grant Date (as defined below) by and between Cisco Systems, Inc., a California corporation (the  Company ), and you pursuant to the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). The
material terms of this Stock Grant Award are as follows:       

Grantee:  

Grant Date:  

Grant Number:  

Restricted Shares:    

Vest Date:  
     
  The completion of one (1) year of Board service measured from the Grant Date.   
    To the extent any capitalized terms used in this Agreement are not defined, they shall have the meaning ascribed to them
in the Plan. In the event of a conflict between the terms and provisions of the Plan and the terms and provisions of this Agreement, the Plan terms and provisions shall prevail.      In consideration of the mutual agreements herein contained and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties agree as follows:       1.    Restricted Shares  . Pursuant to the Plan, the Company hereby transfers to you, and you hereby accept from the Company, a Stock Grant Award consisting of the Restricted Shares, on
the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Plan.       2.    Vesting of Restricted Shares  . So long as your service on
the Board continues, the Restricted Shares shall vest in accordance with the following schedule: one-hundred percent (100%) of the total number of Restricted Shares issued pursuant to this Agreement shall vest on the Vest Date, unless otherwise
provided by the Plan or Section 3 below. Except as provided in Section 3 below, in the event of the termination of your Board service for any reason, all unvested Restricted Shares shall be immediately forfeited without consideration. For
purposes of facilitating the enforcement of the provisions of this Section 2, the Company may issue stop-transfer instructions on the Restricted Shares to the Company s transfer agent, or otherwise hold the Restricted Shares in escrow,
until the Restricted Shares have vested and you have satisfied all applicable obligations with respect to the Restricted Shares, including any applicable tax withholding obligations set forth in Section 5 below. Any new, substituted or
additional securities or other property which is issued or distributed with respect to the unvested Restricted Shares shall be subject to the same terms and conditions as are applicable to the unvested Restricted Shares under this Agreement and the
Plan.   

3.      Special Acceleration .    
  (a) To the extent the Restricted Shares are outstanding at the time of a Corporate Transaction or a Change in Control, but not otherwise
fully vested, such Restricted Shares shall automatically accelerate immediately prior to the effective date of the Corporate Transaction or the Change in Control, as the case may be, and shall become vested in full at that time.   
  (b) If your service on the Board ceases as a result of your death or Disability then, to the extent the Restricted Shares are
outstanding, but not otherwise fully vested, such Restricted Shares shall automatically accelerate and shall become vested in full at that time.      (c) This Stock Grant Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Company to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate,
dissolve, liquidate, sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets.       4.    Restriction on Election to Recognize Income
in the Year of Grant  . Under Section 83 of the Code, the Fair Market Value of the Restricted Shares on the date the Restricted Shares vest will be taxable as ordinary income at that time. You understand, acknowledge and agree that, as a
condition to the grant of this Award, you may not elect to be taxed at the time the Restricted Shares are acquired by filing an election under Section 83(b) of the Code with the Internal Revenue Service.   
   5.    Withholding Taxes  . You agree to make arrangements satisfactory to the Company for the satisfaction of any applicable withholding
tax obligations that arise in connection with the Restricted Shares which, at the sole discretion of the Company, may include (i) having the Company withhold Shares from the Restricted Shares held in escrow, or (ii) any other arrangement
approved by the Company, in any case, equal in value to the amount necessary to satisfy any such withholding tax obligation. Such Shares shall be valued based on the Fair Market Value as of the day prior to the date that the amount of tax to be
withheld is to be determined under applicable law. The Company shall not be required to release the Restricted Shares from the stop-transfer instructions or escrow unless and until such obligations are satisfied.   
   6.    Tax Advice  . You represent, warrant and acknowledge that the Company has made no warranties or representations to you with respect
to the income tax consequences of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and you are in no manner relying on the Company or the Company s representatives for an assessment of such tax consequences. YOU UNDERSTAND THAT THE TAX LAWS AND
REGULATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGE. YOU SHOULD CONSULT YOUR OWN TAX ADVISOR REGARDING ANY STOCK GRANT AWARD. NOTHING STATED HEREIN IS INTENDED OR WRITTEN TO BE USED, AND CANNOT BE USED, FOR THE PURPOSE OF AVOIDING TAXPAYER PENALTIES.   
   7.    Non-Transferability of Restricted Shares  . Restricted Shares which have not vested pursuant to Section 2 above shall not be
anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by the operation of law. However, this Section 7 shall not   
         2   

preclude you from designating a beneficiary who will receive any vested Restricted Shares in the event of
the your death, nor shall it preclude a transfer of vested Restricted Shares by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.       8. 
  Restriction on Transfer  . Regardless of whether the transfer or issuance of the Restricted Shares has been registered under the Securities Act or has been registered or qualified under the securities laws of any state, the Company may
impose additional restrictions upon the sale, pledge, or other transfer of the Restricted Shares (including the placement of appropriate legends on stock certificates and the issuance of stop-transfer instructions to the Company s transfer
agent) if, in the judgment of the Company and the Company s counsel, such restrictions are necessary in order to achieve compliance with the provisions of the Securities Act, the securities laws of any state, or any other law.   
   9.    Stock Certificate Restrictive Legends  . Stock certificates evidencing the Restricted Shares may bear such restrictive legends as
the Company and the Company s counsel deem necessary under applicable law or pursuant to this Agreement.       10. 
  Representations, Warranties, Covenants, and Acknowledgments  . You hereby agree that in the event the Company and the Company s counsel deem it necessary or advisable in the exercise of their discretion, the transfer or issuance of
the Restricted Shares may be conditioned upon you making certain representations, warranties, and acknowledgments relating to compliance with applicable securities laws.       11.    Voting and Other Rights  . Subject to the terms of this Agreement, you shall have all the rights and privileges of a shareholder of the Company while the Restricted Shares are
subject to stop-transfer instructions, or otherwise held in escrow, including the right to vote and to receive dividends (if any).       12. 
  Authorization to Release Necessary Personal Information  .      (a) You hereby authorize and direct the Company to
collect, use and transfer in electronic or other form, any personal information (the  Data ) regarding your service, the nature and amount of your compensation and the facts and conditions of your participation in the Plan (including, but
not limited to, your name, home address, telephone number, date of birth, social security number (or any other social or national identification number), compensation, nationality, job title, number of Shares held and the details of all Awards or
any other entitlement to Shares awarded, cancelled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding) for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. You understand that the Data may be transferred to the
Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, including any requisite transfer to a broker or other third party assisting with the administration of this Stock
Grant Award under the Plan or with whom Shares acquired pursuant to this Stock Grant Award or cash from the sale of such shares may be deposited. You acknowledge that recipients of the Data may be located in different countries, and those countries
may have data privacy laws and protections different from those in the country of your residence. Furthermore, you acknowledge and understand that the transfer of the Data to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties is
necessary for your participation in the Plan.   
         3   

(b) You may at any time withdraw the consents herein by contacting your local human
resources representative in writing. You further acknowledge that withdrawal of consent may affect your ability to exercise or realize benefits from this Stock Grant Award, and your ability to participate in the Plan.   
   13.    No Entitlement or Claims for Compensation  .      (a) Your rights, if any, in respect of or in connection with this Stock Grant Award or any other Award is derived solely from the discretionary decision of the Company to permit you to participate in the
Plan and to benefit from a discretionary Award. By accepting this Stock Grant Award, you expressly acknowledge that there is no obligation on the part of the Company to continue the Plan and/or grant any additional Awards to you. This Stock Grant
Award is not intended to be compensation of a continuing or recurring nature, or part of your normal or expected compensation, and in no way represents any portion of a your salary, compensation, or other remuneration for purposes of pension
benefits, severance, redundancy, resignation or any other purpose.      (b) Neither the Plan nor this Stock Grant Award or any
other Award granted under the Plan shall be deemed to give you a right to remain an Employee, Consultant or director of the Company, a Parent, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate. The Company and its Parents and Subsidiaries and Affiliates reserve the
right to terminate your Service at any time, with or without cause, and for any reason, subject to applicable laws, the Company s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws and a written employment agreement (if any), and you shall be deemed
irrevocably to have waived any claim to damages or specific performance for breach of contract or dismissal, compensation for loss of office, tort or otherwise with respect to the Plan, this Stock Grant Award or any outstanding Award that is
forfeited and/or is terminated by its terms or to any future Award.      (c) You agree that the Company may require that
Restricted Shares be held by a broker designated by the Company. In addition, you agree that your rights hereunder shall be subject to set-off by the Company for any valid debts you owe the Company.   
   14.    Governing Law  . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California without
regard to the conflict of laws principles thereof.       15.    Notices  . Any notice required or permitted under the terms of this
Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed sufficient when delivered personally or sent by confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the U.S. mail, as certified or registered mail, with postage
prepaid, and addressed to the Company at the Company s principal corporate offices or to you at the address maintained for you in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently modified by written notice to the other party.
      16.    Binding Effect  . Subject to the limitations set forth in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be binding upon, and
inure to the benefit of, the executors, administrators, heirs, legal representatives, successors, and assigns of the parties hereto.   
   17.    Severability  . If any provision of this Agreement is held to be unenforceable for any reason, it shall be adjusted rather than
voided, if possible, in order to achieve the intent of the parties to the extent possible. In any event, all other provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed valid and enforceable to the full extent possible.   
         4   

DATED:
                          ,              

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.    

By:  

Title:  

GRANTEE     

5   

NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR STOCK UNIT    
   IN LIEU OF ANNUAL RETAINER        CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.         STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT     
  This Stock Unit Agreement (the  Agreement ) is made and entered into as of the Grant Date (as defined below) by and between Cisco Systems,
Inc., a California corporation (the  Company ), and you pursuant to the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). The material terms of this Stock Unit Award are as follows:   

Grantee:  

Grant Date:  

Grant Number:  

Restricted Stock Units:  

To the extent any capitalized terms used in this Agreement are not defined, they shall have the meaning ascribed to them
in the Plan. In the event of a conflict between the terms and provisions of the Plan and the terms and provisions of this Agreement, the Plan terms and provisions shall prevail.      In consideration of the mutual agreements herein contained and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties agree as follows:       1.    Restricted Stock Units  . Pursuant to the Plan, the Company hereby grants to you, and you hereby accept from the Company, Restricted Stock Units, each of which is a bookkeeping entry
representing the equivalent in value of one (1) Share, on the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Plan.       2.    Vesting
of Restricted Stock Units  . One-hundred percent (100%) of the total number of Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to this Agreement shall vest on the Grant Date.       3.    Settlement of Restricted Stock Units  . Restricted Stock Units shall be automatically settled in Shares upon your separation from service within the meaning of Code Section 409A
( Separation from Service ), provided that the Company shall have no obligation to issue Shares pursuant to this Agreement unless and until you have satisfied any applicable tax withholding obligations and such issuance otherwise complies
with all applicable law.       4.    Tax Advice  . You represent, warrant and acknowledge that the Company has made no warranties
or representations to you with respect to the income tax consequences of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and you are in no manner relying on the Company or the Company s representatives for an assessment of such tax
consequences. YOU UNDERSTAND THAT THE TAX LAWS AND REGULATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGE. YOU SHOULD CONSULT YOUR OWN TAX ADVISOR REGARDING ANY RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS. NOTHING STATED HEREIN IS INTENDED OR WRITTEN TO BE USED, AND CANNOT BE USED, FOR THE
PURPOSE OF AVOIDING TAXPAYER PENALTIES.   

5.    Non-Transferability of Restricted Stock Units  . Restricted Stock Units shall not be
anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by operation of law. However, this Section 5 shall not preclude you from designating a
beneficiary who will receive vested Shares pursuant to this award in the event of your death, nor shall it preclude a transfer of vested Shares pursuant to this award by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.   
   6.    Restriction on Transfer  . Regardless of whether the transfer or issuance of the Shares to be issued pursuant to the Restricted
Stock Units has been registered under the Securities Act or has been registered or qualified under the securities laws of any state, the Company may impose additional restrictions upon the sale, pledge, or other transfer of the Shares (including the
placement of appropriate legends on stock certificates and the issuance of stop-transfer instructions to the Company s transfer agent) if, in the judgment of the Company and the Company s counsel, such restrictions are necessary in order
to achieve compliance with the provisions of the Securities Act, the securities laws of any state, or any other law.       7.    Stock
Certificate Restrictive Legends   .  Stock certificates evidencing the Shares issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units may bear such restrictive legends as the Company and the Company s counsel deem necessary under applicable
law or pursuant to this Agreement.       8.    Representations, Warranties, Covenants, and Acknowledgments  . You hereby agree that
in the event the Company and the Company s counsel deem it necessary or advisable in the exercise of their discretion, the transfer or issuance of the Shares issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units may be conditioned upon you making
certain representations, warranties, and acknowledgments relating to compliance with applicable securities laws.       9.    Voting and
Other Rights  . Subject to the terms of this Agreement, you shall not have any voting rights or any other rights and privileges of a shareholder of the Company unless and until the Restricted Stock Units are settled in Shares upon your
Separation from Service.       10.    Authorization to Release Necessary Personal Information  .   
  (a) You hereby authorize and direct the Company to collect, use and transfer in electronic or other form, any personal information (the
 Data ) regarding your service, the nature and amount of your compensation and the facts and conditions of your participation in the Plan (including, but not limited to, your name, home address, telephone number, date of birth, social
security number (or any other social or national identification number), compensation, nationality, job title, number of Shares held and the details of all Awards or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, cancelled, exercised, vested, unvested or
outstanding) for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. You understand that the Data may be transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties assisting in the
implementation, administration and management of the Plan, including any requisite transfer to a broker or other third party assisting with the administration of these Restricted Stock Units under the Plan or with whom Shares acquired pursuant to
these Restricted Stock Units or cash from the sale of such shares may be deposited. You acknowledge that recipients of the Data may be located in different countries, and those countries may have data privacy laws and protections different from
those in the country of your residence. Furthermore, you acknowledge and understand that the transfer of the Data to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties is necessary for your participation in the Plan.   
         2   

(b) Prior to the time that the Restricted Stock Units are settled in Shares upon your
Separation from Service, you shall have no rights other than those of a general creditor of the Company. The Restricted Stock Units represent an unfunded and unsecured obligation of the Company.   
  (c) You may at any time withdraw the consents herein by contacting the Company s local human resources representative in writing.
You further acknowledge that withdrawal of consent may affect your ability to exercise or realize benefits from these Restricted Stock Units, and your ability to participate in the Plan.       11.    Governing Law  . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California without regard to the conflict of laws principles thereof.
      12.    N otices . Any notice required or permitted under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed
sufficient when delivered personally or sent by confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the U.S. mail, as certified or registered mail, with postage prepaid, and addressed to the Company at the
Company s principal corporate offices or to you at the address maintained for you in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently modified by written notice to the other party.   
   13.    Binding Effect  . Subject to the limitations set forth in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be binding upon, and inure to the
benefit of, the executors, administrators, heirs, legal representatives, successors, and assigns of the parties hereto.       14. 
  Severability  . If any provision of this Agreement is held to be unenforceable for any reason, it shall be adjusted rather than voided, if possible, in order to achieve the intent of the parties to the extent possible. In any event, all
other provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed valid and enforceable to the full extent possible.       

DATED:  

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.   

By:  

Title:  

GRANTEE   

3   

NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR ELECTION UNDER THE    
   CISCO SYSTEMS, INC. 2005 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN        INITIAL EQUITY AWARD       I,
                                          
                , being a prospective newly elected or appointed non-employee member of the Board of Directors of Cisco Systems, Inc. (the  Company ) hereby elect
to defer the settlement of my total initial restricted stock unit award anticipated to be granted under the 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ) on
                           in connection with my initial election or appointment as a non-employee member of the Board of
Directors of the Company.      This election will be effective only if received by
                                          
                 on or before
                                          
                 [the date of the non-employee director s election or appointment].      If I do not elect to defer the settlement of my initial restricted stock unit grant, the restricted stock unit grant will be automatically settled in shares of the Company s common stock on, or as
soon as practicable after, the below described vesting dates of the restricted stock unit grant.      Fifty percent (50%) of my initial
restricted stock unit grant will vest upon the completion of one year of Board service measured from my initial appointment or election date and the remaining fifty percent (50%) will vest upon my completion of one year of Board service
thereafter (subject to acceleration in certain cases), as more fully set forth in the Stock Unit Agreement. I understand that if my  separation from service  within the meaning of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code
( Separation from Service ) occurs before my restricted stock unit grant vests, any unvested portion will be forfeited.      I
understand that if I elect to defer the settlement of my initial restricted stock unit grant, any vested portion of my stock unit grant will not be settled in shares of the Company s common stock upon the above mentioned vesting dates, but
instead will be settled in shares of the Company s common stock on, or as soon as practicable after, my Separation from Service (which generally will be the date my service as a member of the Board of Directors of the Company terminates).
     I understand that my receipt of shares of the Company s common stock pursuant to any stock unit grant will be taxed as ordinary income
to me based on the value of the shares on the date the stock unit grant is settled and I receive shares of the Company s common stock.       

Signature of Non-Employee Director  

Date   
     * Because individual circumstances vary, Cisco Systems, Inc. can not provide tax advice and you should consult with
your own tax advisor regarding the income tax consequences of your potential elections.    

NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR ELECTION UNDER THE    
   CISCO SYSTEMS, INC. 2005 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN        ANNUAL RETAINER   EQUITY AWARD         ANNUAL RETAINER     
  I,
                                          
                , being a non-employee member of the Board of Directors of Cisco Systems, Inc. (the  Company ) hereby elect to receive (complete  either 
(a) or (b) below):       

(a)  
            % (insert 0%  OR  a percentage between 25% and 100%) of my total annual retainer for the next year of Board
service commencing at the next annual meeting of shareholders;         

(b)  
  $               (insert $0  OR  a dollar amount between $18,750 and $75,000) of my total annual
retainer for the next year of Board service commencing at the next annual meeting of shareholders;        in the form of (check either
(i) or (ii) below):      (i)                a fully
vested deferred stock unit grant which will be granted under the 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ) on November       , 200     based on the closing value of the Company s common stock
on that date;      (ii)                a fully vested stock grant
which will be granted under the Plan on November       , 200     based on the closing value of the Company s common stock on that date.      I understand that this election will be effective only if received by
                                       on or before
                       [December 31, [PRECEDING YEAR]].      I further understand that I will receive my annual retainer in the form of cash to the extent that I do not elect to receive it in the form of a stock unit grant or stock grant under the Plan on, or as
soon as practicable after, the date of the annual meeting of shareholders on                       , 20      .
     I understand that, if I elect to receive a stock unit grant, any such stock unit grant will be settled in shares of the Company s common
stock on, or as soon as practicable after, my  separation from service  within the meaning of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code (which generally will be the date my service as a member of the Board of Directors of the Company
terminates).      I further understand that my receipt of shares of the Company s common stock pursuant to any stock unit grant will be taxed
as ordinary income to me based on the value of the shares on the date the stock unit grant is settled and I receive shares of the Company s common stock.      I understand that, if I elect to receive a stock grant, I will receive the shares representing any such stock grant on, or as soon as practicable after, the date of the annual shareholder meeting and that
my receipt of a stock grant will be taxed as ordinary income to me based on the value of the shares on the date of grant.   

ANNUAL EQUITY AWARD        I further (check one) (i)             ELECT  or (ii)             DO NOT ELECT  to defer the
settlement of my total annual restricted stock unit award anticipated to be granted under the 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ) on
                      , 20       immediately following the Company s 20       Annual
Meeting of Shareholders.      I understand that this election will be effective only if received by
                                       on or before
                       [December 31, [PRECEDING YEAR]].      If I do not elect to defer the settlement of my annual restricted stock unit grant, the above-mentioned restricted stock unit grant will be automatically settled in shares of the Company s common
stock on, or as soon as practicable after, the vesting of the restricted stock unit grant upon the completion of one year of Board service following the date of grant (subject to acceleration in certain cases), as more fully set forth in the Stock
Unit Agreement. I understand that if my  separation from service  within the meaning of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code ( Separation from Service ) occurs before my restricted stock unit grant vests, the grant will
be forfeited.      I understand that if I elect to defer the settlement of the above-mentioned annual restricted stock unit grant, any vested
portion of my restricted stock unit grant will not be settled in shares of the Company s common stock upon the above-described vesting date, but instead will be settled in shares of the Company s common stock on, or as soon as practicable
after, my Separation from Service (which generally will be the date my service as a member of the Board of Directors of the Company terminates).      I understand that my receipt of shares of the Company s common stock pursuant to any stock unit grant will be taxed as ordinary income to me based on the value of the shares on the date the stock
unit grant is settled and I receive shares of the Company s common stock.       

Signature of Non-Employee Director  

Date   
     * Because individual circumstances vary, Cisco Systems, Inc. can not provide tax advice and you should consult with
your own tax advisor regarding the income tax consequences of your potential elections.    

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.    
   VESTING ACCELERATION POLICY        FOR        DEATH AND TERMINAL ILLNESS    
   AS    
   AMENDED SEPTEMBER 8, 2011    
  Unless and until the Compensation   Management Development Committee of the Board of Directors of Cisco Systems, Inc. determines otherwise, the
following policy shall be applied to all equity awards issued under any equity plan maintained Cisco or any Cisco subsidiary, including equity awards and/or equity plans assumed by Cisco in connection with its acquisition of companies, and held by
any employee of Cisco or any Cisco subsidiary (each such award shall be referred to herein as an  equity award ), except to the extent that the application of such policy would be prohibited by the applicable equity plan, equity award
agreement or any applicable law, rule or regulation.      For purposes of this policy:   

the value of stock options and stock appreciation rights is based on the difference between the exercise price of the equity awards and the closing
price of Cisco s stock on the date of the employee s death or terminal illness, as applicable, or if such day is not a trading day, the last trading day prior to the date of death or terminal illness, as applicable; and

the value of stock grants, stock units, and unvested shares previously acquired pursuant to equity awards (such shares are referred to herein as
 unvested equity award shares ) is based on the difference between the purchase price, if any, and the closing price of Cisco s stock on the date of the employee s death or terminal illness, as applicable, or if such day is not a
trading day, the last trading day prior to the date of death or terminal illness, as applicable;          

unvested equity award shares  includes outstanding and unvested performance-based restricted stock or stock unit awards and the accelerated
vesting of such awards will be deemed to occur at target levels, subject to the specified limits below; and          

to the extent the vesting of any performance-based restricted stock or stock unit award is accelerated pursuant to this policy, the award will be
settled upon the death or terminal illness of an employee, as the case may be, except that if the applicable award is subject to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code ( Code Section 409A ) and such terminal illness does not
qualify as a  Disability  within the meaning of Code Section 409A, then the award will instead be settled on the fixed payment date following the end of the performance period on which the applicable award is normally paid out.
         ACCELERATION UPON DEATH OF EMPLOYEE       Upon the death of an employee, Cisco will accelerate the vesting of the employee s outstanding equity awards and any unvested equity award shares up to a specified limit based on the value of the
equity awards and/or shares on the date of death. The limit on the amount of accelerated vesting is the greater of: (a) one-hundred percent (100%) of the unvested equity awards and/or unvested equity award shares up to a total value of $10
million; or (b) up to one year of vesting from the date of death as to all unvested equity awards and/or unvested equity award shares. For example, if an employee held unvested options for 100,000 shares with an exercise price of $1 which would
vest in four annual installments of 25,000 shares, and the closing price of Cisco s stock on the date of the employee s death was $101, all 100,000 of the shares would become vested (100,000 shares x $100 (the difference between $101 and
$1) = $10,000,000).       ACCELERATION UPON TERMINAL ILLNESS OF EMPLOYEE       Upon the terminal illness of an employee, Cisco will accelerate the vesting of the employee s outstanding equity awards and any unvested equity award shares up to a specified limit based on the value
of the equity   

awards and/or shares on the date of the terminal illness. An employee will be considered terminally ill upon the approval by Cisco s employee life insurance provider of the accelerated life
insurance benefit which indicates 12 months or less to live. When a request is made to accelerate the vesting of an employee s outstanding equity awards and early life insurance payouts are not also requested, an employee will be considered
terminally ill upon the approval by Cisco s external, independent medical review vendor (which may include Cisco s employee life insurance provider). The date of terminal illness will be the date the determination is made by Cisco s
employee life insurance provider or Cisco s external, independent medical review vendor. The limit on the amount of accelerated vesting is the greater of: (a) one-hundred percent (100%) of the unvested equity awards and/or unvested
equity award shares up to a total value of $10 million; or (b) up to one year of vesting from the date of the terminal illness as to all unvested equity awards and/or unvested equity award shares. For example, if an employee holds unvested
options for 100,000 shares with an exercise price of $1 which would vest in four annual installments of 25,000 shares, and the closing price of Cisco s stock on the date that the employee is determined to be terminally ill was $101, all 100,000
of the shares would become vested (100,000 shares x $100 (the difference between $101 and $1) = $10,000,000).   

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.    
   VESTING POLICY        FOR        LEAVES OF ABSENCE    
  Unless and until the Compensation   Management Development Committee of the Board of Directors of Cisco Systems, Inc. determines otherwise, the
following policy shall be applied to all equity awards issued under any equity plan maintained Cisco or any Cisco subsidiary, including equity awards and/or equity plans assumed by Cisco in connection with its acquisition of companies, and held by
any employee of Cisco or any Cisco subsidiary (each such award shall be referred to herein as an  equity award ), except to the extent that the application of such policy would be prohibited by the applicable equity plan, equity award
agreement or any applicable law, rule or regulation.       (Effective until approximately November 2008)    
   SUSPENSION OF VESTING UPON AUTHORIZED LEAVE OF ABSENCE       The exercise or vesting schedule in effect for any outstanding equity award and any unvested shares previously acquired pursuant to any equity award (such shares referred to herein as  unvested
equity award shares ) held by an employee at the time of the employee s commencement of an authorized leave of absence shall be suspended as of the first day of the authorized leave of absence, and the equity award and any unvested equity
shares shall not vest and/or become exercisable for any additional shares during the period the employee remains on such leave of absence.   
   (Effective in or around November 2008)    
   90 DAYS CONTINUED VESTING ON AUTHORIZED LEAVES OF ABSENCE       The exercise or vesting schedule in effect for any outstanding equity award and any unvested shares previously acquired pursuant to any equity award (such shares referred to herein as  unvested
equity award shares ) held by an employee at the time of the employee s commencement of an authorized leave of absence shall continue to vest and/or become exercisable in accordance with the vesting schedule set forth in the applicable
equity award agreement during the period the employee remains on such authorized leave of absence; provided that, in no event shall any employee be entitled to vest for more than 90 days of authorized leaves of absence during any rolling 12-month
period (the  LOA Limit ).      If an employee exceeds the LOA Limit during any rolling 12-month period, the unvested equity award shares
held by such an employee shall be suspended immediately following the expiration of the LOA Limit and the equity award and any unvested equity shares shall not vest and/or become exercisable for any additional shares during the remainder of the
rolling 12-month period.   

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.    
   TRANSFER POLICY        FOR        DIVORCE    
  Unless and until the Compensation   Management Development Committee of the Board of Directors of Cisco Systems, Inc. determines otherwise, the
following policy shall be applied to all equity awards issued under any equity plan maintained Cisco or any Cisco subsidiary, including equity awards and/or equity plans assumed by Cisco in connection with its acquisition of companies, and held by
any employee of Cisco or any Cisco subsidiary (each such award shall be referred to herein as an  equity award ), except to the extent that the application of such policy would be prohibited by the applicable equity plan, equity award
agreement or any applicable law, rule or regulation.       PROHIBITION ON TRANSFER OF EQUITY AWARDS UPON DIVORCE    
  Except as provided below, equity awards and any unvested shares acquired pursuant to equity awards shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached,
garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process in connection with the divorce of the holder of such equity award or shares. Equity awards and any unvested shares acquired pursuant to equity awards may be transferred
by an executive officer of Cisco only to the extent required by a domestic relations order, as defined by the Internal Revenue Code or Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, or the rules thereunder, in settlement of marital property
rights by any court of competent jurisdiction.   

</EX-10.1>

<EX-21.1>
 3
 d202951dex211.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

Subsidiaries of the Registrant 

Exhibit 21.1        SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT        

Subsidiaries    
      
     State Or Other       Jurisdiction of       Incorporation or   
   Organization     

3010081 Nova Scotia Company   
      
  Canada   
 
    3045848 Nova Scotia Company   
      
  Canada   
 
    3048504 Nova Scotia Company   
      
  Canada   
 
    3250298 Nova Scotia Company   
      
  Canada   
 
    Actona Technologies Ltd.   
      
  Israel   
 
    Airespace Wireless Networks Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Aironet Canada Inc.   
      
  Canada   
 
    Aironet Canada Limited   
      
  Canada   
 
    Arch Rock LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Callway LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
     Cisco Albania  SHPK   
      
  Albania   
 
    Cisco Bahrain (SPC)   
      
  Bahrain   
 
    Cisco Bilgisayar ve Internet Sistemleri Limited Sirketi   
      
  Turkey   
 
    Cisco Capital (Dubai) Limited   
      
  United Arab Emirates   
 
    Cisco Comercio e Servicos de Hardware e Software do Brasil Ltda   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Cisco Commerce India Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Cisco Consumer Products LLC   
      
  California   
 
    Cisco Consumer Products Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Cisco Development India Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Cisco do Brasil Ltda.   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Cisco Fast Data, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cisco International Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Cisco Internetworking Systems Hellas S.A.   
      
  Greece   
 
    Cisco Iris, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cisco Ironport Systems LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cisco ISH B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Cisco ISH II B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Cisco Linksys Kiss ApS   
      
  Denmark   
 
    Cisco Malaysia Managed Services SDN. BHD.   
      
  Malaysia   
 
    Cisco Managed Services Nigeria Limited   
      
  Nigeria   
 
    Cisco Managed Solutions, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cisco Media Solutions, Inc.   
      
  California   
 
    Cisco MO B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Cisco Norway Holdings AS   
      
  Norway   
 
    Cisco Optical GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Cisco Photonics Italy S.r.l.   
      
  Italy   
 
    Cisco QSTP-LLC   
      
  Qatar   
 
    Cisco Ravenscourt LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cisco RZ LLC   
      
  California   
 
    Cisco Serbia doo Beograd   
      
  Serbia, Republic of   
 
    Cisco Services (Hong Kong) Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Cisco Services Korea Limited   
      
  Korea, Republic of   
 
    Cisco Services Malaysia SDN BHD   
      
  Malaysia   
 
    Cisco Systems (Argentina) S.A.   
      
  Argentina   
 
    Cisco Systems (Bermuda) Holdings Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Cisco Systems (Bermuda) Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Cisco Systems (China) Information Technology Services Limited   
      
  China   
 
    Cisco Systems (China) Networking Technology Co., Ltd.   
      
  China   
 
    Cisco Systems (China) Research and Development Co., Ltd.   
      
  China   
 
    Cisco Systems (Colombia) Limitada   
      
  Colombia   
 
    Cisco Systems (Czech Republic) s.r.o.   
      
  Czech Republic   
 
    Cisco Systems (Ethiopia) PLC   
      
  Ethiopia   
 
    Cisco Systems (HK) Holdings Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Cisco Systems (HK) Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Cisco Systems (India) Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Cisco Systems (Italy) S.r.l.   
      
  Italy   
 
    Cisco Systems (Jordan)   
      
  Jordan   
 
    Cisco Systems (Korea) Limited   
      
  Korea, Republic of   
 
         1   

Subsidiaries    
      
     State Or Other       Jurisdiction of       Incorporation or   
   Organization     

Cisco Systems (Malaysia) SDN. BHD.   
      
  Malaysia   
 
    Cisco Systems (Nigeria) Limited   
      
  Nigeria   
 
    Cisco Systems (Puerto Rico) Corp.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cisco Systems (Scotland) Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Cisco Systems (Senegal) SUARL   
      
  Senegal   
 
    Cisco Systems (Shanghai) Video Technology Co., Ltd.   
      
  China   
 
    Cisco Systems (South Africa) (Proprietary) Limited   
      
  South Africa   
 
    Cisco Systems (Spain), S.L.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Cisco Systems (Sweden) AB   
      
  Sweden   
 
    Cisco Systems (Switzerland) GmbH   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Cisco Systems (Switzerland) Investments Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Cisco Systems (Thailand) Limited   
      
  Thailand   
 
    Cisco Systems (Trinidad   Tobago) Limited   
      
  Trinidad and Tobago   
 
    Cisco Systems (USA) Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Cisco Systems Algeria EURL   
      
  Algeria   
 
    Cisco Systems Australia Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Cisco Systems Austria GmbH   
      
  Austria   
 
    Cisco Systems Belgium SPRL   
      
  Belgium   
 
    Cisco Systems Bulgaria EOOD   
      
  Bulgaria   
 
    Cisco Systems Canada Co./Les Systemes Cisco Canada CIE   
      
  Canada   
 
    Cisco Systems Canada IP Holdings Company   
      
  Canada   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital (Australia) Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital (India) Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital (Korea) Limited   
      
  Korea, Republic of   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital (Thailand) Limited   
      
  Thailand   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital Asia Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital Canada Co./Les Systemes Cisco Capital Canada CIE   
      
  Canada   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital China Corporation   
      
  China   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital Corporation   
      
    Nevada    
 
    Cisco Systems Capital France SAS   
      
  France   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital Italy S.r.l.   
      
  Italy   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital K.K.   
      
  Japan   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital Netherlands B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital SDN. BHD.   
      
  Malaysia   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital South Africa (Proprietary) Limited   
      
  South Africa   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital Spain, S.L.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Cisco Systems Chile S.A.   
      
  Chile   
 
    Cisco Systems Co.   
      
  Canada   
 
    Cisco Systems Costa Rica, Sociedad Anonima   
      
  Costa Rica   
 
    Cisco Systems Croatia Ltd. For Trade   
      
  Croatia   
 
    Cisco Systems Cyprus Ltd.   
      
  Cyprus   
 
    Cisco Systems Danmark ApS   
      
  Denmark   
 
    Cisco Systems de Mexico, S.A. de C.V.   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Cisco Systems Dominicana, S.A.   
      
  Dominican Republic   
 
    Cisco Systems Ecuador S.A.   
      
  Ecuador   
 
    Cisco Systems Egypt Ltd.   
      
  Egypt   
 
    Cisco Systems El Salvador, Ltda. de C.V.   
      
  El Salvador   
 
    Cisco Systems Estonia OU   
      
  Estonia   
 
    Cisco Systems Finance International   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Cisco Systems Finance International Holdings I Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Cisco Systems Finance International Holdings II Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Cisco Systems Finance International Holdings III Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Cisco Systems Finance International Holdings IV Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Cisco Systems Finance International Holdings V Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Cisco Systems Finance International Holdings VI Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Cisco Systems Finland OY   
      
  Finland   
 
    Cisco Systems France Sarl   
      
  France   
 
    Cisco Systems G.K.   
      
  Japan   
 
    Cisco Systems Global Holdings Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Cisco Systems GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Cisco Systems Holding GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Cisco Systems Hungary Ltd. / Cisco Systems Hungary Servicing and Trading Limited Liability Company   
      
  Hungary   
 
    Cisco Systems International B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Cisco Systems International Holdings Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Cisco Systems International SARL   
      
  Switzerland   
 
         2   

Subsidiaries    
      
     State Or Other       Jurisdiction of       Incorporation or   
   Organization     

Cisco Systems Internetworking (Ireland) Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Cisco Systems Internetworking d.o.o. Za Marketing, Tehnicke I Druge Usluge Sarajevo   
      
  Bosnia/Herzegovina   
 
    Cisco Systems Internetworking Iletisim Hizmetleri Limited Sirketi   
      
  Turkey   
 
    Cisco Systems Island Ehf.   
      
  Iceland   
 
    Cisco Systems Israel Ltd.   
      
  Israel   
 
    Cisco Systems Jamaica Limited   
      
  Jamaica   
 
    Cisco Systems Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Cisco Systems LLC   
      
  Oman   
 
    Cisco Systems Luxembourg International s.  r.l.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Cisco Systems Luxembourg s.  r.l.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Cisco Systems Macedonia DOOEL Skopje   
      
  Macedonia, the   
 
    Cisco Systems Management B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Cisco Systems Management GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Cisco Systems Management Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Cisco Systems Mo ambique, Limitada   
      
  Mozambique   
 
    Cisco Systems Netherlands Holdings B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Cisco Systems New Zealand Limited   
      
  New Zealand   
 
    Cisco Systems Norway AS   
      
  Norway   
 
    Cisco Systems Pakistan (Private) Limited   
      
  Pakistan   
 
    Cisco Systems Panama S. de R.L.   
      
  Panama   
 
    Cisco Systems Peru S.A.   
      
  Peru   
 
    Cisco Systems Poland Sp. z o. o.   
      
  Poland   
 
    Cisco Systems Portugal-Sistemas Inform ticos, Sociedade Unipessoal, Limitada   
      
  Portugal   
 
    Cisco Systems Romania S.r.l.   
      
  Romania   
 
    Cisco Systems Services B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Cisco Systems Slovakia, spol. s. r.o.   
      
  Slovakia   
 
    Cisco Systems Taiwan, Ltd.   
      
  Taiwan   
 
    Cisco Systems Uruguay S.R.L.   
      
  Uruguay   
 
    Cisco Systems Venezuela, C.A.   
      
  Venezuela   
 
    Cisco Systems Video Technology Canada Inc.   
      
  Canada   
 
    Cisco Systems Vietnam Limited (Cong Ty Trach Nhiem Huu Han Cisco Systems Vietnam)   
      
  Vietnam   
 
    Cisco Systems Wireless Networking (Australia) Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Cisco Technology (China) Co., Ltd.   
      
  China   
 
    Cisco Technology and Services (South Africa) Pty. Ltd.   
      
  South Africa   
 
    Cisco Technology Bangladesh Ltd.   
      
  Bangladesh   
 
    Cisco Technology, Inc.   
      
  California   
 
    Cisco Telepresence Suites LLC   
      
  California   
 
    Cisco THV LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cisco Tunisia SARL   
      
  Tunisia   
 
    Cisco WebEx LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cisco Worldwide Holdings Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Cisco-Linksys (Chengdu) Networking Technology Co., Ltd.   
      
  China   
 
    Cisco-Linksys (HK) Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Cisco-Navini Networks LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Codian (Asia Pacific) Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    CoreOptics LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    CSI BD (Mauritius)   
      
  Mauritius   
 
    CSI Mauritius Inc.   
      
  Mauritius   
 
    Divitech A/S   
      
  Denmark   
 
    ExtendMedia LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    ExtendMedia ULC   
      
  Canada   
 
    Flip Video UK Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Greenfield Networks LLC   
      
  California   
 
    Greenfield Networks Technologies Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Infogear Technology (Israel) Ltd.   
      
  Israel   
 
    Inlet Technologies LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Ironport Systems Pty. Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Ironport APAC Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Ironport do Brasil Intermediacao de Servicos Ltda.   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Ironport Systems GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Jabber LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Limited Liability Company Cisco Capital CIS   
      
  Russian Federation   
 
    Limited Liability Company Cisco Systems   
      
  Russian Federation   
 
    Linesider Communications LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
         3   

Subsidiaries    
      
     State Or Other       Jurisdiction of       Incorporation or   
   Organization     

Moto Asia Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Moto Development Group LLC   
      
  California   
 
    Navini Networks Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    newScale LLC   
      
  California   
 
    newScale Software Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    newScale UK Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Orative Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pari Networks (India) Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Pari Networks LLC   
      
  California   
 
    P-Cube Ltd.   
      
  Israel   
 
    Postpath LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    PostX LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    PT Cisco Systems Indonesia   
      
  Indonesia   
 
    PT. Cisco Technologies Indonesia   
      
  Indonesia   
 
    Pure Digital Technologies LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pure Networks LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Radiata, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Reactivity LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Rohati Systems, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    SA Japan KK   
      
  Japan   
 
    Scansafe Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Scansafe LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Scansafe Services LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta (Shanghai) Company Limited   
      
  China   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta Argentina S.A.   
      
  Argentina   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta Belgium BVBA   
      
  Belgium   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta China, LLC   
      
  California   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta de Mexico S. de R. L. de C.V.   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta do Brasil Ltda.   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta Europe BVBA   
      
  Belgium   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta Holdings B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta India Technology Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta India Sales   Service Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta Italy S.r.l.   
      
  Italy   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta Korea Co. Ltd.   
      
  Korea, Republic of   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta Pty. Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta, LLC   
      
    Georgia    
 
    Securent India Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Securent LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    SIA  Cisco Latvia    
      
  Latvia   
 
    Starent do Brasil Ltda.   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Starent International LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Starent Networks (India) Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Starent Networks (UK) Ltd   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Starent Networks Beijing Co, Ltd   
      
  China   
 
    Starent Networks Canada Limited   
      
  Canada   
 
    Starent Networks India Sales and Services Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Starent Networks Japan G.K.   
      
  Japan   
 
    Starent Networks Korea   
      
  Korea, Republic of   
 
    Starent Networks LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Starent Networks Spain, S.L.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Tandberg AS   
      
  Norway   
 
    Tandberg Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Tandberg Australia Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Tandberg do Brasil Comunicacao Ltda   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Tandberg Canada ULC   
      
  Canada   
 
    Tandberg Finance AS   
      
  Norway   
 
    Tandberg India Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Tandberg LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Tandberg Products UK Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Tandberg Research LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Tandberg Services LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Tandberg Technology (India) Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
         4   

Subsidiaries    
      
     State Or Other       Jurisdiction of       Incorporation or   
   Organization     

Tandberg Telecom AS   
      
  Norway   
 
    Tandberg Telecom UK Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Tandberg UK Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Tandberg Visual Communications International Trading (Beijing) Co., Ltd.   
      
  China   
 
    Tidal Software Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Tidal Software LLC   
      
  California   
 
    Topspin Communications LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Topspin Communications Technologies India Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    UAB  Cisco LT    
      
  Lithuania   
 
    WebEx (China) Software Co., Ltd.   
      
  China   
 
    WebEx Asia Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    WebEx Australia Pty Ltd.   
      
  Australia   
 
    WebEx Communications B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    WebEx Communications Deutschland GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    WebEx Communications France Sarl   
      
  France   
 
    WebEx Communications India Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    WebEx Communications Japan, K.K.   
      
  Japan   
 
    WebEx Communications UK, Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    WebEx Worldwide B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
         5   

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 4
 d202951dex231.htm
 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

EXHIBIT 23.1        CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       We hereby
consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-3 (Nos.: 333-17839, 333-20157, 333-24559, 333-33093, 333-33663, 333-36197, 333-47191, 333-47191, 333-49141, 333-51089, 333-51487, 333-51089, 333-58533, 333-65867,
333-65867, 333-67789, 333-79941, 333-82945, 333-84663, 333-88917, 333-89893, 333-91241, 333-91239, 333-91285, 333-91897, 333-89893, 333-92439, 333-92441, 333-92435, 333-92439, 333-94225, 333-94365, 333-94753, 333-94753, 333-94225, 333-89893,
333-92435, 333-91897, 333-91239, 333-91241, 333-88917, 333-91285, 333-92441, 333-92439, 333-94365, 333-34400, 333-36034, 333-36156, 333-34400, 333-36156, 333-38738, 333-39086, 333-39818, 333-39086, 333-39858, 333-39086, 333-43628, 333-45788,
333-45794, 333-45898, 333-46124, 333-47920, 333-47922, 333-51118, 333-46124, 333-51118, 333-51118, 333-51118, 333-56004, 333-56960, 333-57328, 333-56960, 333-57328, 333-131723, 333-157177) dated December 13, 1996, January 22, 1997, April 4, 1997,
August 7, 1997, August 14, 1997, September 23, 1997, March 2, 1998, March 9, 1998, April 1, 1998, April 27, 1998, April 30, 1998, May 1, 1998, July 6, 1998, October 19, 1998, November 9, 1998, November 24, 1998, June 4, 1999, July 15, 1999,
August 6, 1999, October 13, 1999, October 29, 1999, November 18, 1999, November 18, 1999, November 19, 1999, December 1, 1999, December 9, 1999, December 9, 1999, December 9, 1999, December 9, 1999, January 4, 2000, January 7, 2000, January 10,
2000, January 14, 2000, February 4, 2000, February 4, 2000, February 4, 2000, February 4, 2000, February 4, 2000, February 4, 2000, February 4, 2000, February 4, 2000, February 4, 2000, February 4, 2000, February 4, 2000, February 10, 2000, April
10, 2000, May 1, 2000, May 3, 2000, May 9, 2000, May 9, 2000, June 7, 2000, June 12, 2000, June 21, 2000, June 21, 2000, June 22, 2000, June 22, 2000, August 11, 2000, September 14, 2000, September 14, 2000, September 15, 2000, September 19,
2000, October 13, 2000, October 13, 2000, December 1, 2000, December 6, 2000, December 12, 2000, January 3, 2001, January 4, 2001, February 21, 2001, March 13, 2001, March 20, 2001, March 22, 2001, April 4, 2001, February 10, 2006, and February 9,
2009, respectively, of Cisco Systems, Inc. and on Form S-8 (Nos.: 33-63331, 33-64283, 333-64283 [Post Eff.], 333-01069, 333-02101, 333-05447 [Post Eff.], 333-09903, 333-14383, 333-14661, 333-14679, 333-16577, 333-17287, 333-24741, 333-33613,
333-33619, 333-35805, 333-01069 [Post Eff.], 333-34849 [Post Eff.], 33-40509 [Post Eff.], 33-44221 [Post Eff.], 33-71860 [Post Eff.], 33-87096 [Post Eff.], 333-42249, 333-47159, 333-48949, 333-48949 [Post Eff.], 333-51093, 333-51315, 333-42249 [Post
Eff.], 333-64651, 333-65871,333-68335, 333-69117, 333-74237, 333-79717, 333-79721, 333-81971, 333-83045, 333-83277, 333-88695, 333-88699, 333-88831, 333-90883, 333-90885, 333-83227 [Post Eff.], 333-91813, 333-91911, 333-93283, 333-93281, 333-96203,
333-96367, 333-35246, 333-36124, 333-36126, 333-36414, 333-39108, 333-39902, 333-43120, 333-43632, 333-45478, 333-47828, 333-51114, 333-51280, 333-54248, 333-55742, 333-56224, 333-56756, 333-56916, 333-58556, 333-76184, 333-42249 [Post Eff.],
333-91258, 333-96797, 333-42249 [Post Eff.], 333-101340, 333-102623, 333-105300, 333-105713, 333-106284, 333-111977, 333-111995, 333-113993, 333-1114558, 333-118238, 333-118870, 333-119954, 333-120064, 333-120843, 333-120844, 333-121307, 333-122946,
333-123872, 333-125568, 333-125570, 333-125573, 333-126430, 333-126841, 333-128755, 333-129719, 333-132050, 333-133436, 333-135687, 333-135688, 333-137653, 333-137654, 333-139175, 333-140069, 333-141123, 333-141945, 333-142332, 333-142333,
333-143389, 333-143506, 333-143997, 333-144305, 333-147522, 333-147523, 333-147763, 333-148576, 333-153248, 333-153808, 333-155494, 333-157368, 333-159679, 333-159681, 333-163864, 333-163953, 333-163954, 333-167430, 333-168364, 333-169653,
333-169655, 333-171659, 333-173061, 333-173062, and 333-174715 ) dated October 11, 1995, November 15, 1995, February 20, 1996, February 20, 1996, April 1, 1996, July 29, 1996, August 9, 1996, October 18, 1996, October 23, 1996, October 23,
1996, November 21, 1996, December 5, 1996, April 8, 1997, August 14, 1997, August 14, 1997, September 17, 1997, December 10, 1997, December 10, 1997, December 10, 1997, December 10, 1997, December 10, 1997, December 10, 1997, December 15, 1997,
March 2, 1998, March 31, 1998, April 13, 1998, April 27, 1998, April 29, 1998, September 28, 1998, September 29, 1998, October 19, 1998, December 3, 1998, December 17, 1998, March 11, 1999, June 1, 1999, June 1, 1999, June 30, 1999, July 16,
1999, July 20, 1999, October 8, 1999, October 8, 1999, October 12, 1999, November 12, 1999, November 12, 1999, November 12, 1999, November 30, 1999, December 1, 1999, December 21, 1999, December 21, 1999, February 4, 2000, February 8, 2000, April
20, 2000, May 2, 2000, May 2, 2000, May 5, 2000, June 12, 2000, June 22, 2000, August 4, 2000, August 11, 2000, September 8, 2000, October 12, 2000,   

December 1, 2000, December 5, 2000, January 24, 2001, February 16, 2001, February 26, 2001, March 8, 2001, March 12, 2001, April 9, 2001, January 2, 2002, June 25, 2002, June 26, 2002, July 19,
2002, August 20, 2002, November 20, 2002, January 21, 2003, May 15, 2003, May 30, 2003, June 19, 2003, January 16, 2004, January 16, 2004, March 29, 2004, April 19, 2004, August 13, 2004, September 8, 2004, October 26, 2004, October 29, 2004,
November 30, 2004, November 30, 2004, December 16, 2004, February 22, 2005, April 6, 2005, June 6, 2005, June 6, 2005, June 6, 2005, July 6, 2005, July 25, 2005, September 30, 2005, November 15, 2005, February 27, 2006, April 20, 2006, July 11,
2006, July 11, 2006, September 28, 2006, September 28, 2006, December 7, 2006, January 18, 2007, March 7, 2007, April 6, 2007, April 24, 2007, April 24, 2007, May 31, 2007, June 5, 2007, June 22, 2007, July 3, 2007, November 20, 2007, November 20,
2007, December 3, 2007, January 10, 2008, August 29, 2008, October 2, 2008, November 20, 2008, February 17, 2009, June 2, 2009, June 2, 2009, December 18, 2009, December 23, 2009, December 23, 2009, June 10, 2010, July 28, 2010, September 29,
2010, September 29, 2010, January 12, 2011, March 25, 2011, March 25, 2011, and June 3, 2011, respectively, of Cisco Systems, Inc. of our report dated September 13, 2011 relating to the consolidated financial statements, financial statement
schedule, and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in this Form 10-K.      /s/
P RICEWATERHOUSE C OOPERS  LLP      San Jose, California      September 13, 2011   

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 5
 d202951dex311.htm
 RULE 13A - 14(A)/15D - 14(A) CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER

Rule 13a - 14(a)/15d - 14(a) Certification of Principal Executive Officer 

EXHIBIT 31.1        CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER        PURSUANT TO EXCHANGE ACT
RULE 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a)        AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 302    
   OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       I, John T. Chambers, certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Cisco Systems, Inc.;         

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:     

(a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;     

(b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;     

(c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

(d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

(a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize, and report financial information; and         

(b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.        Date: September 14, 2011       

/s/ John T. Chambers   
 
   John T. Chambers    
 
     Chairman and Chief Executive Officer   
   (Principal Executive Officer)     

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 6
 d202951dex312.htm
 RULE 13A - 14(A)/15D - 14(A) CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER

Rule 13a - 14(a)/15d - 14(a) Certification of Principal Financial Officer 

EXHIBIT 31.2        CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER        PURSUANT TO EXCHANGE ACT
RULE 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a)        AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 302    
   OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       I, Frank A. Calderoni, certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Cisco Systems, Inc.;         

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:     

(a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;     

(b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;     

(c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

(d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

(a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize, and report financial information; and         

(b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.        Date: September 14, 2011       

/s/ Frank A. Calderoni   
 
     Frank A. Calderoni       Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer       (Principal Financial
Officer)     

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 7
 d202951dex321.htm
 SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER

Section 1350 Certification of Principal Executive Officer 

EXHIBIT 32.1        CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER        PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C.
SECTION 1350        AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906    
   OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       I, John T. Chambers, do hereby certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that, to my knowledge:   

The Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended July 30, 2011, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the
 Report ), fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and          

The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.
        Date: September 14, 2011       

/s/ John T. Chambers   
 
     John T. Chambers       Chairman and Chief Executive Officer       (Principal Executive
Officer)     

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 8
 d202951dex322.htm
 SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER

Section 1350 Certification of Principal Financial Officer 

EXHIBIT 32.2        CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER        PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C.
SECTION 1350        AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906    
   OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       I, Frank A. Calderoni, do hereby certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that, to my knowledge:   

The Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended July 30, 2011, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the
 Report ), fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and          

The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.
        Date: September 14, 2011       

/s/ Frank A. Calderoni   
 
     Frank A. Calderoni       Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer       (Principal Financial
Officer)     

</EX-32.2>

<EX-101.INS>
 9
 csco-20110730.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 10
 csco-20110730.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 11
 csco-20110730_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 12
 csco-20110730_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 13
 csco-20110730_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 14
 csco-20110730_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

